CHAIRMANS STATEMENT G STANLEY THOMAS OBE the last year was dramatic, but for TBI the replaced or indeed increased by another.
The return to their pre-11 September levels.
At US What those difficult days demonstrated was that the emphasis which the Board places on safety, happenings and consequences of 11 September transition may not always be seamless, but as in airports, the government has assumed control of the Board is committed to delivering best value for security and the management of risk.
2001 were straddled by an attempted hostile other areas of business the market normally adjusts security arrangements.
In contrast, in the UK, shareholders without emotion and whatever the These are changed times for the airports and takeover and the loss of two major customers from to the right supply and demand equation.
TBI where security already compares favourably to any circumstances.
The remit is simple and the Board is aviation industry in general, but I am confident that our airport in Belfast.
In November, I wrote to airports, particularly those in the UK, are scarce in the world, responsibility has remained with as one regarding its achievement.
I therefore take our businesses are well positioned to take shareholders to explain the immediate resources and are part of a restricted airport supply individual airports.
Wherever our airport interests this opportunity to thank my fellow directors for advantage of the changes and prosper from them.
consequences of those events and the prospects compared with an ever increasing demand for air are located, safety and security remain the the fortitude, loyalty and dedication which they We have a very good collection of assets, an for TBI.
The main thrust of my message was that travel.
Furthermore, the absence of any capacity overriding consideration in the running of our have displayed this year.
During the year, the Board excellent management team and a track record of our business was well positioned to withstand such constraints, and the unregulated nature of these business.
That stance has served us particularly well was strengthened by the appointments of Paul acquiring and turning around and improving under challenges and changes to our market, and so it has businesses, distinguishes them from many other UK in the months following 11 September.
It was in the Kehoe, who is currently managing director of performing assets.
A fast changing and challenging proved.
Passenger numbers at our UK airports airports, and emphasises their scarce nature.
pre-11 September business and aviation climate Luton Airport, and by Gareth Jones, who was business environment requires resilience, versatility I am extremely pleased to report that despite which account for the lions share of our business The years good financial results were significantly that the Board rejected the hostile bid from Vinci.
previously a main board director of Abbey National and the ability to adapt.
We have shown that we enduring the most challenging year in TBIs history have grown by 7%.
Of particular note is the 16% aided by the contribution from our increased stake In the immediate aftermath of 11 September, all plc and the head of their wholesale banking have those characteristics, and as a result I look we have delivered an excellent set of results.
growth in passenger numbers at Belfast in Luton Airport.
The Luton acquisition has our evidence suggested that our businesses had division.
I am also pleased to announce that, with forward to the future with my usual optimism.
EBITDA increased by 71% to 53.1 million, and International, which during the year lost wholly or revealed all the usual TBI acquisition hallmarks: a withstood, and would continue to withstand, the effect from 1 July, Larry Gouldthorpe will also join earnings per share before normal amortisation and in part the services of two flag carrier airlines.
That sensible purchase price followed by improvements changed environment and I am pleased to say that the Board.
Larry is based in Orlando, Florida and is exceptional items grew by 39% to 3.71p.
phenomenon illustrates a feature common to our in financial performance, efficiency and operational the early view of matters has been borne out by responsible for a large part of our North and South In consequence, the Board is recommending a final UK airports: that they are in good locations with competence.
The potential of Luton as Londons actual performance.
It is, however, easy to forget American interests.
G Stanley Thomas OBE dividend of 1.60 pence per share, bringing the total strong established inherent demand for air travel fourth airport is, of course, enormous.
the massive world uncertainty which prevailed in The promotion of two of our leading airport dividend for the year to 2.30 pence per share.
This from their catchment area populations.
In such Outside the UK, our overseas airport interests the second half of September 2001, and which had directors to the Board indicates the considerable will be paid on 1 October 2002. circumstances, the withdrawal or reduction of have also proved to be robust, particularly in the a huge influence on the subsequent decision to operational and management talent and experience Of course, for any business connected with aviation services by one airline is much more likely to be US, where passenger numbers are beginning to recommend the cash bid.
It also underlines 2 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT KEITH BROOKS course, the comparison is distorted by the inclusion proportion of traffic handled for the fast growing also improved and the challenge is to ensure Luton While Luton has enjoyed a good year, its full potential LUTON of the contribution of Luton Airport for the first low cost airlines.
enjoys a proper share of the market in the South East is still far from being realised.
It has as large and A very good performance from Luton with an time.
However, an earnings per share comparison This development is well illustrated by the growth in of England.
Our existing relationships with these prosperous a catchment area as any airport in the EBITDA contribution of 20.4 million which bears before normal amortisation and exceptional items passenger numbers at Belfast and Luton, where airline customers, and our reputation as an airport UK and good travel links to London.
It is Londons out the potential we identified for this asset when but including interest and depreciation reveals an there is a significant low cost presence compared operator, undoubtedly helped the whole customer natural fourth airport, as borne out by almost we acquired our controlling interest at the end of increase of 39%, underlining the good performance with the status quo at Cardiff - albeit that airport relationship climate.
7 million passengers who use the airport.
The substantially improved financial by the Group as a whole and the earnings enhancing enjoyed a 16% growth in the previous year.
The The challenge is for the UK government and its performance has been achieved through a OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY nature of the Luton acquisition in particular.
growth of low cost carriers in the UK is partly agencies to acknowledge the same when attempting combination of increased turnover driven by Since we took control, operational efficiency has been The majority of the businesses recorded improved attributable to their increased market share at the to resolve the massive disparity between predicted increased passenger numbers and landing fees and substantially improved, and has in turn helped our EBITDA performance, with reasons for any expense of flag carrier airlines and partly through a passenger growth and the existing restricted runway a significant reduction in related costs.
For example, in the year This years very good financial performance is a exceptions being addressed below.
All businesses growth in the general market for economy air capacity in South East England.
Progress was seen in: before we achieved control, Luton closed three times testament to the skill of our people and the revealed very careful control and management of travel.
That is a trend we predicted, planned for and as a result of relatively light snowfall.
Since we have underlying strength of our business.
This is especially apparent with head office expect to continue.
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS BELFAST operated the airport, the snow management policy were achieved in almost every financial performance costs where the full years impact of the Undoubtedly the biggest impact of 11 September We inherited some strained relationships, particularly On the face of it, Belfast was badly affected by events just has ensured that in similar circumstances the airport indicator, despite the changed face of aviation centralisation of our US accounting and was felt in the US, where airports were closed for with the airports major customer, easyJet.
However, before and after 11 September.
In the event, however, suffered no closures during the winter 2001 02. following 11 September and the external factors administrative functions was seen for the first time.
However, even there the signs tremendous efforts from the respective airport and passenger numbers increased by more than 16% to affecting TBI during August and September 2001.
However, while there were generally good of recovery are good.
Our Airport Services airline teams culminated in a new 20 year agreement COST BASE 3.7 million.
Nonetheless, the loss of British Airways and In such circumstances I believe this years contributions across the Group, the major part of division reported marginally higher EBITDA than with easyJet with effect from 1 October 2001.
A programme to reduce costs which was inherited part of the British Midland service to Heathrow did have achievement was impressive.
our earnings came from our three UK airports last year through increased activity levels in the Further evidence of the better relationship is the new from the previous management, was developed a significant impact on profitability, with EBITDA some The special circumstances brought special costs which, during the year, handled almost 12 million final quarter and, in Orlando, whilst transatlantic service to Paris five return flights daily, which and accelerated.
The real key to this heading is 2.5 million down on that achieved in the previous year.
including additional insurance and security charges passengers.
These airports benefited from a numbers fell sharply, the impact was reduced by commenced in June 2002 and which was the first productivity, and staff are generally responding well Belfast is, however, an excellent example of the changing and the expense of defending a hostile bid.
relatively limited exposure to the downturn in the growth of domestic traffic, and also the advent new easyJet route from Luton since 1999. to that theme and the increased responsibility that dynamic in aviation: flag carrier business being replaced EBITDA increased by 71% to 53.1 million.
Of transatlantic traffic, compared with a much larger of intra-Americas traffic.
Our relationships with the charter operators have accompanies it.
and increased by low cost.
Certainly, the aeronautical 4 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 5 revenue characteristics for the airport are different, so the illustrates a conundrum at Cardiff.
In the aftermath of key to profitable growth is more passengers and 11 September, tour operators cut their capacity out of increased passenger spend.
Cardiff even though demand quickly recovered to Belfast is well placed to achieve both.
The scheduled side increased despite a growth in passengers to Scotland, Liverpool and Luton fare structure on the Scottish routes which, in our view, has demonstrated the appetite to travel within the UK.
It was not surprising therefore that We believe that there is a similar desire to fly to Europe, services to Scotland were recently withdrawn.
Whilst but currently only one European destination is served the numbers were relatively small it demonstrates that from Belfast compared with fourteen from Dublin.
On the travelling public votes with its feet.
the spending side plans are already underway to improve the range of retail and catering facilities with a new Bar BOLIVIA des Voyageurs, Heros pub, extended Burger King and A continued solid contribution from our three South mini-shopping concourse.
American airports which, in the face of challenging I am also delighted to record that after a long process, economic circumstances, improved EBITDA by 7% to Left: New terminal building, Orlando Sanford planning has eventually been granted to develop the large 3.7 million.
Total passenger numbers fell by 9%, the Middle: Larry Gouldthorpe, President TBI U. S., Inc. tract of land we own immediately adjacent to the airport.
major reason being a reduction in flights to the US Right: Anthony Alicastro, Managing Director, Bolivian Airports following 11 September.
The improved profitability CARDIFF was achieved through a cost reduction programme, Another good year for Cardiff, which achieved a which included a streamlining and rationalisation of 0.5 million increase in EBITDA from passenger management between the three airports.
This year numbers similar to the previous years level of was a good opportunity to achieve such streamlining, 1.5 million.
Whilst passenger numbers held up well because the medium term outlook for Bolivia and its generally, it was the charter side which showed a slight three main airports looks promising.
Certainly, the reduction in numbers compared with a compensating government has signalled that the countrys GDP increase on the scheduled side.
That adjustment should improve over the medium term.
Their belief is 6 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 7 based on an emerging natural gas industry which is of results achieved by other airports in the US this in domestic traffic could compensate.
A similar attracting massive amounts of foreign investment in a was certainly commendable Sanford was the picture emerges for the current year, where long haul country which is regarded as one of the most fastest growing US airport handling over 1 million UK charter capacity to Sanford remains at its lowest politically stable in South America.
This improved passengers last year.
That is frustrating because the environment has coincided with the ambitious This relatively good performance was achieved partly appetite for travel to Florida from the UK is returning expansion plans of the main Bolivian airline to include through the return of Britannia Airlines in February more quickly than many had anticipated when more destinations into the attractive US market.
2002 which means that all UK charters to Central capacity levels were set in the winter of 2001.
Florida now use Sanford and partly through the It does indicate a very bright 2003 04 for Sanford, ORLANDO SANFORD significant growth in domestic, non transit, traffic.
The with international passenger numbers expected It was a mixed year for this business.
In common with level of domestic traffic activity doubled in the year to to return to previous levels and indeed growing, Dot Gade Kulovuori, John Horne, other US airports, Sanford was completely closed approximately 300,000 passengers and continues to running alongside a fast growth in domestic Managing Director, Managing Director, from 11 to 14 September and, soon after, British grow: since the year end, services to five new passengers handled.
Stockholm Skavsta Airport Cardiff International Airport charter operators, the mainstay of this business, destinations have started or are soon to start.
announced capacity cuts to Sanford of approximately However, as is usually the case, revenues from STOCKHOLM SKAVSTA 25%.
While overall traffic numbers increased by international traffic, particularly passenger spend, are A strong and improved end to the year for Skavsta 11%, charter traffic originating from the UK reduced higher than those from a similar level of domestic with revenues almost matching costs at EBITDA level by 3% and this meant a year on year reduction in business.
The charter cutbacks last year were was not enough to compensate for a difficult and EBITDA of 0.5 million.
However, set in the context therefore sorely felt, and not even the rapid growth challenging first eight months.
Passenger numbers for 8 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 9 the year were almost the same as the previous year AIRPORT SERVICES AIRPORT despite 11 September, but the cargo business AGI MANAGEMENT continued to suffer until the end of December.
A This business proved to be resilient in the face of the In addition to the management function at four North slow but continued increase in the levels of cargo adversity of 11 September.
Despite the significant American locations, this division has Technical activity since then, coinciding with a substantial cost reduction in turnover compared with the previous Services Agreements at Luton, where TBI also has a reduction programme, were the reasons for the years, its EBITDA contribution increased by 7%.
large more than 70% equity stake, and at Juan Albert Harrison, improved financial performance in the final third of Managing Director, This was achieved as a result of a margin Santamaria International Airport in Costa Rica, where the year.
The potential for this business with a long Belfast International Airport improvement from 13% to 16%.
This improved TBI has a small 10% equity stake.
The teams runway and good terminal facilities is still apparent, business base will be built on as airlines increase providing services to the latter two airports, compounded by the growth in low cost carriers, and flight activity to pre-11 September levels.
particularly Luton, have enabled this division to post the market for such services in Europe and AGI is well placed to achieve revenue growth and a sharp rise in EBITDA to some 2.7 million.
Scandinavia in particular, which remains largely it is recognised as a leading ground handler in the The contribution to that total made by the airports undeveloped.
Indeed, in recent months Skavsta has markets served, and is one of the leading at Albany in New York State, Burbank in California seen the introduction of 24 weekly services to authorities in the industry for fuel farm management and the international terminals at Atlanta and Toronto Helsinki as well as three new services to Gdansk in and into-plane fuelling.
is supplemented by the profile and potential they Poland and Riga in Latvia.
A new daily service to Paris provide for TBI in North America.
10 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 11 employee.
This year those skills and abilities have TBI in particular, is not just to respond to that change HOTEL been severely tested and again proved up to the job.
We already have such plans in This business made excellent progress this year and, But the special circumstances prevailing this year, hand.
In the short term, we believe that charter in consequence, enjoyed a good financial especially during the hostile bid period, have tested airlines and flag carriers will experience a period of performance.
The hotels prime location and five star loyalty and commitment in a different way.
I have consolidation, while the low cost market will continue product enabled it to gain significant market share.
been delighted with the response.
"Loyalty is a major to grow, albeit in the context of some rationalisation Proximity to the Millennium Stadium has seen the defining characteristic of a TBI type and our people, running in parallel with the emergence of new airline hotel establish itself as the place to stay in Cardiff for the ""TBI types"", have displayed that in spades."
In a entrants into that sector.
In the medium term many leading sports teams and personalities, as well challenging year they have a special thanks from me.
however we believe the response and changed as stars from the entertainment industry.
However, it behaviour of charter airlines running alongside the is its growing reputation with the corporate market THE FUTURE continued growth of low cost airlines will produce a which is the primary reason for the increase in This year has demonstrated that our business is able substantial increase in air travel and business for the occupancy levels and operating margin.
to withstand substantial market pressures and, airports used by those customers.
TBI, with its airline importantly, is able to adapt to change.
These customer profile and airport locations, is particularly Left: Cochabamba Airport, Bolivia PEOPLE features remain and will, I believe, stand us in good well placed to take advantage of such trends.
In short, Bottom right: John Green, Vice President, US Airport Management stead for the future.
2001 was in many ways a we see the coming year as a period of relative This report has regularly recorded my praise for our watershed for the aviation industry, and the beginning consolidation followed by a very bright and teams, for their application and loyalty.
This year is no of a different dynamic in air travel.
encouraging future in the years following.
The ability of our people is without The shape of the airline industry, the way airlines question.
TBI has, during the last eight years, been a operate and the way passengers choose to travel fast-moving company, and the skills necessary to make have all changed.
In my view, that is a process which a substantial contribution in such an environment are has only just started and which is set to continue for considerable they are certainly not taken for some time.
The challenge for airports in general, and Keith Brooks granted, but are very much a pre-requisite to be a TBI 12 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 13 Of our airports EBITDA, 92% is generated from owned and managed airports, AIRPORT BUSINESSES and of that percentage some 93% is generated in the UK.
In a difficult year for the industry our airports performed well.
EBITDA was: FINANCE EBITDA less net interest as a percentage of capital employed was: DIRECTORS EBITDA % change EBITDA less Capital EBITDA less Year ended from net interest employed net interest REPORT 31 March 2002 prior year Year ended as a % m % 31 March 2002 of capital employed Belfast 15.6 14 % CAROLINE PRICE m m % Bolivia 3.7 7% Cardiff 12.6 4% Belfast 15.6 102.1 15% The results of the enlarged Group demonstrate 5 million.
This was the second tranche of sales out London Luton see Note 20.4 n a Bolivia 3.7 23.6 16% that the acquisition of London Luton Airport, of the portfolio of assets we acquired with the Orlando 1.1 32 % Cardiff 12.6 54.7 23% although funded by issuing almost 51 million shares, acquisition of Airport Group International AGI in Stockholm 1.0 12 % London Luton 20.4 166.6 12% was earnings enhancing, excluding the amortisation September 1999, and took the total divestment Orlando 1.1 25.2 4% Owned and managed airports 52.4 52% Stockholm 1.0 25.3 n a of goodwill, in the first year.
proceeds to date to over 38 million.
This amount There were some exceptional items in the year, reflects a recovery of 44% of the total cost of the Airport management see Note 2.7 74% Owned and managed airports 52.4 397.5 13% Airport services 1.8 7% principally relating to bid defence costs and original acquisition of AGI.
For the Airport management 2.7 7.6 36% reorganisation costs at a number of our airports.
48 million balance of our investment, we acquired Total 56.9 51% Airport services 1.8 22.4 8% In addition, there was accelerated depreciation interests in our airports at London Luton and in Airport total 56.9 427.5 13% of fixed assets at Stockholm Skavsta which was Bolivia, as well as the Airport services and Airport largely offset by accelerated amortisation of the management divisions.
Other operations 1.3 28.7 5% Note: Head office 5.1 8.5 n a REVIEW OF THE YEAR associated negative goodwill.
Our sole remaining minority interest is in the airport In addition to the 20.4 million generated from London Luton, we earned a fee Net interest net debt 11.8 152.6 8% The year ended 31 March 2002 was the first year at San Jose, Costa Rica, where we currently hold a of some 1.2 million for providing management services to the airport, which is JOINT VENTURES AND Total 41.3 295.1 14% we had fide facto control of London Luton Airport 10% equity stake.
reflected in the Airport management total.
TRADE INVESTMENTS and, as a consequence, the first year we consolidated its results within those of the Group.
We had three joint ventures or trade investments We accounted for London Luton Airport as an as at 31 March 2001 none of which we hold as Capital employed excludes all net debt including inter-company debt but includes acquisition on 31 March 2001 and consequently the at 31 March 2002. all applicable goodwill.
balance sheet positions of the Group as at 31 March Our interests in Australia Hobart, Perth and the 2001 and 2002 are comparable, although the profit Northern Territories were sold on 14 May 2001 and loss accounts and cashflows are not.
for some 30 million realising a profit of some 14 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 15 project finance debt in London Luton.
Last year this COSTS TAX debt was not reflected on our balance sheet until During the year ended 31 March 2002, the Group Central costs, excluding exceptional items, fell by the acquisition date in late March 2001, although implemented FRS 19 which has resulted in a prior 25% to 5.1 million.
These savings were as a result of, our results included a charge of some 1.3 million year adjustment of some 5.0 million to the Group amongst others, the long stated initiative to reduce representing the Groups 25% share of London reserves and has increased the Groups deferred tax our costs in the US.
The full benefit of the Lutons interest charge whilst it was held as a joint provision from some 1.0 million to 6.4 million.
centralisation of US administration and management at venture.
The facility at London Luton will begin to The effective tax rate for the Group for the year our Orlando offices is now reflected in our cost base.
amortise in the Autumn of 2002 and to pre empt ended 31 March was: In respect of our airport businesses, our insurance Jack Evans, President, AGI this, we intend to refinance.
This is one of the few costs for the year ended 31 March 2002 were some 2002 2001 areas where the Group requires the consent of the 2.5 million.
We anticipate that insurance costs will %% minority shareholder at London Luton.
short-term, or indeed at all, depending on future amounted to some 5 million in the whole of this in recent years is the utilisation of historic tax losses.
rise significantly in the next financial year as a result Tax on profit on ordinary activities 39% 43% Our weighted average interest rate rose to 7.9% capital expenditure.
The Group has always taken period.
The aggregate pre-tax profits in this five year Substantial amounts of these losses have been used of the insurance market where the appetite for air Tax on profit on ordinary activities 26% 32% 2001: 7.7%, again as a direct result of the rather before normal amortisation the view that tax is a business cost which needs to period were some 70 million.
Before normal in the last few years, but we still have over transport and related industry risks has been shaken expensive debt on the non-recourse project finance be managed in the same way as any other business amortisation, the aggregate pre-tax profits over the 30 million of UK tax losses, including London as a result of 11 September 2001. facility at London Luton.
The introduction of FRS19 also means that the cost, and we have been successful over the years in last five years were some 85 million.
These losses will be available to mitigate the Our net debt position reduced by 31 million during Groups profit and loss account will show a keeping this cost under control.
It is therefore clear that the Group has been able to cash cost of corporation tax on UK profits over the NET INTEREST the year from 184 million at 31 March 2001 to substantially higher effective tax rate than has I therefore expect our future tax cost in terms of cash contain the cash cost of corporate tax at a low level next couple of years.
The net interest charge for the year was 153 million at 31 March 2002.
This was good historically been the case.
It should be outflow to be significantly less than our tax charge in and we will continue to take full advantage of the In addition, we have substantial tax losses available 11.8 million 2001: 7.2 million.
The principal news and reflected healthy trading performance as remembered, however, that much of this increase in the profit and loss account.
A review of the position allowances and reliefs available under tax legislation to us in some of the overseas operations.
The reason for the change is the full year effect of some well as the proceeds of the divestment of our the tax charge in the accounts will represent for the last five years reveals that the aggregate cash to control this cost in the future.
extent to which the Group can benefit from these 5.7 million of debt service on the 70 million Australian interests.
deferred tax which may not be payable in the cost of corporate tax in the UK and overseas One of the features from which we have benefited will depend on the profitability of those operations 16 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 17 and as at 31 March 2002 our aggregate balance Liquidity risk TREASURY CASHFLOW sheet hedge against these currency exposures was It is our policy to maintain a balance between Treasury activity is managed centrally and is focused We generated 40.3 million of cash 2001: 25.8 million from the operating activities of the Group, an increase of 56% from last year.
This comparison is distorted by the 72% 2001: 67%.
continuity of funding and flexibility.
As at 31 March on monitoring working capital, managing external inclusion of London Luton Airport and also by the exceptional items incurred this year.
The impact of these is as follows: 2002, 39% 2001: 37% of our borrowings were due and internal funding and managing financial market BUSINESS RISK to mature in more than five years, but less than 7% risks in particular interest rate and currency ASSURANCE DEPARTMENT 2001: 3% were due to mature within two years.
Our treasury activity is not a profit Year ended 31 March 2002 Year ended 31 March 2001 As mentioned last year, with effect from 1 April centre and we do not enter into transactions of a Foreign currency risk Operating Non-cash Working Adjusted Operating Non-cash Working Adjusted 2001, our operational, financial and commercial speculative nature nor trade in financial instruments.
profit items capital profit items capital Our overseas operations give rise to an exposure to audit teams merged into one entity working Our treasury polices are reviewed and agreed by before tax movements before tax movements currency rates.
We face currency exposures on the together in multi-disciplinary groups to better the Board and are summarised below: m m m m m m m m translation of profits earned by overseas investments address and manage the risks facing the Group.
Per cashflow statement 23.4 20.5 3.6 40.3 20.4 11.0 5.6 25.8 and are also subject to currency exposures on the Interest rate risk The wide-ranging experience and skill sets brought Add: Exceptional items 9.2 0.1 0.2 8.9 0.4 - 3.5 3.1 translation of net assets of our overseas We finance our operation through a mixture of bank together enables them to genuinely add value and 32.6 20.4 3.8 49.2 20.0 11.0 2.1 28.9 investments.
We do not usually hedge our profit borrowings, long term loans and hire purchase the Group has reaped the benefits of such a team Less: translation exposures as it is an accounting rather arrangements.
We borrow in the appropriate London Luton Airport 14.3 6.1 9.0 11.4 - - - - during the year.
than cash exposure and, given that we account for currency at both fixed and floating rates of interest As adjusted 18.3 14.3 5.2 37.8 20.0 11.0 2.1 28.9 currency profits using average exchange rates, there and also use interest rate swaps to generate the is a smoothing effect on short term currency desired interest profile and to manage our exposure movements.
Our balance sheet translation to interest rate fluctuations.
It is the Groups policy exposure is managed primarily by matching currency to keep a proportion of its borrowings at fixed rates The net cashflow from the Groups operating activities excluding London Luton Airport and exceptional items to put 2001 2 and 2000 1 on to a comparable basis Caroline Price assets with currency borrowings.
of interest and as at 31 March 2002 some 54% increased to 37.8 million 2001: 28.9 million, an increase of 31%.
The cash inflow per share from the Groups operating activities has increased from some 5.70 pence Our primary balance sheet exposures going forward to 8.80 pence which reflects the stringent cash controls in existence throughout the Group during the year.
2001: 49% was either at a fixed rate or subject to are against the US Dollar and the Swedish Krona The amount incurred on recurring capital expenditure at our airports during the year was 9.3 million 2001: 9.4 million.
18 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 19 TBI PLC BOARD pictured from left to right, CAROLINE PRICE, FINANCE DIRECTOR Age 37 G STANLEY THOMAS OBE, NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees G Stanley Thomas OBE, age 60, was appointed a non-executive director of TBI plc in 1994 and became non-executive chairman in 1995.
He was previously joint chairman and managing director of Peters Savoury Products, a substantial food manufacturing business that was sold to Grand Metropolitan plc in 1988.
He holds no other nonexecutive directorships.
He has significant charity and community interests.
KEITH BROOKS, CHIEF EXECUTIVE Age 53 TIM SIMON, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees Tim Simon, age 54, was appointed a non-executive director in 1995.
He is a Chartered Surveyor with an extensive background in investment property and was chairman of Savills plc Commercial Division until 1991, when he founded Tim Simon & Company, property advisers specialising in investment and development.
He is managing director of The Newcombe Estates Company Limited and a member of the industry-wide working party on property securitisation.
GARETH JONES, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Chairman of Operations Audit Committee Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees Gareth Jones, age 53, was appointed a non-executive director in 2001.
He is a Chartered Accountant, a former director of Abbey National plc and former managing director of Abbey National Treasury Services.
He is a non-executive director of Somerfield plc and a director of the Economic and Research Council of Cambridge University.
PAUL KEHOE, OPERATIONS DIRECTOR Age 43 CHARLES SCOTT, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Senior Independent Director Chairman of Audit and Remuneration Committees Charles Scott, age 53, was appointed a non-executive director in 1998.
He is executive chairman of Cordiant Communications Group plc and Topnotch Health Clubs plc, and a non-executive director of other companies, including adidas-Salomon AG and William Hill.
20 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 TBI ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 21
