04 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Chief Executives review It has not been easy, in this climate, for young companies to generate revenue growth regardless of the quality of their products In my review last year, I said that our plans anticipated another and services.
We have seen a higher level of failures and have challenging year.
The business environment has been more difficult made significant provisions.
In addition, there has been a than we and most others had expected.
Over the first six months, substantial decline in the value of our quoted investments, economic conditions deteriorated and there was a sharp fall in driven by a sharp fall in technology stock markets.
quoted markets and business confidence in September.
UK Our buy-out and growth capital portfolio has performed fairly manufacturing, the German economy and certain technology robustly and strong earnings growth, driven by a small number sectors were the worst affected.
Since September, economic of investments, has been a major factor in achieving a positive conditions have not deteriorated further and there are now some second half total return.
During the year, we have taken action to mitigate the effects of In the year, together with co-investment funds, we invested the downturn.
We have carried out rigorous reviews of our portfolio 1,039 million in 551 businesses, substantially less than in the by industry sector and continue to support strongly those we previous financial year.
We broadly maintained our market share at believe will succeed, while taking action to limit losses on other a time of sharp contraction in investment for the venture capital investments.
We have realised a substantial part of the quoted industry as a whole.
portfolio at similar prices to those at 31 March 2001, For the first time, more than half of 3is investment was made notwithstanding the decline in stock markets during the year.
outside the UK with 446 million invested in continental Europe New investment was reduced broadly in line with the contraction and 150 million in the United States and Asia Pacific.
395 million in the venture capital market.
As reported last October, we of investment was further capital for existing portfolio companies.
reduced our staff by 185 people in order to match our resources to anticipated business levels and to improve productivity.
Investment was made at broadly the same level as realisations.
In the year, total return flow from sales and repayments amounted The negative total return for the year of 960 million is to 1,123 million.
This demonstrates our ability to manage cash disappointing and results from the general weakness of the flows, despite low merger and acquisition activity and a weak markets in which we operate and also the particular difficulties new issues market.
The balance sheet is stronger than at experienced by some sectors in which we were heavily invested.
30 September 2001 and our financial strength will enable us to invest as economies recover.
At the heart of our business model is our international network, which provides real competitive advantage.
Brian Larcombe Chief Executive Chief Executives review 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 05 There are now early signs of a pick up in investment activity, A further key strategy is to maintain a balanced business: by particularly in the European mid-market buy-out business, where product, by geography and by sector.
More volatile conditions we are seeing some attractive opportunities.
have reinforced the validity of this strategy.
However, with hindsight, it is clear that we were overly invested in some We take little comfort from the fact that the venture capital industry previously fast growing sectors, such as equipment supply to the has had a difficult two years.
But, as many of those who entered telecommunications industry, which have suffered from a collapse the industry when times were easier are no longer in the business, in demand.
Over the year, we have achieved a better balance in 3is competitive position has greatly strengthened.
The venture capital industry has a long term record of Our early stage technology portfolio represents 20% of the Group out-performing quoted markets.
In the last two years, the industry portfolio and we expect it to remain at about this level.
Looking as a whole has been badly affected by harsher conditions in many forward, technology companies face a challenging environment markets.
However, the outlook for the industry is positive and but we expect to see some clear winners develop over the next many of the markets have considerable potential for further few years from our portfolio.
Investing in companies with growth potential should provide the 3is strategy is clear.
best returns for us, particularly given low inflation and the lack of We aim to build strong businesses in each of the major developed pricing power in many traditional sectors.
We are attracted to economies.
In the year, we have firmly established our Nordic companies that have the potential to grow their operations, business, following the acquisition of Atle in Sweden, and revenues and profits.
We look less favourably on investments that maintained strong market positions in our longer established rely mainly on financial engineering as the prime driver of businesses in continental Europe.
Our reputation in the United shareholder value.
States and in Asia Pacific continues to grow.
We regard the At the heart of our business model is our international network, network as substantially complete and have no current plans to which provides real competitive advantage.
It enables us to access establish additional country operations.
the majority of investment opportunities in the marketplace, to compare potential investments in the same sector and select those we consider to be the best.
A F B E C D The outlook for Portfolio value by FTSE industrial classification m A Resources 268 B Industrials 1,117 our industry is C Consumer goods 1,080 D Services and utilities 1,318 E Financials 273 F Information technology 1,053 positive and many Total 5,109m of our markets have considerable potential for further development.
06 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Chief Executives review We reviewed our resourcing last October in the light of the We have also invested heavily this year in the people resources slowdown in our markets.
We cut costs by about 18 million, who manage our portfolio.
This includes our independent directors which involved 185 redundancies.
We did not withdraw from any who we often appoint as chairmen of our portfolio companies.
countries and the closure of smaller offices enabled us to focus We made 178 appointments in 2001.
In a similar way to the on larger offices with the critical mass which is needed in development of new investment processes, we have also todays markets.
developed a very clear segmentation approach to the management of our portfolio.
The review also enabled us to push forward with some significant organisational and investment process changes.
This has been a challenging year in which we have managed For the last two years, we have been developing a stronger many changes to strengthen our business.
It is in good shape product and sector focus and have now implemented fully a plan and we are seeing evidence of improved conditions since the to co-ordinate our larger buy-out and technology businesses year end.
This is most evident in recent new investment and across the office network.
These are led by Jonathan Russell realisation activity.
We have organised our technology business in four sector groups, which are managed by specialist teams from across the network.
This co-ordination improves our investment process and enables much greater added value to be given to the portfolio companies.
Brian Larcombe Chief Executive In our buy-out business, we are investing in companies with 15 May 2002 a valuation of up to 500 million and have strengthened our resource for this market across our European business.
Some substantial investments made in recent years are performing very strongly.
Growth capital is a substantial part of our business and, in the year, over 40% of realisations came from growth capital investments.
We expect that the market for growth capital investment will increase, as entrepreneurs seek to grow their businesses and seek venture capital funding.
This market is accessed by our local offices who then use the wider 3i network to help assess investments and to add value to them after investment.
We are in good shape and we are seeing clear evidence of improved conditions since the year end.
Investment by product m year to 31 March 2002 Buy-outs 361 Early stage technology 420 Growth capital 258 Total 1,039 million Technology investment, 548 million, includes early stage, 420 million, and growth capital and buy-out investment in more mature companies of 128 million.
Investment by region m year to 31 March 2002 UK 443 Continental Europe 446 US 119 Asia Pacific 31 Total 1,039 million
