Chief Executives Review Equity markets are in their third year of a direction and operational areas of our business.
downturn and have done little to buoy up investors Therefore the majority of our executive directors confidence.
In common with others in the fund have stepped down from the Board to establish an management industry, we have had to adjust to this Executive Management Committee.
Our cost reduction programme has led to the The Group raised 900 million of net new business identification of peripheral areas of our business, in the year, spread across a range of our products.
many of which are being scaled back or outsourced.
Encouragingly, we have seen strengthening results We have also cut discretionary expenditure, with from our international operations and in specialist UK retail marketing costs being reduced in line with product areas.
the expected continuance of weak market conditions in 2003.
We were diversified in the asset classes that we Corporate Positioning managed and this has enabled our earnings to We believe the current review will leave the Group remain solid during the year.
However, we have well placed for the eventual upturn in markets.
The been obliged to cut costs considerably.
In addition, broader themes for our industry remain good we plan to divest our property division, expected in despite the cyclical pain of this unexpectedly the early part of 2003, permitting the Group to prolonged downturn.
reduce its debt to a more comfortable level.
Strategic Review Our core investment approach has been refined in In July, we began a major review of our business two main ways: we are adopting a more uniform strategy, prompted, in particular, by our investment process, combined with reaffirming involvement in split capital closed end funds.
We proprietary research as the mainstay of that concluded that our priority was to direct our efforts process.
towards areas where we can compete over the As we develop the tools and methodologies to longer term and divest assets that are non-core.
ensure these processes are adhered to consistently, Henceforward, we intend to concentrate on active our challenge is to articulate our competitive fund management, primarily of equity and fixed differentiation.
Clearly, we have to move in line interest securities, which draws on our strengths as with our current clients expectations.
At the same a specialist manager.
To this end we have been retime, we want to raise the profile of our investment examining, from a qualitative angle, our investment teams and the centres of excellence within the practices.
This is in recognition of the higher Group.
standards of risk oversight, process disciplines and articulation that the market now requires.
In the institutional arena, the continuing trend towards specialist mandates within pension funds We have begun to implement additional should benefit the Group long term.
Our goal is to operational, as well as portfolio, risk controls.
In take advantage of the opportunity to gain accounts tandem, we have concluded that we should separate at the more active end of the risk spectrum, as the the governance function of the Board from the core satellite approach continues to be Aberdeen Asset Management 9 Chief Executives Review continued recommended to pension fund trustees by their that by increasing the product choice for pooled consultants.
pension fund investors this trend will be reversed.
Operational Highlights United Kingdom and Channel Islands Highlights this year include our Singapore The issue of split capital closed end funds has operation that has secured new mandates in its unquestionably overshadowed our activities in the staple Asia ex-Japan equity and bond products.
Many of these funds reduced their gearing over These were worth a total of 165 million, sourced the period, this included the repayment of 800 from UK, US and Hong Kong clients, million of bank debt by the funds that we managed.
demonstrating the international reach of our As a result of this and declining asset valuations in business.
the sub-sector, gross assets under management for split capital funds have fallen from a peak of 11 per In the United States, our specialist closed end funds, cent to only 4 per cent of Group assets under which predominantly invest in bonds, have management today.
Understanding the lessons as to delivered strong total returns and our Socially what went wrong and how to contain the impact on Responsible Investing SRI business unit is the Group remains a continual priority.
Our property division capped an outstanding year by securing a However, our UK businesses are diverse.
In 450 million mandate from an international client.
aggregate they comprise 71 per cent of Group assets Furthermore the division won the Property Fund under management.
Our head office in Aberdeen is Manager of the Year Award.
the centre of the Groups administration and customer services functions, as well as the local Despite adverse conditions, our segregated private portfolio team.
Glasgow offers a local centre institutional business in the UK and continental of excellence for global equities, private portfolios, Europe saw several new clients gained, and no SRI and UK equity income teams, as well as part of significant losses recorded.
A major new UK our property asset management operation.
In institutional mandate came in the shape of a global London, the major equity, fixed interest and equity portfolio with an ethical or SRI overlay.
specialist funds teams are based, as are the UK Ethical investment is becoming a significant area of marketing and the IT base for the Group.
Our Jersey specialist expertise for us helped, domestically, by operation is the administration base for the Groups the UK governments support for SRI, via changes international closed end funds, as well as the to pensions legislation in July 2000. offshore private portfolio team.
On the pooled funds side, in response to an Unit Trusts accelerating switch in the UK from defined benefit Our unit trust division has held up reasonably well to defined contribution pension schemes, we added in difficult conditions and our fixed interest two funds to our range.
These incorporate differing products especially have continued to appeal to the risk levels and provide a more flexible product for retail investor.
The market-leading Aberdeen Fixed defined contribution schemes at institutional fee Interest Unit Trust was recognised during the course levels.
We have seen a slow drift of assets out of of the year as the most popular choice by our traditional pooled balanced fund, and we hope Independent Financial Advisers IFAs, and was the 10 Aberdeen Asset Management most heavily dealt unit trust on one of the leading coupled with poor sentiment and adverse publicity IFA electronic supermarket distribution systems.
exacerbated illiquidity in the secondary market.
Furthermore, we have won awards for both our This initially contributed to an overall loss of Sterling Bond Unit Trust and Asia Pacific Unit confidence in income shares.
by the Group subsequently were placed into administrative receivership, with a fourth being Results for the year as a whole reveal a wound up after the year end.
comparatively healthy picture with gross retail sales of 582 million.
Direct sales, though, did suffer and With the persistence of weak markets, 76 out of have come in at approximately half of planned 310 split capital share classes in the sub-sector now levels.
Gross redemptions for the year were 424 see nil asset values.
With hindsight, the structures of million, leaving net new business of 158 million.
many splits have not proved sufficiently robust to We expect continuing weak demand from the UK endure the sustained and volatile bear market, retail market in 2003 and have adjusted our sector illiquidity and the increase in interest-rate marketing expenditure in line with this.
Closed end funds The difficulties experienced by this sub-sector have We managed 35 investment trusts and closed end understandably attracted considerable attention funds during the period under review, with 4.5 from the media, regulators and politicians and the billion of assets under management at the year end.
Group has co-operated fully in the reviews being Within this sector, we managed 19 split capital undertaken by the Financial Services Authority and closed end funds accounting for 1.3 billion of the Treasury Select Committee.
Further details are assets under management at the year end.
included in note 29 to the accounts.
We remain convinced that we have acted at all times with With the acquisition of Murray Johnstone in 2000, integrity and in accordance with all relevant we acquired four new split capital mandates.
coupled with the launch of several new funds and winning four split capital mandates from other Elsewhere across the range of closed end funds managers over the 19992000 period led us to that we manage, I am pleased to be able to report become the largest fund manager in the sub-sector.
that our fund managers have won a number of With hindsight, this period coincided with the end awards for performance during the year.
The of the bull market in equities.
Split capital funds, nominations and awards that we have won with geared structures, have suffered acutely in the illustrate the breadth of our fund management resulting downturn.
talent, whether it be deep value investing skills through British Empire Securities & General Each split capital fund we manage, however, Trust plc, the global equity expertise of Murray possesses very different characteristics in terms of International Trust PLC or the specialist regional board composition, investment objective, structure, equity play through Aberdeen Asian Smaller gearing and portfolios.
Unfortunately, commentary Companies Investment Trust PLC.
Aberdeen has tended to treat the sub-sector uniformly.
Steep Development Capital PLC, a venture and falls in equity markets for the last three years, development capital fund, was nominated topAberdeen Asset Management 11 Chief Executives Review continued performing split capital investment trust over one Luxembourg.
Our offshore funds in continental year.
Europe grew with the addition of 170 million of assets from our acquired offshore life company in Private Equity the Isle of Man.
Our expertise in private equity gained attention with the award of Venture Capital Firm of the Year The successful launch of an Austrian mirror fund of to Aberdeen Murray Johnstone Private Equity the Sovereign High Yield Bond fund raised some AMJPE, our private equity fund management 20 million 12 million.
AMJPE has 489 million of private class has rapidly become the most popular in our equity funds under management, managed within Aberdeen Global fund range.
A lengthy project to an investment trust, limited partnerships, segregated secure registration of the Aberdeen Global funds in portfolios and Venture Capital Trusts.
Over 100 Switzerland concluded during the year.
This million of this total has been raised during the last provides a platform from which we hope to be able year.
Nearly 25 million was committed in the last to further our penetration of the private bank year to new and follow-on investments in the distribution channel in this country.
In Italy, where period with realisations achieving over 69 million we secured registration last year, development of against cost of 52 million.
distribution has been encouraging and investors there now represent one of the largest holding Private Portfolios groups for the Aberdeen Global range.
Our private portfolio management division, with offices in Aberdeen, Glasgow, London, Manchester Asia Pacific and Jersey with 430 million of funds under Our Asia Pacific operations have had a very management, made some headway against an successful year.
This was characterised by strong exacting background.
During the year, an overall performance across both fixed interest and equities.
review of the divisional structure was undertaken Most notably, exceptional performance occurred in and this led to the merger of our Edinburgh and our Asia Pacific including and excluding Japan Glasgow offices.
funds, as well as in our single country equity mandates such as Australia, Singapore and Whilst the emphasis remained on supporting Thailand.
We won several new mandates from existing clients, there were some encouraging signs institutional clients in Singapore, Hong Kong and for new business, which included the London office the US, amounting to 165m.
Retail sales remained winning a 10 million sterling bond mandate from robust too, despite risk-averse private investors a well established family office.
Continental Europe Equity performance has been built on rigorous The downturn in equities has affected sales of funds company research, active stock selection against generally in continental Europe.
As a consequence, benchmarks and simple buy-and-hold strategies.
we have reduced our salesforce operating in One of the main tasks we have faced is the export Europe.
Offshore clients investment focus has of these disciplines to our Sydney and joint switched from equities to bonds in the Aberdeen venture Bangkok offices.
Team members have Global Fund, the Groups fund range domiciled in responded well.
Integration has been achieved, with 12 Aberdeen Asset Management Innovative The firm offers a wide array of innovative products that invest in a multitude of geographic areas and asset classes.
Chief Executives Review continued investment desks running country portfolios as well believe that we are well positioned to introduce as contributing to regional ones run from new products in the US and Canada as Singapore.
Recent outperformance in our investment markets improve.
Australian equity portfolios augurs well.
On the institutional marketing front, we continue The main challenge confronting Asia is weak global to win international equity mandates, particularly interest in the region.
While the investment in SRI.
Our main success was a $57 million fundamentals are excellent, such behaviour is 36 million international equity labour-screened largely out of our hands.
However, we are account from a US trade union and we have also promoting our capabilities to a more targeted client seen steady inflows from Canada into our base, both in Asia and worldwide.
We are also International SRI pooled account.
Our excellent introducing new products, our Japan hedge fund, a Asia Pacific performance has resulted in further first, being a case in point.
At the operational level, institutional interest and, following a recent series we have streamlined and will continue to do so of presentations to consultants, we hope to win when opportunities present themselves, mandates in this area in the year ahead.
consolidating marketing and back office roles where possible.
Close attention to costs has Finally, there has been an encouraging start for the contributed to record profits in Asia.
distribution of our offshore retail funds to Chile.
To date we have already received over $40 million North America 25 million into the Aberdeen International range Progress continues to be made in extending our and, with continued good performance, this could client base in the Americas.
Our latest Canadian prove to be the beginning of a steady flow of offering, the Aberdeen G7 Trust, raised C$222 subscriptions.
In addition, we also received million 98 million in February 2002.
As a approval during the year from the Chilean result of this successful launch we are now the regulators for three more funds to be added to the fourth largest closed end fund manager in Canada list of regulated funds that can be sold to Chilean with over C$1 billion 400 million under Pension Funds.
Property In the United States, our three large closed end Our property division, Aberdeen Property Investors funds have all performed well, registering doubleAPI, had 6.2 billion under management and digit percentage gains for investors during the advice at the year end in both UK and continental period.
Our largest closed end fund, the Aberdeen European property.
Property has been the topAsia-Pacific Income Fund Inc. with assets of over performing UK asset class in 2002 over one, three, $1.9 billion 1.2 billion, posted a return of five, ten and fifteen years.
This has confirmed to 27.2% for its US investors for the year to 30 investors the benefits of having property in an September 2002.
While North American retail investment portfolio for both diversification and investors have been focused on a narrow range of total return.
Propertys performance has been domestic yield products in these difficult markets, underpinned by a strong and stable income that has we have continued to strengthen our investment proved attractive in the current volatile investment banking and retail brokerage relationships.
14 Aberdeen Asset Management API has seen a growing interest in property from margins in particularly weak market conditions.
both retail and institutional investors.
We have been Our proposed divestment of the property division successful in winning two mandates from overseas will contribute to lower levels of gearing going institutional investors for UK property.
Service standards are a prerequisite during Nordic region, we have expanded in both direct and difficult markets and we are committed to providing indirect investment, taking on more property strong support through our product lines, while management clients.
In particular, interest there in constantly improving standards in all that we do.
pan-European indirect investment is a growing opportunity, given our franchise in that region.
Externally, the UK investment arena, our core market, is still sensitive to additional Government The past year has seen the full integration of the reviews and changes to regulation and legislation.
three businesses acquired in 2001 and the opening These present opportunities as well as challenges to of an office in Copenhagen.
A new head of panindependent managers such as ourselves.
European property investment strategy was appointed to integrate investment process and The current stock market environment presents us research teams across the UK and Europe.
with fresh opportunities, both in investment management, products and in different geographies.
Market Outlook We will look to exploit these opportunities.
Our equity strategy team foresees a mixed investment outlook for 2003.
Economic data in the US is soft, while corporate profit growth has slackened.
Much is riding on continued consumer Martin Gilbert borrowing to stimulate demand.
The US Federal Chief Executive Reserves calculation is that lower interest rates will 20 December 2002 help tide over activity until corporate investment resumes.
However, it appears refinancing gains are increasingly being saved not spent.
Faced with this low inflation environment, investors worldwide are re-examining their assumptions about equity returns.
Contrarians would probably argue from this that markets are close to their cyclical lows.
Even if markets improve, investors will need persuading.
Besides, if we are to embrace change successfully, it may be better to do so against a background that allows no let-up in our efforts.
Business Outlook Our focus is to maintain a watchful eye on expenditure, with a view to maintaining operating Aberdeen Asset Management 15 A worldwide network of offices North America Chicago Fort Lauderdale New Y ork North America United Kingdom Aberdeen Fund Managers Aberdeen Asset Managers Our Chicago office markets specialist mandates to US Aberdeen Unit Trust Managers institutional investors, whilst our New York office markets Our London office, manages UK, US and European equities, US closed end funds to US and Canadian investors.
global bonds and a number of specialist areas, including technology and emerging markets ex Asia.
Unit trust dealing The Fort Lauderdale office fulfils a client servicing and and customer service calls are handled in Aberdeen, and marketing function for the Latin American region.
broker desk services from London.
Investments in private equities are managed from our offices in Aberdeen, Birmingham, Glasgow, Inverness, Leeds, London and Manchester.
Investments for UK private clients are managed from Aberdeen, Glasgow, London and Manchester.
Aberdeen Property Investors The Group manages 6.2 billion of property assets of which 4.0 billion are managed from offices in Glasgow and London.
Offshore Aberdeen Asset Managers Jersey Aberdeen Private Wealth Management The Jersey office is the investment adviser to six offshore closed-end funds, with assets in excess of 800 million.
Aberdeen Private Wealth Management is Jerseys second largest independent asset manager specialising in offshore private clients.
Aberdeen International IoM Life Assurance Our Isle of Man office has funds under management of 300 million.
United Kingdom Aberdeen Birmingham Glasgow Inverness Leeds London Manchester Offshore Isle of Man Jersey Europe and Middle East Amsterdam Asia-Pacific Bahrain Bangkok Copenhagen Hong Kong Dublin Singapore Helsinki Sydney Luxembourg Oslo Stockholm Europe and Middle East Asia-Pacific Aberdeen Asset Management Ireland Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Our Dublin office manages over 500 million of Irish equities The Singapore offices manages and advises on 3.1 billion of and fixed interest securities.
The Aberdeen International Fund, Asia-Pacific equities and fixed interest securities in the region.
with 14 sub-funds, is also based in Dublin.
Our Singapore office also markets the Aberdeen Select range of 14 unit trusts to Singaporean retail investors.
The Hong Aberdeen Investment Services Kong office markets offshore funds to the north Asia region.
The Aberdeen Global Fund, with 19 sub-funds, is domiciled in The Sydney office advises on five North American closed end Luxembourg.
funds investing principally in Asia-Pacific equities and fixed Aberdeen Property Investors Continental interest securities.
The office also manages a number of Europe Australian investment funds and portfolios for Australian and Continental European property assets of 2.0 billion are New Zealand institutional investors.
managed from Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Helsinki, Oslo and A joint venture, Aberdeen Asset Management Company Stockholm.
Limited, in Thailand is responsible for a range of funds, including the management of direct property, equity and fixed Aberdeen Asset Managers interest assets.
The Group maintains a representative office in Bahrain.
Support The Group is committed to the highest level of customer support, managing funds for over a million investors worldwide.
