2 BG GROUP PLC 2002 SIR RICHARD GIORDANO, CHAIRMAN LEFT FRANK CHAPMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE chairmans and chief executives statement We are pleased to report that our second full year of operation as the new BG Group has seen continuing success.
This has been a year of strong growth: an excellent performance in a difficult business environment.
Political and economic turbulence has characterised many of BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS the markets and regions in which we operate.
The slowdown in The majority of our projects, required to double our energy the global economy, with particular macroeconomic deterioration growth between 1999 and the end of 2003, have been delivered.
in some areas, has affected the demand for energy in the short The four principal projects to be completed in 2003, the Scarab term.
Against this background our integrated gas major strategy Saffron fields offshore Egypt, the Ballylumford power station continues to deliver strong growth.
BGs success is based on upgrade in the UK, Atlantic LNG Train 3 in Trinidad and the core strengths across the gas chain from reservoir to burner tip.
Karachaganak field development in Kazakhstan, remain on We have an outstanding ability to find and develop gas reserves schedule.
Our businesses continue to perform well and we at very competitive costs.
We have a proven track record in are strongly placed to deliver our 2003 targets for production developing and serving gas markets in many parts of the world.
and for return on average capital employed.
We are confident that this strategy and these skills will enable During 2002, BG increased its proved gas and oil reserves by 31% us to continue to deliver profitable growth and to provide through commercialisation of discoveries, reserves upgrades and exceptional shareholder value.
Over the last 12 months, we completed 25 exploration and appraisal wells, of which 18 were successful 72% success BUSINESS PERFORMANCE rate.
Particular appraisal successes have been Buzzard in UK In our second full year of business as the new BG Group, waters and Sienna in the Nile Delta.
Over the past five years we delivered another strong set of results.
Operating profits our annual average success rate in exploration and appraisal increased by 7% whilst underlying operating profit increased by wells has been 71%.
As a result of the unanticipated and abruptly imposed North Sea tax surcharge, earnings fell Today, we have an outstanding hydrocarbon resource base: by 9%.
Excluding the 95 million tax surcharge, earnings per 8.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent, of which more than share would have been 11% higher than in 2001.
4.6 billion barrels are proved and probable reserves.
This represents over 64 years of potential production at 2002 As a result of strong growth and the transformation of our production rates.
Our reserves replacement ratio in 2002 was cost base, our total operating profit has grown by a compound 433%.
Over the past five years, BGs organic reserves average rate of 41% per annum since 1997.
This growth has been replacement ratio has averaged over 290% while our proved achieved across our upstream and downstream segments.
and probable reserves have increased at a compound annual The Group continued to generate strong operating cashflows growth rate of 17%.
We have an excellent record in translating and, notwithstanding a substantial capital investment programme these finds into economic projects: this resource base therefore of 1.5 billion, we ended the year with gearing of only 23%.
provides BG with an exceptional platform for profitable growth for many years to come.
In accordance with our existing dividend policy, your Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.55 pence per ordinary share, External benchmarking studies showed BGs Exploration and making a full year total of 3.1 pence.
Production business E&P as a top quartile performer in three Excluding exceptional items BG GROUP PLC 2002 3 financial highlights bg continuing operations 2002 2001 i ii Turnover m 2 610 2 508 ii Total operating profit m 888 833 ii Earnings m 424 465 ii Earnings per share p 12.0 13.3 iii Cash inflow from normal operating activities m 1 015 837 Capital investment m 1 510 1 079 Net borrowings m 1 002 538 Net assets m 3 348 3 530 i Purchased gas sales have been presented net.
There is no impact on operating profit see note 1, page 81 ii Excluding exceptional items see note 5, page 90 iii Excluding one-off items see note 28 A c, page 110 year average finding and development costs, annual unit We also explore opportunities to create new businesses, operating costs and reserves replacement.
We have driven unit particularly where these exploit synergies with our lifting costs down by 50% since 1997.
Unit operating costs have distribution activities and enhance existing assets.
We are fallen by 34% over the same period, with the gains we have made developing new businesses in three market segments: natural on lifting costs being partially offset by the effect of portfolio gas vehicles, domestic combined heat and power, and changes and higher oil prices.
With our finding and development telecommunications networks.
cost target for 2003 of $3.20 per barrel of oil equivalent boe and a target for unit operating costs of $2.75 per boe, we aim to STRATEGY achieve an industry leading, full-cycle cost of less than $6 per boe.
Our essential strategy and direction continue unchanged: strong growth and good returns from an integrated and Liquefied Natural Gas LNG is another of our core activities.
internationally diversified energy business with the emphasis Our skills in this segment of the gas chain enable us to move clearly on gas: developing reserves, building and accessing our gas reserves long distances to markets with unsatisfied markets: and participating in the mid-stream enabling demand for natural gas.
In 2002, we saw the start of Atlantic businesses.
Our high performing E&P business is and will Train 2 in Trinidad and Tobago and good progress with Train 3. remain the centre of gravity of BG.
Given our competitive There were major advances on Egyptian LNG and a good strengths, LNG is rich in value-adding opportunities and we performance in the first year of operation of the US subsidiary will continue to emphasise this area, capitalising on success in which manages the LNG importation business based in the the Atlantic and Mediterranean basins.
The focus in distribution Lake Charles terminal off the Gulf of Mexico.
In November 2002, will be, for the present, the improvement of returns from this we also received from the Italian Government and Port segment.
Meanwhile, we will continue efforts to expand our authorities approval to construct and operate a new LNG strongly performing Power segment.
Power generation is and, importation terminal in Brindisi off the south-east coast of Italy.
we believe, will continue to be a major source of growth in Access to markets is also achieved through Transmission and the demand for natural gas.
During the year, our T&D throughput increased by 4% and we added over 1 400 km of new gas BG AT WORK distribution network.
We revised our 2003 and 2006 T&D BGs skills across the value chain are central to the realisation volume targets to reflect adverse economic conditions in of our strategy.
It is in the execution of our projects that BG Argentina and the delayed power market growth in Brazil and truly excels and this depends on having the right people.
the greater than anticipated availability of high sulphur fuel oil.
We would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to what they have achieved during 2002.
Power Generation Power, a key part of building markets, is an important element of our integrated strategy.
Gas-fired power Our successes in the past few years in exploiting opportunities generation provides important base loads to pull gas through throughout the gas chain have demonstrated the depth of our to developing markets.
We have consciously designed our Power skills and expertise.
The entries in the 2002 Chairmans Awards for business to minimise exposure to merchant risk with our excellence in health, safety and environment and the inaugural revenues anchored by power purchase agreements based on Chief Executives Technology Innovation Awards have epitomised plant availability and operating cost performance.
This year the strength of BGs skills and the pride our staff take in their work.
saw a 19% increase in profits from Power and we achieved Underpinning these competencies is a performance culture, our 2003 power capacity target ahead of schedule.
which is now the hallmark of BG.
We are creating an environment
