4 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Group Chief Executives Review I took over as Group Chief Executive in Customer Focus June 2002 and as this is my first report Our vision remains that of being the to shareholders it is pleasing to be most customer focused financial services able to report on a successful year for provider in the UK bar none.
making good progress towards that vision, and all that we do within the business is In 2002 Alliance & Leicester made excellent driven by our brand values.
We aim to progress against all its strategic objectives attract new potential customers by whilst delivering a good set of results.
Pre-tax offering them a better value proposition, profit was up 18% to 468m, and our core to convert potential customers into profit, before strategic costs, was up 8% at actual customers by being simple and 519m.
Earnings per share EPS increased straightforward to deal with, to keep by 21%, and the Board has proposed customers and encourage them to buy a final dividend of 26.9p per share, '00 '01 '02 more from us by offering friendly and making a total dividend of 39.9p, an Earnings Per approachable service, and by appropriate increase of 10%.
Share pence management of the customer relationship.
Commentators often refer to Alliance & We have simplied our marketing Leicester as a low risk bank.
In all the material across the Group, introducing business sectors in which we lend we aim a cost-effective, clearer and more to be at the prudent end of the credit consistent approach.
However, lending money to emphasises the real plus which we can customers can never be viewed as a zero provide to the customer, re-inforced by risk business, and the economic environment the visual plus symbol within our logo.
we face in 2003 is more uncertain, with In addition, later in 2003 we intend that much of the world economy entering 2003 our Commercial Banking brands, currently in a somewhat depressed state.
Although marketed under the names of Girobank, the UK economy held up well in 2002 on the back of a strong consumer sector, and the housing market remained very strong, we will continue to be alert to economic risks in 2003 and will maintain Our strategy of focus and simplification our cautious stance.
Our current planning is based on the consensus of market forecasts which currently forecast GDP growth of continues to deliver value to our between 2 2.5% in 2003.
We expect single gure increases in average house prices shareholders, and were offering our although that may mask house price decreases in some localised areas.
customers good value, straightforward Strategic Objectives Our primary aim remains the maximisation products and services.
We have three strategic objectives to enable us to achieve Richard A. Pym, Group Chief Executive this and have made excellent progress against each of these objectives in 2002: revenue growth in 2002 was 5.7% like for like, excluding income from the Sovereign Finance and Alliance & Leicester rationalisation of properties, exceeding Business Banking, will be consolidated our target of 4%: under the name Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank.
we achieved our targeted cost savings of 20m: Retail Banking and we made significant progress in Our Retail Banking business had an improving our capital efficiency by reducing our regulatory tier 1 capital excellent year in 2002.
Pre-tax profit of ratio to 7.6%.
432m was up 14%, income was up over 5%, costs were down 2% and asset quality Over the next two years we have one new remains very strong.
primary target, which is to deliver double digit percentage growth in basic earnings During 2002 we focused Retail Bankings '00 '01 '02 per share.
This target is supported by our resources on mortgages, unsecured personal existing goals relating to revenue growth, loans, current accounts and savings.
We refer Dividend Per costs and the management of our capital.
to these four products as the Core 4.
