An international entity Even more striking was the underlying stability of our operating The merger of BHP Limited and Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001 cash flows that after paying all interest and taxes held steady established a new leader in the global resources sector: one at US$3.9 billion, despite the environment of generally lower seeking superior shareholder returns as the worlds premier prices.
These strong financials were reflected in other measures: supplier of natural resources and related products and services.
EBITDA interest coverage rose from 8.5 times in 2001 to 11.0 times Merger integration via the Dual Listed Companies structure was in the reporting year: gearing net debt to net debt plus equity swift with our key business units being immediately organised into declined from 38.4 per cent to 35.0 per cent: and net debt at six Customer Sector Groups, supported by two marketing hubs 30 June 2002 was US$6.8 billion, a reduction of US$499 million one in The Hague and one in Singapore.
Today, we operate as a over the year.
truly international entity, with some 38 000 employees currently Our robust cash flows left us well placed to proceed methodically working in more than 100 operations in 20 countries across the with the new growth projects that we flagged to shareholders globe serving our global base of shareholders and customers.
During the year, we sanctioned Stability and growth 12 new growth projects involving an aggregate investment The central tenet of the BHP Billiton business model is that our of US$2.9 billion.
diversified portfolio of high-quality assets provides more stable The income statement cash flows and greater capacity for growth than the traditional The difficult market conditions that prevailed throughout the resource cyclicals or indeed many other industrial models.
year were reflected in Group turnover, which fell by 6.8 per cent The results of the year provide striking support for this thesis.
to US$17.8 billion, due mainly to lower commodity prices and Despite current price weakness in many of our products, lower sales volumes.
currency fluctuations, and demand-based production cut-backs at some of our major operations, our Earnings Before Interest, Earnings before Interest and Tax EBIT, excluding exceptional Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA, excluding items, consequently declined to US $3.2 billion from exceptional items, held steady at around US$1.2 billion in every US$3.6 billion last year, a reduction of 12.1 per cent.
Aggregated over the year, EBITDA before exceptional items was US$4.9 billion, down only 7.2 per cent on last years record, notwithstanding much weaker commodity markets.
4 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Portfolio management Merger benefits and cost savings The demerger of BHP Steel in July 2002 was a landmark event, An important target announced at the time of the merger was severing a link of many decades.
The outcome was embraced the pursuit of ongoing benefits of US$270 million before one-off by both organisations, launching BHP Steel as an independent, costs by the end of financial year 2003.
Good progress was made world-class steel business and releasing BHP Billiton to focus on towards this goal, with US$220 million being delivered in the its upstream interests.
Strong demand for the BHP Steel shares, year ended 30 June 2002.
These benefits arose from a number which were sold through the Sale Facility to participants under of different areas, including Operating Excellence initiatives, the Retail and Institutional offers, took the final price to strategic sourcing, changes to our marketing activities, access A$2.80 per BHP Steel share.
The 6 per cent retained by BHP to lower-cost finance, and widespread operational savings.
Billiton and sold through the Sale Facility brought a cash benefit A further target of US$500 million of cost savings and efficiency of US$75 million in July 2002.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders gains has been set for the next three years.
A major part of this received approximately 149 million bonus shares to match the is expected to be delivered through the continuance of our demerger value distributed to BHP Billiton Limited shareholders.
Operating Excellence initiatives, together with savings from our During the year, we also finalised our responsible exit from the simplified structure and processes, economies of scale from Ok Tedi copper mine in Papua New Guinea, transferring our centrally-focused marketing activities and from productivity equity in the mine to an independent company established improvements at ongoing operations.
to support the future social and economic development of the BHP Billiton people people of Papua New Guinea.
We announced the sale of our I conclude with a tribute to Paul Anderson, who retired from his interest in the PT Arutmin Indonesia energy coal operations, executive role of CEO and Managing Director on 1 July 2002. and the acquisition, in conjunction with our partners, of the He served his shareholders well, restoring an ailing BHP to health 50 per cent interest in Cerrejon Zona Norte energy coal mine and delivering a new industry leader from the BHP Billiton in Colombia, bringing our interest in the overall company to merger.
He will surely be noted in the corporate annals as one 33 per cent.
of our most successful leaders and remembered with great The recent establishment of a seventh Customer Sector Group, affection by employees and shareholders alike.
to be known as Diamonds and Specialty Products, will bring Messrs Ben Albert, John Conde, Derek Keys and Barry Romeril integrated management and renewed focus to an important retired from the Board at the end of June 2002.
All four group of cash-generating businesses.
contributed much to the decisions of the Group, and particularly Progress for Petroleum to those related to the merger.
I personally shall miss the wise Our Petroleum exploration made good progress during 2002. counsel of Mr Keys, from which I benefited for more than a decade.
We invested US$288 million in exploration and appraisal activities At the end of a busy year, I give thanks to my colleagues across and were rewarded with a finding cost of US$1.59 per barrel of the Group for their contributions to making the merger an oil equivalent and a capitalisation rate of 47.6 per cent.
Both of outstanding success and for delivering sound results in these figures represent top tier performance.
In the Gulf of challenging times.
Together, we shall strive in the year ahead to Mexico, appraisal wells at Mad Dog and Atlantis were achieve our vision of building BHP Billiton into one of the worlds successfully completed, leading to sanction of both projects.
In Trinidad, the Kairi and Canteen wells project is built on our original exploration success in the Angostura field, and development work is well advanced to sanction this project during the coming year.
Negotiations with the Chinese government for the delivery of Liquefied Natural Gas LNG from the North West Shelf Venture NWS in Western Australia were ultimately successful.
In terms Brian Gilbertson of the agreement of August 2002, the NWS will be the preferred Chief Executive supplier to the development of the first phase of the Guangdong LNG Terminal and Trunkline Project in China.
BHP Billiton acted as the owners representative and worked closely with both the Western Australian Government and Australian Federal Government towards this outcome.
