CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We have continued to build upon our core strengths and made progress towards our Vision of becoming the leading insurance business in the London Market.
In 2002, the underwriting profitability of which we were confident twelve months ago has started to be recognised in our reported results.
Amlin is now in a strong position to deliver high returns on equity in the current year and next.
We remain optimistic beyond this, although profitability will be affected by the competitive environment in our specialist lines of business.
We have continued to build upon our core strengths and make progress towards our Vision of becoming the leading insurance business in the London Market.
Strategically, we successfully completed the acquisition of third party capacity, and I am confident that over the next two years we will be able to demonstrate clearly the operational and financial logic of that acquisition.
With 862 million of dedicated Lloyds capacity for 2003, we are the largest independent business in the Lloyds market.
However, our goal to become the leading insurance business in the London Market is not based on size our building blocks are centred on bottom line profitability and growth in net asset value per share.
To achieve sustainable superior performance in these areas we are focused on becoming the most astute leader of risks, on being the place to go as a first choice for leading risks, on reading and adjusting our business to the insurance cycle and on optimising our financial strategy.
Underwriting performance Gross premiums written were up 22% over 2002 as we sought to maximise our recovery from the financial consequences of 11 September 2001 and capitalising on the significantly improved underwriting markets which followed.
This growth was achieved through a combination of increased 10 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2002 MAJOR INDUSTRY LOSSES AND Gross Managed syndicate share IMPACT ON AMLIN Source for market losses: Sigma loss Gross Net Catastrophe Date $bn m m Swiss Air MD-11 Sept 1998 0.8 4.8 1.3 Hurricane Georges Sept 1998 4.4 19.7 4.4 Hurricane Floyd Sept 1999 2.6 8.1 5.0 Typhoon Bart Sept 1999 4.4 9.1 3.1 Hurricane Lothar Dec 1999 6.2 9.1 4.0 Windstorm Martin Dec 1999 2.6 4.8 2.4 Alaska Airlines Jan 2000 0.3 15.4 0.3 Petrobras Mar 2001 0.5 0.7 0.7 Tropical Storm Alison Jun 2001 3.2 11.1 6.0 Sri Lankan Airport Jul 2001 0.4 0.0 0.0 Toulouse Chemical Plant Sept 2001 1.4 1.3 1.2 WTC Sept 2001 19.3 314.2 110.3 European Storms and Floods Aug 2002 2.5 12.8 11.9 US Windstorm Tornadoes Dec 2002 1.4 0.0 0.0 rates on renewal business, attracting Syndicate 2001s 2002 underwriting in 2001.
Good investment returns were good new business and increased year gross incurred loss ratio at achieved from a defensive stance with ownership of Syndicate 2001s capacity.
31 December 2002 of 19.3%, its our bond portfolios exceeding our long lowest level for nine years.
The European term anticipated return by 2%.
This With our stronger position in the London floods in August were our largest single positive return has also been aided by Market we have seen an increased loss event for which we estimate our the growth in our technical funds with showing of good new business and this net losses at 8.6 million.
The marine strong cash flow and action taken to has enabled our underwriters to maintain market suffered a number of major reduce the terms of trade and to tighten a satisfactory level of selectivity aimed at incidents during the year, including the credit controls.
maintaining and building upon our high loss of the tanker Prestige and the quality book of business.
sinking of the cargo vessel Tricolor.
Earnings per share of 14.1p were However, our involvement in these enhanced by our capital strategy of In line with our policy of capacity events was small.
gearing the balance sheet in hard market optimisation, we increased our income conditions.
Our return on equity was weighting mostly in energy insurance, Performance in each of our divisions 20.1%.
Net assets per share increased large commercial property insurance and continued to improve so that, by 19.6% to 81.1p, and net tangible property reinsurance: areas that notwithstanding the strengthening asset value per share increased by 8.3% witnessed major improvements in terms of reserves for prior years US casualty to 65.4p as 46.0 million was spent and conditions.
We also maintained business, which added 5% to our acquiring the outstanding third party major positions in airline and combined ratio, at the 100% managed capacity on Syndicate 2001.
We expect commercial motor insurance, which had syndicate level our combined the pay back from this to be rapid.
previously reached levels where good ratio improved by 5% to 95%.
This returns were being generated.
is analysed by division in the Business strategy Financial Review.
We have continued to focus on the Our focus on gross underwriting meant six key operational objectives set out that we were again able to place an Group financial performance in last years annual report: effective reinsurance programme with The strong underwriting performance, good security at an acceptable cost.
before investment return, contributed building our intellectual capital: Reinsurance spend, excluding our 32.0 million to the consolidated result, capacity optimisation: qualifying quota share reinsurance, as compared with a loss of 8.9 million in gross underwriting discipline: a percentage of premium written in the 2001, after stripping out the effect of strengthening our client service 2002 underwriting year was 14% the 11 September losses on that year.
capability: compared with 17% in 2001. maintaining strong risk management Investments contributed a healthy techniques: and There was a low level of major losses 41.5 million to the consolidated profit driving for operational efficiency.
during 2002 which is evidenced by for the year, compared with 5.1 million FEBRUARY 2002 APRIL 2002 JUNE 2002 Completion of its 2 for 7 rights issue at 25 senior underwriters invited to join the Capital Amlin announced plans to raise a further 77p per share raising 43.2 million of capital Builder Plan, the Groups long term incentive 80 million through a placing and open offer after expenses.
This plan aligns of shares at 81p per share.
shareholder and underwriter interests by rewarding above target 5 year returns by class of business over 5 underwriting years of account.
AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2002 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED The foundation for driving each of these and technology.
com, which the current strong insurance market, objectives rests with the quality and we launched in late 2001, has now we favour a policy of gradually increasing commitment of our team.
We maintained signed up 16 leading insurance brokers the equity content of our corporate low turnover among our underwriters, and, with rates increasing in its targeted portfolio.
Equity exposure will remain selectively hiring to support targeted niche, it is rewarding to see the product modest and we are mindful of the growth areas and to strengthen succession attracting increasing volumes of current uncertainties associated with planning.
We now have 46 divisional and business.
Moreover, based on its war and global economic conditions.
class underwriters, with an average of operational attractions for insurance 12 years of industry experience.
We also brokers, we have been asked by a In the hard insurance markets into which made key appointments in operations leading broker to broaden the product we have grown, we have increased management, to help ensure that our to another niche class.
financial leverage to support our growth support functions maximise efficiency in capacity.
We believe that, in current and are capable of handling our growth, We believe there now exists a real market conditions, the benefit of and in contract wordings, an area of opportunity to increase the efficiency a leveraged return outweighs its risk.
increasing importance as we strengthen of London Market processes and we our leadership position in the market.
are actively supporting a number Outlook for underwriting conditions of initiatives with this aim.
We expect good underwriting conditions We will continue to invest in building to remain with us for some time.
In Amlins skill base so that we are capable Financial and investment strategy some areas rates continue to rise, while of sustaining the superior performance Insurance underwriting and the support in others there are signs of renewal rates we are determined to deliver.
The Amlin skills of policy wordings and claims coming under pressure.
This is to be Academy, in its second full year, is management are Amlins core expected having experienced dramatic demonstrating its leadership in training competencies.
Combining these rate increases over the past two years.
and development in our market and competencies with sound financial and Overall, trading conditions in 2002 were provided some 1,465 days of training investment strategies are critical to their strongest for many years.
and development for Amlin personnel.
Those classes of business where rates Having completed the acquisition As our business has grown, so both appear to have peaked include property of 100% of Syndicate 2001s capacity our corporate and technical assets have reinsurance, large commercial property in 2002 we have again, successfully, increased in scale.
We have created insurance and airline insurance.
These augmented the growth of the business an Investment Advisory Panel, which are areas which were most impacted by into a strong insurance market.
includes leading professionals drawn the events of 11 September 2001 and Dedicated underwriting capacity for from other institutions with expertise in which we achieved some of the most 2003 is up 49% on 2002 and, looking in global economics, equity and bond significant rate increases in late 2001 forward, we have significantly increased management.
We continue to outsource and 2002.
For example, renewal rates flexibility for the ongoing management the management of our assets, and our for large commercial property risks of the business.
Investment Advisory Panel will help increased by an average of 75% in 2002 ensure we optimise our asset allocations having increased by some 25% in 2001.
Capacity optimisation requires us to in line with our underwriting and Per risk property reinsurance renewal manage our income and exposures over financial strategies.
rates increased by 62% in 2002 on top the cycle, both in total and by class of of an average increase of 24% in 2001. business.
In the current year we will Withdrawal from exposure to equity We anticipate a modest softening of review and hone our strategies for investments in September 2001 has rates in these areas as the year develops managing the soft cycle when it arrives.
At some point, but we expect good levels of return to respective valuations of bonds and continue to be achievable.
We continue to explore means of equities will support a shift back towards improving our client service capability, equity investments.
With our focus on In other areas rate increases continue to in particular through the use of systems maximising underwriting returns from be achieved, especially where there have AUGUST 2002 AUGUST 2002 SEPTEMBER 2002 Heavy rain and subsequent floods devastated Amlin launched recommended offer for Lloyds EGM approved the proposals of the areas of Central Europe.
Total insured losses are remaining 28% of Syndicate 2001 capacity.
Tighter management estimated at $2.5 billion, of which Amlins share The offer was successfully completed in of bottom quartile businesses expected to is estimated at 8.6 million.
12 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2002 been poor loss experiences such as in increasingly seen as a market of choice uncertainty as to whether the destruction space and UK liability business where by brokers and clients.
With this we of the World Trade Center itself is judged we are now increasing our capacity are excellently placed to benefit from to be one or two insured occurrences.
Our large UK commercial the current trading environment.
We believe the attacks were one motor business continues to achieve However, we will reduce our exposures occurrence and have legal guidance rate increases in excess of claims if and when underwriting margins that supports this view.
In the event that inflation, thereby sustaining its become questionable.
the losses were judged to be two margin potential.
occurrences and two total losses to the Risk to future underwriting profitability layers we underwrite, we estimate that It is inevitable that rates in all areas will We continuously evaluate the threats to the adverse financial impact could be peak at some point.
Market dynamics, our future underwriting profitability to up to around 22 million for Amlin.
however, could result in good underwriting minimise or even eliminate their Given our legal advice, and the high returns being achievable for some potential impact on the Group.
With excess layer that we insured, we believe time.
While 2002 was an excellent current industry dynamics we have been this outcome to be unlikely.
underwriting year, the non-life insurance mainly focused on the following three industry has failed to emerge stronger.
threats: reinsurance security and Outlook Many companies suffered from the debtors: adequacy of US casualty Underwriting conditions remain strong, resurgence of legacy claims issues, reserving: and risks arising from the even though those classes which most notably an acceleration in asbestos 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks.
experienced significant increases after claims settlements and adverse claims 11 September 2001 are showing signs development in US casualty classes on As shown in the Financial Review, our of having peaked.
business underwritten between 1997 reinsurance receivables continue to and 2000.
Additionally, the significant comprise high quality security, for the Amlins growth into the hard market fall in equity values has impaired the most part, and where security has been and financial leverage, together with balance sheets of those insurers with downgraded over the past year, we have the manner in which we earn profitable meaningful equity portfolios.
The result been active in collecting due debts.
premium, should provide strong earnings is that the security ratings of many momentum over the next several years.
companies have been downgraded and We consistently attempt to identify net industry capital has declined for adverse claims trends early to help In the longer term, we believe that the the third successive year.
ensure that our reserves reflect potential high quality of our underwriting skill claims development.
US casualty claims base and our focus on managing the In this environment, companies with for risks underwritten in the years 1997 insurance cycle will help Amlin to deliver exposures to legacy claims need to to 2000 witnessed unprecedented sustained, superior returns.
maintain acceptable underwriting returns development during 2002 and we have to stand still, especially as investment adjusted reserves accordingly.
Having returns are unlikely to compensate for materially reduced our exposure to poor underwriting.
Companies, such as US casualty business in late 2000, the recently incorporated Bermudians, the impact of potential future claims who do not have these exposures have development reduces as the years CHARLES PHILIPPS some ability to be more competitive but, become more mature.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE on the whole, we anticipate that such capacity will be more disciplined We have maintained an extremely close in drawing a line at an acceptable watch on claims issues arising from the underwriting margin.
Our estimate of the ultimate loss has Amlins exposure to legacy claims stabilised and we are beginning to issues is limited, our market position experience claims settlements within has grown in significance, and we are the reserves we have set.
There remains SEPTEMBER 2002 NOVEMBER 2002 JANUARY 2003 Amlin entered FTSE 250 index.
Amlin Debt and letter of credit facilities increased to Divisional underwriter of Amlin Aviation, announced return to profit for six months 151 million to help support growth in owned Rod Dampier, appointed Chairman of Lloyds ended 30 June 2002. capacity to 862 million for 2003.
