BBS00031P Inners 25 2 03 2:17 pm Page 8 8 Bradford & Bingley plc 9 Bradfo Annual Report & Accounts Annual Repo for the year ended 31 December 2002 for the year Group Chief Executives review The intere impact of Our innovative mortgage broking strategy incentive c clawback helped double distribution profits and months of the marke profits in t substain new lending margins in a very Our policy our growt competitive market 2.4 billio purchase book from Corporati Overview A number of customers closed their savings the storm.
Research shows By the en In 2002, we continued to make good progress or mortgage accounts during 2001 having that our new TV advertising campaign for book had against our twin strategic goals of becoming received their free shares when we floated.
The MarketPlace was particularly successful 16.8 billi the UKs leading specialist lender and an 2002 was the first year in which we felt the in communicating the fact that we offer evident ac innovative retailer of property and financial full financial impact of their departure.
consumer choice and we continued to growth in services.
Fortunately, our new lending growth coupled use Charcols successful existing press with significant additions to balances in our campaign to drive sales to new record levels.
Our comm During the year we lent a record 5.8 billion.
value savings products and our decision to lending bu This was all secured against residential or change the period over which we spread Lending nearly 1 commercial property while The MarketPlace lending incentives went a long way to offset 37% of Group revenues 3.7 billio and Charcol, our two retail financial services this and total interest income fell by only We have maintained the momentum in our team cont brands, both experienced substantial growth 1 million to 441 million.
Lending business with balances up 9% their own as record numbers of consumers decided year-on-year to 20.5 billion.
Divisional profit able to ta they preferred product choice and We continued to invest in our advice brands before tax increased 13% to 210 million.
reputation independent advice when buying in 2002, confident that, in times of uncertainty, This increase reflected the growth in lending make 0.9 financial services.
the value of expert help becomes ever more balances, a flat cost base and a growth in year-end, c evident to consumers seeking to weather lending interest margins from 1.27% to 1.37%.
New le Up 73% BBS00031P Inners 21 2 03 8:54 PM Page 9 9 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 The interest margin increase included the grown 41% to 2.2 billion.
Our housing In December, we announced that the European impact of our decision to spread lending association team built on their position as a mortgage processing and outsourcing joint incentive costs over the early redemption major lender in the market to grow their venture with ALLTEL, which commenced in clawback period instead of the first twelve balances by 30% to 1.5 billion.
Both partners months of the loan.
This change aligned us with believed that further investment in the joint the market and added 19 million to our Credit quality remains good, with arrears levels venture could not be justified given the current profits in the year, relative to the previous basis.
continuing to decline both in absolute terms uncertainty created by changes in mortgage and in proportion to the book.
Our book is regulation in the UK and Continental Europe, Our policy of lending selectively did not hamper well diversified with 23% of our loans being and the slower than expected development in our growth.
New residential lending grew from buy-to-let, 59% are other residential mortgages the European mortgage outsourcing market.
This included the and 18% commercial and housing association We have made an exceptional write-off of purchase of a 6,000 customer, 650 million loan loans.
All our lending is secured on property and 15 million in our 2002 results in respect book from General Motors Acceptance our buy-to-let lending, which accounts for only of our share of the system development and Corporation in September 2002. a quarter of our book, has an average loan-toassociated costs.
value ratio of 59% and arrears levels of less than ows By the end of the year, our residential loan one third of the overall UK residential average.
Our mortgage customers have not been n for book had grown by 800 million to affected by these changes and our mortgage cessful 16.8 billion, as the high level of remortgaging During the year we increased bad debt processing costs will not increase.
fer evident across the market offset our significant provisions on our Balance Sheet and in our to growth in new lending.
securitisation vehicles by 12 million to almost s 56 million, in view of current economic rd levels.
Our commercial and housing association uncertainty.
We continue to believe that we are lending businesses both had good years adding well provided for, given our residential lending nearly 1 billion to the book which reached arrears experience: the low average 42% 3.7 billion by year-end.
The commercial lending loan-to-value of our residential loan portfolio: n our team continued to be successful, originating the quality of our commercial and housing their own secured property lending and were association books: and the fact that we have no l profit able to take advantage of their growing unsecured lending to individuals or companies.
reputation in the loan syndication market to ending make 0.9 billion of loans during the year.
By in year-end, commercial lending balances had o 1.37%.
W We e c continue ontinue to to g gener enerate ate capital capital or organically ganically tthrough hrough gro growing wing our our p profits rofits..
This This capital capital presents presents us us w with ith the the oppor opport tunity unity to to iin nvest vest in in the the continued continued gro grow wth th o off 287m our our selective selective lending lending and and Non-interest income retailing retailing businesses businesses.. IIn n Up 6% addition, addition, we we will will continue continue to to seek seek acquisitions acquisitions that that We have achieved our add add to to our our skills skills and and scale scale, target of 1,000 advisers in in the the m mar ark ke et t iin n which which 18 months ahead of we we oper operate ate.. schedule and propose to grow adviser numbers to 5.8bn 1,300 by the end of 2004.
New lending Up 73% BBS00031P Inners 25 2 03 1:21 pm Page 10 10 Bradford & Bingley plc 11 Bradfo Annual Report & Accounts Annual Repo for the year ended 31 December 2002 for the year Group Chief Executives review Savings This reflects a real reduction in underlying by high levels of mortgage redemption Our surve 16% of Group revenues costs offset by continued investment experienced throughout the industry in these good year In 2002, we stabilised our savings business in growing both the business and our times of very low interest rates.
This decline profit by 5 after experiencing significant carpetbagger adviser base.
in mortgage-linked insurance revenues was income co outflows in the prior year.
During the year partly offset by our move to insurance we finishe balances grew 300 million to 13 billion.
As a result total insurance revenues employee This has been achieved by the continued Our position as a diversified distributor of fell by just 6%.
We will pay particular attention Commerc success of innovative products such as financial services helps us offset short-term to growing our insurance broking revenues BBG Surv Premier Saver, and by the launch of other declines in demand in any one product during 2003. new products that build the relationship area with sales growth in other areas.
This Costs between retail deposits and regulated resilience is evident in our 2002 results which In mid 2002 we achieved our target of having In 2002 G investments by introducing new customers reflect the quite different market conditions 1,000 financial advisers eighteen months 446 mill to our financial advisers.
experienced in various parts of our business.
ahead of schedule and by the year-end had cost incom 1,061 advisers of whom 130 were in training.
The interest margin on savings was 118 million In a strong mortgage market, our mortgage We have now set our sights on reaching This was t in 2002, a decrease of 24 million on 2001. broking related revenues grew by over 1,300 advisers by the end of 2004.
Having expanded This reflects the full and final impact of 30% year-on-year.
By contrast, demand for said that, we have slowed wealth adviser IBM and r carpetbagger outflows, combined with equity-related investments fell significantly recruitment temporarily, until market service ut reduced deposit spreads in a lower interest as a result of the falling stock market.
Together these meant that introduced a variety of new protected service ce the savings interest margin fell from 1.1% to investment products during the year.
While Property services 0.9% during the year.
margins on these products are lower, our Estate Agency revenue increased by 4% Our staffi growing sales force and increased adviser in 2002 but, following our closure of 2002, des Distribution productivity enabled us to limit the fall in underperforming outlets in 2001, these populatio 36% of Group revenues investment related revenues to 8% in a revenues were achieved through a retail full time e The Distribution business doubled profit market which fell 25%.
network that is approximately 10% smaller.
reduction before tax to 28 million in 2002.
Income On a like-for-like basis, the current network from financial services grew by 5% to Because so many of our historic home and improved revenue per outlet by 8% and By the en 144 million while property services income contents insurance sales had been linked to outlet contribution by 14%.
By contrast mortgages we had manufactured, our general compared operating expenses were flat at 231 million.
insurance business continued to be impacted 2000.
We in the bus The The d doubling oubling o of f p pr ro offiits ts iin n o our ur distr distriibution bution b business usiness d dur uriing ng 2002, 2002, d despite espite d depr epre essed ssed equity equity mark marke et ts s, c cllearly early demonstr demonstra ates tes t th he e m mark arke et t potential potential ffo or r ffiin financial ancial s ser erv vices ices 56m r re et tailing ailing a and nd w we e b belie eliev five e t th hat at Mortgage broking the the r re egulator gulatory y c ch hang ange es s a affo oot ot related revenues will will p pr re esent sent ffu ur rt ther her Up 31% oppor opport tunities unities ffo or r g gr ro ow wt th.
h. Additionally Additionally, our our s selective elective lending lending activities activities h have ave benef benefiited ted ffr ro om m s str tro ong ng m mark arke et t conditions conditions.. 11 Propert revenue Up 7% BBS00031P Inners 25 2 03 1:22 pm Page 11 11 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 on Our surveying business had a particularly in our adviser base from 936 to 1,061 during The year ahead in these good year with revenues growing by 26% and the period.
We have started the year well, but we live in decline profit by 50%.
Over 85% of our surveyors uncertain times.
We will continue to drive for es was income comes from other companies and We will continue to seek ways to improve our improved operating performance in our ce we finished the year by acquiring the 67 cost income ratio in the future although this chosen markets and will be particularly venues employee surveying business of Countrywide will be offset by the growth of our distribution focused on taking advantage of the many attention Commercial bringing the total number of businesses, which have a relatively high cost regulatory changes that have been proposed venues BBG Surveyors fee earners to 272. income ratio compared to our lending by the Financial Services Authority.
The attraction of distribution is that it Costs requires relatively little capital, so growing this We will also carefully evaluate the increasing of having In 2002 Group pre-exceptional costs were area improves Group return on equity.
number of acquisition opportunities that ths 446 million, 5 million less than in 2001.
Our are emerging at this stage of the economic nd had cost income ratio fell from 63.3% to 61.3%.
Capital and Balance Sheet cycle.
We are potential acquirers of businesses training.
The Groups total assets grew to 25.4 billion that offer us greater scale or complementary hing This was the result of a number of actions.
We by the end of 2002, an 8% increase on 2001. skills in the markets in which we have chosen aving expanded our outsourcing relationship with This asset growth occurred primarily as a to operate.
iser IBM and restructured some of our internal result of the increase in specialist lending service utilities, of which the most significant balances during the year.
It has been financed was the creation of a single Human Resource principally by two medium-term note issues service centre.
which attracted new investors to the Group.
4% Our staffing levels have continued to fall in During the year we actively managed our Christopher Rodrigues 2002, despite the increase in our adviser capital base.
We began a 150 million equity Group Chief Executive se population to over 1,000.
In 2002 our average buy-back programme in February and, by the 17 February 2003 etail full time equivalent workforce was 6,680, a end of 2002, had purchased over 88 million maller.
reduction of 190 3% on the previous year.
During the year we also etwork raised 150 million innovative Tier 1 capital and By the end of the year we had achieved our and issued 200 million of subordinated debt, targeted 30 million reduction in costs further improving the mix of our capital compared on a like-for-like basis with year-end and reflecting our confidence in our future 2000.
We have also continued investment growth prospects.
in the business and our brands and a growth Although the outlook for the UK financial services and property markets is uncertain, the current year has started well.
We believe that the diversity of our revenues positions us well for 115m these uncertain market conditions.
Property services revenue Up 7% BBS00031P Inners 25 2 03 1:25 pm Page 12 12 Bradford & Bingley plc 13 Bradfo Annual Report & Accounts Annual Repo for the year ended 31 December 2002 for the year Through our extensive retail network, Bradford & Bingley can offer the widest range of financial products and services.
We understand our customers and provide the right products that make the choice simple and straight-forward.
choice BBS00031P Inners 21 2 03 8:54 PM Page 13 13 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002
