6 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 Chief Executives Sen P Mahon Review The groups trading performance during Consumer Credit the year to 31 December 2002 has been particularly satisfactory.
It is An important part of our strategy is to especially pleasing to see the benefits maintain credit quality, particularly 2002.
The role played by LCUs is from the integration of our consumer during the continued expansion of our important in maintaining our overall credit activities, as mentioned in the consumer credit activities and in less credit quality and improving customer Chairmans statement, beginning to certain economic conditions.
These benefits, together success of this strategy is with a good performance from Lewis, demonstrated by the stability in our bad As stated in my report last year, we our debt recovery specialists, and debt charge and the continuing continue to review carefully the improved trading from the corporate reduction in the level of customers profitability of our sources of business division, have contributed to another arrears.
The consumer divisions bad and individual product lines in order to excellent set of results for the group.
debt charge remains unchanged, within achieve our targeted levels of return and our target at around 8% of net arrears.
This review has resulted in a I am also pleased with the receivables, with customer arrears reduction of around 37,000 customers encouraging start made by our new falling in the year from 12.9% to 11.1%.
during the year, bringing the total acquisitions, Dial4aloan, our specialist planned reduction in the number of consumer credit broker, and the As part of our drive to improve branch customers during the last 18 months to Associates loan portfolio.
operating cost ratios, we have over 87,000.
At 31 December 2002, the amalgamated 36 of our smaller weekly consumer division had 742,000 branches with their nearest, larger, customers compared with 715,000 at Consumer Division consumer division branch.
A further 57 the previous year end.
new branches were opened during the The consumer division has year, increasing our total network to 495 contributed the majority of the branches, at 31 December 2002.
Over Insurance groups results for the year, with half of the branch network now provides profits increasing by 22.5% to both monthly and weekly products to Progressive Insurance, our reinsurance 93.2 million, compared to customers from shared office company located in the Isle of Man, 76.1 million reported last year.
has successfully completed its first full division has continued to maintain its year of operations.
The administration clear focus on the UK consumer We have continued to expand our benefits and cost savings we credit market and, during the year, network of Local Collection Unit LCU anticipated at the formation of increased net customers accounts branches and opened a further 10 Progressive are now beginning to be receivable by 287 million to LCUs during the year, increasing the realised and funds under management 1,274 million at 31 December 2002. total to 32 branches at 31 December Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 7 at 31 December 2002, amounted to Acquisitions 33.4 million.
In October 2002, we announced the Under the terms of the Insurance successful acquisitions of Dial4aloan Mediation Directive, general insurance Limited, a specialist consumer credit products currently governed by the ABI broker, and a motor finance loan code of practice, such as creditor portfolio from Associates Capital insurance and automobile warranties, Corporation plc.
These acquisitions will be regulated by the Financial meet our strategic objectives for Services Authority FSA, with effect broadening the consumer divisions from January 2005. distribution channels and creating new opportunities to refer potential In preparation for FSA regulation, our customers to our local branches.
application for membership of the General Insurance Standards Council Dial4aloan is an established market GISC was approved in February brand in direct distribution through 2003.
We are confident that our press, internet, radio and TV advertising Both Dial4aloan and the Associates operating policies and procedures, and will create further opportunities to loan portfolio have been successfully together with our commitment to quality recruit new customers for the consumer integrated into the consumer division training and compliance, will meet the division.
In addition, applications and are performing well, in line with our monitoring and auditing requirements of received through our branch network expectations.
GISC, thereby ensuring a smooth which do not meet our own transition to FSA regulation.
underwriting criteria, will be referred to Dial4aloan for third party funding.
Corporate Division Debt Recovery Since acquisition, Dial4aloan has The corporate division has reported successfully opened a new call centre in strong growth in profits to 5.3 million, Lewis, the groups debt recovery Cheshire and launched a major national representing an increase of 32.6% specialist, had another successful year TV advertising campaign.
In its first three ahead of the 4.0 million reported last and, on a like for like basis, increased months of ownership by the group, year, on receivables of 108 million, its contribution to group profits.
Lewis Dial4aloans traditional business marginally down on the previous year.
provides a full debt recovery service for volumes have improved by over 40% on both external clients and to our the corresponding period in the previous Improved trading in the invoice finance consumer division.
In addition, new business of over business, which I reported last year, has currently generate around 75% of 1 million per month is currently being continued.
During January 2003, a new Lewis commission based debt generated for the consumer division.
regional office was opened in Glasgow, collection activities.
to complement our operating centres in The Associates loan portfolio, Manchester, Oxford and Leeds, all three The purchase of default debt portfolios consisting of 13,000 customers with net of which achieved significant increases from clients continues to form an receivables of 55 million, was well in revenue and net profitability during important part of Lewis activities and, established in the UK.
during 2002, 10.5 million was invested these accounts to our own customer in the purchase of such portfolios.
management systems has been Lewis has also successfully renewed its successfully completed.
We believe contract with Companies House for the there are significant opportunities in the collection of late filing penalties for a future to re-serve these customers with further three years to 2006. the broad range of products offered by the consumer division.
8 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 Chief Executives Review Funding receivables increased during the year by 285 million to 1.4 billion.
During the year the group successfully renewed one of its banking syndicates of c125 million, in addition to Consumer Credit Quality negotiating a further funding line of 50 million.
In accordance with the Although there has been a significant groups treasury policy, the euro loan increase in consumer borrowing in the UK Cattles Commercial Finance, which is was immediately converted to sterling in recent years, the vast majority of this predominantly involved in hire purchase to eliminate any foreign exchange increase has occurred in areas where we and leasing advances, also had another exposure to the group.
do not focus our operations, such as the satisfactory year in 2002.
Careful focus remote lending activities of mortgage on arrears management and operating We also received strong support for lenders and credit card providers.
costs has enabled management to our share placing to raise 81 million, deliver improved profitability on the net of expenses, for the acquisitions of The consumer divisions ability to maintain previous year.
Despite a challenging Dial4aloan and the Associates loan close contact with our customers and our trading environment, the business added portfolio.
I should like to thank both rigorous pre-lending verification and 543 new clients during the year and our key investors and banking underwriting procedures are key to established 21 new broker relationships.
relationships for their long standing maintaining effective arrears and continuing support.
management and stability in the divisions Information Technology bad debt charge.
We believe that the The groups exposure to the impact of presence of our branch network in the The substantial investments we have interest rate rises on borrowings is heart of the local communities we serve, made in developing the consumer managed and reduced through the together with our major commitment to divisions bespoke IT systems, such as use of interest rate swaps and caps.
In training and developing the credit SNAP and MIDA our credit underwriting accordance with our treasury policy, at granting, account management and and customer relationship management 31 December 2002, approximately compliance skills of our branch staff, are software, have improved credit quality, 80% of the groups borrowings were significant factors in mitigating the effects created significant additional time for hedged or fixed.
of adverse change in economic branch staff to spend with customers, conditions.
and increased the number of customers Group borrowings increased during each branch is able to manage the year by 83 million to 805 million The products we offer depend on our effectively.
We are currently working and shareholders funds increased by assessment of the customers ability to towards the identification and selection 117 million to 346 million in the meet their repayment terms.
These of our next generation of IT systems.
At 31 December 2002, the continue to be small unsecured loans groups gearing ratio stood at 2.7 times average advance 1,200, hire purchase shareholders funds, excluding loans for cars 4,000 and secured capitalised goodwill, compared to products 7,500, typically for home 3.7 times at the previous year end.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 9 Customer repayments are made through independent consultants to constantly the banking direct debit system, post monitor our customer profiles and offices or by cheque and cash payments satisfaction ratings.
Their latest report on a monthly, fortnightly or weekly basis, prepared in February 2003, shows that depending on the circumstances of each over 85% of our customers expressed customer.
Cheque and cash repayments satisfaction with the services we provide.
are made either in person at one of our local branch offices or, in the case of our and improving returns in the UK home collected products average Future consumer credit market.
The expansion advance 250, through one of our of our branch network into the local agents calling at a customers home.
I am pleased with the groups progress communities we currently do not serve this year and the excellent results which will continue, with each branch We recognise that a number of our have been achieved.
I cannot thank our providing our full product range.
Credit customers experience problems from management and staff enough for their quality, responsible lending and bad time to time in keeping up regular total commitment and for the significant debt control will remain fundamental.
payments throughout the term of their contribution they have made to the We shall continue to improve our loan.
Branch staff maintain close contact groups continuing success.
Without customer service together with the with customers to enable them to their dedication and hard work, quality of our customer base, whilst respond quickly and sympathetically to achievement of these results would not expanding our distribution channels and any difficulties which customers may have been possible.
Customer accounts are transferred from the branch to a As we reach the end of our current I believe there remain considerable specialist LCU branch when customers five-year plan, we are pleased to have opportunities for the group.
We have experience longer-term adverse changes achieved the principal goals which we made an encouraging start to the in their financial position, so that the LCU set ourselves.
During this period we current year and, together with my may assist customers and establish have seen significant changes in the senior management team, I look revised payment programmes, more lifestyles of traditional home collected forward to another successful year in suited to their changed circumstances.
An ever-increasing 2003. proportion of our target customers now The above approach is consistent with have bank accounts and require our strategy to be responsible lenders, alternatives to a home collection not wishing to over-indebt customers service.
We have responded to these and treating them with understanding changes by developing new products when they experience financial and payment options, whilst retaining difficulties.
our clear focus on close customer relationships.
Sen Mahon It is important to us, that our customer Chief Executive satisfaction ratings remain consistently Our strategy going forward will be to 6 March 2003 high.
For many years we have engaged concentrate on achieving strong growth
