Chief executives review 2002 has been another good year for BOC.
All parts of the Group made progress and all improved their profitability, apart from BOC Edwards whose semiconductor market was depressed year on year.
Financial overview This year we adopted two new UK accounting standards, FRS17 and FRS19, and restated our 2001 and 2000 results on the same basis to allow a comparison with this years results.
At constant currencies, turnover increased two per cent in 2002 and although operating profit excluding exceptional items fell one per cent, it was up 11 per cent for the Group excluding BOC Edwards.
Operating cash flow remained strong, despite exchange rate movements and lower profits from BOC Edwards, totalling 826.6 million before exceptional items.
Free cash flow after interest, tax, dividends and capital spending but before acquisitions was 166.5 million for the year.
Delivering on commitments Followers of BOCs recent progress may feel a comfortable familiarity with some of our continuing achievements this year.
Our commitment to safety and the environment has been constant, as has the importance we place on improving customer service.
We also continue to apply pressure to our cost base.
What may surprise some is that this year we completed a record number of acquisitions, involving some 207.3 million, and that we have made significant advances by leading local consolidation around the world.
These are components of our consistent drive for profitable growth and for improvements in margins, return on capital and cash flow.
I have made the point before that our organisation structure is an important factor in our recent success.
Where it is important that a programme spans the whole Group, for instance to maximise the potential of our people or to understand and manage our risks, we run it well as a corporate initiative.
We also set financial targets and have a consolidated strategy for the Group.
What drives most of our business decisions, though, are our lines of business strategies, which are tied closely to the needs of our customers.
We only invest or make an acquisition if it fits with a line of business strategy.
Most of our people work within business units that are responsible for implementing these strategies.
As a result there is a clear sense of purpose throughout BOC and an understanding of what needs to be done.
Let me explain briefly what the lines of business have achieved this year.
The lines of business Process Gas Solutions had a very successful year as turnover grew four per cent and operating profit before exceptional items grew 22 per cent at constant currency.
Its determination to deliver tailored solutions was well rewarded when we signed our joint venture in China with YPC, a subsidiary of Sinopec, giving us a head start in Nanjing, which is known as the chemicals capital of China.
This is an important win in itself but just as importantly it shows that the Process Gas Solutions approach meets the needs of todays market.
In September Linde BOC Process Plants LLC was established, combining BOC Process Plants with Lindes US plant building organisation.
This both assures our access to world-class plant technology at a competitive cost and delivers cost savings estimated at around 15 million a year.
06 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Industrial and Special Products is concentrating on its business centred around the welding and cutting of metal and on its high growth sectors such as hospitality, medical and packaged chemicals.
Managing these businesses globally is beginning to produce important benefits, notably through the widespread transfer of best practice, both operational and commercial.
As well as delivering increased profit from the mature part of the business we are also transforming the growth prospects for the line of business overall, with turnover this year up seven per cent and operating profit before exceptional items up five per cent at constant currency.
BOC Edwards, reliant as it is on the fortunes of the semiconductor industry, had a difficult year, yet remained in profit when many similar suppliers reported losses.
Turnover was down 19 per cent and operating profit before exceptional items was down 66 per cent at constant currency.
In the second quarter there was an improvement in orders from semiconductor manufacturers but the sales of consumer products that use chips, such as mobile phones and computers, showed no such increase.
As a result growth was not sustained, but we believe we have moved off the bottom.
BOC Edwards took advantage of the low point in the cycle to make a number of acquisitions, the largest of which was the turbomolecular pumps business of Seiko Instruments Inc.
The general vacuum part of the business continued to perform solidly, and we strengthened it further with the acquisition of Smiths Groups vacuum and pressure business.
These acquisitions are being integrated successfully.
All three of our lines of business are present in Japan and we announced in September our intention to merge our Japanese gases business, OSK, with Air Liquide Japan.
We await clearance to do so from Japans competition authorities.
The deal, which will give us a 45 per cent share in the combined Japan Air Gases business, is important in a market that is starting to consolidate and in an economy where growth prospects remain low.
As Japan Air Gases scope extends only to Japan it was agreed to treat BOC Edwards equipment business separately so it could continue to support Japanese customers wherever they operate.
Our two specialist businesses, Gist and Afrox hospitals, both performed well.
Gist continues to demonstrate that its value-adding approach is attractive to a range of customers.
Afrox hospitals grew by increasing the breadth of services at its existing hospitals and through acquisitions.
You will find more details in the performance review.
Our wider responsibilities Attending to growth and the financial health of the Group are key priorities.
We also have programmes to ensure we fulfil our wider responsibilities in the communities where we live and to the environment in general.
I also pay particular attention to the development and well being of our people in BOC and to our safety performance.
I visit many parts of BOC during the year and am always impressed by the dedication and commitment of our employees.
The whole management team works hard to make the most of the talent we have around us and to help all employees understand that the job they do is important.
At the same time I want everyone within BOC, and all those whom our business touches, to be safe and to avoid being hurt by our activities.
We are also keenly aware that we are at work to serve our customers.
I thank all our many customers for their continued business.
I also thank our suppliers for helping us to fulfil our customers needs.
Finally, this has been a poor year for share prices around the world and, despite outperforming the FTSE 100 index in total shareholder returns by 46 per cent over the last two years, BOC has been unable to defy fully the effects of lower markets.
I thank all our shareholders for their continued support.
Tony Isaac Chief executive another good year for BOC 07 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002
