CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT WE HAVE CREATED A BALANCED BUSINESS MODEL WHERE UNDERWRITING AND BROKING BUSINESSES COMPLEMENT EACH OTHER, REDUCING THE EFFECTS OF THE MARKET CYCLE AND PROVIDING A SPRINGBOARD FOR FUTURE SUCCESSES.
Retail operating profit NOTE: 1998 to 2001 figures are not on a comparable basis with those of 2002.
The latter are after charging 9m of corporate overheads.
m 7 20 22 37 50 Year 98 99 00 01 02 Cox future is centred entirely around our retail businesses.
their business and their needs.
We apply knowledge to build I will therefore focus solely on our retail operations in this insurance products that make money.
We will reduce exposure report.
James Morley will provide further details on the progress rather than underwrite business at unacceptable returns.
we have made with regard to the commercial run-off in the Finance Directors review.
In 2002 Equity Red Stars gross premium grew by 13% to 527m and underwriting profit Cox share increased by We have continued to make excellent progress throughout the 54% to 40m.
A common theme through these results is our business in 2002, both operationally and financially.
We have focus on efficiency.
Administrative expenses were driven down strengthened teams, improved technology and sharpened our to 8.6% and the combined ratio at 89% is one of the lowest focus on our chosen segments.
We have grown the business, in the market.
BROKING AND INSURANCE SERVICES MAINTAINING A RECORD OF GROWTH Broking and Insurance Services comprises both Direct and In 2002 operating profits, based upon a longer-term investment Wholesale Divisions.
They are strategically important as they return, grew by 141% to 50m, evidence of the wisdom of our will provide profit protection to us when underwriting markets strategic decisions.
We have created a balanced business model eventually begin to turn.
These businesses give us greater where our underwriting and broking businesses complement each control of the whole insurance process as they enable us to other, reducing the effects of the market cycle and providing a manage direct customer relationships or work closely with springboard for future successes.
introducers across the whole of the value chain.
UNDERWRITING Our Direct Division comprises direct broking over the telephone, Our underwriting business, Equity Red Star, is now widely Internet broking and our own network of high-street branches.
regarded as one of the most consistent and successful insurers In 2002 we focussed on restructuring the business, re-engineering in an overcrowded market.
We are the eighth largest motor processes and building a sound platform for growth in 2003. insurer and the countrys largest insurer of motorcycles, insuring Our profits have improved 45% and our expense ratio reduced one in four bikes.
Most importantly, we have an unparalleled to 85%.
profit record, trading over 30 years without loss.
We are focussed on ensuring that our affinity partners, with Our philosophy is simple we underwrite for profit, we trade in whom we are proud to be associated, are provided with a first segments with expert underwriters focussing relentlessly on every class service.
At the same time, we have been successful in detail in their business.
We trade with long-established partners winning new high-profile schemes.
with whom we have lasting relationships and we understand Cox Insurance Holdings Plc 04 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 Customers Channel ownership Channel Cox division Underwriters A balanced business Panel Direct, insurers Extensive access Internet Cox to customers through Direct and owned phone, Internet, branches shop or mail.
Equity Insurance Red Star buyers Provincial, national Third Wholesale and teleparty Panel brokers insurers We have introduced a new management team for our RE-ENGINEERING branch network, insure-shop, which should enable us to In addition to changing our main operating systems, we grow considerably in 2003 provided market conditions continually strive to use technology more effectively and remain favourable.
Advances in 2002 have enabled us to eliminate costs and also work with outsourcing partners.
In July, we successfully We have restructured the Wholesale Division to align staff with established our first overseas outsource operation through our broker customers, maximising the opportunity to sell the migration of the back office of the premium finance products.
We have increased the number of brokers for whom business to India.
we provide software solutions, by the acquisition of the assets of Brokersoft and New Millennium Technologies Limited.
PEOPLE The business has grown significantly in scale, profit and also the The premium finance business continues to grow with advances number of people we employ.
It is important to put on record exceeding 100m and profits up 27% to 2.1m.
my appreciation for the teams that have enabled this growth to be achieved and for their unceasing efforts.
We have skill, Managing agency profit, from the management of external experience, knowledge and enthusiasm in abundance and the Names on Syndicate 218, increased to 7.4m 2001 3.8m.
presence of so many talented people gives me great confidence for the future.
Cox Claims Management made excellent progress, particularly with regards to the management of the Crowe run-off, where OUTLOOK we have been successful in reducing the cost base considerably, The record of growth achieved by the business is something resulting in a profit of 4.6m.
that we are proud of and which in no way engenders complacency.
Our challenge is to maintain our impressive Overall, Broking and Insurance Services increased profits by performance in the coming year and beyond.
With our 73% to 19m and has an increasingly significant role to play combination of people, businesses and a continuing favourable in Cox going forward.
market, we have every reason to be optimistic.
SYSTEMS In 2002 we undertook our biggest systems project ever, when we changed the platform and operating systems that underpin all the major underwriting, broking and finance businesses.
The project was completed in September, on time and on NEIL UTLEY budget.
This technology will provide a platform, which is CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER essential to support Cox ambitious growth objectives, as we 8 April 2003 continue to grow the size of our core business.
Cox Insurance Holdings Plc ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 05
