Chief Executives Review Even though the year ended on a high note reductions will not be felt until later in 2003.
As our operations become more streamlined with December delivering the only month of Merging facilities is a difficult and delicate task: we are fortunate to have the right people organic sales growth during the year, I was given our high customer retention rate in and systems in place to maintain both the more than delighted to put the new 2003 efficiency and the high quality standards markets with overcapacity we are pleased calendar on my wall.
Although likely to be with our success.
We made two small bolt-on expected of us.
Optimised production software tough, the prospects for 2003 are brighter if acquisitions in Italy toward the end of the year.
is being rolled out, together with a new for no other reason than the actions we took Italy is the third largest manufacturing market standardised Bodycote Quality System.
in 2002 to reduce costs and strengthen our in Europe: these acquisitions strengthen our These systems differentiate us from competition operations are now in place.
operations and provide growth potential.
and provide our customers with value.
2002 was not a kind year for businesses in the Despite around 18m of previously authorised Continuous training of our employees in engineering sector.
Bodycote turned in its projects we introduced stringent capital technical matters as well as safety, health lowest ever margins, yet they were respectable expenditure discipline which reduced capital and environmental has been a high priority.
in comparison to our peers.
The large drop We have a number of well-qualied, investments in 2002 to 54m against a budget in demand from the Commercial Aerospace, experienced employees whose expertise of 60m.
We have relocated equipment around Power Generation and Oil & Gas sectors was is respected in the industry and even in the the Group to meet regional demand shifts.
greater than expected and is well reported.
depressed market conditions these recognised In addition, working capital controls have Automotive demand was rm but margins been strengthened.
experts have provided a number of new were difficult due to cost and price pressures.
Our PVD coating business is now organised Our sales decreased by 8%, however As we move forward into 2003 and beyond with improved technology transfer and information from trade associations indicates coordinated marketing.
We won several it is with more confidence than a year ago.
our market share remained constant or significant new contracts and anticipate this We are still highly dependent on the markets improved.
We focused our efforts on optimising we serve and the manufacturing economy as will be a continuing growth business.
yield and utilisation and improved cash ow a whole but assuming we see no worsening from our existing facilities.
We re-emphasised Our wet coating business underwent major of the current conditions we will benefit from the basic operational model that historically rationalisation with seven facilities closed the extensive groundwork carried out in 2002. delivered superior margins by running facilities and one signicantly downsized.
The new at high utilisation, selling at competitive yield Gothenburg facility came on stream late in Central European Group rates in productive reliable equipment.
the year and we are working hard to attract Germany, Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, Benchmarking of Key Performance Indicators work to this large state of the art facility.
Czech Republic, Hungary and Liechtenstein KPIs is increasingly being applied and the replication of best in class methods around Advances in sharing knowledge and technology Against an uncertain background caused by the Group is improving efficiency.
within the group via our Extranet are gaining the introduction of the Euro, general elections momentum and will deliver value to our in Germany and economic deterioration, Our operational structure was modied to customers and employees while making us 2002 was a challenging year for the CEG merge Heat Treatment, HIP and Metallurgical more efficient in our operations.
Information and our historic growth pattern has been Coatings under geographical responsibility to Services now have a strategy that will see us temporarily arrested.
gain market synergy and institute shared migrate over the coming years to a common services.
A Senior Operating Board was All six plants in the Czech Republic, however, ERP solution, which will reduce our IS cost created to align our efforts in a common had a good year with increasing sales and and provide faster and better information.
The plc Board was restructured to profits.
With the relocation of the Liberec plant, broaden the experience base and advance We captured outsourcing business in all SBUs we are ready for the growing economies in compliance with guidelines for strong corporate and are seeing market growth opportunities Eastern Europe with a wide range of heat governance.
Communications both internally developing from our technology transfer treatment facilities, including vacuum heat and externally have been upgraded to provide initiatives and the co-ordination of our treatment, plasma nitriding and physical transparency of company actions.
services within each geographical region.
By the year-end we had reduced the number HEAT TREATMENT Bodycotes technical ability secured a strategic of facilities with negative Operating profits.
North America partnership outsourcing project for the heat Over the past 18 months we combined 20 Part of the strategy for integrating the Lindberg treatment of automotive brake pistons in facilities and brought about a reduction of acquisition January 2001 was to consolidate Germany and production started early in 2002. about 800 jobs to better match capacity to overlapping facilities.
With the downturn in This success resulted in an agreement for demand.
We exited one joint venture in demand this programme was accelerated a second production facility with the same China and will exit a second in early 2003. and broadened.
customer, which will open in 2003.
Our principal challenge was to manage our Full time employees have been reduced by 260 number one cost people.
We had greater success in North America and the United with more scheduled in 2003.
In addition Kingdom, where labour markets are relatively various group purchase contracts have been exible.
The full benefit of the European staff negotiated delivering cost savings.
Bodycote annual report 2002 3 Chief Executives Review France, Belgium and Italy FBI The highlight of the year was the new strategic HOT ISOSTATIC PRESSING Production facilities are being rationalised partnership agreement with Delphi Diesel North America by the closure of four plants and transfer Systems.
A new Bodycote Heat Treatment The decline in the aerospace and power and closure of non-profitable processes.
Centre will open in March 2003 at Gillingham generation markets in North America made This, together with the implementation of to support Delphis operations and provide 2002 a difficult year for the HIP Group, yield and utilisation management controls, us with geographical expansion into the as these areas represent over 60% of the will give us better margins.
important market in the south east of England.
While a few key customers Staff numbers have been reduced by a total experienced good growth, most saw a fall in Rationalisation resulted in the closure of one of 98, with a further circa 100 redundancies activity resulting in staff reductions.
Our London, facility and the transfer of its equipment and planned in 2003.
Further improvements are also Ohio plant was hardest hit, with a substantial markets to other facilities.
This improved anticipated in working capital management, decline in HIP and related heat treatment utilisation within the UK and reduced the margin, and general administrative efficiencies.
work directly resulting from the downturn in number of employees by 29.
Geographic transfer of work is still ongoing to maintain power generation.
Overall sales for the group The improvement in our Nitrocarburising efficient use of furnace capacity.
were off 7% from our performance in 2001. technology stabilised our sales and produced good development potential in that technology.
With the actions taken in 2002, we are In spite of the decline in worldwide HIP A steady increase in enquiries, trials and encouraged about the outlook for our UK markets, there were several positive contract proposals is in evidence for lowoperations in 2003. occurrences in 2002.
This was the first full pressure carburising, for which we should year of operation of the Densal II unit in our obtain significant sales in 2003.
Nordic Sweden, Denmark and Finland London, Ohio facility and sales were over 50% Sweden stabilised in 2002 with a focus on cost A significant outsourcing contract for heat in excess of budget and almost four times control and reductions in investment to combat treatment of gear and transmissions has sales in 2001.
In our Andover, Massachusetts the lower market volumes.
One Strategic been obtained with a Japanese company plant we installed equipment necessary to Partnership facility was sold to the customer.
which took over a gear and transmission commence production of ceramic glass ALON Corr-I-Dur, a process we developed in Germany manufacturing plant in France.
for bulletproof windscreens on military vehicles.
to provide wear and corrosion resistance In aerospace, despite an overall slowdown, In addition, product sales in Andover exceeded with no distortion, was introduced into the we have captured new programmes for the market and is being very well received for budget by 35% as some significant powdered Euroghter and Airbus 380 projects.
metal billet, cladding and sputtering target projects expanded.
In 2003 we anticipate In September 2002 we acquired Gamma in The re-organisation of Malmo Sweden and Italy with 3 plants located in the Brescia further growth in these areas as well as the Copenhagen Denmark continued, combining and East Milan area, to add to the existing first ALON production components.
all vacuum operations in Copenhagen and Gorgonzola location.
Bodycote now plays induction activities at Malmo.
This will improve In Camas WA and London OH staff reductions a significant role in this market the third efficiency and reduce costs.
Actions have already been largest heat treatment market in Europe.
undertaken, a change in management and We expect to use our Italian foothold to Sales for 2003 will continue at a low level other staff reductions, to underpin current develop PVD and Kolsterising technologies until the second half, when improvement performance and ensure that customers in the important Italian tooling, component is forecast in the traditional diesel and and stainless steel markets.
continue to be happy with our service.
marine engine industries and in respect of parts for wind turbines, rock drilling United Kingdom Revival in the aerospace and power generation and rock breaking machines.
With a large portion of our sales coming markets is not expected until 2004. from the Commercial Aerospace and Power Reduced activity level in Danish industry and Accordingly, we are focusing our attention on Generation sectors we saw a large drop a new competitor started by a customer led opportunities for expansion of the products in demand.
to a sharp decline in profit at our Arhus plant.
In addition, we are actively pursuing The customer has already sold his interest in enquiries and test components that utilise Vacuum brazing and electron beam welding this start up and returned to us but the new however continued to show growth in a our Densal II process.
Several of these competitor continues to disrupt market balance.
Complex aerospace and projects are showing significant growth.
Cost reductions were implemented and power generation assemblies can only be We have developed and are preparing for the number of employees reduced by 12%.
manufactured cost effectively by metal commercialisation a new process we call The focus on costs and quality will continue joining and Bodycote's world-class skills in Densal II T-6 which is a combined cycle in 2003 as we defend our market position.
this differentiates us in this market segment.
for HIP and Heat Treatment of aluminium.
This process offers the prospects of reducing 2003 will be a demanding year for Nordic Outsourcing activity gathered pace with four the cost of the two separate cycles by contracts completed by negotiated closure Heat Treatment, although there are signs of in-house facilities.
that traditional markets will improve.
4 Bodycote annual report 2002 Europe Continuing involvement in a number of European In September we moved our Conover, North 2002 was a challenging year for the European funded joint research programmes not only Carolina facility to Greensboro, a larger plant, HIP group: in particular the demand for power promotes the application of HIP to new with the most advanced PVD coating units.
materials such as metal matrix composites, It will become a leading supplier of tribological, generation gas turbines fell in the first months but also strengthens relationships with prime decorative and functional coatings for North of 2002 and continues to affect the demand contractors in elds such as aerospace and America.
Demand for decorative coatings for new components into 2003.
market does recover, Bodycote HIP vessels, including new ultra high-pressure capability METALLURGICAL COATINGS The plant at Venlo in the Netherlands has also for the next generation of materials, are now This SBU produced a loss after a very been expanded by the installation of two new in place in multiple locations to satisfy the disappointing 2001.
The wet coating section units to serve tribological coatings for the resurgent market demand.
of this SBU was the main under performer.
As part of our ongoing The severe overcapacity in wet coating has restructuring programme productivity HIP for the aerospace sector held up reasonably resulted in numerous competitors making improvements have been achieved in France, well, with jet engine turbine blades for Rollsdesperate efforts to survive the downturn by the merger of eight small satellite Royce and investment cast airframe parts for by slashing prices.
departments into two strategic sites.
Airbus being among the products processed.
To improve our performance we have carved In the future, Bodycote will open new facilities The German HIP operation has been out three technologically focused strategic both as a strategic geographic growth objective rationalised with the closure at the end of 2002 development units SDUs from the activities and as production requirements increase.
of one plant and the transfer of its operations of the Metallurgical Coatings SBU Ceramic, The outlook for growth of PVD internationally to other Bodycote HIP sites.
The European PVD and Advanced Anodising.
in new markets and geographical locations is HIP operation reduced its workforce by 10%.
The German operation has specialised in Ceramic Coatings wear-resistant industrial extrusion equipment Ceramic coatings improve the productivity of Advanced Anodising for plastics and other materials 2002 started manufacturing equipment by increasing the 2002 was a difficult year for the Kaufbeuren, slowly in this eld, but was running ahead of wear life of components.
This year we Germany, anodising business because of a expectation by the end of the year and into increased cross-selling and support in several general decline in demand, especially in our core industries, including the oil exploration, 2003, with a positive outlook.
main automotive and mechanical engineering galvanising, and the circular knitting and markets.
There are opportunities, however, The Densal II processes are already well textile equipment manufacturing sectors.
in the automotive sector with common rail established for turbo impellers and competition diesel and brake systems for the major We now have a long-term agreement with car castings.
2002 saw the first volumes of subcontractors.
the largest manufacturer of plastic injection engine castings for a production road model.
moulding equipment for use of our coating Kaufbeurens proprietary CompCote process, The first German Densal II HIP unit is at and densication processes on the high wear which offers significant improvements in wear capacity and plans are being made to and corrosion areas of their equipment.
Life and corrosion resistance, found increasing accommodate increased schedules in 2004. improvements have been dramatic in excess acceptance with new high volume contracts.
In Sweden the production of NNS near net of tenfold.
Additional market penetration was CompCote is being evaluated for roll out to shape parts for the new large CERN made in 2002 into the high-pressure chemical other Bodycote facilities.
accelerator supported the introduction of injection pump industry, where we are now In Finland Bodycote anodises aluminium automatic welding machines and paves the the premier coating supplier.
proles, plates and castings for the way for further volume production of NNS Physical Vapour Deposition construction, marine, vehicle and paper components for petro-chemical, industrial or We restructured existing PVD operations in a industries, and has important contracts scientific applications.
The level of enquiries new SDU under focused leadership, creating for customers in the electronics, machine, for offshore petro-chemical components has a structure that will increase our market food, medicine and sports equipment been good and the outlook for business with visibility and service efficiency in this important sectors.
The electronics industry in Finland, our Scandinavian NNS partner Metso is positive.
technology and help us move up from third led by Nokia and its subcontractors, will provide Extra large parts HIPped for the paper and place in the eld.
Our objective involves a useful source of new business, when business mineral extraction industries are continuing establishment of centres of excellence in trends upwards again.
Production started in to perform well, with repeat business due North America and Europe, by a combination September 2002 at the new anodising plant to pick up in 2003. of relocation of existing plant and the addition at Alajrvi, Finland for Mkel-Alu, a leading The market for HIPped powder metal billet of latest technology equipment.
A number manufacturer of decorative aluminium proles preforms in tool, high speed steels and other of investments have been completed or are for the marine and construction sectors.
specialist materials has held up well during 2002. nearing completion that will expand sales, This strategic partnership has the capability The global market for medical replacement increase productivity and efficiency and of significant third party inload from the joints continues to grow.
Bodycote annual report 2002 5 Chief Executives Review Electroplating All coatings plants have upgraded to meet engineering laboratory group enabled Nordic new management and quality standards.
significant penetration into European The coating market in Nordic countries is Several sites have ISO14001 with all others on aerospace suppliers, resulting in profit growth.
greatly dependent on the telecoms industry.
schedule to meet these requirements.
Our The acquisition of Pipeline Developments There was further dramatic reduction in the fast delivery and quality systems will assist Limited, Salford UK expands our plastic pipe market in 2002 and, accordingly, a restructuring us in differentiating us from our competitors.
testing capability and creates opportunities in programme was implemented to reduce the the important European water utility market.
In-house captive closures, due to costs.
The plants at Jrflla and Kungsr, environmental and commercial challenges and Our Norwegian laboratory which, with its Sweden have been closed.
In addition, market co-operation with Bodycotes heat specialist fatigue facility, was able to target to combat soft markets, a new marketing treatment operations, are providing many simulation studies on oil platform umbilicals.
effort has been launched to improve our outsourcing opportunities.
Our presence in the important North Italian market penetration.
With efficient production metals market was strengthened by the resources and technical expertise, there is a In the more traditional coatings, niche expertise acquisition of CTR Srl, Padua.
This facility great opportunity to increase market share, was developed in zinc electroplating for the complements our existing Crema laboratory even in a downturn.
automotive industry and in copper electroplating and enhances our skills portfolio available in for the oil and gas sector for a major French The rate of growth in the telecoms industry this important market.
Sherardizing, a proprietary process, is partially dependent on how fast 3-G continues to win specication acceptance with The establishment of an additional road systems grow.
We opened Europes most automotive and construction subcontractors and materials laboratory in Abu Dhabi further modern and largest silver coating plant in is under review to be rolled out internationally.
extended our capability in the Emirates, Gothenburg, Sweden, offering technically allowing increased market penetration and advanced plating on aluminium.
The most MATERIALS TESTING solid sales and profit growth.
important processes are silver plating, A robust performance was produced by nickel-tin, electroless-nickel and satin nickel.
Materials Testing across all geographic market The Canadian group advanced strongly on In the same facility we developed a new segments, despite continued economic the back of substantial success in their TOP palladium-ruthenium process for our Strategic uncertainty and at end-user markets.
Partner Hasselblad, and their unique H1 camera The demand for materials testing services Major projects were undertaken for US system, recently introduced at the Cologne continues to grow as new technologies, automotive and pharmaceutical companies Photo-Kina.
material advances and product liability issues utilising the divisions unique quality approvals create a tness for purpose culture.
This factor, and innovative technical solutions.
A number During 2003 this SDU will concentrate on allied to the closure of in-house laboratories, of outsourcing deals in the Health Science increasing market share, especially in the provides substantial opportunities for our division in Ontario opened up new markets.
Cost control extensive service portfolio, market coverage Similarly in Quebec we were able to obtain will also be intensied.
With the benefit of and reputation for quick and reliable response.
significant quality approvals from the public new efficient production, marketing efforts, The winning of increased market share has health authorities for a number of specialist unique processes and co-operation with been the key to achieving increased operating toxicology and biological tests, which other group companies, Bodycote Coatings profit and raising operating margins in price stimulated sales.
in Sweden will strengthen our performance.
During 2002 significant Excellent performance from our businesses United Kingdom effort was expended in increasing our cash in Houston TX and Portland OR offset the During 2002 many markets changed drastically ow by improving our working capital downturn in aerospace and powergen markets, and our resultant rationalisation programme management.
As part of the corporate drive allowing the US business to achieve profit was a major effort.
Due to decline in the to improve our operating performance a growth.
We were also able to take advantage telecoms sector and reduced volumes for number of key performance indicators KPIs of cross-selling with our heat treatment and automotive and construction industries, were selected for management.
This approach HIP operations to widen our market exposure we had to close seven coatings facilities made our decisions more proactive as we and create exciting service offerings for our at Caerphilly, Dudley, Knowsley, Poole and were able to respond more expeditiously combined client base.
The US markets remain Rotherham.
Their profitable sales were merged to difficulties.
fragile and subject to volatility, therefore, within existing plants and equipment was Our core materials testing laboratories in the further growth in sales relies on our ability transferred to match market requirements UK benefited from a particularly resilient oil to expand our approval portfolio and service and improve efficiencies.
Our specialist corrosion facility provision and this will be the focus in 2003.
Two sites focus on the aerospace industry was a major contributor as international projects Organisationally, we focused efforts on with a variety of processes, and four large and rely on our expertise.
The radiographic business efficient plants concentrate on large volume unit suffered as a result of general weakness leveraging our technological expertise, Sherardizing, organic nishes and zinc in aerospace and power generation and we coordinating our sales marketing strategy electroplating.
All have excellent equipment will consolidate our capacity through the closure and increasing investment in human capital.
and staff to challenge our competitors and of our Halesowen facility in March 2003.
A A number of programmes have been initiated meet customer requirements.
number of additional OEM approvals for our with a group business development model.
6 Bodycote annual report 2002 Senior executives from each geographical Despite the challenges presented this year, region are tasked with generating outsourcing the Bodycote team never reduced their efforts.
Success has been I am very proud of the commitment they achieved with a laboratory being set up in showed to delivering the best results possible the Czech Republic in early 2003 to service and our ability to make tough decisions in such a major aerospace supplier.
We continue to difficult conditions.
Our number one asset invest in improved Information Systems and remains our people.
have rolled out enhanced LIMS Laboratory In conclusion, with the cost actions taken Information Management Systems via our in 2002, Bodycote is well positioned to be global network.
Our electronic certicate a major beneciary of any upturn in market initiative has been extremely well received demand as we have eager people and by clients who benefit from desktop access productive capacity available for providing to their test results.
Further integration of superior quality and service.
our back ofce systems followed investment in bespoke e-purchasing packages.
LOOKING FORWARD Markets are anticipated to remain tough throughout 2003.
With excess processing capacity in the market we anticipate pricing John D. Hubbard pressures will remain high.
Cost pressures 18 March 2003 will continue to present challenges.
Capital expenditures will be aggressively managed and are expected to be below depreciation.
We continue taking costs out, selling to improve our utilisation and nding ways to be more efficient.
Although we already hold the required and desirable quality certications we will continue our capability improvement by adopting new ISO, NADCAP and other registrations as appropriate.
The few acquisitions we are likely to do will be focused on Materials Testing, high value added services, niche technical providers and or specic market strengthening bolt-ons.
The Materials Testing Group looks forward with optimism and confidence that further improvements in performance can be achieved.
Knowledge transfer and the development of employees are critical for our long-term performance.
We constantly provide continuing education, apprenticeships, internships, and mentoring.
The annual Bodycote Prize Paper Competition provides a wide-ranging opportunity to interest young people in Metallurgy and Materials technology.
We have attracted several participants into careers with the company and are benefiting not only from their skills but also the enhanced recognition which our encouragement of technology development brings.
