10 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Chief Executives review strongg Paul Gratton 11 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 rowth I am delighted to report that In the UK we acquired 610,000 and thirdly, to communicate our Egg has achieved substantial net new customers during the desire to make things simple and growth once again in 2002 and year, principally through our straightforward for customers.
has made important steps in credit card business, which has We sought to do all of this developing an international now captured over 5% of total without losing the edge that Egg business of scale.
Our progress balances in the UK card market.
advertising has become known has been rapid and today, we The UK business has for and while still using the are ranked as the worlds demonstrated it is sustainably intelligent humour that customers largest pure online bank profitable, successfully growing found engaging.
This is customer numbers and revenues We made significant a responsible position but also each quarter in a challenging developments in innovation during further strengthens our belief and increasingly competitive the year, specifically in the area of that customers are demanding marketplace, whilst at the same helping our customers understand a better relationship with time reducing both unit operating and manage their money more their money.
costs and marketing acquisition effectively.
Credit quality remains aggregation service, Egg Money strong and benchmarks continue Manager, which to many of our to show Eggs card portfolio customers has already established significantly outperforming the itself as an essential tool for rest of the industry in terms of handling their financial affairs.
continue to introduce enhanced During the year we refreshed functionality to this service.
the Egg branding which has proved to be a very positive move, resulting in achieving increased momentum to our customer acquisition campaign in the second quarter.
There were three key reasons behind our decision to refresh.
Firstly, to have a design that was capable of being used globally.
Secondly to position Egg as firmly on the consumers side Continued 12 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 04 offer a choice We offer a wider range of services Egg aims to offer a portfolio of leading banking and investment products, supported by state of the art technology.
13 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 14 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Chief Executives review continued In France, we launched Outlook about the opportunity to continue successfully in November 2002, We remain committed to delivering to revolutionise the credit market in and we are satisfied with our long-term value to shareholders France, building on la Carte Egg, achievements to date.
We are through building an international and are determined to help particularly pleased that brand business of scale and leading the customers to understand how to awareness and consideration, industry for innovation in financial manage their borrowing more which were the key focus for us in services to the ultimate benefit of productively and to get better value this launch phase, have reached our customers.
than is currently available from 55% and 23% respectively, both In 2003, Egg UK remains our competitors.
metrics above their UK equivalents committed to its key strategic We remain committed to two months after launch.
We have goals of maximising value from developing Egg as a global had 69,000 people apply for our our unsecured lending business business and have been first product, la Carte Egg, in the in what we believe could be researching different territories first two months.
Of these 44,000 challenging market conditions.
Specifically, we have been accepted, subject to We take our responsibility as a have been exploring potential completing all verification lender seriously and believe we entry strategies for the US market requirements, and we expect offer customers simple, flexible, and have embarked on some 27,000 of these to become good-value products to help them qualitative and quantitative customers following that process.
In addition, consumer research in Q1 2003 This gives us a total Egg customer we will seek to implement to establish the scale of the base in France of approximately innovations, particularly in opportunity available.
90,000, following the selective technology, to deliver the best Finally, I would like to thank migration of customers from the possible service to, and all Egg People for their continued acquired Zebank portfolio.
hard work, good humour and We are pleased with the We are also looking to revamp dedication during what has quality of customers we have our investments business to been another challenging and attracted to date: early findings address the increased challenge productive year.
from our research shows facing consumers with regard to customers using their card saving for their futures.
an average of 15 times per In France, we intend to month, and that la Carte Egg enhance and extend our product is establishing itself as range in line with developing a front of wallet.
profitable business of scale in this market.
Our next major product, to be launched next month, will be a new loan account.
We are excited 15 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 05 move with the times We are continually updating our technology Technology has to be relevant not technology for technologys sake.
But we remain firm in our view that technology can help people understand and manage their money better.
This is why we have introduced services such as Egg Money Manager this year a secure one page personal balance sheet which can show you all your financial holdings.
16 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 17 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 06 be distinctive Strong, distinctive and effective marketing Egg was launched to provide customers a different, and better, way of managing and understanding their money.
We try to communicate with customers in an engaging and distinctive way: using simple, clear language.
In the same way that we strive to offer customers a different better relationship with their bank.
18 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 07 be passionate A well managed business Ambitious companies require strong leadership, particularly at Board and senior management levels.
Of equal importance to us, however, is to ensure that all Egg people are empowered, motivated and rewarded making Egg a company for whom they want to work.
