6 Group chief executives review Our strategy is to create value from a distinctive set of opportunities, biased towards the upstream, which through a disciplined approach to long-term investment growth can produce returns that are secure and highly competitive.
Managing our business in uncertain times is nothing new to of cash from operations.
Our return on capital was 13% BP.
Over the past few years we have demonstrated our ability and our gearing down at below 28%.
to instigate change and react swiftly to external influences, We replaced 175% of the reserves we produced, time and time again.
Despite dramatic swings in exchange making 2002 the 10th year running in which our reserves rates, interest rates and stock market levels and volatile oil replacement exceeded 100% and further growing our inventory and natural gas prices, we have succeeded in delivering our of high-quality reserves to renew the company for the future.
In underlying terms that is, under mid-cycle operating We have always demonstrated our ability to deal with conditions performance improved by $1.2 billion before tax, volatility without losing sight of our long-term goals, and against a target of $1.4 billion.
As a result of our performance, have no doubt that we can continue to do so.
the board was able to increase the dividend for the year in Reporting on our performance in 2002 against this dollar terms by 9.1% and has announced an intended share backdrop of a volatile and often difficult trading and operating buyback programme of $2 billion.
environment calls for a sense of balance and perspective.
We were not satisfied with everything in 2002.
The 2002 was a year in which we had some great successes, movement in our absolute stock price reflected the falls in in which we failed to meet our production target and, above all world markets.
In addition, operational and political events all, a year in which we learned a great deal.
gave us production growth of 2.9% a level that compared In 2002, our safety record improved.
Fewer people were very well with that of our competitors but was below our hurt while working for BP, whether as employees or as target growth rate of 5.5%.
Having allocated capital in contractors.
Our performance on safety now compares well 2001-02 to high-value projects in new growth areas, we with that of the industry leaders.
lacked the flexibility needed to close this gap.
Our financial performance was strongly competitive with That experience has taught us that production volumes, our peers.
In a world where natural gas prices and refining while potentially an indicator of growth, are only really useful margins were significantly lower than in 2001, we delivered when combined with a balanced view of all the other factors a result of $8.7 billion.
We generated more than $19 billion that go to create value.
BP 2002 Group chief executives review 7 The missed production target prompted us to undertake distinctive business areas: refining: retailing: lubricants: and a thorough review.
This has confirmed that our strategy is business-to-business marketing.
Our approach is to improve sound, on track and creating a business that is distinctive in its operating and overhead costs to best-in-class, to offset capacity to create value today, tomorrow and subsequently.
increasing competitive pressure and to improve value by Our review of strategy also confirmed to me that we have careful portfolio choice.
Part of our potential is underpinned an outstanding team of great people who have a clear by the market-leading retail position we have established understanding of our strategy and are confident about our in Germany with the Veba Oil acquisition.
I am most grateful for their dedication and delivery.
We have transformed our chemicals businesses, The worlds need for energy is growing.
BP has a strong strengthening our capability in key product areas following portfolio of assets and the financial strength to take advantage the acquisitions of Erdlchemie and Veba.
Now we are of new opportunities as they arise.
We have a great portfolio working to develop a differentiated, material portfolio based of world-class brands.
We place much emphasis on clarity around seven core products with advantaged market positions.
in the way we manage our company setting and The scale of our operations, with production capacity communicating governance standards, and implementing increasing by 32% over the last three years, and the rigorous internal review procedures that help us challenge technologies we possess give us competitive advantage.
and, as necessary, refresh our ways of working.
Our efforts Our gas, power and renewables business represents an to maintain our year-on-year track record of improvements increasingly significant part of our operations as demand for to the safety performance of all our operations and to clean and alternative energy sources such as natural gas and reduce the impact of our activities on the environment solar increases.
Our strategy in this area is clear to maximize remain relentless.
the commercial value of the gas we produce by building Our strategy is to create value from a distinctive set of markets ahead of availability, to develop a material and opportunities, biased towards the upstream, which through profitable renewables business and add value to our natural a disciplined approach to long-term investment growth can gas liquids business.
produce returns that are secure and highly competitive.
Our aspiration to be numbered among the worlds great We continue to dispose of those assets that no longer offer companies remains unchanged.
Our goal is to create value us the right performance potential.
but, of course, maximizing value is not a mechanical process.
In upstream, the key to success is the ability to access It requires balance and judgement.
If we knew far more about and focus on those opportunities that offer material and the world and the future than we ever could know, we could superior returns.
My confidence that we are on the right then manage the maximization of value with precision.
But path stems from our track record in finding giant fields, we cannot.
All our experience over the last 95 years, since replacing reserves and the portfolio of projects now under the company was first established, confirms that value is development.
created through understanding and meeting the needs of Our investment strategy for 2003-07 is focused on all those with whom we do business.
developing five new material upstream profit centres in We depend on the satisfaction of consumers with our the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad, Azerbaijan, Angola products, on continued access to capital markets, on the and Asia Pacific.
These should begin to contribute significant motivation and skills of our people, on good relationships earnings and free cash flow during next year and beyond.
with governments and the communities in which we work The development of these new activities is an important and, of course, on our ability to judge the right response moment in the long history of BP a move analogous for to the ever-changing circumstances in the external world.
us to the development of the North Sea and Alaska 30 years We cannot neglect any of those issues.
These new activities not only renew BP for the medium concentrate on one alone because if we did we would term.
They also offer great potential for the longer term, risk endangering them all.
Our success in continuing to with extensive further resources yet to be discovered.
deliver value for our shareholders will depend on our ability In addition, we have announced an agreement in principle to judge and to maintain the right balance between all with the Alfa Group and Access-Renova to combine our those factors.
interests in Russia to create that countrys third largest oil and gas business.
The transaction, scheduled for completion in the summer, will result in the formation of our sixth new upstream profit centre.
The strategy for our established upstream assets in areas such as North America and the North Sea is to maximize productivity.
We will do this by strict control of capital reinvestment, based on risk and expected returns according to a global ranking, and applying best-in-class operating efficiency.
Our downstream businesses have grown rapidly, with The Lord Browne of Madingley capital employed increasing by 20% per year on average Group Chief Executive since 1999.
Downstream growth potential is centred on four 11 February 2003
