18 03 03 05 07 tp 25 3 03 3:25 pm Page 5 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 5 KEITH SATCHELL GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE scale and breadth The Friends Provident Group focuses on two in the UK with 60 billion of funds We have built the core businesses Friends Provident Life and under management at the year end.
market presence of our Pensions FPLP and ISIS Asset Management The integration of Royal & SunAlliance both of which are committed to building their Investments enabled us to strengthen core businesses against market presence and delivering outstanding considerably our general management service and products to their customers.
In and fund management teams, establish a background of much 2002 the Group made considerable progress a leading research capability and broader uncertainty but also towards fullling those objectives and creating product range and create a platform to a stronger platform for future performance.
promote our brand ISIS vigorously.
Scale Our Life & Pensions business has established We are committed to building progressively itself as a top 10 company in its sector, particularly amongst IFAs which remains the scale of the Groups businesses but continue our major distribution channel.
We hold to believe that scale allied to efficiency leading positions in key product sectors rather than scale alone is the key to such as group pensions and, following competing effectively.
our acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance In 2002 we transformed our Asset Management International Financial Services, Friends business ISIS Asset Management into one Provident International now ranks as of the largest fund management companies one of the largest offshore life operations.
18 03 03 05 07 tp 25 3 03 3:25 pm Page 6 6 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The growing scale and breadth of the Groups core businesses allied to strong brands and a commitment to service excellence are key to our future growth.
Our strategic partnership with Countrywide, financial exibility acquired as a result Brand announced in August, established a new of our listing in 2001.
During 2002 both of our core businesses continued to develop and communicate their partnership with considerable potential In December both Standard & Poors own brand propositions in order to engage our and we will seek, where possible, to develop and Moodys announced new ratings customers and rally our staff around common further strategic partnerships of this kind in for Friends Provident.
Standard & Poors values and goals.
The acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance maintained our AAfinancial strength rating International Financial Services had the Our Asset Management business has adopted although the outlook was revised to negative, impact of creating one of the largest offshore the ISIS brand and has made excellent reecting in large part the increasingly operations, increasing our new business progress in establishing ISIS as a powerful competitive environment and cost pressures generated outside the UK, expanding our new force in the asset management business.
being experienced generally by the UK Life sales force and opening up new markets such sector.
In their announcement the rating as UK residents and Hong Kong for offshore Our Life & Pensions business has adopted agency stated Despite these negative factors, the Friends brand and focused on a key business.
Our continuous investment in Friends Providents financial strength remains initiative called FACE Friends Achieving e-commerce anticipated the increasing trend very strong, based on its excellent business Customer Excellence as a means of engaging towards dealing online and Friends Provident position, very strong ability to access with staff and delivering service excellence has experienced a big increase in the use of to our customers.
I believe that the brand additional financial resources, and successful its online services by IFAs and customers.
propositions being developed by our two transition to a proprietary from a mutual core businesses Friends and ISIS are Financial strength company.
Moodys downgraded Friends working brands which are being applied in Throughout 2002 the volatility and decline Provident from Aa3 to A2 as part of their a way not merely to achieve distinction in our in global stock markets placed considerable review of the life insurance industry and a respective marketplaces but also to deliver real pressure on the UK Life sector as well as number of our UK competitors experienced service and product benets to our customers.
denting the confidence of the investing similar downgrades.
In 2002 the FTSE 100 index fell by Breadth Corporate Social Responsibility 24.5% which followed falls of 16.2% in 2001 An acknowledged strength of Friends In last years Report and Accounts we and 10.2% in 2000.
While Friends Provident Provident is the breadth of its operations reported on the progress we have made has not, of course, been immune from these whether judged in relation to its presence in formalising the Groups social and exceptional market conditions, FPLP has in the two major markets of life and pensions environmental policies and framing some continued to meet its statutory solvency and asset management or the range of its key policy and operational objectives for requirements at all times.
Our Free Asset Ratio distribution channels and products.
In this years Report and Accounts a commonly used measure of comparative breadth has given Friends Provident not only we set out our approach to Corporate Social financial strength stood at an estimated greater security in terms of its earnings but 8.4% at the end of 2002.
In maintaining Responsibility, report on the progress we also enables us to respond more readily than have made in a number of important areas many of our competitors to the structural its financial strength Friends Provident has changes affecting our industry.
benefited considerably from the greater and state our objectives for the future.
FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 05 07 tp 25 3 03 3:26 pm Page 7 7 a number of business processes to give us Industry outlook a stronger the capacity to write higher new business The outlook for the industry over the medium volumes cost effectively.
to long term is very positive when judged platform for future against the substantial underlying demand We expect 2003 to be another challenging year performance for simple good value products.
The short for the life assurance and asset management term will continue to be impacted by the industries but we remain confident that we challenging market conditions prevailing have the right business model with an and both Government and our industry need effective blend of customer service, innovative to rise to these challenges.
In considering technology, exible distribution systems and the implementation of the Sandler review, quality products to enable Friends Provident the Government has the opportunity to to capture further market share in 2003. create a positive and viable framework for our industry to step forward with confidence and I would like to take this opportunity to thank play its part in expanding substantially the all Group staff for the strong progress we have market for long term savings and pensions.
I am convinced that Friends Provident is very well placed to grow and Friends Provident has concentrated on the prosper in the years ahead.
fundamentals of its business to achieve growth in 2002 and the capacity for further growth beyond.
Our overall life and pensions market share has increased, with some progress made in our core UK market and more substantial advances in the offshore market, and at the K SATCHELL Friends Provident is same time overall new business margin has GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE increased.
There is also evidence of a higher very well placed to concentration of market share between the top ten groups of life and pensions companies, thrive in this challenging up to 70% in 2002 from 66% in 2001. environment and provide We believe this trend will continue.
good value to its key Going forward, cost control will be essential and we are set to reap the benets of our stakeholders.
investment in technology solutions and outsourcing capacity.
A pilot for the Life & Pensions business is currently underway in India to evaluate the potential for outsourcing
