ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 6 Group Chief Executive Officers Review These excellent results reflect active markets during the past twelve months and our rapid recovery from the destruction of our New York offices on 11 September.
The business, despite that dreadful event, has never been stronger with a leading global market position, good technology, exceptional staff and a very sound financial base.
Our strategic plans, including acquisitions, remain on track.
This past year has been the most challenging Thereafter our capacity in New York steadily Derivatives and money broking had an I have experienced as CEO.
Within four weeks revenues had extremely good year with profit of the firm was performing outstandingly on returned to 60% of budgeted levels and 55.2 million, up 37%, as ICAP benefited virtually every front and we were taking full by January 2002 had recovered to 90%.
from its dominant position and broad advantage of buoyant market conditions.
The crisis was over: we had recovered our coverage of those markets.
Securities business more speedily than anyone had broking profit advanced to 28.5 million, 11 September changed everything: for thought imaginable four months previously up 9%, obviously held back by the the world and for us.
The entire fabric of and each day saw incremental improvements disruption in New York.
our New York business was destroyed - in our operational effectiveness.
The arduous equipment, data, systems, records, indeed task of rebuilding our records and systems The European contribution to profit before everything other than our most important was also beginning to take shape.
Our interest increased by 31% to 54.3 million, asset, our people.
With the tragic exception share price rallied strongly: we were the reflecting strong trading conditions in the of Karen Seymour, a wonderful colleague, second best performing share in the FTSE region.
However profit in the Americas was 675 of our people survived that terrible 350 in 2001 with a rise of 78%.
20% lower at 16.1 million, primarily as a day.
More than 30% of our profit had result of the World Trade Center disaster.
apparently been wiped out, our Review of the business Active trading prospects seemed bleak and our share in virtually all the wholesale financial The Asia Pacific region had a good year price slumped.
markets was enhanced by the volatility with profit of 7.3 million, an increase of and opportunities created by the 49%, assisted by a strong performance Extraordinary times can provoke unprecedented frequency of interest rate in Asian corporate bonds and benefits extraordinary responses.
By 20 September cuts last year.
We restored our New York flowing from last years reorganisation of the majority of our staff were back at operations remarkably quickly following our Tokyo based derivatives operations.
work in borrowed premises providing a 11 September but nevertheless estimate basic service to our customers - a testament the disaster adversely impacted revenues to the exceptional effort, determination by at least 10 million.
and commitment of our colleagues in New York.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 7 At the beginning of the past financial Over the longer term there may be Net bond issuance, particularly in the year we set ourselves clear objectives to opportunities to acquire other broking corporate bond markets products, has increase revenue from information firms, many of which are ill equipped to been high and energy volumes are services and electronic broking.
It is grow, having neither the technology nor moving up.
Underlying trends therefore encouraging to report that information the financial strength to develop further.
services revenue increased to 12.0 million, up 20%, and our revenue Outlook We remain committed to the This year market conditions may be from electronic broking was 161% application of technology to our business slightly less buoyant because of reduced higher than the prior year at 7.3 million.
to increase both our customer service and interest rate volatility but we expect a our own efficiency.
It is clear that the sharp rebound in American profit that The adoption of electronic trading in introduction of electronic broking will be was lost from 11 September.
Indeed the many markets remains much slower than financially painful initially, but ultimately overall strategic position of ICAP is originally expected.
This reflects the will be more profitable with information stronger than ever.
A new North American considerable difficulties of attracting sales, higher market share and a wider headquarters has been selected in the liquidity to new platforms and many of customer base.
Fully electronic broking Harborside Financial Center in Jersey City, them have been withdrawn from the is just one aspect of the automation of which we expect to occupy in October market or merged.
Our model, which markets and really only suits liquid and 2002. integrates both voice and electronic commoditised products which is why we broking, is working well and we have have adopted the hybrid model to We have made a good start to the new continued to make significant progress in electronic broking.
Automation has many financial year and, assuming that markets the integration of technology and voice other guises including the extension of continue to be moderately busy, we have broking.
We are the only electronic broker screen-based price discovery to new every expectation of achieving our target with a significant presence in both US markets and the implementation of to exceed 100 million profit this year.
Treasuries and Japanese Government  for all Bonds, the two largest bond markets.
We have successfully added Australian Government Bonds, UK Gilts and Euro Our markets continue to expand as the Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Eurobonds to the system.
However, as use of financial derivatives in the interest expected, electronic broking continues rate, credit and equity markets increases.
to be loss making, losing 13.8 million 2001 6.9 million.
We expect this loss to diminish in the future.
Consolidation Our market share has improved moderately this past year across most of our products.
Market share is important because it attracts order flow, which generates liquidity, which in turn converts into market share a virtuous circle indeed.
We intend to continue increasing our market share organically, through acquisition and through the application of technology.
We remain keen on acquisitions that fit into our overall strategic objectives either because they have strong market positions or relevant technology.
The recent purchase of First Brokers in New York is a good example.
This privatelyowned business is the market leader in Dollar corporate debt, improves our product portfolio, has good potential to increase profitability and is immediately earnings enhancing.
