Chief Executives Statement Potential for real long-term growth Another year of improving the financial strength of our business.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 05.
Sky has continued to make solid The benets of our new Customer Creativity progress despite a challenging year Relationship Management systems In programming, interactive services for our industry.
We ended the year are starting to come online and a and new technology, Sky demonstrates with 6.1 million direct-to-home key result of this focus is that churn creativity and innovation.
We not only DTH subscribers generating average remains at an industry-leading low have the most imaginative ideas, we revenue per subscriber ARPU of of around 10%.
This subscriber and ARPU integrated personal television recorder growth has delivered increased revenue Revenue and decoder, received critical acclaim and profits.
With the investment phase Strong growth in each component following its successful launch in of digital behind us, we have started to of our core business drove ARPU September 2001. generate positive free cash ow and up 11% to a new high of 347. repay debt.
We are well on track to meet our Increasing potential target of 400 by the end of 2005.
Sky welcomed the ITCs recent Subscriber growth The majority of customers, both decision to re-award the multiplex 2 Almost four years after the launch of existing and new, continue to licences previously held by ITV Digital, digital, Sky continues to enjoy healthy subscribe to our top tier package The quality of Skys offer which will give digital terrestrial homes innovative, interactive, imaginative growth, ending the year to 30 June including all the premium sports and the chance to access some of Skys across sport, news, movies and 2002 with 6.1 million DTH subscribers.
This year we added entertainment, has attracted 6.1 content on a free-to-air basis.
We remain comfortably on track to pay per view FA Premier League meet our target of 7 million DTH football and Formula 1 to the existing Corporate responsibility subscribers by 31 December 2003. range of pay per view services.
The Sky rightly applies its energies to Tyson v. Lewis world heavyweight improving our community with support Our position as UK leader in digital boxing championship pay per view for a host of initiatives particularly television was confirmed during the event attracted a record 700,000 focused on young people, education year when Skys analogue service was purchases.
For the first time this year switched off, some 15 months earlier we have also published reports on than first targeted.
Today, one quarter Interactivity Skys environmental record and on of all homes in the UK and the Republic The range and usage of Skys corporate responsibility.
of Ireland receive their television via interactive services has been 3 digital satellite with a further 4.1 million transformed in the last 12 months, Outlook households receiving Sky channels as we delivered on our promise to Sky continues to demonstrate its via cable.
bring interactivity closer to the viewer.
potential for real long-term growth in Revenues from games, betting, its core business.
Despite the tough Audiences are increasingly deserting mobile phone downloads and voting times in the industry as a whole, we the terrestrial networks for the greater grew substantially and contributed have seen another year of progress choice we offer.
For the first time ever, a much greater proportion of the towards our subscriber and ARPU our channels accounted for more than 14 interactive ARPU than one year targets and another year of improving 6% of the nations total viewing time.
There has also been significant the financial strength of our business.
growth in the number of third party Sky Movies continues to gain channels offering interactive services I would like to thank every one of 1.
Sky Sports Isleworth audiences with its array of blockbuster via digital satellite, adding to our our staff for their contribution to 2.
Sky News and Sky One remain interactive revenue.
On-air marketing Isleworth these results.
the most popular channels in their respective genres.
The commencement profitability of the 2001-2002 FA Premier League This years growth in subscribers season, the first under the three year and ARPU led to a 20% increase in deal running to the end of the 2004 operating profit before goodwill and season, saw the largest Sky Sports exceptional items.
The Group also audiences for many years, both in began to generate positive free cash and out of home.
ow in the second half of the year, which is being applied to reduce Our customers are passionate about net debt.
We achieved these results our product and we continue to be despite the high prole difficulties of Tony Ball passionate about customer service.
Chief Executive DTH subscriber growth Sky share of viewing millions 00 4.5 00 5.3% 01 5.8% 01 5.5 02 6.1 02 6.2% Source: BARB British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
