Chief Executives Report Market Overview To say that the market backdrop across the financial services sector is tough is an understatement.
Three consecutive years of falling equity markets, with little sign at present of any sustained rebound, have signicantly increased the structural and financial pressures on the fund management industry.
It is only now that the effects of these pressures are becoming fully evident.
Across the asset management industry, operating margins have fallen sharply.
Indeed, a large number of asset management companies are loss-making in the current environment.
The implications for the industry are quite clear.
Cost structures and business models that were appropriate during the bull market years of the 1990s are rapidly becoming redundant.
Moreover, clients are becoming more demanding than in the era of high nominal returns, with the implication that active managers have to show that they can generate superior investment returns if they are to justify higher fees.
The increasing financial pressure will act as a catalyst for consolidation in the industry.
There are over 1,000 asset managers in Europe, mostly 100 per cent controlled subsidiaries of banks and insurance companies.
No single player has a market share greater than 5 per cent and only 15 players have market share greater than 1 per cent.
The primary reason for this diversity was the long-standing bull market, which produced above-normal returns, and attracted many new entrants.
An ever increasing number of these entrants are likely to be looking to exit the market in the more difficult environment of today.
The implications of these structural and financial pressures can also be seen across the industrys client base.
On the retail side, there will undoubtedly be significant change, both in the number of intermediaries and the way they do business, as the abolition of the polarisation regime takes effect.
The Sandler Review will, I believe, assist in the drive for greater transparency and simplication of products.
However, the objective of generating significant investments into an as yet undefined low-risk product and simplied regulatory framework with a 1 per cent cap on charges, seems unrealistic.
Similarly, the institutional market is being transformed by the move away from dened benefit pension schemes.
Ultimately, it appears that we are rapidly entering into an era where larger gatekeepers, be they retail or institutional intermediaries, will want to do according to The Future of Fund Management, a report by Oliver Wyman and Company and UBS Warburg 8 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 business with larger financial services organisations, which have demonstrated resilience in the harshest investment climates and can deliver a breadth and quality of product to meet their client needs.
My own view for some time has been that the fund management industry will polarise between small niche players and larger asset managers, the latter managing a broad range of asset classes with an ability to extract economies of scale.
It is already noticeable that a growing number of clients are taking into account the financial strength of their fund manager when making investment choices.
The middle-ground is likely to rapidly erode.
The intention at ISIS is to position ourselves as one of the larger companies.
In this context, the acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance Investments RSAI, the largest fund management acquisition in the UK during 2002, was an important stepping stone.
The level of our funds under management has nearly doubled, to around 60 billion, which positions ISIS as one of the largest fund management companies in the UK and within the top 50 in the world according to Global Investor January 2003.
Integration Much of the focus of our work in recent months has been integrating the Friends Ivory & Sime and RSAI businesses.
This has necessitated a fundamental restructuring of the management of our business, our personnel and the systems and processes used within the business.
Given the mixed record of fund management mergers, I am pleased to report that the integration has gone extremely well.
Throughout the process, we have met or exceeded the very challenging timescales that were set prior to the completion of the acquisition in July 2002.
Moreover, we are also ahead of target both in terms of operational integration and in terms of delivering the target financial synergies.
There are two key areas that are critical to the success of mergers in this industry: people and systems.
By far the largest cost in an asset management business is staff costs which are directly linked to headcount.
We moved quickly to reduce the stafng level.
We also sought to ensure that we improved the overall quality of our people by adopting a best from both approach.
All senior people decisions were made within 30 days of the announcement of the transaction, and all stafng decisions concluded within 60 days of completion.
The two investment teams were consolidated as one in our Wood Street ofces by September 2002.
ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 9 Chief Executives Report Progress on our IT systems and administration has also been rapid.
As a result of the transaction we now have over 200,000 retail customers investing into our collective funds, investment trusts and VCTs.
We have made the decision to consolidate the administration of our collective funds with the leading outsource provider of transfer agency business in the UK, IFDS.
This will not only bring cost synergies but also improve overall service levels and ensure we are able to take advantage of their continued investment in systems in the future.
In addition, our investment dealing and front ofce systems have been successfully harmonised and rolled out across the business, and our back ofce investment support systems are due for consolidation on to a single platform in the first quarter of 2003.
As indicated previously, the speed of the integration process has resulted in significant cost savings.
We estimate that savings will be in excess of 23 million, with the exact gure dependent primarily on the ability to let the two London premises formerly occupied by RSAI.
More details are available in the Financial Review at the end of this report.
Finally, the successful integration has resulted in a scaleable business model, capable of taking on additional funds under management at relatively little additional cost.
Strategy I have been asked on a number of occasions about the timing of our RSAI acquisition.
The market place is changing, and successful fund management companies of the future will need to operate in a signicantly different way than they have in the past, where reliance on bull markets obscured the need to revisit and enhance business models.
In that respect, the timing of the RSAI deal was excellent.
It has given us the opportunity to revise our strategy, look closely at the way we do business and, where necessary, fundamentally change our approach.
The acquisition of RSAI allowed us to take a large step towards meeting a number of our previously stated strategic objectives.
Over and above the increase in funds under management, we now have a signicantly more diversied revenue stream both by asset class, and also by customer.
Our two key insurance fund clients, Friends Provident and Royal & SunAlliance, account for around 65 per cent of our revenues on an annualised basis, and provide secure cash ows from long-term contracts.
As the Financial Review section highlights in more detail, the 10 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 benets of having less than 40 per cent of our assets exposed directly to equity markets has allowed us some protection from the worst of the downturn.
Indeed in the area of xed interest and property, which represent over 50 per cent of our asset base, our investment track record is very good and will provide business opportunities in 2003 and beyond.
Income received from our largest customer, Friends Provident, was diluted to 35 per cent of revenues during the year and will decrease further as a percentage in 2003.
Having achieved many of our integration and strategic ambitions during 2002, it is now appropriate to set out the next stages of ISISs development.
Our goal is to become a top 5 active investment manager in the UK over the next 5 years.
This will involve a considerable increase in assets under management, in current money terms in excess of 50 per cent.
In order to achieve this ambition, we have already signalled that we are prepared to consider future acquisition opportunities.
In addition, a key element of our strategy is to move rapidly to generate organic growth.
To facilitate these ambitions, we have taken a number of steps to change the structure of the business to be more closely aligned with our strategic objectives.
Most obviously, we took an early decision after the RSAI acquisition to rename the company ISIS Asset Management plc.
Having launched the retail ISIS brand, after extensive research, over a year ago, the move to bring all areas of the company under one name has enabled us to align the brand under a single succinct and memorable name.
This, in turn, has been an important step in reinforcing external perception of us as an independent asset management business.
Two further changes which have had, and will continue to have, significant benets for the organisation are the withdrawal from overseas operations, and a strengthening of our domestic business.
All overseas operations in the US and the Far East have been closed, and overseas clients, which account for less than 5 per cent of our revenue base, are now serviced from the UK.
The move to close sub-scale overseas operations and bulk up in the UK gives greater focus, allows us to extract economies of scale and facilitates the development of our brand perception.
A welcome result of the RSAI acquisition was to add significant depth to our investment teams.
In total, we now have in excess of 120 investment professionals covering equities, bonds, property and private equity.
Under the new Chief Investment officer, Robert Talbut, we have also taken steps to address our investment process, again looking to combine the best from both companies.
As the diagram below illustrates, our integrated investment process is focused on ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 11 Chief Executives Report specialists providing support to fund managers in three key areas: fundamental corporate analysis, tailoring portfolios to client specic risk proles, and understanding the global strategic and economic backdrop.
We have also established a fund management culture which encompasses clear individual accountabilities within a strong team environment.
Investment process In part this reappraisal of our investment approach was prompted by the disappointing performance that we have delivered to some institutional clients, particularly within equity portfolios, over recent years.
In contrast, our bond team has continued to produce superior returns within a very difficult environment.
We are confident that in the long-term, the additional expertise gained from the acquisition will lead to stronger investment performance, which ultimately is a key factor driving organic growth.
12 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 In addition, we have separated the business into retail and institutional functions, with each being represented separately at board level under Nick Criticos and Peter Arthur respectively.
This separation has been carried across other areas of the company, including fund management, marketing and sales, and allows a greater focus on the distinct and often differing requirements of our various customers.
Within both retail and institutional propositions, our strategic positioning has been led by the rm belief that investment markets have fundamentally changed.
Future investment returns are likely to be more modest, with equity stock markets expected to generate no more than 6 per cent to 8 per cent on an annual basis.
In addition, market volatility may remain high.
This is an opportunity for active fund managers, but only if the volatility is understood and therefore can be used for advantage.
At the heart of our equity and credit investment philosophy is the view that the increasingly harsh operating environment will impact unequally between companies, even those in the same sector, and therefore a greater emphasis on stock specics is appropriate.
Our own in-house research and risk modelling teams will therefore play essential roles as part of this evaluation process.
As a result of the restructuring, I believe that ISIS has a scaleable platform for future growth.
We have a signicantly deeper pool of investment talent, we have a stronger financial footing, which enables ISIS to manage more assets at an efficient cost, and we have actively sought to develop key positions in both the retail and institutional markets.
Value Creating Activities One of the major challenges facing the financial services industry as a whole is the requirement to regain the trust of investors.
Three years of falling markets, combined with a regular supply of negative press, has left people confused and disenchanted.
The industry has been slow to react and some fundamental changes are urgently needed to convince savers that they should be investing in products other than bank deposits for wealth creation.
ISIS expects to be at the forefront of these changes.
Launching a new brand at this time has allowed us to build these issues into our proposition.
We have invested heavily in the communication of our brand promise ISIS is a new investment company for a new investment reality.
You can trust us because we act responsibly, we focus on what we are good at and we dont over promise.
Much of the communication has been through ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 13 Chief Executives Report promotional activity and advertising using the strapline.
THISIS REALITY Recent research undertaken by the Daily Telegraph newspaper showed that we have already made significant ground in name recognition, with 25 per cent of respondents recalling ISIS advertising.
Although perhaps counter-intuitive, there has rarely been a more appropriate time to launch a new brand into the retail or institutional markets.
We believe customers are looking for new alternatives, and a financial services company that they can trust.
Moreover, from a financial perspective, there has seldom been a more rewarding time to invest in a brand.
Advertising rates have fallen sharply, and the absence of other leading players allows signicantly higher share of voice.
ISIS has a number of strengths that t naturally into the new market environment.
Combining the existing product set with the new products acquired from RSAI has given us competitive offerings, with strong track records, across a range of areas.
In the retail market we have particular strengths in the core sectors of UK and European equities, corporate bonds, and fund of funds.
During 2003, we will undergo a large fund rationalisation project to remove overlap in the collective fund ranges.
We anticipate a final range of approximately 30 retail funds.
We also have strong offerings in the more specialist areas of VCTs, where we are the leading player in the market under the Baronsmead brand, as well as in Investment Trusts and Socially Responsible Investment SRI.
In the institutional market, the key strengths reside in our xed interest, property and SRI propositions.
In particular, an area of rapidly growing interest is our Responsible Engagement Overlay reo programme.
In 2001, we formed a venture with State Street Global Advisors SsgA, with a reo overlay being applied to index-tracking funds, allowing institutional investors to pursue social, environmental and ethical objectives without compromising their financial obligations.
In recent months, significant new investors, including Shropshire County Council and John Lewis have adopted this service, and we anticipate an expansion of our overall relationship with SsgA.
In January 2003, Royal and SunAlliance Insurance Group plc also subscribed to our responsible engagement service, taking our reo funds to in excess of 16 billion.
14 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Our market leading position in Socially Responsible Investment ts well with our approach to Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR and Governance matters.
This is covered in more detail on page 21.
We have issued a separate CSR report to shareholders and other interested parties and this includes some examples of reo in practice.
Financial Review Funds under management were impacted by two major factors, our acquisition of RSAI and the collapse in global equity markets.
In addition there was an impact from business gains and losses, which are set out in the table below:- Business Inows and Outows 2002 Inows Outows Net m m m Life and Pensions N A N A 1,864 Institutional 124 2,360 2,236 Retail 244 204 40 Private Equity 145 17 128 Total N A N A 3,932 Life and Pensions movements represent our insurance client activities.
Changes in these categories can reect balance sheet or corporate actions as well as underlying business ows.
For example we saw an outow from Friends Provident of some 200 million when they provided us with loan finance to acquire RSAI.
A significant institutional outow of some 1 billion was due to the decision of one of the two pension funds of Royal & SunAlliance, Royal Insurance Group Pension Scheme, to move to a core satellite approach, something that was recognised at the time of the deal to buy RSAI.
In addition, the final tranche of Eureko monies were withdrawn as this client group moved fund management contracts to its recently acquired asset management subsidiary.
There have also been a number of much smaller third party institutional outows as clients or their advisers have sought to move funds due either to performance reasons or perceived uncertainty surrounding the integration of the two businesses.
The challenge facing us in 2003 is to convince the adviser market that our integration has been a success and has produced a robust and enhanced capability for delivering superior investment returns, as we think it has.
We believe our proposition is particularly strong within the specialist areas of xed interest and SRI, the latter principally through our reo products.
ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 15 Chief Executives Report 2002 was a difficult year for the entire retail investment sector.
Our performance track record is generally better here and we have focussed in recent months on building our brand and infrastructure support, whilst rationalising our product range.
We expect to win market share in 2003 and beyond in what remains a relatively high margin part of our business.
Finally, it is pleasing to note that we are now launching our first private equity 10 year limited partnership.
At the year end it had received commitments of over 140 million out of a planned fund raising of 175 million.
This success builds on the excellent investment performance track record which our team have developed in an asset class where fee structures are high and sustainable for quality products.
ISIS revenues for the year, net of selling expenses, were 87.6 million versus 83.5 million for 2001.
Revenues during 2002 were signicantly inuenced by the fall in stock markets and the acquisition on 1 July 2002 of the RSAI business which produced net revenues of 22.8 million for the 6 months to 31 December 2002.
The table below shows the percentage of gross revenues earned from each of our business areas by product type for the year to 31 December 2002.
Also shown is the percentage of revenues we would expect each area to contribute on an annualised basis based on end year assets under management.
Sources of Gross Revenue 2002 Actual Annualised Percentage Percentages By Product Investment Trusts 12 8 Venture Capital Trusts Limited Partnerships 8 7 Unit Trusts OEICs Third Party 16 13 Institutional and Other 76 Other Life and Pensions 57 66 Total 100 100 By Client FP 35 29 Non FP 65 71 16 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 As previously indicated, in excess of 50 per cent of our funds under management are invested on behalf of clients in xed interest, commercial property or held as liquidity.
These asset classes have not experienced the severe reduction in value caused by declining equity markets and, as such, have provided a degree of protection to our revenue base.
Furthermore, the majority of assets in these classes are managed for our two major insurance clients, both of whom pay a composite fee rate which does not differentiate between asset classes and hence removes any potential conict of interest in regard to advice on asset allocation.
This is therefore beneficial in periods of falling equity markets or when these clients are reducing equity exposure in favour of xed interest.
Following the acquisition of RSAI, income received during the year from Friends Provident plc FP fell to 35 per cent of revenues and will decrease further as a percentage of revenues in 2003 with the effects of a full years revenues being received on the acquired business.
This reduction in revenue dependency on FP, encouraged by our parent, is evidence of ISIS developing into a more broadly based asset management company.
Expenses for the year, excluding goodwill amortisation of 15.3 million, can be split between recurring expenditure of 64.1 million and exceptional expenditure of 19.2 million.
Exceptional expenditure relates to the one-off restructuring costs incurred in order to realise the synergies of the acquisition of RSAI.
These costs will span the years 2002 and 2003 and we have provided in 2002 those expenses which have been incurred or contracted for.
The speed at which we have conducted the integration of the two businesses means that a significant proportion of the exceptional costs are included in this years results.
Staff costs are by far the largest cost in an asset management business.
As seen from the table below, we moved quickly to reduce the stafng level.
At the year end there were some 39 transitional staff on the payroll involved in integration activity, the majority of whom will leave the organisation during the second quarter of 2003.
There also existed some 57 vacancies within the organisation at the year end, some of which we are currently recruiting for but others may not be lled after a post-integration review currently being undertaken.
ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 17 Chief Executives Report We expect a further fall in our headcount in 2003.
Excludes transitional staff involved in integration activities.
As part of the transaction we acquired the leases on two London properties, being the premises which RSAI occupied prior to the transaction.
In determining our anticipated cost savings we had anticipated that we would vacate one of the properties and retain the other.
By 31 December we had vacated both properties and, subject to timing of being able to let the properties in the current economic climate, we will realise property related synergies of some 1 million in excess of our original assumptions.
While we still have some major parts of the integration to deliver, as detailed above, we rmly believe that we will deliver annualised cost savings in excess of 20 million.
This gure will exceed 23 million when we are able to let the vacant London premises.
A significant part of the value of the RSAI transaction rested upon identication, implementation and delivery of cost savings.
In the circular to shareholders issued in June 2002 we indicated that some 50 per cent of cost savings would be achieved by 31 December 2002, 75 per cent during 2003 and 100 per cent by January 2004.
We have delivered these savings ahead of our original timetable.
As indicated at the time of the transaction, it costs money to create savings and we anticipate that the final cost of achieving the synergies will be in line with the basis of forecasting 1 of one-off restructuring cost for 1 of annualised saving.
The board has declared an unchanged final dividend of 7.0 pence per ordinary share for the year.
This, when taken with the interim dividend of 4.0 pence per ordinary share, results in an unchanged dividend for 2002 of 11.0 pence.
18 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 The total dividend of 11.0 pence is not fully covered by earnings per share of 10.4 pence before goodwill and exceptional expenditure in the year to 31 December 2002.
Looking forward, the board is anticipating that, over time, the dividend cover will be rebuilt.
This will be dependent on a number of factors, most particularly stock market performance, new business momentum and cost control which will determine the timing of dividend cover restoration as well as future dividend declarations.
We anticipate that by 2003 most of the synergies from the RSAI transaction will be reected in our cost base although the full impact will not be evident until 2004.
In addition, we are now conducting a post-integration review which is already leading to additional cost savings as we make our new business operations more efficient and focussed.
As a result, we expect that during the second half of this year our cost base will move to a position whereby our operating margin can be sustained at 30 per cent, or above, down to a FTSE100 equivalent level of 3500.
This should put us in a relatively strong position against our competitors in the industry.
Over recent years we have undertaken a number of corporate initiatives and as part of these activities we have sought to be more proactive in managing our Balance Sheet for the benefit of our shareholders.
Since 1997 we have undertaken a merger and three significant acquisitions as part of the process of building the company into a broadly based asset manager.
In each case we have sought to finance such acquisitions in the most appropriate manner considering carefully the options available and their impact on our shareholders and our financial position.
The acquisition of RSAI was nanced using a combination of cash and debt which was borrowed from our parent.
To reduce costs this was done using two facilities, a portion of xed debt of 180 million and a variable facility of up to 50 million.
The rate for the debt was benchmarked with two external providers, both of whom provided very competitive quotes for the business.
Following shareholders approval last year we have received court approval to convert 20 million of the share premium account into a special distributable reserve and this has been actioned during the year and is being used to cushion the impact of the costs of achieving the integration synergies.
We will continue to monitor and actively manage our balance sheet for the benefit of the business and our shareholders recognising also that the regulatory environment is changing and this will impact our industry as we go forward.
ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 19 Chief Executives Report Intangible xed assets or goodwill now represents a significant gure on our Balance Sheet and is the combination of a number of acquisitions.
Current accounting convention requires goodwill to be amortised over its useful life up to a maximum of 20 years.
This is likely to change when the United Kingdom moves to adopt International Accounting Standards in 2005.
Until then we will continue to write off goodwill on acquired businesses over 20 years and on the RSA management contracts over 10 years, being the term of those contracts.
Further detail is given in the notes to the financial statements.
Conclusion The financial outlook for the industry appears grim after three years of falling equity markets.
But at such times we need to remind ourselves that this is a long term growth industry.
The combination of populations living longer and becoming wealthier should be a positive factor for generating permanent savings which will create business ows for the industry in the future.
We see opportunities in the current environment.
Through the acquisition of RSAI we have created cost and potential revenue synergies whilst improving the quality of our business in the process.
Generating organic growth on our improved platform is a priority for us but we will consider further acquisitions if suitable opportunities are identied which t both our strategy and are priced at a level which will result in enhanced returns to our shareholders.
While the environment is very difficult, and may get worse before it gets better, we remain focussed on enhancing current and future shareholder value.
We look forward with a degree of confidence, but recognise that the environment has changed for our industry and that the future winners will be those that adapt their businesses accordingly, whilst retaining a clear focus on the needs of current and potential clients.
Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues for their efforts to ensure that the integration has been handled both speedily and efficiently as well as for their support through challenging times.
Howard Carter 4 March 2003 20 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002
