4 I am delighted to report that JLT has responded exceptionally well to the challenges of a turbulent business environment to deliver yet another year of strong progress.
As a Group, we once again achieved double-digit percentage growth in revenue, profit before tax and diluted earnings per share.
Our shareholders have seen total shareholder return of some 11% for the year and 377% over the past five years, putting JLT at the top of all FTSE 350 companies over that period.
We pride ourselves on the highest levels of professionalism and integrity, combined with senior-level attention to clients and relationships.
chief executives review Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 5 Report & Accounts 2002 Our profit surpassed 100 million for the first time in our history The pensions review business, an income stream always and we achieved over 20% growth in year on year profits for the recognised as having a limited life, has reduced significantly over the first time since JLTs formation.
At the same time, we carefully past two years.
Against this background, our results for Employee managed our overheads reducing our expense ratio to our Benefits were very creditable and provide a firm foundation on long-term target of 80%.
Revenue from long-term contracts won in 2002 has started to flow through and will benefit the results from 2003.
Profitability through organic growth These are the early successes from a strong new business pipeline JLTs achievements over the year cannot simply be attributed to which we believe will enable us to meet the ambitious targets we increased insurance commissions in the current hard insurance set for this business.
market, they also reflect organic growth achieved through new business wins and the benefits of a well managed business.
Growing demand for personal attention Whilst many parts of the insurance industry have concentrated on In our main operating areas, Risk & Insurance overcame a very building the size and scale of their businesses, JLT has continued demanding operating environment and our Employee Benefits to focus on quality and durability.
In a world of giant organisations business is now well positioned to succeed in a growing market with a broad array of services, our success proves there is a place.
In this years Report & Accounts we have for the first time growing demand for a firm that operates on a more personal scale, included more detailed operational reviews for each of our whilst still achieving industry-leading results.
We pride ourselves business groups.
These provide greater detail of our activities and on the highest levels of professionalism and integrity, combined an in-depth review of the progress of each area in 2002, set against with senior-level attention to clients and relationships.
the background of the industry in which it operates.
As we grow, we maintain this balance between service and success Real alternative to large global brokers by concentrating on the areas we know best, being discerning The Risk & Insurance Group produced a very strong result.
about acquisitions and acting in a transparent and open manner Revenue for continuing operations increased by 16% to both internally and externally.
Senior executives in JLT are close to 313.6 million with new business and penetration providing most of the business.
This is core to our culture and is an approach that the growth.
Every business within Risk & Insurance improved its delivers optimal products and services to our clients.
It also improves trading margin, demonstrating our growing strength and confidence communication and ensures clarity and a sense of purpose and as an international force that provides a real alternative to the determination.
We are focused on being the best in our chosen largest global brokers.
Our success proves there is a real and growing demand for Employee Benefits revenue was flat at 74.5 million.
As we develop, these qualities remain a underlying growth in our core business of Actuarial, Consulting priority, as it is these that really differentiate JLT from its competitors.
and Pension Administration was masked by an unexpectedly fast fall off in pensions review business in the second half of the year.
6 Taking no risk is the biggest risk of all The continued threat of terrorism and political unrest, along with natural disasters linked to climate change, spectacular corporate failures and stock market falls, have created much uncertainty.
Caution is a natural and sensible reaction to current events, but for business to take no risk is the biggest risk of all.
Our position at the heart of the risk business will provide us with many opportunities to grow.
We are confident that we will continue to make significant progress by providing quality advice to clients, helping them to see risk in perspective, balance risk and reward and ultimately to restore the confidence that helps create business success.
These are challenging but exciting times for JLT and I fully expect we will have another very successful year in 2003. chief executives review Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 7 Report & Accounts 2002 Our staff are key to our success and our ambitions as a firm.
Balance is key to success I am of course immensely proud of JLT and its achievements.
One of the keys to our sustained success has been our ability JLT has a great future ahead for its clients, its employees to balance the needs of the key stakeholders in our business.
and its shareholders and we remain very confident about As we continue to grow we recognise the importance of our future prospects.
maintaining this balance if we are to establish ourselves as the leader in our business.
JLT aims to deliver quality results for all its stakeholders clients, staff and shareholders.
However, everything flows from the needs of our clients.
Striving to exceed their expectations is the bedrock on which our business has been built.
Staff key to ambitions Stephen P McGill Our staff are key to our success and our ambitions as a firm, Chief Executive therefore striving to be recognised as the employer of choice in our 10th March, 2003 industry is simply a logical strategy for a firm that seeks to develop itself as a quality leader in its business.
We provide an environment in which all our people can demonstrate and develop their skills and share in the rewards that their success generates.
8 JLT has responded exceptionally well to the challenges of a turbulent business environment to deliver another year of strong progress.
Our shareholders have seen total shareholder return of 377% over the past five years, putting JLT at the top of all FTSE 350 companies over that period.
highlights Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 9 Report & Accounts 2002
