10 Our concentration on quality rather than quantity in every aspect of our business means that clients can access the best that JLT has to offer from all our offices.
Risk & Insurance revenue for continuing operations increased by 16% in 2002 to 313.6 million as a result of strong performances from every part of the business.
As one of the worlds largest insurance brokers we provide a diverse range of services within the insurance and reinsurance broking field.
The common feature of all aspects of our business is that we operate in areas where we are, or can be, market leaders.
We want our services to make a positive difference for our clients, delivering value for money at every level.
Our income derives from a mixture of fees, paid by clients for the services we provide, and commissions paid by insurers when we introduce a risk to them.
Our policy is to be open with clients about our remuneration and we aim to make a profit on every transaction which reflects the true value to the client of the skills we deploy.
As in previous years, incentive commissions received from insurers for 2002 accounted for less than 2% of our revenue.
We continue to consolidate our strong international team with expert resources in the worlds major industrial regions.
Our concentration on teamwork and quality in every aspect of our business means that clients can access the best that JLT has to offer from all our offices.
risk & insurance operational review Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 11 Report & Accounts 2002 We are working hard to expand our relationships with regional Risk Solutions Risk Solutions again demonstrated its strength at the heart of our brokers whilst at the same time strengthening our Capital Risk business, thereby enabling us to compete on a number of fronts international Risk & Insurance group.
Revenue of 192.7 million showed an increase of 18% on the previous year with a trading against the giant global brokers.
In London Accident & Health, Cargo, Casualty, We are continuing to develop our captive management Construction, Energy, Marine Reinsurance, Aviation and Property operations from our offices in Bermuda, Cayman, Vermont, all produced excellent results.
Financial & Professional Risks, our Singapore and Guernsey.
new professional liability unit, had an excellent first full year.
UK Ireland Agnew Higgins Pickering, the London based specialist natural Revenues of 40.6 million were up only 7.4% on the year, resources broker, also produced another strong performance.
reflecting our decision to discontinue or outsource certain lines Risk Solutions is based in London, the worlds most influential of business which were hampering profitability.
Adjusting for the effects of such changes, underlying growth of 12% was achieved.
From here we provide specialist insurance and reinsurance services to a wide range of international corporate As a result of these actions it is pleasing to report the improvement in our trading margin to 22%.
We have worked hard to reinforce clients.
But Risk Solutions also operates outside the UK from a number of separate offices in the worlds main insurance markets.
a strong sales culture throughout the business and have established a strong new business pipeline.
We are optimistic In Bermuda our team had an outstanding year delivering excellent about our prospects for 2003. results due to our strong presence on the island and high profile relationships with Bermudian insurers and reinsurers.
In the US we continued to expand our reinsurance operation JLT Re Solutions, which now has five offices across the United States.
Much of our business emanating from the US is from independent Risk Solutions Risk & Insurance regional brokers seeking a partner who can assist them in revenue up revenue up competing with and beating the global brokers in international insurance markets.
18% 16% to 192.7m to 313.6m 12 JLT Asia has offices in 9 countries across the region and is a leading provider of risk solutions and corporate services in the Asian market.
Our Risk & Insurance business within Jardine Lloyd Thompson Employing over 600 professionals, JLT Asia offers its corporate UK encompasses mainly retail insurance broking activities clients a wide range of specialist insurance and reinsurance to small to medium sized corporate clients as well as private services including expertise in alternative risk transfer and individuals through innovative affinity schemes such as captive management.
Expacare and Compass, facilities for expatriate healthcare Canada and holiday and home parks respectively.
In Canada, revenue at 10.7 million was up 16% and the trading Australia & New Zealand margin increased from 16% to 20%.
Operating out of 7 offices, Australia and New Zealand made excellent progress in 2002 we provide a range of insurance services to corporate clients with revenue of 38.5 million, up 21%, and a trading margin of in industries as diverse as forestry, energy and public sector.
Although the Australian economy is expected to weaken We are also a leading provider of professional indemnity coverage we are optimistic about opportunities in 2003 as we continue to lawyers, architects, surveyors and engineers.
to strengthen our position in the region.
SIACI In Australia and New Zealand JLT operates out of 17 offices.
SIACI continued to achieve good growth in revenue and profit.
We focus on five core services namely affinity, corporate, JLT Group has a 31% shareholding in the SIACI Group which is natural resources, construction and risk services.
headquartered in Paris and has offices in 6 European countries.
Asia In Asia JLTs revenue grew 8% to 29.4 million and a trading margin of 22% reflects a good result despite the continued weakness of the regions economies.
JLT has offices in 9 countries across the region and is a leading provider of risk solutions and corporate services in the Asian market.
JLT has a long established presence in the Asian market through its relationship with Jardine Matheson.
risk & insurance operational review Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 13 Report & Accounts 2002 This is a market for the skilled operator.
Clients must strike a Insurance market overview Premiums for most buyers of insurance and reinsurance have been careful balance between the cost of retaining risk and transferring it.
Insurers must underwrite at a profit to rebuild capital reserves in increasing since 2000 and many clients have seen further significant increases in premium through 2001 and 2002.
The impact of the an unfavourable investment climate.
A brokers success depends on its ability to react rapidly to the often fleeting opportunities September 11th attacks: the need to strengthen reserves to offset the poor underwriting results from the soft insurance market of the that such turbulent market conditions present, whilst at the same time maintaining excellent service levels and providing late 1990s: and falling investment returns have all taken their toll on insurers balance sheets.
With investment returns appearing continuity for clients.
unlikely to improve substantially in 2003 and a challenging outlook In a difficult and volatile marketplace, clients look to JLT to for the global economy as a whole, underwriters must focus on provide effective and rapid solutions to their insurance needs.
underwriting profitably in order to restore adequate capital levels.
JLT was well positioned in 2002 not only to retain its existing Despite some high profile losses, the overall returns for 2002 indicate business but also win new clients.
We expect this trend to be that insurers have started to recover some of the lost ground.
So far 2003 has not seen the same level of rate increases as 2002 and, in our view, the current upswing is at or near its peak in many areas of business.
At this point in the pricing cycle, there has traditionally been a fairly rapid reduction in pricing.
However, due to the combination of factors outlined above, we believe that prices are likely to remain around their current levels throughout 2003 and 2004.
Despite numerous injections of capital into new insurance and reinsurance ventures, the continuing low investment returns and historically low levels of capital reserves have the effect of limiting aggregate capacity which reduces the scope for competition to apply downward pressure on rates.
