efit of all our stakeholders Our Partnership Agreement with Amicus has helped the business to be both more effective and more competitive.
Thats good for all our stakeholders.
ELAINE MACLEAN, HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR UK OPERATIONS Amicus partnership of the Labour Government, and in our dedicated Amicus union official, Legal & Generals partnership with whose commitment was central to the Amicus operates at all levels of the partnership being established and who organisation.
There are monthly remains key to its success today.
meetings between Human Resource managers and Amicus representatives Business Partnerships to discuss issues such as Health and If our Business Partners are succeeding, Safety:remuneration: working practices then Legal & General will be succeeding and local consultation.
Unless our Partners succeed The Group Chief Executive briefs union in their business goals, then we are representatives from around the UK unlikely to succeed in ours.
Thats why and staff representatives from Europe we care so much about our financial at least annually, and holds regular strength: about the quality of our meetings with senior full-time Amicus brand and reputation: about having executives.
Legal & General has been efficient, user-friendly technology fortunate both in its full-time employee and about having products which can union representatives, one of whom has be both bought with conviction and now progressed to being a member sold with confidence.
Team Barclays Cardiff Relationships Our partnership with Legal & General has not only met all of its objectives, but continues to grow from strength to strength.
ANDY KUIPERS, SALES AND MARKETING DIRECTOR, NORTHERN ROCK 300 Legal & General ABI Source: 250 Association of British Insurers ABI data on the UK individual life and pensions and ISA PEP 200 and Unit Trust market.
UK INDIVIDUAL MARKET SHARE in the final dividend after adjusting for the consolidation, the Board believes that 4 Chairmans Statement bonus element of the Rights Issue.
This rate Legal & Generals financial condition gives of increase is broadly equivalent to the rate us an excellent opportunity to achieve further of ination in 2002, although it is below the market share growth on profitable terms.
rate of growth received by shareholders in Additional Information for Shareholders recent years.
In arriving at this recommended The importance of good two-way communication dividend, the Board has sought to balance between shareholders and their company is delivery of its progressive dividend policy with fully understood by your Board.
You will see our strategy for policyholder bonuses which, that, this year, we have expanded the report due to market circumstances, have had to be to shareholders on the remuneration paid to cut again this year.
Our dividend decisions for directors and staff see pages 26 to 31.
2003 will, of course, be set in the light of the I hope you nd the report in its new form then prevailing market conditions.
There will be a separate resolution on remuneration at the Annual General Meeting Share Price Performance and this follows the overwhelming support Legal & Generals share price has not been shareholders gave to our remuneration policy immune from the adverse equity market last year.
We are also, this year, providing circumstances which have prevailed.
Although, additional information to shareholders on our in absolute terms, the performance of our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR share price in 2002 was disappointing, relative programme.
As well as the section of this to the FTSE Life Assurance sector, we report dedicated to CSR see pages 18 to outperformed, beating the sectors Total 21, a detailed description of our CSR Shareholder Return TSR by seven programme was recently added to the About percentage points.
2002 was the third Us section of the Legal & General corporate successive year in which Legal & Generals TSR has outperformed the sector average.
Shareholders should be aware that our Future Opportunities corporate website also contains audiocasts Aided by the proceeds from the Rights Issue, Legal & Generals financial position of the presentations given by management now gives us an important source of to analysts as well as information about the competitive advantage in the marketplace.
product discounts available to shareholders.
Standard & Poors reafrmed our AAA rating In addition, the site provides a facility for for financial strength at the end of January shareholders to comment on issues of 2003, leaving us as the strongest rated major concern to them.
The Board does encourage European life assurer.
In a market where the shareholders to take full advantage of this financial weakness of some participants is facility and also to participate in your companys proving to be a key driver in market share governance by voting on the resolutions contained in the forms accompanying this report, or, better still, by attending our Annual 372 General Meeting on 30 April 2003.
193 As a significant investor in many quoted 232 companies, it is Legal & Generals policy in the UK always to vote on resolutions in companies whose shares we own and we encourage our FIG 2.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN % Legal & General FTSE 100 FTSE Life Assurance Sector Ten years to 31 December 2002 shareholders to follow this example.
LEGAL & GENERAL ANNUAL REPORT 2002 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2002 In Brief Board Appointment 5 13% increase in Worldwide New Your Board was delighted to appoint Tim Parker Business Annual Premium Equivalent as a non-executive director this year.
Tim, to 906m who is the Chief Executive of Kwik-Fit Holdings, is already proving to be a valuable member of our Board team.
14bn of new Institutional Fund Management business won, An Award-Winning Year Legal & General won a number of prestigious another record despite adverse awards last year.
We were named Britains market conditions Most Admired Insurance Company by Management Today magazine and we were Operating profit on the Achieved profits awarded the Life Insurer of the Year title at the British Insurance Awards, hosted by Post basis fell from 747m to 695m after Magazine.
In the Netherlands, we have again 140m of reserve increases for potential been named that countrys Best Life Assurer.
improvements in annuitant mortality Legal & General has been a regular winner of these and other such awards in recent years.
Operating profit on the Modied Our success has been in large part due to Statutory Solvency basis was the commitment and effectiveness of our employees, to whom your Board once again unchanged at 493m gives its thanks.
We were very pleased that so many of our staff demonstrated their 788m Rights Issue taken confidence in Legal & Generals future up in respect of over 95% of the prospects by taking up shares available to shares offered them in last years Rights Issue.
Outlook AAA rating for financial strength Our staffs confidence in Legal & Generals future success is shared by your Board.
In reafrmed in January 2003 by 2002, our strategy enabled us to outperform Standard & Poors the market despite the difficult conditions.
Our operational model represents a winning Britains Most Admired Insurance formula and we are nancially strong.
We Company for the fourth time in five years believe markets will recover, and, when they do, we are confident that we can achieve both further increases in scale and improved Life Insurer of the Year for the fourth operational efficiency.
We believe we can time in five years outperform once again in 2003.
