6 Chief Executives review Developing a global marketplace This last year has been an outstanding one for the London Stock Exchange.
We listed on our own market in July, completing the transformation of our business.
We have a thriving business providing an important service to the most international financial services centre in the world.
In addition to these many initiatives, we had Strategy also hoped to broaden our product range At the time of our listing, we set out a clear through the acquisition of the LIFFE derivatives strategy to build on our existing business, to exchange.
While LIFFE chose to go a different extend the scale and reach of our operations route, it remains our aim to expand our product and to shape the globalisation of capital markets.
We have achieved much in this period.
We We continue to develop our core services and have invested heavily in new technology to enhance our strong position in the UK equity grow our market.
We have upgraded our market this remains key to our success.
We trading platforms to support an acceleration will continue to use the leading position of the in volume growth and have built a new UK equity market in Europe to influence change network to extend the reach of our services.
We are introducing new services to support and improve the efficiency of Europes capital the retail market through a gateway, the markets: this will be a spur to our growth.
introduction of a covered warrants market We continue to explore how we can best and the Retail Depositary Receipt, a trading connect global pools of liquidity to support mechanism for international issuers.
We our international customer base.
Our aim is continue to lobby strongly and drive the to create value not just within our own time debate on market efficiency.
zone, but to serve an increasingly global market.
66% of all Western European IPOs LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 7 have management expertise from across the Financial strength securities industry, adding to the depth of The year was also one of strong financial experience within the company.
The new growth in turnover and earnings.
Despite management team is leading a programme economic uncertainty, turnover from continuing of change and growth across the business operations increased 11 per cent to 215.6 with enthusiasm and vigour.
million and operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items grew Market activity 22 per cent to 70.5 million.
Earnings per Overall trading levels reached a daily average share increased 235 per cent from 5.1 pence of 200,000, an increase over the last year to 17.1 pence per share, while adjusted of 25 per cent.
The success of the SETS earnings per share rose 20 per cent to electronic order book, which trades the UKs 18.3 pence per share.
most liquid securities, has underpinned the Our strong financial performance is testament growth in trades with a record daily average to the improvement in our competitive position, of 69,000 electronic bargains an increase the breadth of our product range and the of 86 per cent on the year.
quality of our customer base.
Our financial position has been further strengthened through A total of 289 companies were admitted significantly higher cash flows, leaving us well to our markets, including 141 Initial Public placed to evaluate and develop opportunities Offerings IPOs.
Although lower in absolute for expanding our business.
numbers than last years high levels, these represented 66 per cent of the total Management team Western European IPO market.
The IPO We have strengthened the senior executive market has been driven by the growth of team over the last year and were delighted to AIM.
With 85 IPOs in the last year, AIM welcome Marc Bailey, David Lester, Phil Bruce alone accounted for nearly 40 per cent and Nick Gammage to that team.
We now of Western European IPOs.
DEVELOPING A GLOBAL MARKETPLACE 8 Chief Executives review increase in electronic trades 86% Issuer Services Broker Services The focus of Issuer Services is on attracting Broker Services has three main objectives.
new UK and overseas companies to our The first is to promote the growth of trading markets and supporting the companies whose through SETS.
We strongly believe that the shares are issued and traded here.
AIM is now impressive growth of the last year would be widely regarded as the most dynamic market further increased by removal of stamp duty and for smaller companies in the world and we are greater electronic shareholding.
The second is keen to build further on its success.
We are to increase participation in the central trading committed to increasing the international status market by all of our customers.
We believe the of our markets.
In particular, we have marketed introduction of the RSP Gateway, for example, heavily in countries with enormous growth will help by reducing access costs for private potential such as China and India.
The third is to reduce settlement we amended our eligibility criteria to allow costs by offering a new CREST network service, secondary-listed international companies introducing a netting capability with CRESTCo to join techMARK and the new techMARK and LCH, and partnering with Euroclear.
The arrival of companies such Information Services as Swiss natural resources group Xstrata plc shows that London is ideally placed as the The customer reach of Information Services cross-border market of choice.
has been strengthened by the introduction of Extranex, our new global information network service, which has increased the information product range that we can offer and widened the customer base to which we can sell it.
Our website has been upgraded and the number of hits it received more than doubled during the last year to reach 847 million.
It is now an invaluable means by which to access key products and services.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 9 London is ideally placed as the cross-border market of choice.
20% increase in adjusted earnings per share New revenue streams Looking ahead We are broadening our business in two key In my first full year of running the business, areas.
The first of these will leverage our I have been particularly struck by the array capabilities as a technology sales and services of business opportunities open to the London business.
Since May 2002, we have been Stock Exchange and the commitment of our running and operating the JSE Securities staff to securing and accelerating our growth.
Exchange South Africa equity market through The London advantage is clear.
We have the our trading systems in London.
We are working most robust technology of any major equity on a number of similar opportunities.
We have market in the world: we are the gateway to also launched a commercial Regulatory News Europe, an area in which equity investment Service RNS.
It is our firm intention to is expected to grow dramatically in the next build on the strong position we have today 10 years: we possess a renowned framework to become a leading information provider in for market rules and regulation: we serve the this field and expand the range of information most international financial markets community products that we offer.
in the world: and London is host to the worlds largest pool of investment funds.
I am New headquarters convinced that our core business strengths, We have signed a lease agreement for new coupled with the extremely attractive London headquarters in the City of London.
The move market environment, provide the foundation to the eight storey self-contained building at for a thriving future.
King Edward Court, Paternoster Square, which will take place in 2004, will keep us at the heart of the City and close to a large part of our customer base.
In addition, we have appointed architects to review different options for enhancing the value of our current Old Broad Clara Furse Street freehold.
They will assist us in securing Chief Executive a planning application for the Tower site.
