Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 4 Chief Executives Strategic Review The Man Group has enjoyed a year of very considerable success.
We have seen huge demand for our products in both our businesses, substantially exceeded all our financial targets, and positioned both our businesses for continued strong growth.
The Groups business strategy and direction are set out in this Strategic Review section of the Annual Report, after which is an Operating Review of both of our businesses.
The Operating Review contains a significant level of detail about our businesses, their products and performance in the year, and the market place in which they operate.
A detailed financial review of the Group and its activities, measured against our stated financial targets, is contained in the Finance Directors Review, together with a description of our risk management processes.
Asset Management Man is a world leader in alternative investments.
Historically, quoted shares and bonds have been the main form of most individual and institutional investment.
As investors have sought increased diversification from the traditional strategies, there has been a growing trend towards inclusion of alternative investment products in their portfolios.
Recent statistics suggest that in the region of $540 billion to $600 billion is invested in alternative assets excluding private equity and real estate.
As can be seen in the chart on the opposite page source: Hedge Fund Research, alternative investments were up around 10% in 2001, having grown 27% per annum over the last 11 years.
Whilst this growth rate is impressive, $540 billion represents only a small percentage of the worlds liquid assets, suggesting that as an investment class there is room for continued strong growth.
Many investment professionals are advocating a portfolio allocation of 10% or more to alternative investments.
4 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002 Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 5 and retain flexibility on asset allocation.
These are 1 Growth of the global hedge fund industry managers whose performance exhibits low Number of Hedge Funds Hedge Fund Assets correlation with a typical bond or equity portfolio.
Man-Glenwood, as a manager of managers, also No.
of funds US$ bn has access to the full range of investment styles 500 4000 through its relationships with underlying managers 400 3000 to whom assets are allocated on a dynamic basis.
300 2000 Additionally we have a New Manager unit which is 200 dedicated to identifying new managers who fit our 1000 100 investment criteria, with a view to seeding start- 0 0 1 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 up managers and forming distribution relationships with or taking equity stakes in more developed 1 As at 30 September 2001.
Source: Hedge Fund Research managers.
Our long established presence in alternative asset management means that we can Man is well placed to take advantage of this provide both administrative and sales and structural shift in global asset allocations.
We have marketing skills to assist new mangers.
been managing and structuring alternative investment products since 1983, during which Our approach also favours those managers with time we have been continually enhancing both our a strong systematic approach, where we consider product range and building global distribution.
Our future performance to be more persistent, and strong track record and established presence in which is likely to secure longer term value for this industry has allowed us to grow funds under investors and shareholders alike.
The largest of management at 52% per annum over the last five these associated managers is currently Marin years, around twice the industry growth rate for Capital Partners L. P. a convertible bond arbitrage that period.
manager, which has assets under management in excess of $1.0 billion.
We believe that the Man Group is unrivalled in its ability to provide a combination of high quality With the continued attraction of our products, money management skills, product-structuring we also favour managers and styles with expertise and access to a global client base.
Our substantial capacity to accommodate strong strategy is to continue the development of each of growth in assets under management.
Product Structuring Managers Using our range of managers and investment Securing access to high quality managers with styles we can provide a high degree of flexibility long track records is key to the attractiveness of in asset allocation and a consistent and thorough our products and their performance.
Our largest approach to risk management.
This allows us to two managers, Man-AHL and Man-Glenwood, offer a range of products to meet a variety of which account for 81% of assets under investor needs and which can evolve to reflect management, are wholly owned and each has a prevailing circumstances.
A typical range of long track record of achieving the expectations of product offerings might include: investors in terms of returns and volatility.
In an industry where many participants are relatively new Structured products, where we combine to the asset class, our long-established presence a range of styles and managers into a product and good reputation are important attributes.
Typically, Man forms joint ventures with or takes equity stakes in Our strategy is to take ownership of managers these managers.
who we consider core to our money management Fund of funds, where the investors money capability.
In this way we can control the is allocated by Man-Glenwood to a wide range investment management process, manage risk of managers employing a variety of styles to 5 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002 Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 6 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued achieve diversification and reduce manager risk.
Our strategy is to continue to develop both the Style products, where assets are allocated to a range and quality of our intermediaries.
In some range of managers deploying a particular style cases this has been achieved by accessing the or set of styles.
Some of these managers will be distribution capabilities of those financial independent of Man.
institutions who are already familiar with Single manager products, where an investors our product.
money is placed with a single manager operating in a specific style, such as Man-AHL, our Whilst we expect to see continued strong demand managed futures manager.
These products are from our existing markets, we have recently made open ended and can be freely traded.
a strategic decision to increase our sales into the domestic US private client market.
The US is the For the private client investor, our conservatively largest market for alternative investments, but until structured composite products have been the our acquisition of Glenwood in the year 2000 we most sought after, and these products currently had no physical asset management presence there.
account for about 65% of assets under We expect to begin selling structured products in management.
For many years we have been the US during our financial year ending March structuring products for this market which offer a 2003 and anticipate that US sales will represent guaranteed return of principal at maturity of the a growing share of our private client sales during fund, typically in around 10 years time, in some the coming years as our intermediary network cases with a step-up guarantee to lock in a level there develops.
of good performance across the term of the product.
These guarantees are provided by third Fees party banks and other financial institutions, who Typically for alternative asset managers, we charge have a detailed understanding of our risk both management fees and performance fees on management and product structuring capabilities the assets we manage.
Our strategy has been to and with whom the Group has established strong focus our sales efforts in the private client market relationships.
where our structured products and their track record can command premium fees.
We also raise In conjunction with our good performance track money from institutional clients, who accounted record, being able to provide these guarantee for 19% of sales in the year.
structures and to meet investor wishes for other attributes such as monthly liquidity, has enabled Our focus is to raise assets in the highest margin us to offer attractive products at the premium end products and so drive growth in net management of the market.
fee income which was up 66% in the year.
This is the key element of our underlying profits.
In those Distribution of our managers and styles where we have Demand for our products comes from around significant unused capacity we will raise the world.
Historically our strongest private client institutional money, which typically pays a lower markets have been Western Europe excluding management fee.
the UK, South East Asia including Australia and New Zealand and the Middle East.
We sell our In addition to management fees, the Group has products through an established intermediary the capacity to earn substantial performance fee network in return for a sales commission.
This income depending upon the performance of the approach allows us to access the higher private underlying product managers.
This income will client fee structure with a low and flexible therefore be variable across the Groups cost base.
accounting periods depending upon the timing of 6 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002 Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 7 fund performance.
In order to generate greater Man Financial has a dominant position across stability in performance fee income, our strategy is these exchanges, and significantly has retained to identify and grow those managers and styles high proportions and high rankings on exchanges with low levels of correlation to our existing that are fully electronic.
The ability to add value in manager portfolio.
an electronic trading environment is key to its business strategy.
It is the scale, range and Personnel breadth of the Brokerage business that gives Man As part of our strategy to increase the strength Financial its edge.
The wide geographic spread and depth of management and staff, we have and broad customer base allows it to provide added 122 staff in the Asset Management off screen liquidity and combine order flow.
business during the year, including the appointment of Chris Chambers as the new We continue to derive benefits from having both Chief Executive of Man Investment Products.
Brokerage and Asset Management activities in the Group, in terms of identifying the most efficient Brokerage trading access and introducing customers to the Our Brokerage business is a world leading agency other Group activity.
broker of futures, options and equity derivative products.
We have developed the business We expect to continue the development of the through the combination of our leading position on business by acquiring producer teams and exchanges as illustrated in the table below and businesses as the industry consolidates.
Although growing customer order flow.
This has in turn we currently have only a small presence in the allowed us to provide liquidity and efficient order cash equity markets, we have positioned the execution to the benefit of our client base, and business to benefit from the likely growth in equity has attracted producers to join the Man Group.
derivative products, whether off market such as CFDs contracts for difference, or on exchange Our strategy has been to focus on those aspects products such as single stock futures.
The of our business that are less capital intensive and development of these products will also benefit allow us to be more flexible in our cost structure.
the Asset Management business as we seek more We have also embraced the transition to electronic efficient ways of trading equities.
trading, which has taken place on many of the worlds largest markets and reduced overheads accordingly.
Man Financial Exchange rankings calendar year 2001 Exchange Man Financial Ranking Electronic share of volume CME 5.1% 1st Mix Stanley Fink LIFFE 7.5% 1st Yes Chief Executive NYMEX 9.1% 1st No IPE 14.1% 1st No SGX Singapore 8.8% 2nd No EUREX fixed income options 8.5% 3rd Yes CBOT 3.2% 8th No Source: Exchange publications Execution only 1st in grains 7 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002
