Chief Executive's Report 6 Adam J Applegarth In 2002 we delivered an excellent set of results including: Record pre-tax profit of 326.2 million an increase of 18.0% Earnings per share of 55.6 pence an increase of 20.3% Record gross lending of 14.1 billion an increase of 59.6% on 2001 Record net lending of 8.2 billion an increase of 60.7% and a market share of 9.1% Assets under management up by 34.7% to 41.9 billion Cost ratios reduced yet again underlying cost : income ratio down to 30.1% 16.3 million covenanted to The Northern Rock Foundation to support charitable causes In August 2002 we acquired As well as investing for future growth, Cost and capital efficiencies also Legal & General Bank Ltd and for example our current 90 million helped offset the spread erosion Legal & General Mortgage Services Head Office expansion programme, resulting from an increasing Ltd for a total of 133 million.
we continued to seek further proportion of securitisation issues The acquisition, which included 1.5 efficiencies which, as the lowest unit within our funding mix.
When billion of additional good quality cost UK lender, provide us with our combined with a stable total income residential mortgage assets, competitive edge.
By managing our margin, despite balance sheet complemented our strong organic cost base we have again driven growth of 17% excluding the growth and resulted in a 35% down both our underlying unit cost Legal & General banking acquisition, increase in assets under measures.
Cost to assets under this allowed us to deliver a rising management.
management fell to 0.46% and cost return on equity of 20.2%.
7 Chief Executive's Report continued We remain at the forefront of existing customers is another key providing a competitive choice of area for Northern Rock and our products for homeowners and policy of making all of our new homebuyers, whether they are new products available to our existing or existing customers.
borrowers is also benefiting our net lending performance.
Not only are we able to provide market-leading traditional With continuing uncertainty over mortgages, in general offering lower prospects for an economic recovery repayments at the outset of the we have adopted a prudent loan, we have responded to approach to our growth in increasing customer demand for commercial lending.
"""lifestyle"" products, especially those While we do not see the prospect with flexible features such as daily Lending for a severe fall in house prices or a interest calculations, overpayments, During 2002 we once again slump in consumer confidence, both underpayments and payment delivered record levels of low risk of which would require significant holiday facilities."
"These ""lifestyle"" lending."
Including acquired increases in interest rates and products include our credit balances, gross lending was 14,128 higher levels of unemployment, we bundling product together and million, an increase of 59.6% over have taken a more cautious the offsetting Connections range.
the previous year, with net lending approach to personal credit.
We For homeowners aged 60 and over, of 8,241 million, an increase of have concentrated our unsecured our Home Equity Release Mortgage 60.7%.
"lending on our ""bundled"" products enables them to unlock the value of where it performs very much in line A sustained period of low interest their property."
with the secured mortgage loan.
rates and low unemployment We have seen a strong remortgage promoted consumer confidence Funding market as home owners seek to and underpinned the housing Our successful mix of fund raising take full advantage of historically market.
This meant that residential retail funding, wholesale funding low interest rates.
With very few lending remained particularly and securitisation enables us to lenders, but including Northern buoyant.
We achieved net achieve our target level of mortgage Rock, offering genuine new deals to residential lending, including lending.
existing customers, this market, acquired balances, of 7,184 million, which accounted for 37% of our an increase of 88.2% over 2001, Retail funding continues to be an lending in 2002, is likely to remain which represented 9.1% of the UK important part of our funding mix.
an important part of our future market and more than twice our The increase in retail funds during opening share of stock.
The retention of 2002 was 1,966 million.
Falling 8 Chief Executive's Report continued equity markets and economic Credit quality levels of unemployment and the uncertainty encouraged savers into remortgage market will remain Residential mortgage arrears have the increased security of contractual strong.
Even in a slowing market we shown further improvement even accounts, mainly fixed rate bonds, expect to achieve our strategic though mortgage balances have tracker or ISA accounts, where growth range of 15% - 25% in high grown significantly.
Credit quality is clarity and transparency reduce quality, low risk, assets under excellent with only 0.56% of volatility.
Tracker Online, our fully management.
mortgages being more than three transactional internet account, was months in arrears, about half the We manage our growth well.
We have particularly successful attracting average level for the rest of the a flexible funding platform with 2.0 billion of new savings.
In industry, demonstrating that we have securitisation playing a key role in our December 2002 our subsidiary, not increased our appetite for risk.
Our distribution Northern Rock Guernsey Ltd, The average loan to value on our network which integrates branch, launched an offshore version of this mortgage book is 58% and we have postal, telephone and e-commerce account.
We also continued to strengthened our risk assessment with the highly important develop new products with our and credit management techniques intermediary market, continues to partner Legal & General, for those to ensure that our lending portfolios develop further origination capacity.
customers who required a link with remain robust.
Our provisioning Our buildings, systems and people are the equity markets.
policies remain prudent and we geared to enable us to combine have no exposure to residential increased volumes of profitable Northern Rocks Treasury function loans outside of the UK, nor to business with greater efficiency, acts as an integrated part of the unsecured corporate lending or any providing customer satisfaction and business not as a separate profit form of leasing, or insurance therefore enhanced shareholder value.
It facilitates wholesale underwriting risks.
funding, securitisation issues and liquidity management.
"Liquid assets Future strategy are invested for security not yield Our focused, low-cost, organic-growth 66% of the investment portfolio is strategy is working well and if we can rated ""AA"" or better and over 93% is supplement this through acquisition ""A"" or better."
Net new wholesale as we did with our acquisition of Legal funding totalled 3,232 million, & General banking operations then increasing balances to 13.7 billion we will.
But only at the right quality, and diversification of the investor scale and cost.
base has continued, especially in We expect the housing market to slow Europe.
Northern Rock is now firmly but it will remain underpinned by the established as a key player in the economic fundamentals particularly securitisation market.
relatively low interest rates and low During 2002 we issued 5.7 billion of securitised notes including, for the first time, 500 million of 100% risk weighted commercial assets.
Securitised assets under management now amount to 9.6 billion, representing 28% of our lending portfolios.
Securitisation, with increasing diversification, will continue to play a key role in funding our future growth plans as well as contributing to capital efficiency.
9 Executive Directors A J Applegarth Chief Executive R F Bennett Group Finance Director 10 C Taylor Company Secretary The Board of Directors There were 11 full Board Meetings during the financial year.
The number attended by each Director was as follows: Non - Executive Directors Sir John Riddell, Bt.
CVO, MA, CA - Chairman 11 Dr M W Ridley, BA, D. Phil - Deputy Chairman 11 Sir David Chapman, Bt.
DL, B. Comm 11 Sir Ian Gibson, CBE appointed 10 September 2002 4 N Pease, BA 8 Sir George Russell, CBE, D. Eng.
BA 9 D Wanless, MA, FCIB, MIS 11 Executive Directors A J Applegarth, BA 11 D F Baker, BSc, FCIB 11 R F Bennett, FCA, ACMA, IPFA 11 C Taylor, LLB - Company Secretary D F Baker Chief Operating Officer 11
