Below 05 Peter Chambr, Chief Executive Officer Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer I am delighted to have joined CAT and to have the opportunity of As we plan the management of our resources for the future, we leading the Company though the next phase of its development.
anticipate further growth in expenditure during the next year due CAT today is a strong company, built on world-leading technology principally to the growth in our clinical trials pipeline.
After a period and scientific excellence supported by a talented team of people.
of rapid growth in capability and resource level, however, we do not expect further significant growth in headcount next year.
There will Over the past few months we have set ourselves the ambitious goal be some increase in development and commercialisation resources.
of completing CATs transition to a profitable, product-based biopharmaceutical company over the next five years.
We are also I believe CAT is exceptionally well placed to take advantage of the aiming to build a broad portfolio of products that will secure rapid potential that exists in therapeutic antibodies, and to achieve the revenue and profit growth beyond that point.
goals that we have set to the benefit of our shareholders.
CAT will focus on the exploitation of its leadership position in the Peter Chambr Chief Executive Officer antibody field in two ways: through the development of programmes in a selected number of areas of disease, and through the licensing of our capabilities and technology for the discovery and development of therapeutic antibodies outside those specific target areas.
For some time, CAT has been developing the application of industrialised microarray technology for use in personalised medicine.
We see this as a very exciting opportunity.
As a result of our focus on therapeutic antibodies CAT will be seeking independent financing for this business, which Kevin Johnson, our Chief Technology Officer, will lead.
CAT currently has the largest number of antibodies in clinical development of any company involved in human antibody therapeutics.
Despite this success we believe that we need to strengthen further our product pipeline in the coming years.
We expect to do this by continuing our internal discovery research, advancing the programmes currently in pre-clinical development, seeking to expand the indications for products already in human clinical trials and through the acquisition and in-licensing of other new products.
