Group Chief Executives Review In recent years Prudential has undertaken a number of far-reaching initiatives which have resulted in a Group with a diversified range of international businesses and strong growth prospects.
This strategy is evident in the Groups results for 2002.
The Group achieved significant increases in sales of insurance and investment products and at the same time it expanded its margin on new business.
Over the last few years we have developed and grown the Group significantly.
We have expanded our Asian business, developed Egg and shareholder backed businesses in the UK and grown Jackson National in the US.
In doing this we have managed the need for capital while recognising the importance of distributions to our shareholders.
2002 was a tough year, with market confidence being adversely affected by increased political risk and a deteriorating economic outlook.
In February 2003, it was clear that stock markets around the world continued to be volatile and consumer confidence had deteriorated.
WE WILL In this context, the Group continued to review its growth and cash flow plans.
As in the past, we will invest for value, not simply for top line growth, and we will allocate capital to those areas of our business where we see the greatest value creation opportunities.
We will therefore continue to invest in INVEST our businesses in Asia, where growth prospects remain high, while we expect to manage the level of business in the more mature markets of the US and UK to achieve a balance FOR VALUE between value creation and capital consumption.
Focus on Sustainable Value WE WILL ALLOCATE CAPITAL TO THOSE In 2002 we made good progress towards achieving our goal of AREAS OF OUR BUSINESS WHERE WE doubling the intrinsic value of the Group over four years.
One SEE THE GREATEST VALUE CREATION of the key measures of whether we are on track is new business OPPORTUNITIES.
achieved profits which, to double in four years, would need to compound at an annual growth of 19 per cent.
While we believe that 2003 will be a particularly stretching year, our priority will be to continue to develop and deliver our strategy to build value across the Group.
SUCCESSFUL The success of Prudentials strategy is clear from the 2002 full-year results.
Total Group insurance and investment sales were 27.6 billion, an increase of 29 per cent on 2001.
On an annual premium equivalent APE basis insurance sales were STRATEGY up nine per cent to 1.9 billion, reflecting growth of 23 per cent and 18 per cent in the US and Asia respectively.
Approximately 74 PER CENT OF GROUP SALES CAME FROM 74 per cent of total Group sales came from outside the UK, OUTSIDE THE UK, DEMONSTRATING THE demonstrating the benefits of the Groups international BENEFITS OF THE GROUPS INTERNATIONAL diversification.
The results showed generally improving margins for new business as the Group continued to benefit from a focus on high-margin business.
Margins in 2002 for the US increased from 35 per cent to 39 per cent and in Asia from 59 per cent to 60 per cent.
In the UK, margins for long-term business declined slightly, moving from 30 per cent in 2001 to 29 per cent in 2002.
Group new business achieved profit rose by 15 per cent in 2002 to 774 million.
4 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 Building the Brand Asia is one of the fastest-growing regions for savings in the The life industry in the United Kingdom is undergoing world, with a combination of favourable demographic trends enormous change.
The performance of the sector over the and increasing market liberalisation.
In Prudential Corporation course of the year has been affected by concerns including Asia PCA, we have well-established life insurance and rapidly capital adequacy and financial strength in declining equity growing mutual fund operations across the region.
Our focus has markets, pressure on margins, and the uncertainty brought been to grow these businesses organically and supplement this about by the various regulatory reviews being undertaken growth with some small in-fill acquisitions such as the Korean into the UK retail savings and pension industries.
mutual fund business we bought in the second half of 2002.
Prudentials Life Fund remains financially strong and we are With 22 operations in 12 countries across the region, its multiwell positioned as people place an increasing emphasis on channel distribution capability, strong strategic partners, and financial strength and trusted brands when making decisions customer-focused product expertise, PCA is very well placed about their long-term savings and investments.
Our focus is to deliver profitable growth in the future.
to grow our UK insurance operations by building the brand and developing our distribution capabilities through partnerships Summary with banks and major companies as well as strong relationships This strong mix of businesses around the world positions us with Independent Financial Advisers.
We are also working to well for the future.
We are currently experiencing some of the improve the service to our customers while at the same time most volatile market conditions we have seen in decades, but reducing our cost base, delivering greater economies of scale, and we have a significant advantage in terms of our international ensuring that capital is deployed efficiently within the business.
reach, and our diversity of earnings.
This will continue to be the case as we broaden our geographic presence, distribution Elsewhere in the UK, M&Gs market position, investment channels and range of products.
capabilities and brand strength make it one of the leading fund managers.
In the difficult market conditions we witnessed We are confident that we are managing the business prudently during the year, the priority for the retail business has been to in the current market environment and that we will preserve the continue growing its market share as well as driving down costs Groups strong competitive position and growth prospects for through initiatives such as the outsourcing of administration the benefit of all our shareholders.
On the institutional side, M&G continues to benefit from its competitive advantage in specialist fixed interest and private finance.
Egg continues to go from strength to strength.
The UK business is now profitable as well as having almost 2.6 million customers Jonathan Bloomer and a five per cent market share of credit card balances.
This is Group Chief Executive a strong performance considering the business was only launched just over four years ago.
Egg has now also successfully launched the first stage of its international expansion in France.
Favourable Demographics The long-term demographic trends in the US, an ageing population and increasing life expectancy, and a relatively low level of social security support for retirement savings, remain favourable for Jackson National Life JNL which, with its valuebased approach, has positioned itself to take advantage of the opportunities.
In what is a very fragmented market with a huge number of players, JNL has developed into one of the leading life insurers in the US.
However, instead of focusing on becoming a scale player purely in terms of size, it has a value-based definition of scale, meaning that it only seeks leading positions in segments of the market that it can serve profitably.
This, together with a cost base below the industry average, modern and highly sophisticated IT systems, and diversified and flexible products and distribution, mean that JNL is positioned to benefit from growth in the US savings market.
