ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 7 Chief Executives Review Our six core principles Royal & SunAlliance is for delivering results concentrating on those markets We will focus and businesses where we on business that has a sustainable believe we can build and sustain competitive advantage 1 competitive advantage.
As a We will ensure result we will be a smaller, but capital prioritisation more focussed, general insurer.
2 We will enforce the strictest underwriting principles 3 We will put strong emphasis on performance 4 We will ensure rigour and control across all disciplines and procedures 5 We will focus on adding shareholder value 6 Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 8 2002 has not been a good year for the have all taken their toll on earnings, insurance industry, and certainly not for balance sheets and management.
We have probably At the same time, we nally have market all spent time reecting on recent events conditions particularly for commercial within the Group, but the fact is we are Executives insurance that are fundamentally where we are for a number of reasons addressing the chronic underpricing and some of which were beyond our control, basic weakening of terms and conditions but by no means all.
Now we have to Review that have been a feature of this business put all that behind us and move on.
for as long as I can remember.
As the Chairman has already said, we continued Given these market conditions, and our recognise both the need for change and own position and circumstances, we the urgency in bringing about that change.
determined in August to undertake the Despite good performances by many of detailed Operating and Financial Review our businesses, the Groups overall results that we unveiled in November last year.
in recent years have been disappointing.
We have made decisions some of them The Group operating result based on LTIR hard and many of them requiring time for 2002 of 226m, is signicantly better to execute.
than that of 2001, but still not acceptable.
This can in part be put down to prior year The future shape of the Group deterioration of 595m, including the Royal & SunAlliance is concentrating strengthening advised in the third quarter on those markets and businesses where of 2002.
It has also been hit by the we believe we can build and sustain industry environment and events beyond competitive advantage.
As a result we will our control.
But part of it is down to our be a smaller, more focussed general insurer.
failure to extract the best performance from a number of areas of our business.
Our primary markets will be those where We have not executed our strategy as we have a significant capability, presence effectively and as quickly as we should and scale, as well as a solid reputation.
have done, and we have not produced the results we should.
Codan has introduced a new pension product That said, the outlook for general Time Pension that is so revolutionary that they insurance is very good at the moment and have applied for a patent on it.
we are determined to capitalise upon it.
We are in a unique period for the general insurance business.
It has been described as the best and worst of times.
Insurers have been severely impacted by a combination of circumstances and events that have led to significant stress on the industry.
Extreme weather events, the horric acts of terrorists, the significant declines of equity markets and investment returns and some of the major legacy issues the industry has faced, like asbestos, We will focus on business that has a sustainable competitive advantage Our focus remains on general insurance both commercial and personal.
Our primary markets will be those where we already have a significant capability, presence, scale and solid reputation.
We will only compete where we believe we have a model for sustainable advantage and can see excellent opportunities for a well managed, disciplined and focussed general insurance company.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 9 MORE TH N has won a number of awards for its advertising campaigns.
UK Our intermediated personal lines are the The outlook for general The UK is our biggest market, and will subject of some tough action.
We are insurance is very good at continue to be key to our success as going to reshape this business, it will be we move forward.
We see excellent the moment and we are smaller and it will be concentrated on opportunities for a well managed, business where we believe we can make determined to capitalise disciplined and focussed general insurance a sustainable profit.
company in this important market.
We are already achieving a Group target During 2002, the very strong performance return of 10 per cent net real return for from commercial lines continued and we the commercial business.
Our aim is to produced an underwriting profit for the year, achieve this target return on capital for despite claims provision strengthening across Personal intermediated and MORE TH N most classes.
Personal lines performed less by the end of 2004. well, in part as a result of record levels of weather claims throughout the year.
We USA paid out 82m more to individuals for The US remains a very significant market weather claims in 2002 than in 2001.
During 2002 we implemented also increased claims provisions, notably a restructuring plan that streamlined for intermediated motor where we have operations to two divisions focussing seen steadily increasing bodily injury claims on mainstream general property and payment levels.
We have some fundamental casualty business insurance and standard underlying issues with our personal business, & nonstandard personal insurance.
We around pricing for claims ination, that we will continue to restructure and refocus, have now begun to address.
Through our actions we aim to reduce expenses in the US Our direct personal business MORE TH N, by $115m.
In total we anticipate a which we launched 18 months ago with reduction in headcount of some 1,500 some demanding targets, is well on track around 20% of the workforce.
to being one of the top three direct players in the UK.
The advertising campaigns that Middle market is the largest portion have run throughout the year have been of our commercial book and we believe very successful.
Indeed, we have won a our segmented approach gives us a number of awards for our brand marketing competitive advantage.
Of the 92 different and websites.
We will ensure capital prioritisation Our new business focus will mean exiting a number of operations, including businesses that are unprofitable and that we think will continue to be challenged, and businesses where there is a limited strategic rationale and would require a disproportionate amount of time and capital to solidify longer term advantage.
The capital that is released will be allocated to those lines of business that have the prospect of long term profitability and those which are already achieving their target rates of return.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 10 industry segments that we could write challenged.
Nevertheless, our Canadian insurance for, we only work in eight company has an excellent longer term Chief and we have dedicated underwriters for track record.
We believe it is strategically each one of these ensuring specialist well positioned and we are confident knowledge and understanding.
that managements actions to improve Executives performance are correct and will produce Our US personal lines business has returns to justify our confidence.
Review During the year we have significantly The Canadian result for 2002 was poor reduced the number of agencies that we with both personal and commercial lines work with and also withdrawn from states producing a signicantly worse result continued where we see no possibility of profit.
Actions taken to increase claims provisions Personal auto has required considerable for US personal auto meant that this line claims provision strengthening particularly moved to an underwriting loss for the year.
in respect of bodily injury claims in Ontario.
We also saw a number of large losses During 2002, along with most other towards the end of the year.
We are property and casualty insurers in the US, implementing premium rate increases we increased claims provisions for asbestos across this book of business and are and a number of casualty lines, particularly nally seeing real evidence of a market workers compensation.
wide move to higher rates.
By contrast household produced an underwriting Europe profit for the year.
We are one of the leading insurers in Scandinavia, particularly in the larger Commercial lines saw a marked markets of Denmark and Sweden.
Results deterioration for auto and general in this region have been improving and liability, again reecting claims provision we expect the positive trend to continue.
strengthening and increased levels of large losses.
Property and other lines During 2002, as part of our overall both produced underwriting profits.
restructuring plan for the Region, we disposed of a number of operations across Europe, notably: the Isle of Man, Germany, Our Irish operation is committed to communicating to Benelux and our Italian direct operation.
A new website is helping them to explain why we are increasing premiums.
We also acquired a commercial portfolio of business in Scandinavia.
Storms and oods in Germany and Ireland and an unusually high level of large losses in Benelux and Scandinavia all contributed to an underwriting loss for the year.
Canada We also have a strong market position in Canada.
We acknowledge the current performance of our Canadian company is disappointing, regardless of the fact that the market there generally has been We will enforce the strictest underwriting principles Absolutely fundamental to our success will be how we deliver the basics of the business, including underwriting.
Disciplined underwriting is based around technical price being the minimum price we write business at.
That applies in soft and hard markets, so if we cant get our minimum technical price in future we will, generally, walk away from the business.
The actions that we are taking to deal with our underperforming businesses should result in a reduction of approximately 1bn in premium income by the end of 2004.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 11 Net Asset Value Weather and Pence per ordinary share Large losses m 500 1000 400 800 300 600 200 400 100 200 0 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Other markets a major new listed insurance entity in Our strategic direction We will also remain in other markets the Australasian market, while releasing will continue as before where we believe we have a strong significant value and capital for the Group.
but with a much strategic rationale and an operating Since we made the announcement in model that facilitates the creation of stronger emphasis on November, we have sold our German value.
This includes a number of action, implementation operations, signicantly reduced our developing markets like India.
exposure to aviation insurance by reducing Business actions our participation in Global Aerospace Obviously, our focus will mean exiting Underwriting Managers GAUM 2003 a number of areas.
These include pool, sold 80% of our holding in GAUM, businesses that are unprofitable and and made two disposals in Asia Pacic.
we think will continue to be challenged: We anticipate completing the sale of RSUI, businesses where there is a limited our US surplus lines operation, by the strategic rationale, and that would require middle of 2003. an unacceptable amount of time and In February, we announced the capital to solidify longer term advantage: outsourcing of the administration of and businesses where there is a our closed UK Life funds to Unisys, disproportionate risk aggregation, even with the transfer of 1,700 jobs.
though they may, in fact, be profitable.
We continue to seek opportunities to Our focus on fewer businesses in fewer maximise shareholder value, including markets clearly has a significant impact on divesting of businesses where there is an our overall business going forward.
Our opportunity to unlock value at the local target is to reduce net written premiums level.
That is certainly the case with Asia from 8.5bn in 2002 to 5.5bn by the end Pacic, where during the first half of of 2004.
We are becoming smaller but we this year we intend to launch an Initial will remain a substantial international Public Offering IPO for businesses in insurer capitalising on profitable growth Australia and New Zealand, which together prospects in those markets in which we constitute the majority of our presence remain.
We also intend to be a much in the Region.
We expect this to create higher performing company.
We will put strong emphasis on performance Our target of achieving a rate of return of 10% net real across the cycle is unchanged.
We fully support the view that strong market fundamentals require strong company performance.
We will therefore set ourselves more demanding internal performance targets for those times when underwriting profits can and should be expected from a high performing company.
Our focus must be and will be on profit if this is at the expense of volume or market share, then so be it.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 12 As I said earlier, we have had to make businesses.
Fundamental to our success some very tough decisions.
Inevitably, will be how we deliver the basics of our Chief the actions we are taking will result in a business, such as claims, underwriting and significant reduction in the number of our expense management and we believe there are significant opportunities for employees worldwide.
While many of Executives improvement in all three.
these employees will be transferred with the businesses that we are selling or We have already identified 350m of divesting, regrettably, there will also be Review savings that we believe will be made redundancies.
We mostly in the UK, US and Canadian have to do what is in the best interests of operations as they restructure and refocus continued the Group as a whole.
If we are to be the over the next 18 months.
We believe focussed, competitive, high performing that there is room for further savings business we wish to be and indeed need from our other operations.
to be that means reducing both our portfolio and our cost base.
A focussed corporate centre We are implementing A company that is more focussed Demanding targets disciplined approach more vigorous controls strategically and operationally requires a In terms of the business we write, there more focussed corporate centre.
We have from the centre across has to be a significant change in our reviewed the head ofce operation and mindset and approach.
We are being more all key disciplines.
also decentralised or outsourced a number disciplined in adhering to our underwriting of functions currently handled at the principles and are introducing more rigour centre.
This will result in a reduction in and control in our processes.
We are head ofce employees from 290 to 150 writing business for return on capital during the first half of 2003.
We will also not volume or market share.
Our target return on capital has been Along with the true corporate functions maintained at 10% net real over the cycle.
the primary focus of our smaller corporate However, given current market realities, in centre is on: November we announced a reduction in The US remains a significant market for us.
Personal lines has historically outperformed the market and our middle investment return assumptions.
As a result, Risk management market segmented approach gives us, we believe, a from 2003, our combined ratio target has competitive advantage.
been adjusted to a more demanding level of Capital management 102%.
Having said that, we fully support the view that strong market fundamentals Change management and require strong company performance.
We performance improvement have set ourselves demanding internal Underlying our commitment to delivery performance targets for those times when and execution, each of these areas underwriting profits can and should be is headed by a member of senior expected from high performing companies.
management and supported by dedicated Of course, these targets and goals will teams at the centre and in the Regions.
not simply be achieved by decisions about During 2002 we appointed heads of where to compete and where not to, or Group Risk, Capital Management and how we adjust or change our portfolio of Change Management.
We will ensure rigour and control across all disciplines and procedures In future we will be focussed on fewer operations and lines of business.
We will be concentrating primarily on markets and businesses where we believe we can build and sustain competitive advantage and we will be exiting areas that are unprofitable or lack strategic t. Our approach to business will be based on discipline, focus and control with an emphasis on delivery.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 13 Group A solid capital position Business fundamentals There is a stronger focus on the The series of actions we have announced m 2002 2001 fundamentals of our business, our will, we believe, not only improve our General business day to day operations and actions to operating performance, but also strengthen improve our performance.
We are seeking Net premiums written 8,635 8,813 our capital position.
Disciplined underwriting to be more disciplined in our underwriting and capital prioritisation in support of Underwriting result 916 1,230 and risk management: more selective higher performing businesses are designed General business result 89 11 about the risks we choose to take on: to ensure that we make better use of the Return on capital employed 2 % and more accurate in our pricing of capital available.
We also seek to manage our claims more effectively and efficiently, In looking at our capital requirements, Life business and to improve our levels of customer we worked with independent actuaries to Net premiums written 1,882 2,899 management and service.
review potential liabilities in the general Life business result 227 186 and life businesses.
Those reviews confirmed Governance and control Shareholders interest 1,874 2,503 that our provisions in the general business With the increasing regulatory demands were reasonable, however, we believed being placed upon the insurance sector, it would be prudent to increase them, it is vitally important that we adhere to which we did in the fourth quarter.
consistently high standards of governance throughout our worldwide operations.
With regard to our UK Life funds, the We are, therefore, implementing more actuarial reviews confirmed that there was rigorous controls from the centre across no requirement for additional capital at that all key disciplines.
For the Life funds, however, with the still have the autonomy and exibility expected regulatory changes in the UK, we to act and make decisions, but within felt it was prudent to assume that 300m a strict set of guidelines.
of medium term capital support would be required.
It is likely this will be provided Summary by way of contingent loan.
This has been We have a strong management team in included in our capital projections.
The place who are absolutely determined to decisions made in respect of the UK pension succeed.
Improved performance, execution funds, following their actuarial reviews, are and delivery are an absolute priority.
That is detailed in the Finance Directors report, what the management team and we as a which starts on page 45.
Maximising return on capital Like many in the industry, we have seen our capital base eroded, largely due to the impact of falling equity prices worldwide.
It is important to ensure that our capital Bob Gunn, Acting Group Chief Executive works harder for us wherever possible and that we earn better returns.
That will mean withdrawing capital from unprofitable lines and underperforming businesses and diverting it to businesses that are achieving better returns.
We will focus on adding shareholder value We will be seeking every opportunity to maximise shareholder value, including disposing or divesting of businesses whose true value is not reected in our share price and is unlikely to be in the foreseeable future.
