LISTENING TO THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE Capital Radios Chairman and Chief Executive answer some difficult questions Peter Cawdron, Chairman, and David We also did well by containing costs and Mansfield, Chief Executive, review Capital maintaining our focus on generating cash.
Radios progress over the past year and Most importantly, we reviewed the way we did describe the focus for the year ahead in business and have created a new operating answer to questions from Justin Kings, the structure for the Group.
Theres been some Capital Radio Groups Head of News.
upheaval as a result but it puts us in a stronger position for the long term.
How do you think Capital has done over the last 12 months?
As you say, trading conditions have been tough for a few years, are there any signs PC: Its been tough, as the advertising recession of improvement?
has lasted for a second year.
Weve concentrated on increasing the revenue from our national DM: At the moment, trading is still very advertisers, and relatively speaking our short term, so its really hard to look further performance has improved as our revenues than a month or two ahead.
Weve had a mixed moved in line with the radio market.
start to the year and so were still cautious about 2002 3.
Were going to run the business DM: This improvement is particularly good news on the basis that there will be no material because we sell a premium product at a higher improvement this year.
price than our competitors, so we might have been more vulnerable to the downturn.
This Advertising is a cyclical business and this is the relative improvement is something weve been third slowdown that Ive personally experienced.
aiming at for a while and in time we hope to Nobody can say with any certainty when things outpace the market.
will get better, but we know that when they do, Capital is well placed to benefit.
com Has commercial radios share of the total take advantage of the benefits of being a Group advertising market stopped growing?
DM: Radio has been taking share from TV and We decided to take a look at the way we worked press for the last ten years and, as of September and it seemed obvious that we could improve 2002 it represented 6.5% of total display our business for the benefit of our listeners, advertising, more than twice the figure our advertisers and our employees by creating in 1992.
During 2002, radio still grew faster than four national networks around the Capital FM, press, but TV had a resurgence over the summer Capital Gold, Century FM and Xfm brands, each aided by the World Cup, cheaper advertising defined by its own distinct focus and proposition.
rates, lower production costs and new product launches that favoured visual campaigns.
Our framework is now more efficient and will help us to grow faster in the future by increasing Radio remains a very cost-effective way for listener loyalty and providing a consistency advertisers to reach their target audiences.
across our brands thats more appealing for Creative treatments have become more advertisers.
sophisticated and the Radio Advertising Bureau is working hard to promote a better understanding You have said that you want to grow Group of radios potential as an advertising medium.
audiences to ten million, how will you reach this goal?
Our Commercial team is helping to drive this shift in perception and has a strong record for PC: In the last ten years, weve grown our bringing in new advertisers with their thoughtlistener numbers from 3.6 million to 7.9 million.
provoking industry research and clever There wont be any easy wins going forward, but production ideas.
Theres a lot of potential for Im confident that in time well hit this target.
further development and I believe theres every The work weve done in creating four brand sign that radio is still on target to hit an 8% networks will help us get there.
DM: Our primary objective is to increase Was your restructuring this year a reaction to audiences at our existing stations.
all four of our brand networks still have room for growth.
We may also gain new listeners by PC: Far from it it was a proactive programme acquiring radio stations that will complement to make sure that we stay ahead of the game in our existing ones.
The previous structure was built around individual stations and helped us build a Our newer stations, including Beat 106, the good business across the UK, but it did not really Century FM Network and Xfm, havent grown OUR NETWORKS GIVE ADVERTISERS ACCESS TO THE UKS MOST COMMERCIALLY ATTRACTIVE GROUP OF LISTENERS Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 3 OUR STRATEGY REMAINS TO BUILD NATIONAL BRANDS AND TO BECOME EVER MORE EFFICIENT 4 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com listener numbers as quickly as wed originally Over the long term, radio is still a great hoped, but there are now some encouraging business.
Our focused strategy and efficient signs and over the longer term theres significant cost structure means that we can generate potential in these stations.
strong profits from relatively modest levels of investment and convert this into cash.
The crucial factor in growing listeners will be This gives us the flexibility to pay our our ability to give them a consistently high shareholders dividends and pursue new quality of entertainment.
Were constantly opportunities for growth.
improving programming and signing new talent to attract listeners across the Group.
Getting rid Over the next year we will continue to invest in of duplicated effort has created savings for our our people, our brands and our future to secure business, which weve decided to reinvest in our position as the UKs leading commercial improved marketing to let people know more radio Group.
We are confident that we have a strong What part will acquisitions play in your plans future, but dont just take it from us: in this for growth?
years Annual Report weve asked our listeners, artists, employees and advertisers DM: Our aim is to offer listeners and advertisers to explain why they choose Capital Radio.
a complementary range of stations that target a wide range of age groups and music tastes.
In London, we have seven different analogue and digital stations, and wed like to be able to mirror this wherever we operate.
Our strategy for long-term future growth Acquisitions may play a part in helping us to achieve this and the Communications Bill, which Our objective is to increase our exposure is expected to become law in 2003, offers some to the national radio advertising market exciting new prospects for us.
by growing the number of commercially attractive listeners we deliver to our The changes we have made to our organisation have positioned the Group a year in advance advertisers.
of this new law and will help us to integrate acquisitions more easily in the future.
Id like to We will achieve this goal by: stress that were not going to buy stations just creating nationally recognised radio to add listeners: we will only pursue the right networks with strong local appeal sort of acquisition that adds value to the Group investing in our portfolio of at a sensible price.
complementary radio brands pursuing strategic acquisitions that What are the long-term prospects for Capital?
will add value to our Group DM: As Ive said, current trading is mixed, putting our radio brands on to new but advertising growth will definitely return platforms to create new sources and Capital is one of the best placed companies of revenue to benefit.
Our networks give advertisers access exploiting new technologies such as to the UKs most commercially attractive group digital radio of listeners, and well continue to take advantage employing a highly skilled and of our strong financial position to improve the creative team business by investing during this downturn.
Capital Radio plc | www Capital Radio plc | www.
