Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Chairman and CEOs Statement PORTFOLIO ACTIVITY We have for some time been reviewing the interface between With global markets falling in excess of 20% and the the public and private equity markets.
We see considerable economic and business environment weakening, the twelve opportunities for profitable investment in this area and have months to 30 June 2002 has been one of the most difficult recruited two seasoned equity investors to join the team and periods for investment markets in the last twenty years.
develop a value investing facility in small mid-cap companies, using private equity techniques.
Over the next Against this uncertain market backdrop, SVIITs performance 1824 months SVIIT will invest up to 15 million over the year has been robust.
SVIIT has a strong underlying approximately 3.5% of our net assets in special situations portfolio of companies, with good cash generation, tight cost where private equity techniques can be applied.
If this controls and well-structured balance sheets and as a result initiative is successful we intend raising third-party funds in the overall valuation of the portfolio has remained relatively due course.
In addition, SVIIT has benefited from positive foreign exchange movements, especially in the latter half of the year, BOARD which have contributed 6.7 million to net assets since Having been a Director of SVIIT since its listing on the June 2001 11.1 million since December 2001.
As a result, London Stock Exchange in May 1996 and wishing to reduce net assets have increased by 1.5% over the year to his commitments, Peter Sedgwick retired from the Board in 423.1 million 413.7p per share June 2001: 416.9 million May.
The Directors are very grateful to Peter for his invaluable 4 407.6p per share.
contribution during the first six successful years of SVIITs Performance has been particularly strong in Japan and existence.
Europe, with the partial realisation of the Japanese property Also in May, Andrew Sykes and Andrew Williams joined the management company, Xymax and the write-up and Board.
Andrew Sykes is a Director of Schroders plc and Chairman Homebase continues to perform well and has been written of Schroder & Co. and has responsibility for Schroders up again to 36.8 million.
Private Equity, Property and Structured Products businesses.
In addition, he is a member of the Group Management SCHRODER VENTURES LONDON LIMITED AND Committee and is on the Investment Committee of the SCHRODER VENTURES NORTH AMERICA INC. Schroder Private Equity Fund of Funds.
The new business initiated before the beginning of the year when Schroder Ventures London Limited SVLL and Andrew Williams, who joined Schroder Ventures in 1995, is Schroder Ventures North America Inc. SVNA were Chief Executive of SVLL and Managing Principal of SVNA.
purchased by SVIIT has met its key milestones.
In very He is responsible for the day to day activities of SVLL and difficult market conditions, a first private equity fund of funds SVNA and is also a member of the Investment Committee of 242 million was raised as a joint venture with Schroders for the Schroder Private Equity Fund of Funds.
plc and other business contracts have been successfully executed.
CONVERTIBLE BOND The next twelve months will see a number of new business In order to provide SVIIT with greater exibility to commit to initiatives progressed.
Later this year, together with new private equity funds, in November 2001 we issued Schroders plc, we will be launching a second private equity 40 million subordinated convertible bonds, which are fund of funds which, like its predecessor, will be targeted at convertible into fully paid ordinary shares and were listed on institutional and high net worth investors and again will offer the London Stock Exchange in July.
The conversion price for a broad exposure to top performing private equity groups these bonds will be 399p see note 27 on page 48.
We expect to launch other new products during the on this conversion price and taking into the account the course of the next year.
effect of the outstanding options over ordinary shares, the Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Chairman and CEOs Statement continued fully diluted net asset value per share would be 411.4p see year-end we have had no reports of any significant changes note 27 on page 48. in the earnings of the underlying companies.
CHANGE OF YEAR-END In order to improve administrative efficiency, particularly in relationship to the timing of budget preparation, your Board intends to change SVIITs year-end from 30 June to 31 December.
Therefore, a further audited report and John McLachlan accounts will be produced for the six-month period to Chairman 31 December 2002, followed by an AGM in May 2003.
The next full financial year will be the year ending 31 December 2003.
OUTLOOK Continuing market declines and the weakening economic climate indicate that the outlook for private equity will remain challenging, at least in the short term.
However, SVIIT has a 5 Nick Ferguson well-structured portfolio and a strong team, based in London Chief Executive and Boston, who continue to pursue new business initiatives.
Importantly, the long term performance of private equity continues to lead investors to increase their allocation to this area, and your Company remains well positioned to take advantage of this.
The long-term performance of SVIIT continues to be very solid: over the last five years the compound growth of the net asset value per share has been 16.9% per annum, outperforming key quoted competitors and relative stock market indices.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.00pm on 26 November 2002 at 31 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QA and will, as in previous years, include a presentation on the activities of the Company.
RECENT EVENTS Since the year-end, public markets have fallen further and whilst markets rebounded to some extent at the beginning of August, both the public markets and economic environment remain unsettled.
The declines in public markets will have had some impact on the value of the key comparable quoted companies used to value the portfolio, however, since the
