Chief Executives Review Our well balanced market and In 2002, we built upon our success in 2001 geographical positions enable us to target growth areas, particularly transport, by continuing to implement our strategy health and defence in the UK and our International Regional businesses where for growth, supported by our Business there are increasing opportunities to export our PPP and Business Services skills.
These Improvement Programme, which is four strategic growth areas are described in more detail later in this report.
continuously improving the efficiency and Strategic overview quality of service delivery to our customers.
The key elements of our strategy remain unchanged, namely to grow our Business Services and PPP Investment activities, organically and by acquisition, alongside a well positioned Construction Services business focused selectively on higher added value contracts for long-term customers.
We have again delivered profitable growth in Business Services and PPP Investments, which generated over two thirds of the Groups pre-tax profit.
By targeting growth markets in which we can use the strong positions we hold to promote our full range of services, we secured a number of significant new orders in 2002.
We have also benefited from our maturing PPP portfolio and the acquisition of the remaining 51 per cent of GT Railway Maintenance in September 2001, which enabled us to integrate all our rail activities into one business, Carillion Rail, launched in March 2002.
The acquisition of Citex Management Services in August 2002 brought to the Group a portfolio of contracts with blue chip corporate customers and a successful management team that complements our existing facilities management business, which has an extensive portfolio of public sector contracts.
In line with our more selective approach in Construction Services, we disposed of three more non-core business the hoists, accommodation and general plant businesses of our joint venture company Maxxiom, London Paving, which carried out minor civil engineering projects, and Neslo, an office fit-out and partitioning company.
We continue to target higher added value contracts for long-term customers: over 80 per cent of our UK turnover in building and infrastructure projects comes from 20 key customers.
Chief Executive, John McDonough The provision of student accommodation Financial Performance and other facilities at the University of The operational and strategic progress we Hertfordshire is a Carillion PPP project.
made in 2002 is reflected in our strong financial performance.
Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items increased by 11 per cent to 50.2 million, on turnover some 4 per cent higher at 1.97 billion.
Earnings per share before goodwill Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 06 and exceptional items increased by 19 per employees good quality pension schemes, Carilllion was the leading company in cent to 16.6 pence.
Our underlying tax rate we have decided to close two of our its sector and was ranked in the top reduced to 29 per cent before exceptional defined benefit schemes to new quintile of 122 UK companies surveyed items 2001: 30 per cent as we began to employees from 1 April 2003 and to in Business in the Communitys first access available tax losses.
Earnings per offer instead membership of competitive Corporate Responsibility Index, published share after goodwill and exceptional items defined contribution schemes that rank in March 2003. increased by 26% to 13.2 pence.
in the upper quartile of such schemes in the UK.
Outlook Net cash at the year-end was 5.3 million, We entered 2003 with a strong order which reflects a net cash outflow in the Health and safety book and long term framework contracts year of some 46 million.
This was largely Achieving the highest standards of health together worth around 5.0 billion, of due to the unwinding of positive cash flow and safety is a key priority of the Board and which 75 percent is for 2004 and beyond on several major construction contracts, the whole of the Groups management and 60 per cent is for 2005 and beyond.
including a number of large PPP projects, team.
Although our health and safety We also have a large pipeline of potential which reached or were nearing completion record is amongst the best in the industry contracts, which we believe we are well during the year.
Despite this cash outflow sectors in which we work, we continually positioned to secure in 2003.
In the first and net investments of 72 million over strive to improve our own performance, two months of the year we have already the past eighteen months in acquisitions, measured against key performance secured contracts and preferred bidder plant and equipment, Group net interest indicators, and work with our partners, positions for over 350 million of remained positive for a second year, as a suppliers and other stakeholders to help commercial building work and 350 million result of our continuing focus on cash improve the performance of our industry of road maintenance and construction.
Despite the global uncertainty, the overall The development of our PPP portfolio The Board sets our safety policies and outlook in all our main markets, both in the continues to deliver long-term, high targets and the Groups Safety UK and our International Regions, remains quality cash-backed earnings growth.
Committee, through our Integrated positive with opportunities for further Our total committed equity investment in Management System, manages growth.
In the UK, three sectors health, our 16 financially closed projects, increased implementation and delivery.
In 2002, transport and defence in particular offer from 45 million to 48 million during we also embarked upon a number of good prospects for growth, with confirmed 2002.
In the light of recent transactions innovative behavioural safety programmes Government investment in these sectors involving the sale of project equity, the to complement our policies and of some 75 billion over the next 10 years.
Directors believe that Carillions equity procedures.
These programmes are In order to take full advantage of the investments in PPP projects have a present aimed at embedding health and safety opportunities arising from this investment, value in the region of 115 million.
The into our culture so that all our people fully we have created new Health and Defence net cost of bidding for PPP projects in 2002 appreciate the importance and absolute business units alongside our existing was 15.8 million 2001: 13.9 million priority that must be given to this key area.
and we have continued to work with Government and other leaders in our Sustainability Our fourth key growth opportunity lies in industry to reduce these costs.
We continue to take the lead in our sector exporting our PPP Investment and Business on sustainability, because we believe it Services skills to our International Regions, The good progress we have made with creates clear benefits for Carillion, our where we have well-established businesses.
our Business Improvement Programme customers, our partners, our suppliers In Canada, for example, where we delivered 2 million of savings in 2002, as and our stakeholder communities.
In have developed a substantial highway previously indicated.
As a result of actions 2002, we further developed our ability to maintenance business and been shortlisted already taken we will deliver the 5 million offer sustainable solutions that not only for two large PPP hospitals in 2002, we of savings targeted for 2003.
In addition, incorporate best environmental and social expect increasing opportunities.
In the we have identified a further 3 million of practice, but also reduce whole life costs Middle East and Caribbean we signed joint cost savings in 2003. and improve value for money for our venture agreements in 2002 to provide customers.
We have done this by using extensive facilities management services Pensions the model we published in our 2001 to long-term key customers, worth up to At December 2002, the various defined Sustainability Report that links our 500 million over 10 years.
benefit schemes operated by Carillion had sustainability targets to our strategic assets of 704 million 2001: 881 million, business and financial objectives, supported We therefore expect to make further with a net deficit of 51 million by analysis of the costs and benefits of progress in our growth areas in 2003 as a 2001: 59 million surplus, calculated sustainable solutions.
PPP projects provide result of our well balanced geographical on an FRS 17 basis.
The Group a major opportunity to demonstrate the and market positions and our focus on recommenced pension scheme business case for sustainability.
For example, working with long term key customers.
contributions in December 2002, the at the Great Western Hospital, Swindon, full year cash effect of which is expected our latest PPP hospital, which received to be around 15 million in 2003.
A full top marks from the Building Research valuation of all the Groups pension Establishment as one of the UKs most schemes will be available in 2003. sustainable buildings, we identified tangible and quantifiable savings of As part of a continuing review of the 1.8 million as a result of adopting a John McDonough various options for ensuring that the sustainable approach to its design, Chief Executive Group can continue to offer all our construction, maintenance and operation.
12 March 2003 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 07
