Group Chief Executives Review 2002 Performance This was a strong performance.
Revenue momentum has been sustained despite market conditions.
There was strong cost control and a resilient performance on bad debts.
Despite the Hong Kong bankruptcy issue, bad debts fell in 2002.
Our cost income ratio improved to 54 per cent.
Our target is to bring it below 50 per cent.
At the same time, we are beginning to see efficiency gains from our shared service centres in Chennai and Kuala Lumpur.
These global hubs are helping us to re-engineer our cost base.
We have seen good growth in Consumer Banking, outside Hong Kong and our Wholesale Banking business has generated improved profitability as it focuses on improving returns.
The end of 2002 marks my first Delivering on our Agenda full year as Group Chief Executive.
In 2002, we set out our nine management Despite a difficult global economic agenda items to drive improved return backdrop it has been a year of strong on equity.
These were to: performance and we have made good progress in developing a more Build market share performance driven culture.
in Consumer Banking: increase focus on value creation When I took over the role, I obviously in Wholesale Banking: knew the Group very well having been capture profitable growth in India an executive director for four years and China: and, with the executive director team, transition Thailand and Taiwan I set out four key areas of focus: achieve to profitability: our potential through a strong set of deliver efficiency and exibility values that are shared by all employees: in technology and operations: build a sustainable performance culture rationalise central costs: with the right balance between risk reduce costs in smaller countries: and reward: become a Company that control risk: and is known for top performance, not just improve capital efficiency.
for its great franchise: and increase our We have made good progress against customer focus to achieve the highest all of these goals.
These are the internal goals that underpin the improvement in our results.
Normalised Cost Income Ratio % 8 Standard Chartered Consumer Banking On a geographic belt running from the India and China Consumer Banking continues to offer Middle East to China, we have almost The two countries where we have the the highest potential for growth.
We have six million credit cards in issue and have greatest opportunity to transform our excellent positions in a number of markets a leadership position in Hong Kong, India business are India and China.
Each with scale and momentum.
and parts of the Middle East.
Most of our country is experiencing sustained strong markets are under-penetrated, including economic growth and we are strongly There is strong momentum in Consumer India where we have 1.4 million of the positioned in both.
Banking, despite the short-term pressures countrys total of five million credit card caused by the rapid rise in personal It is in India where the growth opportunities users.
The population of card users bankruptcies.
We took early action to are most immediate.
India is already one and the amount of card spend is growing contain the impact of this industry-wide of our top markets world-wide in terms of rapidly across Asia and this offers us issue and we are now seeing improvement profitability.
We currently have 62 branches enormous scope for growth.
The Hong Kong and 2.4 million customers in 19 cities.
Government will begin implementation In Wealth Management we have In September, we completed the of a positive data-sharing bureau in grown market share.
The impact integration of Grindlays, having reduced the first half of 2003, which will enable of falling interest rates has been offset the headcount of the combined banks banks to share information on customer by good growth in unit trust sales by 25 per cent during that process.
Hong Kong remains and bancassurance products.
In February 2003, we announced plans an attractive market for our Group.
to expand our operations to additional We have a strong and resilient business, Wholesale Banking cities bringing our network to 81branches which is demonstrated by the continuing We have reshaped our business.
in 25 cities by the end of the year.
performance of our mortgage book.
We have deliberately traded revenue for lower risk, exiting relationships not In China, the opportunities lie further In Singapore we have expanded our generating the right return, and have ahead.
Under an agreement with the distribution network and seen significant taken a more disciplined approach World Trade Organisation, the Wholesale growth in our customer base.
At the same time we Banking market will open up in 2004 and, gained market share and achieved good have strengthened our capital markets by 2007, foreign banks will be allowed growth in revenue and profit.
business, cross-selling products to start retail banking with the Chinese In Malaysia, revenue growth has that provide higher return.
At that time been boosted by the success of our we expect to be selling credit cards, In Global Markets, we were able to exploit MortgageOne home loan product, which mortgages and Wealth Management falling US dollar interest rates, generating now accounts for the majority of our new products to the emerging middle income strong revenue.
In xed income and housing loans there.
earners in about ten major cities.
syndications our excellent relationships We have seen rapid growth in the United and market prole keep us at the top Standard Chartered is one of only a Arab Emirates UAE and we have an of the league tables for Asia.
Our OECD handful of international banks positioned ambitious branch expansion plan in India.
businesses, in the United Kingdom for the opening of Chinas markets.
and the United States, were particularly In 2002, we opened our first two retail Mortgages remain a good business.
successful in sourcing syndications branches, in Shanghai and Shenzhen Though we have seen margin pressure and structured export finance transactions and made a strategic investment in more mature markets there is significant for customers in our emerging in BOC Hong Kong Holdings Limited.
potential as countries like India and China markets network.
It is a product that helps us attract new customers and it offers good returns.
In 2002 we also won important Asian regional mandates for cash management and trade.
9 Group Chief Executives Review Continued Thailand and Taiwan Latin America Risk One of our goals for the year was We have refocused our Latin American One of our key agenda items for 2002 to transition Thailand and Taiwan business to concentrate expertise was to reinforce our control of risk and to profitability.
on supporting banks and multi-nationals enhance our risk performance culture.
Both have the potential to become large and we have reduced our risk exposure.
It has been a challenging year for risk markets for us.
In Thailand, we delivered This will enable us to redirect capital with the increased threat of terrorism, a trading profit for the first time since to our core growth markets in Asia corporate collapses, problems in the acquisition of Nakornthon Bank.
the telecommunications industry and the impact of Argentina, but we have We will continue to operate branches MESA and Africa performed well.
in Colombia, Peru and Venezuela with In the Middle East and South Asia representative ofces in Argentina, Brazil We reinforced the independence MESA region we completed the Grindlays and Mexico, focusing primarily on United of this function with the appointment integration and we are seeing strong States dollar clearing, trade finance of a Director of Risk.
The United Arab Emirates is one and global markets activities.
a high-level task force that developed of our top-five markets and Bangladesh, an action plan resulting in one Pakistan, Bahrain, Sri Lanka and Qatar Cost and efficiency of our lowest levels of bad debt within are all well-established businesses with Our cost performance is one of our Wholesale Banking in recent years.
key achievements in 2002 and the cost We introduced a tougher credit review In Africa our business has seen income ratio has improved.
process in Wholesale Banking and have good progress.
We have an excellent responded more quickly to customers In particular, we are beginning to reap competitive position.
We are ranked showing early signs of problems.
the fruits of our investment in world-class number one or two bank in most of the In Consumer Banking we improved service centres in Chennai and Kuala markets where we operate.
In 2002 we customer segmentation and have Lumpur.
The shared service centres are performed particularly well in East Africa strengthened our collection capability.
now providing services remotely to most and we expanded our business in Nigeria.
of the Banks computer users.
We have Looking ahead, we also expect to grow Capital efficiency stepped up our investment in expanding our business in South Africa.
The challenge Having carefully assessed the capital the service centres and now have over in the region has been the extremely needs of the business to achieve 2,200 people employed in them.
We remain our ambitious growth objectives, we cautious and have realigned our operations As well as giving us economies of scale, considered we had an excess of capital.
in line with current prospects by selling the shared service centres allow us to To address this we launched a tender five branches and reducing headcount.
introduce standardised operating models offer which led to the repurchase across the Bank.
in December 2002 of $659 million of 8.9 per cent preference shares.
We have also controlled costs through tighter project management and stricter discipline on general expenditure.
The benets of outsourcing activities like purchasing, premises and other non-essential services, and the impact of reduced telecommunications and infrastructure costs have all contributed to a great performance on costs.
Net Revenue by Business $ million 10 Standard Chartered In October 2002, we became the first major Delivering shareholder returns.
FTSE listed company to launch a dual primary listing in Hong Kong.
This demonstrates our commitment to Hong Kong and China, and We are driving business performance, will help us to expand our Asian institutional and retail shareholder base.
developing innovative value adding We have also made great progress in our drive to reduce inefficiencies.
We now have products, improving service quality, two fully operational shared service centres in Chennai and Kuala Lumpur, centralising and transforming our cost base.
and standardising our service delivery.
We have launched a new international voice telecommunications system that will deliver significant cost reductions.
11 Group Chief Executives Review Continued The premium on repurchase was The rebranding has been accompanied The Future $82 million, which was funded from by the internal launch of brand values 2002 was a year in which we made reserves.
There is a net negative impact to all of our employees.
Our brand values, good progress.
on 2002 basic earnings per share.
Courageous, Responsive, International, While we will continue to look selectively However, in future years there will be an Creative and Trustworthy have been at acquisitions, at the heart of the improved annual saving of $59 million in preference enthusiastically accepted.
These shared performance in 2002 has been a drive share dividends, which will have a positive values support our performance culture.
to get more out of our existing businesses.
impact on return on equity and earnings They act as a touchstone for all employees This will continue.
in helping to meet the needs of our customers.
We are broadening our demographic A modest issue of 35 million new ordinary base.
We have added India and the shares, representing 3.1per cent of our Our People United Arab Emirates to the list of markets issued share capital, facilitated our listing I would like to thank the people at Standard where we make operating profit of more on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong.
Chartered for their commitment throughout than $100 million a year.
This helps give As a result Tier 1capital stands the year and their drive towards generating us the scale and balance that we need.
Listing in Hong Kong stronger shareholder returns.
As I have is an integral component of our strategy.
India and China are the two greatest travelled to our operations around the It has raised our prole in our biggest opportunities of the 21st Century.
world, it has confirmed my view that market.
It has also given us a platform We are strongly positioned in both.
we have tremendous talent at all levels to expand our investor base in Asia.
My job is to harness the talent We will continue to grow, although the and unleash the energy of our employees.
pace of growth will reect the underlying Brand economic uncertainties and our focus Our new brands modern and dynamic During the year there was an increased on sustainable returns.
look appeals to the growing, afuent focus on talent management.
We made middle income earners who seek financial a number of key external hires and about I am very pleased with the progress that products and services which reect 60 internal moves at senior management we have made on our cost income ratio.
We launched a new approach We are a long way down the road to research shows that customers prefer to organisational learning, which will allow restructuring the cost base and homing the new identity.
employees more control over their own in on our target of a cost income ratio training and development as well as the of below 50 per cent.
We have large-scale businesses Cards, We have strengthened our leadership Wealth Management, Global Markets and development with processes that others and efficiency in our operations.
include one-to-one coaching and I am confident that we will deliver a short but intensive leadership course improved returns to our shareholders.
I believe staff engagement has a direct impact on performance and all managers are therefore measured on the way they Mervyn Davies, Group Chief Executive manage people.
Employee engagement 19 February 2003 is tracked annually through a Gallup Survey.
Normalised Earnings Per Share Cents 12 Standard Chartered We are well positioned in the worlds most We hold leading positions in dynamic markets.
We are the largest foreign bank in India and across much of the Middle East and South Asia.
We are in some In addition we took a $50 million stake of the worlds fastest growing markets in BOC Hong Kong Holdings Limited in 2002.
This is a subsidiary of the Bank of China, one of the largest state-owned commercial banks.
including the United ArabEmirates, The Nakornthon acquisition in Thailand India, China and the markets is already delivering profits and we are well placed for further growth in this market.
