2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 3 A word from your Chief Executive The continued strength of our brands is Since becoming an independent company in October 2000, P&O testament to the professionalism and Princess Cruises has expanded by around 30%, grown its brands and dedication of our staff launched new cruise lines within the fast growing German and UK cruise By combining with Carnival under a to the company.
It has modernised its fleet DLC structure to create the largest outstanding vacations for our customers and introduced new ways to give cruise vacation group in the world, throughout this period of growth passengers more personal choice your company will be even better and development for the company.
and greater flexibility within their placed to capture future growth in They have helped to improve the cruise holiday experience.
The new group will efficiency of all our operations and structure has improved through the include some of the best known to deliver strong performance and introduction of larger and more cruise brands globally and will be able enhanced shareholder value.
Their cost effective ships and through to offer a wider range of vacation contribution has been outstanding.
management action, including the choices and be better placed to The continued strength of our brands integration of systems and purchasing attract customers from land-based is testament to the professionalism across its global operations.
The and dedication of our staff.
DLC structure allows a continued We believe that the cruise industry participation in the future of this has strong long-term growth potential industry for all our shareholders.
With underpinned by demographic trends significant growth plans and a strong and high levels of customer satisfaction.
position in this industry, the combined Through continued investment in its group offers exciting career opportunities well-known local brands, and with for its employees.
its modern fleet and strong global reach, your company has improved I would like to thank the staff of its potential for continued success.
P&O Princess for their commitment PETER RATCLIFFE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER February 6, 2003
