Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement The past year has seen Celltech achieve advances which has significant advantages over other company into one of the largest European across all areas of its operations, and also record current technologies, and also the extensive biotechnology companies, will retire as Chairman a strong financial performance, with net pre-tax ultra-high throughput small molecule lead during April 2003.
He will be succeeded in this profit before exceptional items increasing to identification programmes conducted in role by Dr Peter Fellner, who will relinquish his 50.4 million.
Importantly the profit arising from collaboration with Neogenesis.
role as Chief Executive Officer upon the arrival of its operating business, excluding Research and the new Chief Executive Officer.
Development R&D milestone payments and Pharmaceutical business and royalties exceptional items, increased by 46%.
This Celltech has further reinforced its US and A series of planned changes has begun amongst financial strength continues to successfully European pharmaceutical operations, both by Celltechs Non-Executive Directors.
Mr John sustain Celltechs business model, which is product acquisition and by focusing sales into Baker, who has served as a Deputy Chairman centred upon undertaking long-term innovative specialist areas.
During 2002 it acquired the during the past three years, will retire from R&D at an  level, product Dipentum from Pharmacia, for the Celltechs Board at the forthcoming Annual supported by the revenues from its cashtreatment of inflammatory bowel diseases, which General Meeting AGM in May, and Mr Hugh generative pharmaceutical operations.
Celltech has now re-launched in the US and in Collum, who has also served as a Deputy European markets.
It has established a 30-strong Chairman since 1999, plans to retire from the R&D pipeline specialist gastroenterology sales force in the US, Board in July.
The Board thanks them both for Significant progress has continued with Celltechs while reducing its primary care sales force in size.
their valuable contributions, during a demanding promising development pipeline, comprised of It has also set up a specialist-focused period in which the Company has achieved products addressing large market opportunities, pharmaceutical sales and marketing organisation substantial growth.
which in most cases are being developed with in the Nordic region.
Overall, pharmaceutical high-quality pharmaceutical partners.
The product sales continued to advance, amounting Mr Philip Rogerson 58 was elected to the Board pipeline currently has 10 products in to 253 million during the year.
in March 2003, and it is planned that he will be development, addressing serious or lifeappointed as Senior Independent Director threatening diseases, including six products Celltechs royalty stream, arising mainly from its following the AGM in May.
He will also be which are in Phase II or Phase III clinical studies.
widely-used antibody technology, continued to joining the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
grow significantly, with total royalties increasing Mr Rogerson has an extensive background in Additionally, the number of innovative products by 25% to almost 77 million.
finance, including a period as Chief Financial in early-stage clinical and pre-clinical Officer of British Gas, and is currently Chairman development doubled during 2002, as output Board and management of several substantial companies, including has accelerated from Celltechs extensive The current year will see extensive change in the Viridian Group plc and Aggreko plc.
Board and management of Celltech.
Throughout the past year, Celltechs market The rapid progress seen in both Celltechs The Board of Celltech has identified its new Chief environment has continued to be difficult and antibody-based and small molecule programmes Executive Officer who is expected to join Celltech demanding.
Celltechs Board would like to thank is being reinforced by leading-edge technologies in April 2003. its very high-quality staff for their consistent acquired or accessed during the past two years.
commitment and contribution, which has These include Celltechs SLAM Selected Mr John Jackson, who has served as Chairman of underpinned the Companys successful progress.
Lymphocyte Antibody Method technology, which Celltech for over 20 years, throughout its rapidly identifies very high affinity antibodies, and evolution from a small early-stage research-based Dr Peter Fellner John Jackson Chairman Chief Executive Celltech Annual Report 2002 1 2 Celltech Annual Report 2002
