Chief executives review We have a strong business with leading market positions and I am confident that our strategy will continue to deliver value for our shareholders.
In 2002 the group continued However, the wholesale gas and As testament to our focus on its strong overall financial electricity markets are resilient, these areas, we continue to be performance, in particular from with ample commodity supply highly rated by external agencies.
our leading UK energy operations, enabling British Gas to benefit In particular, the AA won the where improvement in margins from both retail brand leadership JD Power & Associates 2002 and growth were accompanied and the hedging effect of our UK Roadside Assistance Study by new momentum in our services energy asset management.
award for customer satisfaction to business customers and The value strategies that we are for the third time in five years.
expansion of our upstream pursuing in both the upstream Further accolades include Which?
and downstream markets within magazine naming the AA as the the UK continue to afford the UKs best motoring organisation, Our AA roadside and personal group a competitive advantage.
co. uk winning finance operations continue the 2002 Customer Management to deliver solid underlying profit Turnover and profitability National E-commerce Customer growth.
Despite slow regulatory Group turnover excluding Accord Service Award.
progress in our UK telecoms and trading revenue was 10 billion North American energy markets, in 2002, up 11% from the priorOutlook we are expanding in both year period.
Higher sales to our Whilst the economic outlook businesses.
Goldfish brand business customers through remains uncertain, we are moving development continues with Centrica Business Services from a period of considerable a more focused product line.
were complemented by an investment in growth opportunities Our reinvestment in growth increase in residential electricity and strategic market entries, areas is proceeding selectively, sales as well as growth in North to a period of delivery from with a constant focus on America, the AAs roadside and these investments, underpinned economic value creation.
personal finance units, home by new customer relationship services and One.
UK gas sales management CRM platforms Global energy markets were volumes were lower, largely due to and common competencies hit in 2002 by turbulence and unusually warm weather in the first in securing value from deeper the retrenchment or exit of and fourth quarters of the year.
certain market participants, and the UK was no exception.
Group operating profit including For British Gas, we expect Positive underlying progress joint ventures and associates, continuing recovery in residential in the transparency and before exceptionals and goodwill gas gross margins and further competitiveness of the UK amortisation of 932 million was electricity growth to generate wholesale electricity market up 37% from 679 million in 2001, further profit improvement, resulted in financial pressure with improved performance across partially offset by the higher on some asset owners, and most brand units, particularly costs of the governments Energy poor performance for those British Gas.
Aggregate group Efficiency Commitment and peak market participants that had gross and operating margins CRM system implementation not anticipated the fundamental excluding Accord were 30% expenses through to 2004. impact on wholesale pricing.
and 9%, up from 26% and 7% Annual CRM cost synergies will respectively in 2001. drive further medium term growth in British Gas operating margins.
Operating profit by business m Customer service 2002 2001 We maintained our focus on In the UK retail energy sector British Gas residential 244 46 improving customer service competition remains tough, Centrica Business Services 65 44 levels across all of our brands.
although we believe that the Centrica energy management group CEMG 520 573 We are now placing greater transaction prices paid recently The AA 73 72 importance on qualitative by acquirers should result in Goldfish Bank 40 32 and value-based measures retail pricing consistent with One.
Tel 2 4 of customer service which are positive supply margins.
In Centrica North America 63 68 built into a scorecard evaluation addition, reduced doorstep Other operations 5 4 and reflected in the remuneration selling in the industry appears Group 932 679 of staff at all levels.
to be leading to lower churn Before exceptional charges and goodwill amortisation, including joint ventures and associates.
Centrica plc report 2002 05 Chief executives review continued Operating profit m Operating profit m 02 932 02 809 01 511 01 679 00 526 00 452 99 424 99 275 98 213 98128 Before exceptionals and goodwill amortisation, After exceptionals and goodwill amortisation, including joint ventures and associates.
including joint ventures and associates.
While we expect the result allow sufficient and stable gross over the last year to complement of this reduced industry churn to margin headroom to attract new our existing team.
We are also be slower growth in our residential market entrants.
Without this developing programmes electricity customer base than regulatory commitment to proper to ensure that we have the we had previously anticipated, competitive markets, current leadership capability to reduced customer acquisition organic growth prospects and drive our strategy forward.
expenses should contribute customer renewals are being to better electricity profits.
In this I am committed to making environment, we expect to focus Centrica an employer of choice We expect to increase market in 2003 primarily on the integration and the recent accreditation of share and profitability in the of our existing customer bases and our AA brand unit as Investors UK commercial energy sector.
We will maintain in People is one indication that The launch of Centrica Business a flexible approach to customer we are developing the highest Services has resulted in increased acquisition, seeking to acquire standards of employment policies management focus and growing incumbent supplier customer and practices.
Increased scores product portfolios in this unit.
bases and playing a key role in our satisfaction survey in 2002 in markets at early stages of demonstrate that our employees It is anticipated that output volumes deregulation.
Our organic growth share our vision and are committed from our Morecambe Bay gas will be focused in a few larger state to delivering our strategy.
I would production facilities will decrease and provincial markets which offer like to join the chairman in thanking by around 10% per year, offset sufficient scale for successfully them all for their ongoing and over time by greater output from marketing our energy and related valued commitment.
other currently held gas assets and services.
As a result of this industry future acquisitions.
We expect our environment and our strategic Conclusion cash petroleum revenue tax PRT focus, the timing for achievement To sum up, we have a strong payments to decline significantly of our broader ambition in North business with leading market over the next few years.
America will depend upon the positions.
Our core businesses availability and pace of key are growing and are strongly cash Profitability of the AA is expected acquisition opportunities.
generative and our investment to continue to improve, and in new businesses is proceeding expenditure in information Our strategy in continental Europe as market opportunities emerge.
technology will peak in 2003. is to build a significant customer I am therefore confident that our For One.
Tel, we expect that base in the medium term.
Although strategy will continue to deliver regulatory improvements will the pace of deregulation varies value for shareholders.
warrant renewed organic across the individual markets investment in brand and product there are now clear timetables marketing at the same time as for commercial and residential developing our growing mobile and market openings.
The whole of the internet businesses.
For Goldfish, European Union household energy significant improvement to credit market is expected to be liberalised card and loans contributions are by mid 2007.
We are focusing on expected in 2003 and with a more those countries where the speed Sir Roy Gardner focused rollout of new products, of market opening and legal and Chief Executive breakeven will occur towards the political conditions, including end of the year.
unbundling and independent regulation, are more advanced.
North America continues to offer a significant value creation Employees opportunity, given our focus on Our employees are central to the the marketing and service elements delivery of our strategy and we of deregulated energy supply.
need to continue to attract and We continue to lobby regulators retain high quality, highly motivated to maintain legal frameworks and people.
I am pleased that we have incumbent pricing levels which recruited some excellent people 06 Centrica plc report 2002
