AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Chief Executives Review www.
com 05 Chief Executives Review Transformation was the major in the US, UK and other markets and sales areas of our business including building the grew by 75%.
In Japan, the launch of Zomig quality and effectiveness of our sales forces.
theme for 2002 which will Rapimelt generated encouraging additional continue throughout 2003. sales as did the launch of Zomig Nasal Spray During the year the results of our second in the UK, Sweden, Germany and Austria.
global employee survey indicated major AstraZeneca has an excellent set of new Casodex sales benefited from continued improvements overall and pointed to how we product opportunities to add to the important launches for the new 150 mg monotherapy can improve further.
I continue to be hugely range of high growth products launched in for early prostate cancer, now approved impressed by the creativity and commitment recent years.
Success with these is essential in over 40 markets, though we were of all the people who make up AstraZeneca.
to replace our more mature brands which are disappointed by the FDA decision not to Together we have faced the challenges of experiencing generic competition following recommend US approval.
Sales growth 2002 and together we are looking forward to patent expiry.
In addition to transformation of excluding Losec Prilosec was 23%.
This delivering the promise of our products and our product portfolio, there is a need across growth more than offset the rapid decline in pipeline.
I would like to thank them and the the whole pharmaceutical industry to improve Zestril sales in the US following patent expiry.
Senior Executive Team for their continued productivity in todays tougher environment.
contribution throughout what was This means transforming our approach to Three new medicines received their first undoubtedly a challenging year.
During 2002, many aspects of our business as we seek approvals during the year.
Our new breast Martin Nicklasson Executive Vice-President, better efficiency and effectiveness.
Overall, cancer therapy, Faslodex, was launched in Development and Jan Lundberg Executive I am very pleased with our performance in the US.
Iressa, our novel approach to treating Vice-President, Discovery Research joined 2002 but it is no surprise that, in a year of so non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC, was the Senior Executive Team and are making a much change, we have experienced some launched in Japan where the rapid uptake valuable contribution.
sales of $67 million and an estimated 23,500 setbacks as well as successes.
patients treated since launch reflects the high The pharmaceutical industry is in a fascinating unmet need in NSCLC and the benefit that period of great change, characterised by Our recently launched high potential products made good progress.
Nexium, now launched Iressa offers.
Reports on the incidence of exciting new opportunities and significant in over 75 countries, achieved sales of almost interstitial lung disease in seriously ill lung challenges.
The winners in this environment $2 billion which contributed to an all time high cancer patients receiving Iressa in Japan, will be the companies that respond with of $6.7 billion for sales of our gastrointestinal whilst not proven to be linked to the creativity, speed and effectiveness.
In the extremely important US treatment, led the Japanese Ministry of confident that AstraZeneca will be one of market, new prescriptions for Nexium Health, Labour and Welfare to introduce strict those companies: we have the strategy, overtook those for Losec Prilosec and sales precautions in its use and specialist products, people and commitment to drive grew steadily throughout the year.
We were supervision of patients.
Crestor, for treating our continued success as a world leader and successful in the US court cases in high cholesterol levels, was approved in the to create enduring shareholder value.
demonstrating the validity of our formulation Netherlands and then entered the EU Mutual patents for Losec Prilosec but were Recognition Procedure.
Sir Tom McKillop disappointed that the judge found that one Chief Executive generic company did not infringe our patents.
In the US, the FDA asked for further We are appealing this judgement, but information from our ongoing clinical studies Sales of key growth products $m meanwhile the company concerned chose to on Crestor and for more time to complete the Nexium launch a generic omeprazole product in Priority Review of Iressa.
Symbicort also progressed by the additional time needed for the approval Seroquel 67% well, recording sales of $299 million.
Our key of Crestor and Iressa in the US, I am hopeful 1,145 products also continued to make good that both products will be launched there progress.
Sales of Seroquel reached over $1 during 2003.
Casodex 15% billion annually for the first time in 2002, and it 644 was the only major anti-psychotic to increase In November, we held a successful business Atacand 36% market share in the US.
Atacand achieved a review for investors and financial analysts, 569 global market share, excluding Japan, of which focused in particular on our strengths in Arimidex 75% 10%.
Arimidex was approved for the new the Oncology and Cardiovascular therapy 331 indication for treatment of early breast cancer areas and the opportunities that exist in our product portfolio in the early stages of clinical Zomig 19% research as well as the improved productivity 328 of our drug discovery programmes.
Over the Symbicort last three years, we have increased our 299 delivery of candidate drugs CDs by 20% and Iressa on average one quality CD now enters pre- 67 clinical development each month.
We have a range of exciting prospects in the pipeline, Faslodex many of which are significant innovations.
35 2002 % growth at constant exchange rates We also invested considerable effort to As recently launched, growth rates not meaningful ensure productivity improvements in other
