chief executives statement 2002 was a significant year for ICI and, although the Performance 2002 hoped-for global economic upturn did not materialise, we In performance terms, our businesses once again demonstrated emerged in substantially better shape than a year earlier.
resilience in economically difficult times.
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 400m was The early months of the year were dominated by the successful only 1m lower than last year.
Our International Businesses execution of the Rights Issue, which raised net proceeds delivered comparable sales growth of 1% and trading profit of of just over 800m, making it one of the largest to date in 543m that was only 1% lower, on a comparable basis.
It received excellent and much appreciated support, the weakness in most major Western economies, this was a with shareholders taking up more than 91% of the rights.
Overall gross margin percentages in Once again, Id like to thank shareholders for confirming their the International Businesses were maintained at last years confidence that ICIs strategy is the right one to deliver longlevel and fixed costs were well controlled.
The Groups net term success.
operating cash flow improved substantially for the year, The intended sale of Synetix, our catalyst business, was particularly with the benefits of further working capital announced in February.
A sale agreement with Johnson efficiency improvements in the International Businesses.
Matthey was concluded in September and the divestment The International Businesses achieved comparable sales was subsequently completed with gross proceeds of 260m.
growth in three regions of the world, with the strongest In June we also reached agreement with CSFB Global growth in Asia.
The Group also performed well in North Opportunities Partners for the sale of ICIs interest in America and Europe, seen against the backdrop of lower Huntsman International Holdings.
We received an initial economic growth.
And, whilst sales in hard currency terms cash payment of $160m 109m with the balance of $280m were down in Latin America, the significant weakening of the 174m payable before the end of May 2003. exchange rates in Argentina and Brazil were primary The combination of the Rights Issue, divestment proceeds contributors to this.
and our success in improving organic cash generation, Paints once again led the way, despite the difficult economic reduced the level of year-end debt from almost 3bn in 2001 conditions in Latin America, with continued double-digit sales to less than 1.7bn in 2002.
Interest cover for the year rose and profit growth in Asia and good performances in both from 3.5 to 4.3 times.
With structurally lower levels of debt, ICI exited 2002 with National Starch improved sales and profit with excellent a balance sheet that provides a solid foundation from which progress in Asia and a return to growth in North America.
Its to grow the profit of our core specialty products and paints electronics businesses grew sales by 6% in difficult markets businesses.
and, in the second half, adhesives returned to top-line growth.
Food and Industrial Starches and Specialty Synthetic Polymers also delivered good sales growth.
8 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND FORM 20-F 2002 Uniqema made a weak start to the year, with industrial Exciting progress demand down.
The picture improved somewhat as the year Were already making progress on a number of fronts.
We are progressed, but year-on-year comparable profits fell 24%, launching innovative new products across the Group, such as although the high growth potential areas of lubricants and Paints one-coat elastomeric Polycell Basecoat, which was personal care were more encouraging, with sales growth of an instant success in the UK.
Our science and technology 9% and 4% respectively.
function continues to enhance its reputation.
National Starch researchers, for example, are working with the US Army Quest achieved good sales growth in North America and Asia.
Research Laboratories developing sealants and encapsulants Fine fragrances performed particularly strongly.
However, to protect tomorrows flexible flat screens from moisture and problems in the second quarter with new supply chain oxygen.
Some of our largest global customers have systems caused an order backlog at our major Food site in expressed interest in understanding how ICI businesses the Netherlands.
Although the problem was largely rectified technology and know-how might be leveraged in collaborations by October, production was disrupted for a period.
Quest is to generate long-term added value for their product determined to restore its reputation for excellent customer development programmes.
ICI is focused on growth and we have an increasing number For our Regional and Industrial businesses, higher profits in of people in the regions with significant potential.
In China, Pakistan and Argentina were offset by the loss of profits from an important growth market, we now have 1,400 employees, divested businesses and a legal provision.
up from some 900 only four years ago, and we continue to Despite the respectable overall performance, I regret that I invest in manufacturing and marketing facilities in the country.
cannot report the improvement in ICIs share price for which ICI is global, but our success is often built on local management we are all working.
Against our selected peer group, our able to understand and respond to local consumer and ranking in terms of Total Shareholder Return remained 13 customer requirements.
The Board and I In May we published The ICI Report on the Secrets of the continue to believe that ICI has all the necessary components Senses, Dr Charles Spence of Oxford Universitys ground for an improved placing and are committed to achieving that breaking research into the importance of sensory experience improvement.
for health and emotional wellbeing.
This helped focus I remain convinced that, given the improved strength of our attention on ICIs expertise in the growth areas of the science balance sheet, our stated goals organic sales growth of 4 to of sight, scent, taste and touch, the heart of our business 5% 1 to 2% above global GDP, plus another 1 to 2% growth today.
from synergistic bolt-on acquisitions are achievable, once Our people economies improve.
We believe that this, in combination with In conclusion, I want to thank our employees all around the improved operational effectiveness, will provide the basis for world for the dedication and effort that delivered commendable consistent, longer-term profit growth.
When the tide turns, I know we will be ready.
