Chairmans statement Chrysalis may not be the biggest company in the business but we strive to be the best.
I am delighted to welcome you to the 2002 Our goal is to increase shareholder value, which annual report for Chrysalis Group PLC.
This we believe is best achieved by continuing to year has been the most successful in the maximise the operating performance of all companys history.
We have been able to the Group companies in the short-term, and deliver strong profits growth across all the regularly appraising how our capital is best Groups business areas, despite challenging deployed for long-term gain.
We have proven trading conditions in all the markets in our ability to deliver significant profits growth which we operate.
whilst maintaining high levels of investment in the creation of intellectual property rights.
Our ongoing success is dependent on being This years results are a particular achievement able to attract and retain the best talent, against the backdrop of a slowdown in global amongst songwriters, presenters, producers, Chris Wright advertising, which worsened following the writers and our own staff.
Chairman dreadful events of September 11th 2001.
We have fulfilled our promise of increased focus on those businesses with strong growth Our ability to achieve this is testament to the potential and in which we can achieve industry Chrysalis culture that has developed over the outperformance.
All of the Groups divisions Groups 35-year history from its roots as an reported significant growth, including Chrysalis independent music company to the public Radio, which now accounts for more than half company it is today.
Chrysalis may not be the of the Groups total profits.
As a result we biggest company in the business but we have delivered a 5.8 million profit before strive to be the best.
tax for our shareholders 2001: pre-tax loss 16.8 million during a period in which most of our competitors are reporting a decline.
This relative outperformance puts us in the strongest possible position going into 2003, with all the changes that may come about as a result of the forthcoming Communications Act.
This new legislation will no doubt alter the UK media landscape, and we welcome Chris Wright the opportunities that are likely to result from Chairman the increased liberalisation that it proposes.
17th December 2002 2 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Financial Times 26th November 2002 The outlook for Chrysalis, the radio broadcaster and publishing company, has done nothing but improve over the past six months.
Results reported yesterday showed that operating profits in each of its four divisions increased.
As impressively, given the tough trading environment, profit Chrysalis Group Liberty X and Atomic Kitten Group delivers record operating profits.
Heart 106.2s charity efforts included race for life margins also widened across the board.
supported by Liberty X and Atomic kitten.
David Gray Richard and Judy International multi-million album selling Richard and Judy with Tom Hanks, during Cactus artist David Gray is a Chrysalis Music writer.
643 new titles were published through Chrysalis Books in 2002.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Highlights Chief executives review 2002 saw the Group deliver its best financial results in its history with all divisions delivering strong profits growth ahead of the targets set in the original budgets for the year.
Continued industry outperformance Our strategy has been to grow our radio from Chrysalis Radio business through maximising the performance Our Radio division has had another excellent of our existing stations, and by acquisition, year, continuing to significantly outperform where stations offer a good strategic fit and, the market with like-for-like total revenue for most importantly, can be acquired at the right the 12 months ended 31st August 2002 of price.
We believe that we have established a 49.1 million 2001: 44.0 million, an 11.7% good acquisition track record, not just through increase on the previous year.
Airtime revenue the stations we have acquired, but as much increased 9.4% to 48.1 million, comparing from the deals we have walked away from, very favourably to the industry as a whole, when prices rose to such a level that we which recorded a revenue decline of around would not be able to deliver sufficient value 2% over the same period.
Our stations have for our own shareholders.
The purchase of Richard continued to build audience, with a further LBC Radio formerly London News Radio Huntingford 10% year on year increase in trading hours satisfied all our rigorous investment criteria Group Chief reported in the most recent Rajars.
However, and was completed just after the year end.
Executive we have also begun to increase our yield, LBC comprises two London stations, LBC, the rate of conversion of listening hours currently broadcasting on 1152 AM and into revenue, which is an important growth Newsdirect on FM.
The 23.5 million driver for the future.
We have set ourselves acquisition was partially funded by the aggressive targets to drive our yield higher separate disposal of Galaxy 101, for and it is this, coupled with ongoing audience 12.5 million cash.
growth, which makes us confident of further revenue outperformance from Chrysalis Radio The acquisition of the LBC stations is a in the future.
significant move for Chrysalis Radio because it immediately makes us the second largest commercial radio group in London.
We believe this increased sales volume, coupled with the Group turnover EBITDA Core operating divisions Radio Music TV Books 1999 2000 2001 2002 2000 2001 2002 million million 127.5 162.6 187.7 235.4 6.7 2.0 1.5 2.6 8.5 0.7 3.5 2.7 11.2 2.3 5.2 4.0 4 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 25% 41% 47% increase in Turnover increase in Radio increase in Music to 241million operating profits operating profits 2001: 192 million to 9.4 million to 1.8 million 39% 76% increase in TV increase in Books operating profits operating profits to 3.6 million to 3.0 million audience gains we expect to achieve through TV picture continues to improve through the forthcoming Communications improved programming and marketing of We have made further progress in our TV Act, are all positive indicators in my view.
With the stations, will deliver strong profits within division in the year just reported, following a proven track record now behind us, I believe a three year period.
Further details relating the turnaround in its financial performance that Chrysalis is in the strongest position to to this acquisition can be found in the Radio in 2001, and ended the year with operating capitalise on improving market conditions.
The surprise announcement in the Chancellors March Books becomes a significant profit centre 2002 Budget of the withdrawal of film Music The Chrysalis Books division has come of age financing concessions for television The Music division, which now incorporates in 2002, following the acquisition of Collins programmes had an immediate negative Lasgo Chrysalis, posted a 47% increase and Brown the previous year, which added impact on the financial fortunes of the UK in operating profits on a like-for-like basis, significant scale to the business.
In the year Independent production sector.
However reflecting an improved performance from just reported, Chrysalis Books published our TV Division was able to make up lost the US publishing company and sharply 643 books across 14 imprints of which ground in the second half of the financial reduced losses from the recording side, around 30% originated out of the fast year, with a strong sales performance over following the more focused strategy we put growing Childrens division.
This expansion the summer, ending the year well ahead in place last year.
Our publishing companies is carefully managed through a central of market expectations.
delivered a record NPS level of 8.5 million infrastructure, which provides strong financial, and continued to successfully increase operational, sales and marketing support income generated from performance Despite the withdrawal of film financing to the imprints.
The Chrysalis Books division synchronisation licences, to the extent benefits the outlook for the independent contributed a 3.0 million operating profit that mechanical income now accounts television production industry is now more to the Group, which was 76% ahead of for less than 50% of our NPS in our major encouraging that it has been in a long time.
We are on track for the markets for the first time.
The broadening The recent announcement of increased 3 year margin target set 12 months ago spread of revenue streams is one of the great programme budgets at ITV, the endorsement and still have room for significant organic strengths of our music publishing business of the existing 25% quota system and earnings growth within this business.
and reduces our exposure to the vagaries proposed strengthening of the terms of trade of the international CD sales market.
between independents and broadcasters Strategy Results To drive value for our shareholders Major turnaround to 5.8 million through increased focus on pre tax profit 2001: pre-tax loss businesses with strong growth 16.8 million.
potential where we can achieve industry outperformance.
These record results reflect the growth potential of our businesses and the strength of our management throughout the Group.
Richard Huntingford, Group Chief Executive.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 5
