8 Chief Executives Review Introduction 2002 has been another successful year for Cobham, driven by excellent performances across almost every business unit.
The breadth of product portfolio and the wide service offering has again stood the group in good stead.
The group operates predominantly in aerospace and defence, where recent strength on the defence side has mitigated the widely publicised difficult civil market Cobham has increased its conditions.
systems capabilities to key Cobham has increased its systems capabilities to key customers and strategic customers and strategic partnerships are being pursued relentlessly to improve productivity, reduce costs and partnerships are being pursued ultimately grow the business.
We have built leading niche relentlessly to improve positions organically, through the development of stateproductivity, reduce costs and of-the-art technology and by acquisition especially in the ultimately grow the business.
areas of fuel systems, oxygen systems, avionics and marine safety and survival systems.
Additionally, the group is a leader in avionics across a number of product areas and in our flight operations we offer some of the most sophisticated training and special mission flight operations available anywhere in the world.
Strategy Cobhams strategy has evolved into a clearly focused plan that has been tested and proven.
It is this focus that has delivered close to 20% per annum compound underlying pre-tax earnings growth over the past 20 years.
This strategy is challenged and reviewed on a regular basis, but the key tenets have remained.
They are: to strengthen our focus and retain a balanced portfolio of companies which are leaders in their particular field: to seize opportunities as they arise as the aerospace and defence industry consolidates: to continue to generate cash flow from our existing businesses to support our plans for further organic and acquisitive growth: to create an environment which encourages, rewards and motivates staff at all levels within the organisation.
Allan Cook COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 9 Flight Refuellings aerial refuelling equipment plays a key role in extending the Eurofighter Typhoons mission capability.
Cobham has a highly devolved management structure Chelton acquired the Blackburn, UK based land platforms which ensures quick and decisive decision making.
This communications business LPC from BAE SYSTEMS.
LPC allows the management to focus on the strategic is a world leader in the supply of digital intra-vehicle direction of the group which has delivered excellent communications systems and has, since 1995, been a results and created significant shareholder value.
prime supplier of such systems to the US Army with the brand name ROVIS.
Under a teaming arrangement with Cobham will continue to pursue both organic and Northrop-Grumman, over 50% of LPCs business is in the acquisition related growth.
USA, with a further 15% of revenue coming from US Markets Foreign Military Sales FMS.
These systems are an In the markets in which we operate there has been and integral part of the command, control, communication, continues to be an element of uncertainty.
The defence computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance market has shown signs of continued growth, particularly C4ISR capability of armed forces around the world.
To in the USA, but the commercial aerospace business is still date, approximately 17,000 systems have been fielded on fragile with only the low cost airlines showing any sign of more than 26 different types of platform to customers in growth.
Cobham is, however, in a strong position with a 13 countries.
LPC is a natural extension of Cheltons large, long term order book.
We have a highly trained, current airborne intercommunications systems business motivated work force, excellent niche products and Northern Airborne Technology and TEAM into the services, and are leaders in many of the markets in which military land vehicle market, in which Cheltons radio and we operate.
antenna companies are also increasingly active.
Acquisitions Chelton Radomes acquired Saabs Applied Composites During the year, the group made a number of acquisitions Division based in Linkping and Ljungby, Sweden.
The for a cash cost of 32.8m, with deferred and contingent division supplies the main nose radome for the Gripen consideration estimated at a further 3.2m.
In December fighter and its acquisition firmly establishes Chelton as 2002, agreement was reached to acquire Drger Europes leading radome supplier for military aircraft Aerospace GmbH for m28.4m in cash, of which m3m is such as Eurofighter Typhoon, Tornado, Hawk, EH101 and deferred for three years.
The new business is a key centre of knowledge for 10 Chief Executives Review continued radar cross section reduction and stealth techniques, including frequency selective surfaces design and semiconducting stealth coating technology.
In December, the group reached agreement with Drgerwerk AG to acquire its subsidiary company, Drger Aerospace, subject to regulatory and other approvals.
Drger Aerospace is located in Lbeck, Germany and produces a range of oxygen components and systems for civil and military aircraft.
Its technology covers gaseous, liquid and mechanical oxygen systems and includes an Chelton Radomes perform computer controlled microwave correction to aircraft nose radomes to ensure extremely on board generated oxygen capability.
In recent years high levels of performance.
Drger Aerospace has been working with Carleton Technologies, and the business alliance between the two companies has been successful in winning contracts to sensors and is located in Clearwater, Florida.
It will be supply complete oxygen systems for the Airbus A340- integrated into Cheltons Atlantic Microwave business.
500 600, the Boeing Business Jet fleet at Lufthansa Future Prospects Technik and, latterly, for the Airbus A380.
The Despite the uncertainties in the civil aerospace market, combination of these two businesses gives the group a the group, with its focus on the future, has exciting complete systems capability in aircraft oxygen which it prospects.
We are a global company, our products and intends to exploit further in the commercial and military people have put us on the world stage and we intend to aircraft markets.
In the early part of 2003, there were a further two With our broad portfolio of businesses, our position on acquisitions within the Avionics segment.
Orion many long term programmes and the ability of our people Electronics was acquired for a cash consideration of to keep Cobham at the cutting edge of technology, C$14m and the assets of Xybion Sensor Positioning Cobham is well set for the future.
Orion is a leader in the design and manufacture of GPS tracking equipment sold primarily to US Federal Government agencies.
The company employs 62 people and is located in Windsor, Nova Scotia.
Orion is located close to Cheltons existing subsidiary Seimac and has product synergies with both Seimac and Cheltons UK security products company, Allan Cook Chief Executive Micromill.
The group sees considerable potential for 20 March 2003 further growth by these three companies working together in the Defence and Homeland Security market places.
Xybion designs and manufactures positioning systems for use with optical and radio frequency antenna
