CHIEF EXECUTIVES QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS In a year in which the Group has delivered solid growth in a difficult market, Steve Maine, Chief Executive, addresses some of the issues facing the Group in the coming year.
How do you feel the Company by equipping ourselves to sell more services has performed over the last to existing customers and to acquire new 12 months?
ones within our clearly dened markets.
Q: Essentially, weve delivered solid growth in a difficult market, while making significant progress on Overall, weve done A: a number of important fronts.
what we said we Id mention three in particular: first, weve successfully integrated four product-focused would do, and met businesses and transformed them into a single, unied, solutions-oriented division: second, weve the objectives we retained rm control on our costs and capital expenditure: and, third, weve begun to reap set for ourselves.
the benets of the infrastructure weve created.
Overall, weve done what we said we would do, and met the objectives we set for ourselves.
Lack of funding has severely constrained other operators.
Are you worried about running Q: out of money?
Unlike other operators, we can To achieve steady and sustainable rely on an assured strong revenue growth and put the Company stream.
Our East Yorkshire operations A: rmly on the path to profitability, are not just highly profitable, but also A: by focusing on growing revenue, continuing to grow.
improving margins, and maintaining tight control over costs and capital expenditure.
You only have The current climate has generated a to look at the numbers to see how successfully lot of speculation about consolidation we have delivered on all key criteria, despite in the sector.
Is there more to it than Q: a pretty difficult macroeconomic climate.
You mention tight control on costs Market consolidation will happen and capital expenditure might this its a case of when, not if.
not damage the business, restrict I certainly see us as an active player Q: A: future growth?
although only if a proposed transaction meets certain basic criteria: a clear Not at all.
Revenue-generation strategic t, enthusiastic shareholder backing and cost-control are not mutually and adequate funding.
On the contrary, by A: managing costs carefully and investing prudently, we not only maximise the yields we can generate from available funding, we also lay the foundation for future growth 6 Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 What is the future If the Company has done so well, direction and strategy why is that not reected in the of the business?
Q: Q: Our ambition remains to be the When market sentiment turns number one choice for networked against an entire sector, any player communications solutions in our perceived as being in that sector is A: A: chosen markets in the UK.
going to suffer whatever its We have three key areas of focus: our East individual strengths or weaknesses.
Yorkshire heartland, the national business market, and the development and provision Having said that, weve outperformed most of bandwidth hungry new media services.
of our peers over the last year or so, which Our strategy will continue to rest on the three suggests market recognition of our underlying fundamentals of focus, delivery and growth strengths: our scope of activity, from our business in terms of customers served and solutions communications to our interactive TV and satellite provided rather than in a geographical sense.
capability: our consistent three-pronged strategy: and our rm revenue base.
In parallel, we are continuing a proactive Investor Relations programme to help us to capitalise rapidly and effectively on the eventual upturn in market sentiment which will inevitably take place.
Many competitors report Why are you not a downturn in the market.
paying a dividend Has Kingston been hit?
Q: Q: Less so than most of our peers.
From the very outset we have Business, in fact, continues to grow, made it clear that we were vindicating the clear focus we have investing for growth rather A: A: maintained, concentrating on what than paying out dividends.
we do best: serving second-tier towns and cities: Never has that been more important delivering customer-oriented communication than at this critical stage in the Companys solutions: and safeguarding and growing our East development.
We will build on the investment Yorkshire business, by delivering an ever-widening already made and continue to grow the array of services and delivering them well.
Company, while remaining mindful of the cash position.
Only inmedia, our satellite division, has been under real pressure reecting the cyclical nature of its business.
Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS What benets have you With hindsight, was it wise to seen from the reorganisation invest so much in infrastructure?
Isnt it the case that telecoms Q: Q: companies have created more We reorganised the Company for capacity than customers need?
two fundamental reasons: to improve our presence in the UK enterprise It was important to have our own A: market, and to achieve economies infrastructure, not only to improve of scale by putting our assets in a single margins but also to give us greater A: infrastructure division, both ultimately with a view control in meeting customer needs to equipping us to serve our customers better.
enabling us to deliver higher levels of customer service.
It is important to remember that most of our Where historically the divisions were inherently investment has gone into local networks where there product-focused, our strategy for the future is is little competing investment.
As far as industry all about serving customers more effectively capacity generally goes, I think theres a case for with the solutions that meet their needs across saying that we now have excess total capacity, and regardless of technical divides.
Developing but I would hesitate before making any hard and our business through our regional sales ofces, fast assessment in the current macroeconomic similarly, enables us to understand our customers climate.
Demand is rising over time, and bandwidthbusinesses ever better, develop ever closer hungry applications continue to proliferate, so I relationships with them, and thereby serve them think the only safe thing to say is however banal more effectively.
Our success in topping OFTELs it might sound in truth, only time will really tell.
approved customer services tables in East The out of area expansion that Yorkshire consistently over 12 years shows you undertook two years ago how well we do it.
seems to have gained you lots more Q: customers.
Are there any plans to Why have your staff numbers expand the East Yorkshire network even further?
increased while others have been laying people off?
Overall, we achieved an Q: average 50 per cent penetration In some areas we have been looking rate during our network expansion A: to improve our skills base, to help ie, half the homes we passed drive the business forward.
In others, during the expansion took our service.
A: we have sought to be more efficient.
On balance, our average staff numbers are up Geographical expansion, though, is only one more than 25 per cent on last year.
element in our growth strategy, and while our expansion thus far has undoubtedly helped boost profitability, there are also cost implications we have to take on board.
For the moment we have shifted our strategic focus away from geographical expansion in favour of building growth by capturing additional customers from the existing infrastructure and driving up average 8 Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 The future is all about serving customers more effectively with solutions that meet their needs across and regardless of technical divides.
Which is not to say further How, overall, has your business geographical expansion has been ruled out model stood up to the pressures indefinitely: simply that it does not head our of the last 12 months?
Our Plans to rollout KIT the interactive business model having a balance television service nationally seem to of businesses, some secure and cash A: have been quietly shelved are you generative, others with huge growth Q: planning to continue with this service?
potential has been vindicated by results, in the harshest of climates.
Our ambition to create We certainly still see ADSL as a a business combining the solidity of a well technology with huge potential.
established incumbent with the vigour, aggression In the Hull area we have limited and growth potential of a hungry newcomer has A: customer numbers to around 10,000 been effectively realised, and continues to deliver to conserve cash and to concentrate on building a unique combination of stability and innovation.
revenue per user to the point where once again it We have continued to leverage the cash will be fully economic to start building the customer generative nature of our incumbent past and base.
With regard to rolling it out nationally, we present to support the borrowing necessary announced very clearly on 31 January 2001 that to finance our investment in the business of we are putting plans on ice for the moment, the future.
Meanwhile, inbusiness EBITDA because we see no economic basis for getting margins have risen from 0.7 per cent to 3.0 per access to the local network infrastructure over cent, and we have achieved topline revenue which the service might be offered.
What would you say to those We are not however complacent.
We will who have suggested that the continue to test our business model, focusing Company lacks focus?
on service improvement to increase the monthly Q: customer spend, carefully targeted expansion We disagree!
We believe our into new areas, and aggressive defence of our track record testies to our having core network area.
By providing an ever widening maintained a very clear focus suite of services backed up by ever improving A: one which has not wavered since customer service, we will continue to make life otation, despite our unusually broad portfolio.
very difficult for any competitor attempting to We think it is crucial to achieve a balanced take us on in our own backyard.
And we will portfolio of services and businesses that combine continue to use that underpinning as a foundation to deliver real stability, profitability and the from which to leverage our core strengths in resilience and exibility to survive whatever the pursuing carefully focused expansion elsewhere.
An important element in which, of course, is to keep the Groups composition under constant review.
In the course of the last two years we have disposed of KSCL our telecommunications software provider, and KTL our telecoms testing facility.
Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 9
