6 Computacenter plc Chief Executives review Mike Norris The desire of customers to improve the cost effectiveness of their IT management helped drive Computacenters managed services growth in the UK.
UK Other managed services successes The desire of customers to improve the included wins at HBOS, the UK cost effectiveness of their IT management Governments Environment Agency, helped drive Computacenters managed JPMorgan Chase and North Yorkshire services growth in the UK, where our County Council, as well as contract contract base grew 38.6%, compared extensions with such customers as with 19.9% in 2001.
As a result of winning the BT desktop To support our managed services growth, services contract early in the year, we continued to invest in the development some 350 former BT staff transferred of tools and processes, in particular the to Computacenter under TUPE regulations.
integrated Services Management Tool The award of this contract reflects the Suite SMTS that we use to track and investment we have made in developing manage user support requests.
We are deploying one or more SMTS components continuing to pursue a strategy of growth we have been able to improve service in our managed services activities to achieve levels for many of our customers.
A related economies of scale, raise barriers to entry investment has enabled us to streamline and secure our competitive advantage.
national handling of our customers support calls, with e-mails and phone enquiries Additionally, in 2002 we won major automatically routed to the analyst with managed service contracts with BAA the most appropriate skills or experience.
For BAA we will provide HP By integrating this system with SMTS, technology, together with hardware we are confident in our ability to further support and the management of moves improve service levels and drive down costs.
The five-year contract covers approximately 10,000 seats, Hardware support services were an mostly at Gatwick and Heathrow airports.
In the course of Our three-year contract with Hays the year, we re-engineered our maintenance includes technology supply, hardware services to deliver greater efficiency, which support and technical consultancy.
contributed to a growth rate of 38.8% European HQ Service Operations Over 1,300 staff are Centre based at our European Our Service Operations Headquarters and Centre allows us to Operations Centre monitor remotely and, in Hatfield, UK.
The where necessary, Operations Centres resolve our customers advanced configuration IT systems problems service covers mobiles, before they affect desktops, servers end-users.
both Wintel and UNIX based and networking technology.
7 Computacenter plc Mike Norris, Chief Executive, in conversation at our European Headquarters and Operations Centre.
in our maintenance contract base during the Government sector, we implemented government departments continued to the year.
Successes included Cazenove, a Windows 2000 desktop project rollgrow, whilst financial services revenues Royal Mail and the UK Atomic Energy out for a new hospital with Swindon & continued to decline, particularly in Authority.
Our pricing of support services Marlborough NHS Trust, for whom we will investment banking.
As our financial incorporates the considerable body of also provide hardware maintenance and services business has a higher proportion information on relative failure rates that other support services over a potential of enterprise products and more demanding Computacenter has accumulated over twelve-year term.
service levels, this change in mix had an many years of supporting a wide range of overall adverse effect on UK margins.
hardware, and this represents a significant We were also awarded a three-year support source of competitive advantage.
contract for Nationwides Sun enterprise Increased capacity at our Hatfield servers, delivered a new IT infrastructure Operations Centre allowed us to expand Partly due to our continuing focus on for the Greater London Authority GLA the range of services we offer and the improving internal processes and and won a contract for the design, build technologies we support.
For example, accountability, we saw higher professional and implementation of a new Windows Computacenter won a major technology services utilisation rates and a growth in 2000 office deployment for Orange UK.
refresh contract to support NCRs delivery professional services billing throughout of new point-of-sale devices to a large 2002.
This led to a professional services The opening of our Solutions Centre in high street retailer.
The contract includes revenue growth of 13.0% over the early 2002 was an important development survey, storage, build and installation previous year.
for Computacenter, allowing our services, together with the preparation and customers to test their choice of installation of over 1,500 back-end servers.
The increased adoption of the technology before purchase, or verify latest Microsoft technology by large the performance and scalability of new A significant development in our product organisations led to a number of major applications before deployment.
re-sale business over the longer term infrastructure standardisation projects.
was the merger, in May, of Compaq and For example, we deployed a standard Market pressure was most evident in the HP, two of our major vendor partners.
Microsoft Windows XP desktop product supply side of our business.
Whilst Computacenter is the UK market leader environment for ChevronTexaco, as product sales fared better throughout 2002 in Compaq products and we were part of a major global upgrade of its compared to the second half of 2001, pleased to see our share of their business IT infrastructure, and migrated 6,000 we saw an overall year-on-year decline.
In view of our users and 500 servers at Nationwide Performance differed considerably across mutual reliance, we are working closely Building Society to Windows 2000.
Throughout the year, sales to with the new HP management on forging Solutions Centre Our Solutions Centre ensures that technology solutions are established to be robust, compatible and appropriate to our customers needs before they are introduced into a live business environment.
8 Computacenter plc Chief Executives review Continued Our European acquisitions give Computacenter leading positions in Europes three largest markets and stronger pan-European positioning with key vendors.
the way ahead for our partnership.
In 2002 Computacenter opened new UK improve the scope, quality and costOne early consequence of the merger offices in Newcastle and Belfast, with the effectiveness of their offerings.
is that Computacenters historical aim of widening our national coverage and Compaq volume has now moved to providing improved support to local offices We believe the acquisitions will be marginally HPs payment terms, which substantially of our larger managed services customers.
earnings enhancing in 2003 and will create reduces credit days in return for early shareholder value in the long-term.
International In November, we announced our intention France Our recycling and re-marketing arm, to acquire GE CompuNet in Germany Assisted by acquisition, our French RDC, continued to respond to our and GE Capital IT Solutions Austria.
operation saw 20.7% sales growth during customers growing need for the effective These transactions were subsequently 2002.
However profit performance was management of end-of-life IT equipment.
completed on 2 January 2003, and both disappointing, reflecting difficult market In April, the company won the Queens companies are now wholly-owned conditions and the costs of integrating Award for Enterprise in Innovation for its subsidiaries of Computacenter.
the GECITS business following its unique service model, which provides GE CompuNet now CC CompuNet acquisition in February 2002. organisations with a better return from has a strong services element in its their unwanted equipment and maximises portfolio, which supports our strategy Service revenues grew 80.6% compared the potential for recycling.
RDC achieved of growing our services base and building with the previous year and we won some an overall 58% increase in service contracted revenue streams.
Whilst both significant new customers, including revenues over the previous year.
acquisitions are fundamentally sound Ministre des Finances, Valo and lOral.
businesses, we are confident that CCD, our trade distribution business they will benefit considerably from the The acquisition of the GECITS business offering products and logistics services to application of Computacenters experience.
involved the transfer of some 350 resellers, maintained revenues comparable employees and brought with it several to the previous year, despite continuing These transactions give Computacenter major new accounts including Eurotunnel market pressure.
The business again leading positions in Europes three largest and Renault France Automobiles.
retained leading market share with several markets and a stronger pan-European As the business was loss-making on major vendors, and we were only the positioning with key vendors.
The acquisition, the Group received a payment second organisation in the UK to be combined businesses are able to share from the vendor to assist in the financing appointed as an authorised HP-UX certain investments and best practices, and development of the operation.
and to develop common processes to The costs of restructuring amounted International Support Centre The ISC in Liverpool provides a range of managed services, such as help desk support, to international customers.
All technical analysts are required to speak a minimum of two languages and coverage is 24x7.
9 Computacenter plc Throughout 2002 we maintained our focus on programmes designed to reduce our cost base and to leverage our resources more effectively.
to 3.2 million during the year, offset by a Although Biomni has performed creditably to the UK business compared with the release of 3.7 million negative goodwill to against its competition, the market for second half of 2001.
e-procurement services has not grown included the merger of our Retail Finance in line with expectations.
Consequently, and City sectors into a single Financial Belgium and Luxembourg Biomni has concentrated upon extending Services operation, reflecting the smaller Our results in Belgium and Luxembourg its offering into the managed services proportion of our revenues arising improved modestly in 2002 despite a provider MSP marketplace, where from investment banking and insurance.
decline in corporate spending adversely the company has identified significant We continued to operate tight cash affecting our business, with product sales business opportunities.
Computacenter management disciplines and were particularly affected in the first half.
The will assume greater control over some successful in our efforts to maintain high second half showed an improvement, of the e-commerce activities that have levels of professional services utilisation.
due to some major customer wins.
These historically been managed on its behalf by included Bridgestone Europe and Amcor, Biomni, including CC Connect, through We believe corporate and government who selected Computacenter for a panwhich customers can order products organisations will continue to look to European e-procurement service with and services from Computacenter over Computacenter to reduce their IT centralised reporting.
Biomni continues to be a infrastructure costs and are confident strategic supplier to Computacenter, and that this, together with our focus on We also won some major technology our 50% investment stake is unchanged.
tightly controlled and effective operations, refresh projects, including Citibank provides a sound platform for the future.
Belgium, significant contract extensions Computacenters share of Biomnis for project and support services at Nestl loss reduced to 1.3 million and UCB, and new CRM application roll- 2001: 2.2 million.
out projects with Carlsberg Importers and Schneider Electric subsidiaries.
Organisation Throughout 2002 we maintained our Mike Norris Biomni focus on programmes designed to Chief Executive Officer After performing ahead of budget in the reduce our cost base and to leverage our first half of the year, our e-commerce resources more effectively.
As a result, joint venture, Biomni, saw a decline in over the second half of the year, we spending on e-procurement applications achieved a 11.5% reduction in sales, in the second half.
general and administration SG&A costs CC CompuNet The acquisition of GE CompuNet now CC CompuNet in January 2003 gives Computacenter a market leading position in Germany and stronger pan-European positioning with key vendors.
The companys Kerpen operations centre is pictured.
