Chief Executives Review Throughout the countries in which the Group operates, The Group has also focused its attention on security of business confidence in 2002 was weak as a result income through both the management of lease terms of economic under-performance, fears of terrorism and its diverse tenancy base.
Currently some 61 per cent of the Group rent roll is secured on leases with at and concerns as to corporate sustainability.
The least 10 years unexpired or 47 per cent if all tenants consequences were a very much weaker occupancy with break clauses within less than 10 years vacate market, particularly for offices, but there was some their space.
Long experience suggests that in practice recovery in demand for retail space in the UK.
some 60 per cent of lease reversions result in renewal.
As a result of these conditions, we have during the past The Group is not dependent upon any one customer or year substantially reduced our speculative construction any one sector.
With more than 1,500 tenants in the programmes and have concentrated more on pre-leased UK and almost 1,800 in total worldwide, no one tenant development which currently represents some 81 per accounts for more than 3 per cent of Group income.
cent of the space under construction.
The current construction programme as shown on pages 24 and 25 We continue to concentrate on maintaining a high amounts to 116.3 million.
level of customer satisfaction and retention and in NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE I am delighted to have been invited to Ian Coull was appointed Chief Executive of join Slough Estates and to find the Slough Estates on 1 January 2003.
A Fellow of business in such robust good health.
The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, Ian has spent the past fourteen years with We have an excellent portfolio and an J. Sainsbury, where he was responsible for the exciting development programme which groups Real Estate, Construction and Environmental Affairs.
He had previously held can be accelerated or slowed down senior management and board positions at according to market conditions.
Ladbrokes, Texas Homecare and Cavenham Foods.
And we have a lot of great people.
But I am under no illusion about the challenges that the Group faces in the uncertain economic times currently prevailing.
The first indications of those difficulties started emerging last year.
12 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 WESTON ROAD, SLOUGH TRADING ESTATE Chief Executives Review maintaining good standards of environmental The larger 8,000 sq.
m. building is attracting interest.
Negotiations continue with Rushmoor CounciI to agree on the retention of the famous wind tunnels and some Despite weaker occupancy demand, the market for of the other historic buildings.
This agreement wiII good, well-leased investments remained strong and the enable us to design a viable development plan for the opportunity has been taken to sell some 34 million of heritage core of the project which wiII ultimately properties in the UK, Europe, Canada and USA.
At the Cambridge Research Park, which currently UK Property comprises 19,197 sq.
m. of space, letting progress has The Groups strategic focus remains the development been satisfactory with lettings being made to Daniolabs, and management of industrial and business space, Synaptics and Drake Electronics.
A further phase of particularly along the M3, M4 and M40 corridors from development is being worked up in response to London.
A significant retail content is maintained to encouraging pre-let enquiries.
m. of industrial space was built at During 2002, 36,500 sq.
m. of space was leased but this Radlett, 6,877 sq.
m. pre-let to Saint Gobain has been was offset by a similar level of new vacancy resulting in completed at Birmingham and a further 2,150 sq.
m. is a small decline in occupancy from 92.7 per cent to 90.4 under construction at Emersons Green near Bristol for per cent.
New construction completed amounted to UPS.
m. After the turn of the year, the opportunity of recovering Gross rentals passing, excluding share of joint ventures, retaiI values enabled the sale of the Pentagon Shopping amounted to 162 million 2001 156 million.
Centre at Chatham for 54 million.
The ongoing regeneration of the Slough Trading Estate continued, which is the Groups largest asset, led by the Overseas development of the remaining Bath Road office sites Overseas business conditions have been just as comprising a completed office building of 6,400 sq.
m. challenging as those in the UK.
The Groups overseas and a three-building campus of 7,800 sq.
m. Two of investment properties comprise some 25.5 per cent of these units have been pre-leased to L. G. Electronics and total values.
m. on Farnham Road has been completed and is 31 per cent Overseas income performance has continued to grow leased.
A recent independent survey has suggested that with profits of 42.7 million contributing 29.8 per cent Slough is one of the best locations for successful of Group pre-tax profit, excluding exceptional items, business start-ups.
This is a market we have served for compared to 40.8 million and 29.7 per cent respectively over 80 years.
At Farnborough, which we expect to be one of the UKs The Groups strategy is to locate its development and leading business parks, the first office building of investment in centres of high economic growth and 3,600 sq.
m. was leased earlier in the year to Autodesk.
Office 18% North Retail 17% America 18% Europe 7% UK 75% Industrial 53% R&D 12% Investment property portfolio by value worldwide PLACE DIENA, PARIS 15 Chief Executives Review USA The 16,500 sq.
m. Iogistics building at Bornem has been leased to Tibbett and Britten.
m. of The considerable progress achieved in 2001 continued distribution warehousing can be built on this site.
Substantial new construction was At Pegasus Park, Brussels, a 6,900 sq.
m. office building achieved in both South San Francisco and San Diego.
pre-leased to Johnson Controls was completed and At South San Francisco the build-out of the Britannia occupied.
m. speculative office Oyster Point Park is well advanced with 44,685 sq.
m. building was built and is now 70 per cent leased to leased to Rigel, Raven and Tularik due for completion tenants including DHL, McDonalds, Agilent and shortly.
A further pre-let building of 6,287 sq.
built for Sugen at Britannia Pointe Grand.
The Britannia At Pegasus Park II, Deloitte & Touche have committed East Grand park is now fully master-planned and to a third building of 3,925 sq.
m. appropriate permits have been granted to enable development to commence in 2003.
When completed, France this project wiII accommodate approximately 75,000 The market for large distribution sheds in the greater sq.
m. of health science research faciIities.
Paris area seems to have reached temporary saturation The South San Francisco portfolio currently amounts as logistics contractors have reduced demand.
The to 44.56 hectares with a built area of 83,090 sq.
m. Group has a portfolio of 256,000 sq.
m. with a current of generic health science research laboratories occupancy of some 94.4 per cent.
m. of warehouse space for future 23,900 sq.
m. of warehousing was sold at St. Fargeau to redevelopment.
There remains a potential for a further an investor.
m. to be built over the next few years.
The refurbishment of the Place dIena office building of In San Diego Pfizer have established their fourth Global 2,250 sq.
m. was completed and leased to Eversheds.
The building was subsequently sold to an Italian Research Center on the Groups Torrey Pines Science investment fund at a significant profit.
To date they occupy some 43,687 sq.
m. of space and a further 35,580 sq.
m. is under construction At the year-end, a building of 3,320 sq.
m. in Avenue for phased delivery by 2004.
Klber, close to the Arc fide Triomphe, was acquired and will be refurbished to provide high quality office During 2002 rental income in the USA increased by accommodation by the end of 2003 for leasing on the 27.2 per cent to 44.9 million.
By the time the current open market.
development programmes are completed in 2006, an We have signed an option to purchase a 7 hectare additional 26 million of rental income wiII have been development site at Le Blanc Mesnil, close to Le generated.
Part of the site will be leased back to the vendor whilst the remainder will be developed to Canada provide a multi-let light industrial estate.
Following the sale of the Toronto portfolio in 2001, the Canadian portfolio is primarily focused on Vancouver Germany with a residual holding in Montreal.
During the year the In Germany the Groups activities are focused on Mayfair Industrial Park of 11,269 sq.
m. at Coquitlam building multi-let Iight industrial estates and logistics near Vancouver was sold for a figure approximately in buildings which are subsequently sold into the investIine with the current book value of C$13.8 million.
ment market as schemes become fully-leased.
During Negotiations are in hand to sell the Kirkland property the year 26,400 sq.
m. was constructed in the Dusseldorf at Montreal.
Leasing activity has been good with 15,200 sq.
m. being leased to some 23 tenants.
Belgium In 2003 it is planned to migrate this successful activity Considerable progress was made in that some to the Frankfurt area where two new sites aggregating 46,632 sq.
m. of space was leased during the year.
The first estate at Occupancy rose as a consequence from 84.1 per cent Hchst, just to the west of Central Frankfurt, will be to 92.8 per cent.
ready for occupation by the end of the year.
16 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 NEUSS INDUSTRIAL PARK Chief Executives Review NON-PROPERTY ACTIVITIES investments in over 50 businesses.
The year-end book value of investments in these funds was 35.6 miIIion Slough Heat and Power compared with the fund managers valuations of The Groups utilities operation has reduced its losses, 40.1 million.
Uncalled commitments to both funds though the delays in commissioning the new NFFO4 amount to 26.7 miIIion.
contract fibre fuel and generation plant have continued.
The general contractor, Amec, is being pressed to Equity Interest In Californian Tenants perform against its contractual commitments.
This new The Groups property developments in California are plant is expected to contribute over 4.0 million of home to several emerging businesses, particularly in the annual net revenue to the undertaking when fully field of health science.
As part of pre-letting agreements, operational.
but not to the detriment of the basic property deal, Slough has been granted equity warrants over a total From April 2002 Slough Heat and Power was accredited of 3,026,000 shares in 19 different companies which to produce Renewables Obligation Certificates based include 1,552,000 warrants for shares of companies on its ability to produce electricity from wood and yet to seek a Iisting and 1,474,000 in Iisted companies.
Ours is one of the first power stations to The ultimate redeemable value of these warrants carried achieve this recognition of sustainability.
Income in the books at niI value is impossible to determine.
generated from this source in the nine months from April 2002 amounted to 2.25 million and is expected Tipperary to provide a growing and significant new revenue Tipperary Corporation is an independent oiI and gas stream in years to come.
company headquartered in Denver Colorado and We continue to press for changes to the New quoted on the American Stock Exchange.
It is focused Electricity Trading Arrangement NETA which since its primarily on exploration for and production of coalbed inception in the spring of 2001 has seriously prejudiced methane in Australia and the USA.
The Group owns Tipperary OiI and Gas Australia Pty Ltd TOGA which our ability as a small generator to sell our surplus holds a 65 per cent interest in south-eastern electricity into the general market.
Government is now Queenslands 1.1 miIIion acre Comet Ridge coalbed very well aware of the shortcomings of NETA which has methane project.
In a recent letter to shareholders it jeopardized the viabiIity of both large and small reported that its proved gas reserves were valued at producers as well as the long-term UK security of US$100 miIIion, together with significantly larger supply.
An Energy White Paper was released in February and in TOGA has recently entered into a long-term contract it the Government sets out goals of reducing carbon with a co-investor in Comet Ridge to supply up to 30 emissions while retaining reliable supplies.
We hope miIIion cubic feet of gas per day to AGL, one of that the Government will show its claimed support for Australias leading utiIities companies, from 2007.
This more environmentally friendly electricity generators, sale wiII enable TOGA to further develop the project such as our combined heat and power plant on the and to generate further sales.
Slough Trading Estate, by taking positive action to The Group has held an equity interest in Tipperary since ensure that a more equitable market develops for such 1986 and now owns 61 per cent with a book value of plant to operate in.
The Group expects to continue to hold Tipperary stock untiI the full value of Comet Ridge and Management Buy-out Investments other US gas interests are realizable.
Through its participation in funds managed by Candover Investments plc in the UK and Charterhouse Ian Coull Group International Inc in the USA, the Group has Chief Executive 18 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 240 BATH ROAD, SLOUGH
