10 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 11 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 24 hours Every day we make a difference, serving the local customer worldwide.
7.00am Devon 2:00pm Hong Kong Convenient 24 7 access to James has finished milking extensive emerging markets his dairy herd.
Over breakfast, business intelligence is he reads articles of importance paramount for this investment to his business in todays company to ensure a quick Western Morning News decision buy or sell.
the market reports, prices Euromoney and weather forecasts.
Northcliffe Newspapers 7:30pm London 6:00pm Melbourne Alan and Elaine, in the comfort Amanda gets to the gym on time, of their home, explore Teletexts avoiding the rush hour traffic holiday pages for their familys congestion through listening to next summer break sun, sea Nova 100s regular traffic reports.
Broadcasting DMG Radio Broadcasting DMG Broadcasting 7:30am Brighton 11:00am Bermuda 5:00pm Toronto Mr. Baird has his Daily Mail Philip with his RMS Account Lee gives his home a fresh delivered, ensuring he has Manager discuss the analysis look, inspired by the exhibitions the days news as he leaves of his businesss exposure at North Americas National for work.
Part of the Daily Mails to catastrophe risk using Home Show.
RMS local catastrophe models DMG World Media Associated Newspapers and information.
DMG Information 12 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 13 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Associated Newspapers October 2001 Loot was acquired by Associated The Groups national newspaper division performed Newspapers.
Relaunched with a new design, advertising revenue strongly in a very competitive market.
h h 2.4m 233% The circulation of the Daily Mail Acquisition of Ireland on Sunday has recorded the highest sales In its first full year within since records began in 1935.
Associated, circulation has increased from 46,200 to 154,000.
Chairman July 2002 Lord Rothermere Metro moved into profit, Managing Director increasing its ABC1 profile Murdoch MacLennan to 66% of the readership.
Editor-in-Chief Paul Dacre Associated Newspapers had a good year, despite The Evening Standard average daily sale of 417,000 declined by 14 months to November 2004.
From this date the Loot, the free ads paper, was acquired by Associated unprecedented challenges in the advertising market, which by 3.2% in the year, although this was to a great extent as Daily Mail and Evening Standard will have a maximum Newspapers in October 2001.
During the last twelve saw both display and classified revenues down year-on-year.
aresult of the decision to move away from price cutting pagination of 128 pages with 64 pages of colour and months the paper has gone through a major transition Given that and the first year investment in Ireland as a means of stimulating sales growth on a one-day basis.
the Mail on Sunday 160 pages with 128 pages of colour.
with a new management team installed and a re-launch on Sunday, the division performed extremely well to achieve News continues to be the key sales driver for the Evening During the year production of Associateds titles started incorporating a new design, improved layout, editorial a trading profit only 3% down on the previous year.
This Standard and coverage of the Soccer World Cup and the in two parts of Southern Spain, Greece and Ireland.
features and increased colour availability.
As a result, was as a result of management actions taken early in the funeral of the Queen Mother, were perfect examples advertising revenues grew by over 10% year-on-year.
financial year when it was obvious that there was to be where the timing of events allowed the paper to service Usage of Associated New Medias sites grew 36% in Circulation remains a challenge but the increased no recovery on the advertising front.
The Daily Mail and the publics hunger for news.
the year and ANM achieved revenue growth of 18%.
investment in marketing is beginning to show tangible the Mail on Sunday once again recorded circulation growth This is Travel was launched in January 2002, with the results.
com is starting to make a despite Saturday and Sunday cover price increases in Metro had a very successful year, culminating in it site differing from others in the market by being editorially significant profit contribution.
Overall the business an overall declining market and against the background reporting a profit nationally in the final quarter of the led and focusing on searchable travel classifieds, rather looks set to deliver good growth in profits.
of a tabloid cover price war from mid-April onwards.
The circulation grew by 0.7% in the year, than on-line bookings.
The classified section of the site, retaining its position as the sixth largest circulation TravelAds was launched in April and has made an The new financial year has started encouragingly for The Daily Mail increased its circulation for the tenth national newspaper.
More importantly, the ABC1 profile encouraging start.
Following a strategic review of ANMs Associated Newspapers with circulation strong and successive year, despite intense competition and increasing of the readership increased from 64% last year to 66% activities, UK Plus, the UK search directory, was sold to advertising showing modest growth on the previous year.
the cover price of the Saturday product by 10p in October in the latest available figures.
This is London, the oldest site in ANMs Although the advertising market is still volatile, with strong 2001.
The average daily sale of 2,437,000 was up 6,000 portfolio was re-launched in September with a new circulation and readership figures, coupled with stringent copies year-on-year and further consolidated the Daily Total advertising revenues were down 6.2%, with display enhanced look complemented by several new sections control of expenditure, the outlook for the new financial Mails position as the second highest selling national down 8.6% and classified up 1.5%.
All titles had a very and a wealth of new functionality and content.
year for Associated Newspapers is cautiously optimistic.
difficult year with display, and recruitment was down 38% year-on-year in the Evening Standard.
Nevertheless the Ireland on Sunday is the latest recruit to the DMGT The Mail on Sunday managed to increase its sale by Daily Mail and the Mail on Sunday managed to increase national newspapers stable.
The newspaper was acquired 1,000 copies to 2,360,000, a new record circulation figure.
their classified revenue by 5.5% and 12.3% respectively in September 2001, when its weekly circulation stood This was achieved after increasing the cover price by and Metro increased its display advertising revenue by 3.8%.
The title was successfully re-launched on the 10p on 30th September, 2001, and in an overall market 12th May, 2002.
Since then, circulation has averaged showing an annual decline of 1.6%, the Mail on Sunday Press 80 is back in production and running well at 154,000 copies per week, an increase of 233%, which increased its market share to 16.5%.
During the year, the Harmsworth Quays, providing more flexo printed copies for represents an unprecedented achievement in what is newspaper attracted more ABC1 readers than any other the South of England.
The Press Enhancement project to arguably the most competitive newspaper market in Sunday newspaper and You Magazine achieved the same provide increased pagination and colour capacity has been Europe.
Ireland on Sunday is now the third biggest status against all other Sunday supplements and reviews.
rescheduled, with the completion date brought forward selling Irish newspaper.
14 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 15 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe Newspapers Community Spirit Successful relaunch of thisis Local newspapers remain in tune resulted in the number of visits The communities which Northcliffe serves continue with the needs and aspirations of per week increasing it currently readers and advertisers.
to have a healthy demand for the printed word.
Each week, Northcliffe sells around 7 million copies of its paid-for titles and distributes 2.4 million copies of its free newspapers.
In addition, Northcliffe publishes Award-winning publishing Northcliffe titles were, again, highly targeted niche titles covering a variety of successful in winning some of the industrys most coveted awards for interests and geographically targeted advertising editorial, advertising, circulation, promotions and electronic only products.
On average, 650,000 copies of these publishing.
Chairman Ian Park Managing Director Northcliffe Aberdeen Gloucester Plymouth Kevin Beatty Daily Bath Grimsby Scunthorpe Newspaper Bristol Hull Stoke Centres Cheltenham Leicester Swansea Regional Coverage Derby Lincoln Torquay Exeter Nottingham Despite increasing globalisation, greater social mobility was down year-on-year.
Geographically, advertising Afurther development is a joint venture with Associated printing standards, has been awarded to Plymouth and and ever more exposure to international culture through revenue growth was robust in the Midlands, the Newspapers in establishing thisisclassifieds, to sell Exeter, the only regional printers in the country to be travel and television, individuals and their families West country and Humberside.
However, the titles on-line recruitment listings to recruitment consultancies so recognised.
Service standards for Northcliffes own continue to anchor themselves firmly in the communities in the south east showed no growth and Bristol, and specific direct clients.
publications have improved resulting in newspapers being in which they live.
In general, people work, shop and Bath and Aberdeen recorded year-on-year declines.
delivered consistently on time to readers.
This contributes seek entertainment within just a few miles of their homes.
During the first quarter of the year, Northcliffes thisis to the drive to improve circulation.
Against this backdrop, it is no accident that those local Given an ever evolving and demanding media landscape internet sites were re-launched with a new look and feel newspapers, which remain in tune with the needs and in the UK, Northcliffe has continued to address how it serves resulting in increased usage by their local communities.
The project to provide enhanced capacity at Stoke and aspirations of readers and advertisers, continue to enjoy its advertising customers.
During the year, there was further The number of unique visits doubled alongside a 50% Derby for DMGTs national titles is slightly ahead of high household penetrations and market shares.
This is progress in providing clients with creativity and innovation increase in page impressions.
The sites currently enjoy schedule and on budget.
These presses will come on line the context in which all of Northcliffes daily, weekly and through the advertising design studio.
This is an electronic 400,000 visits per week.
Local content on each site enables progressively from January 2003.
Readers and advertisers niche publications, together with its comprehensive library of finished advertisements, visuals, photographs and the local newspaper to extend its service to readers whilst of the Stoke Sentinel and the Derby Evening Telegraph range of web channels, work.
advertisements created throughout the group.
It is accessed enticing non-readers.
The websites are complementary will also benefit from access to more colour.
Projects to add by advertising staff through the groups intranet.
This to the newspapers and offer users the facility of sending colour capacity, to meet advertising demands in Aberdeen During 2002, Northcliffe embarked upon a programme of creativity played a part in Northcliffe winning almost 50% letters to the editor, voting on opinion polls and ordering and Swansea, are also on target for completion by the end additional substantial investment in editorial, marketing and of the creative awards at this years Newspaper Society photographs or subscription copies of the paper on-line.
of December 2002. circulation, which will be sustained so as to publish better Advertising Conference.
Traffic is driven through joint campaigns and promotions and more relevant newspapers and deliver more potential with the newspapers.
Much has been achieved in 2002 At the end of July, one of Northcliffes titles, the Sentinel, customers for advertisers.
This investment contributed to Northcliffe also recognises that advertising supplements whilst at the same time reducing the cost of running which serves the community of Stoke on Trent, acquired an improvement in the sales trend of the daily newspapers and platforms must appeal to readers.
During the year, the internet operation by around 35%.
the Leek Post and Times for just over 6 million.
This which was down just under 3% in the January to June 2002 two new platforms were launched using quality editorial acquisition will be earnings enhancing from 2003.
ABC period against a decline of 4.7% the previous year.
provided by Associated Newspapers: thisismoney Contract printing profits fell in 2002 as other large publishers The sale of weekly titles continues to go from strength to and thisistravel.
They add to readers enjoyment of the of regional newspapers withdrew work from some of In Hungary, the groups two regional daily newspapers strength, recording an increase of 1.5%.
Northcliffes sale newspapers and thus the reaction from advertisers has Northcliffes presses so as to fill their own spare capacity.
and three Loot-type classified publications all performed was marginally ahead of the regional press industry in the been encouraging.
During 2003, further investments This resulted in the decision to rationalise production strongly in 2002.
Profits were ahead of the previous year January to June 2002 period.
will be made in additional editorial for the important capacity by closing the ageing press in Chelmsford in by over 50%.
Northcliffe continues to look for suitable advertising platforms of jobs, motors and property.
October 2002 and reducing Lincoln to one shift from acquisition opportunities in the area.
Profits were down 4% in 2002 due to a lower contribution December 2002.
All of the work from these presses has been from contract printing and additional investment in the Commercially, greater focus was given to building accommodated at other Northcliffe sites.
Closure costs were The start to the new financial year has so far been newspapers.
Advertising revenues were up by 1.3% with advertising revenues on the web.
For a relatively modest provided in the 2002 results.
Despite this loss of third party encouraging.
Circulation trends continue to improve growth from property, motors and other classifieds offset additional charge, recruitment advertisers can elect to have printing, Northcliffes presses continue to be heavily utilised.
despite recent price increases on seven daily titles.
in part by a decline of 3% in recruitment advertising.
their advertisements published on Northcliffes network Advertising revenues are up 6% with all categories, Nationally booked revenues proved to be particularly of thisis websites.
Customers have responded positively Production quality and service remain paramount.
IFRA except retail, showing growth.
Only new homes advertising with over 70% of local advertisers opting for this package.
Colour Club membership, acknowledging exceptional 16 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 17 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Euromoney Institutional Investor Adjusted operating profits of Euromoney Institutional Investor, the separately listed international publishing, 100 conference and training group of which the Group holds 72 71%, increased 3.5% to 29.1 million.
These results have been achieved against a background of some of the worst Profits Up Euroweek, Global Investor and 13m trading conditions ever.
Project Finance grew profits in tough conditions.
Event sponsorship was the strongest revenue stream increasing 5% to 13 million.
hh Chairman Padraic Fallon Managing Director 27m Richard Ensor The full year inclusion of Gulf Publishing, acquired in August 2001, supported the increase of advertising revenues into business titles.
h Revenues for the year fell 12% to 180 million driven by of 2.7million.
ISI achieved its target of moving into profit group runs four of its five largest events including Vinisud, the worldwide downturn in markets and corporate activity: by the end of the year, contributing a saving of 3.7 million.
the biennial wine exhibition in France.
Many of our the huge marketing spend and headcount reductions Headcount was reduced from 1,684 at the beginning of the conferences follow the sponsorship model rather than implemented by the global investment banks: the loss of year to 1,358 at the end of September, giving rise to one-off relying on paying delegates.
Sponsorship has proved to be investor confidence following the high profile accounting costs of nearly 1 million.
Most of this 20% reduction in a surprisingly robust revenue stream, reflecting in part the scandals in the US: and continued fears since headcount was completed during the first half.
Space quality of large annual repeat events such as the Euromoney 11th September of terrorist activity and possible war commitments were cut and other costs were reduced Bond Investors Congress, the Euromoney Global Borrowers which have badly affected air travel.
& Investors Forum and the Coaltrans annual coal conference.
During the last couple of years we have invested in two new Euromoney derives approximately two thirds of its revenues Euromoneys operating margin improved from 13.7% to event streams, business meetings and awards dinners, and from the financial sector.
As a result the financial publishing 16.2%.
Profits from financial publishing fell from 20.1 million both these achieved strong revenue growth.
and training businesses were hit hardest by the downturn.
to 13.8 million due to the fall in financial advertising.
But Advertising revenues fell 11% to 66 million and advertising even in these tough conditions, titles such as Euroweek, Databases and information services contributed a profit into the groups financial titles fell 20%.
Institutional Global Investor and Project Finance managed to grow of 1.8 million after a loss last year of 2.7 million.
Most of Investor, with its heavy dependence on Wall Street, suffered their profits.
the improvement came from ISI, the emerging markets a 30% fall in advertising.
Euromoney magazine, which is information provider, which broke into profit at the end of Leading the way in more dependent on emerging markets, fell 22%.
Training Business Publishing, which mainly covers the legal, energy, the year as forecast.
ISI suffered during the year from high annual branded events revenues were down 20% to 22 million.
In sharp contrast, pharmaceutical and travel sectors, performed much better.
cancellations from financial institutions but still managed to Annual repeat events such as advertising into business titles increased by 2% to Profits increased 6% to 6.3 million.
Both Legal Publishing increase its subscription revenues by 8%.
The performance the Euromoney Bond Investors 27 million, helped by the full year inclusion of Gulf and Engel Publishing, our pharmaceutical marketing in the second half was much stronger than the first.
Congress, the Euromoney Global Borrowers & Investors Forum Publishing acquired in August 2001.
The groups continued business, increased second half profits after a difficult start Government agencies and corporates have been the main and the Coaltrans conference focus on subscription products, such as ISIs emerging to the year.
Gulf Publishing contributed a profit of 200,000 source of growth and financial customers now only account have proved to be robust markets information service, is highlighted by the fact after a first half loss.
The Business Traveller group of titles for 45% of the total.
The cost base of ISI is relatively fixed and revenue streams.
that subscription revenues excluding titles closed at the recovered well after the impact of 11th September and also the infrastructure is in place to develop quickly and cheaply beginning of the year fell by just 1%.
Event sponsorship was increased profits.
new revenue streams from industry and sector products.
the strongest revenue stream, increasing 5% to 13 million.
Other database products, particularly the capital market Training businesses are very sensitive to delegate numbers.
databases run through the joint venture with Dealogic, The increase in profits was achieved largely as a result Travel concerns, budget cuts and headcount reductions continued to grow.
of strategic initiatives taken by management at the end badly affected course numbers at both our financial and of 2001 and continued with a rigorous cost reduction audit and IT security training businesses.
As a result, programme implemented during the first half.
The closure Training profits fell 2.3 million to 4.4 million.
of certain loss-making businesses at the end of last year, the restructuring of under-performing businesses and Conferences and seminars were the best performing part the elimination of loss-making and low margin products, of the business.
Profits increased 2.4 million to 8.4 million, particularly anything internet related, contributed savings most of the improvement coming in the first half when the
