FOODSERVICE GROUP Domains Great Room at its new Fair Oaks store in Fairfax, Virginia.
Fired Earths Inspirational Store at Sycamore Farm, Knutsford.
4 Chief Executives Review A successful year for our consumer operations as we broadened our customer and product base.
The Aga Shop at ga-Rayburn had another excelDomain, in turn, has added to the Birminghams lent year achieving record Groups retailing expertise its marketing prestigious Mailbox lifestyle Aturnover and profits.
Project skills and detailed financial management development.
10,000, launched in 2001, has the are impressive.
In 2002 it devised the objective of taking sales of Aga branded Great Room concept of selling kitchens cookers over 10,000 by 2003 and sales and dining rooms as an integrated space were over 9,000 in 2002 for the first and it placed Aga at the heart of the time.
The newly launched Six-Four series room.
The Fair Oaks, Virginia store openhas proved an immediate success.
ed in October was the first such store.
Additionally, cookware sales were at Princeton will open in record levels and the Aga fridge is April.
Aga will be added steadily building a market presence.
The to over ten Domain upgrade programme for shops now stores as Aga is a means there are over 65 shops includstimulant to Domains ing newly opened flagship shops in existing business.
Domain and a broadFired Earth has proved a stimulant to ened distribution strucour overall retail expansion.
Selling ture in place, the long space has increased by over 40 per cent recognised potential in to 68,000 sq ft since acquisition in July the US for Aga can 2001 notably with shops opening in start to be fulfilled.
Peterborough, Knutsford, High Wycombe, Cobham and shortly in Exeter.
With the retail infrastructure well developed, it is a priority for both Aga and Fired Earth to broaden the customer base with greater marketing support in local markets.
Advertising campaign to launch the new The new Aga refrigerator has a Six-Four Series: Autumn 2002. unique stainless steel interior.
5 FOODSERVICE GROUP The thinking and progress Domain is Spa, it now has a refurbished centre of before goodwill amortisation of 17.4 making is, in turn, influencing Grange as excellence for range cooking, a type of million up from 9.6 million.
it seeks to create a concept similar to cooking it pioneered with the first encThe consumer operations are now the Great Room in France.
Granges losed cooker introduced in 1829.
With all aligned and the Group can look to Lyon and Marseille stores have been both cooker and stainless steel sink the web capabilities provided by Agalinks refurbished to incorporate Aga and Fired sales strong, Rangemaster is better placed and to the Aga magazine to bring Earth and this will extend to Paris shortly.
than for many years and is looking to together the combined offering that the The success of the repositioning of make export markets a major priority.
Products that we Rangemaster was a key feature of the Overall, 2002 proved a successful provide follow the advice of William year and its second half performance year for the consumer operations.
Morris: Have nothing in your houses was most encouraging.
200 years after Turnover reached 173.6 million up that you do not know to be useful or Rangemaster first moved to Leamington from 107.1 million and operating profit believe to be beautiful.
Advertising campaign to re-launch the Rangemaster brand and the new Elan cooker: Spring 2002.
Sink production at the Long Eaton facility where there has been a 1.5 million investment programme.
6 Chief Executives Review Front cover of the current Fired Earth brochure.
7 FOODSERVICE GROUP Mono to sell in UK: Adamatic Bongard to sell Belshaw in Europe: Adamatic to sell Bongard Adamatic in USA: Belshaw Bongard Millers to sell in UK: Falcon Mono Bongard Mono Williams Mono Williams Williams to sell Williams Belshaw to sell in Far East: in USA: Belshaw Bongard Bongard Mono Victory Bongard to Williams to sell Williams to sell Aga Foodservice Group sell in Africa: in Middle East: in Australia: global foodservice operations Falcon Belshaw Belshaw Mono Bongard Bongard Williams Falcon Falcon Mono Mono Victory Sainsburys at Heaton Park, Manchester take delivery of the new 5 deck 15 tray Decktronic oven from Millers.
8 Chief Executives Review We can provide customers with impressive product ranges from Seattle to Strasbourg, from bakery to refrigeration.
n foodservice the Group has confirmed its position as the market The acquisition of Bongard for strengthened its international posleader.
With Adamatic enjoying a strong Euro 55 million in October 2002 was Iition, notably in bakery, and is now 2002 with independent bakers and with part of the plan to put the Group in a seeking to create in each of its markets Victorys recovery, which started in similar position in Europe to that in the major operations with access to all the 2001, continuing, US operations had a US and have comparable market posGroups products.
itions in our chosen sub-sectors.
In April 2002 the Group Bongard is market leader in acquired Belshaw, the Seattle France and in the Benelux based doughnut equipment countries and also has strong manufacturer for $24 million.
It positions in Italy and Spain.
is a long-established market During 2002 the Groups leader and has major superbakery businesses performed market chains and specialist particularly well.
Mono and retailers among its customer Millers both benefited from base.
Taken together, with upgrade programmes of major Adamatic, the East Coast bakery supermarket chains.
Millers contspecialist acquired at the end inued with its push into support of 2001, and with Victory services and is increasing its Refrigeration, the base for expinvolvement with in-store superansion in the US with links to market facilities management.
European manufactured product It now has Sainsburys and is in place.
Progress is to be Somerfield as national accounts.
seen with Mono equipment Foodservice markets remainbecoming part of Adamatics ed challenging all year in the UK.
and Belshaws product portfolios Falcon and Williams had to and with new products being adjust to a number of major specifically developed in Europe accounts in the leisure and for the US market.
In the US, hospitality sectors cutting back Belshaw has introduced a major on capital expenditure, notably new product line for the frozen in the South of England.
In doughnut market alongside its addition, the broader  fried doughnut led markets were cautious and products and has thereby competitive.
9 FOODSERVICE GROUP Profits of Falcon and Williams both fell, activity in bakery of Millers, but also the in spite of continuing cost-driven broader capability of AFE Serviceline initiatives.
The objective in 2003 will be Troldahl.
The strategy is epitomised by to take the opportunities available from the opening of our new office in Dubai any UK upturn, while recognising that which is building on the established long-term growth is likely to come from market presence of Williams by introstrengthened links with the Groups ducing a comprehensive range sourced growing international network.
from Bongard, Belshaw, Falcon and Victory: all branded Williams.
A symposium involving senior executives from across the foodservice activities met in February 2003 and established clear, deliverable synergies, together with the business models and systems that would make them possible.
It was recognised that we should be a low cost producer given our scale and buying power.
The additional sales and service support is available and we are using the online capabilities developed AFE Serviceline enjoyed a record in recent years by AFE Online to year providing service and maintenance provide an E-Catalogue for use intersupport with its high standards and nally and in due course by customers grasp of evolving regulatory requireworldwide.
ments enhancing its position with major customers.
Troldahl acquired in September 2002 adds air conditioning to our capabilities.
Overall, the foodservice operation saw turnover increase from 102.7 million to 149.7 million and operating profit before goodwill amortisation, rise from 10.7 million to 13.4 million.
In foodservice we have strong companies and market positions in a number of countries.
The objective now is to use the routes to market they have on a country-by-country basis to add broadened product ranges to ensure that we can service both specialist companies and national and international accounts wherever they need product.
We want always to be seen as the local supplier.
In so doing, we increasingly have a depth of service Millers engineers are immediately support with not only the specialist identifiable and carry the latest equipment.
10 Chief Executives Review Senior management from Aga Foodservice Equipment businesses gather to discuss sales and marketing opportunities.
A selection of foodservice products available from companies within the Group.
11 FOODSERVICE GROUP urnover and operating profit both 5.2 million disposal itself was breakmoved sharply ahead as the even after costs of disposal.
Tinvestment programmes came The Group has a strong cash position to fruition.
of over 55 million even after the The scale of continuing operations acquisitions made and this is invested has increased considerably.
Turnover in with a range of international banks and 2002 was 323.3 million compared liquidity funds.
Net interest receivable in with 209.8 million in the prior year and 2002 totalled 3.2 million.
including a full year of Bongard and other The tax rate in the accounts is 27.4 2002 acquisitions, was over 380 per cent on profits before tax of 27.0 Lifetime achievement awards presentation for the 80th anniversary celebrations.
Overall, continuing operating million after goodwill and 22.1 per cent profits before goodwill amortisation were before goodwill.
The changing and more and the liabilities were appraised at 30.8 million, 52 per cent higher than international shape of the Group means 649 million for the purpose of the FRS in 2001. that the tax rate should continue to be 17 disclosure notes.
The deficit taking below the UK standard rate in 2003. account of deferred tax was 45 million.
The Group has a substantial pension During 2002 the Group increased scheme reflective of its long history.
In company cash contributions to recent years it has closed its final 7.4 million and the Group is continuing salary scheme to new entrants and to contribute at a similar rate in the moved to a defensive investment poscurrent year.
Well Earnings per share before goodwill under half of its investments are now in amortisation were 20.2 pence 2001: equities.
During 2002 with the final 13.0 pence and were 15.2 pence transfers of members associated with after goodwill amortisation 2001: 9.5 businesses sold, the long-term shape of pence.
The average number of shares in the fund became clear.
A new actuarial Aga: The Story of a Kitchen Classic written by valuation is currently under preparation.
Tim James for Agas 80th Anniversary.
The July 2000 valuation, used for The move out of commodity cookers SSAP 24 purposes in these accounts, was achieved at limited cost.
There was had shown a substantial surplus.
a trading loss in the period prior to At 31st December 2002 the value of the disposal of 0.5 million and the assets in the scheme was 585 million Snack in a Box, the new mini-bakery from Mono.
Turnover by geographical Summary of movement in net cash Return per share destination 2002 2001 2002 2001 m m m p p United Kingdom North America Net cash debt at 1st January 116.1 304.3 Net cash 42.9 90.9 Rest of World Trading cash flow 21.3 12.3 Net assets 209.4 202.5 Disposals 818.4 Dividend 6.0 5.0 Acquisitions 67.6 51.9 24% EPS basic 15.2 9.5 Shares issued and share buyback 3.8 301.5 Tax and dividends paid 14.5 29.1 EPS before goodwill 20.2 13.0 67% 9% Net capital expenditure 8.2 9.5 based on weighted average number of shares Other cash flows 4.6 6.3 Net cash at 31st December 55.5 116.1 12 Chief Executives Review issue during the year was 129 million.
each step is manageable within the We have product The dividend has been increased structures established and other substantially by 20 per cent to 6 pence potential opportunities have been ranges and a reflecting a move to a more progressive identified.
geographical dividend cover policy by the Board and is Gratifying progress has been made covered 2.5 times out of post goodwill by the Group over the last two years and balance that earnings per share.
the vision for the Group with its The Group continues to focus carebrand led consumer businesses and create great fully on cashflow.
Cash inflow from strength in niche foodservice markets, continuing operations was 21.3 million has been implemented.
The task now is opportunities.
with again most of the cash being to derive the benefits of providing greater generated in the second half of the year.
visibility and broader product ranges to The development plans we have for the our consumer and foodservice operGroup mean we continue to invest in our ations alike.
We will add to the businbusinesses: 8.2 million net in 2002, esses we have, the onus being on well ahead of the depreciation charge of strengthening routes to market rather 6.7 million.
Working capital rose as than adding capacity.
the scale of the business increased by So while markets may be difficult at 3.9 million.
times, we believe we have a competitive At the end of 2002 the Group still range of products which will bring had 55.5 million of net cash, which great benefits to the Group through its equates to 43 pence per share.
higher profile both at home and Following a review of the opporoverseas.
Against this background, tunities available to the Group and we are looking to the year ahead the encouraging, systematic progwith optimism.
ress made to date, the intention is to invest in further expanding the business by acquisition and organically within the framework now firmly in place.
The W B McGrath carefully planned process Chief Executive 21st March 2003 has helped ensure 13
