Chief Executives Review Tony Thorne During the past year, we improved our performance in many areas, completed a number of strategic acquisitions and projects as well as restructuring some businesses.
These actions have positioned the Group well to take advantage of any recovery in our markets.
04 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 I joined the Group in January 2001 and Going forward, we will drive operational Our Packaging activities, which account for have been Chief Executive for the last improvements hard in all our businesses 62% of our sales and 89% of operating six months.
We have a number of strong and will accelerate the pace of development profit, made good progress.
Despite negative market positions with good potential for in selected areas while having regard to growth in a number of markets, Packaging further development, a sound asset base maintaining a strong balance sheet.
At the sales advanced by 3% and operating profit and a strong team.
In the main, we operate same time, in order to ensure focus and before exceptional items and amortisation in highly competitive markets where it is not constrain the development of individual of intangibles increased by 6%.
Although essential to meet our customers quality business areas, we will look to streamline Office Products sales were 2% ahead of and service requirements whilst continually our portfolio.
From the investors viewpoint, the previous year, operating profit was 67% driving for operational improvements I am seeking to achieve sustainable lower due to a combination of signicantly and greater efficiency.
Achieving a good improvement in underlying earnings per weaker market conditions, additional costs return on the existing capital employed share and return on invested capital.
From put in place to support forecast growth and is fundamental and new capital must be the customers perspective, my objective is operational difficulties.
committed prudently and prioritised to cost that Group companies will be their preferred reduction and new products or markets.
suppliers, based principally on an ability In the circumstances, our priority in Office to provide superior service.
For employees, Products has been to ensure that we develop In Packaging, the Corrugated and Paper my aim is that the Group companies and implement profit recovery plans.
These segment has a strong position in the UK achieve high performance in a safe working are now well in place.
In Packaging, we and good regional positions in continental environment while recognising our accelerated the performance improvement Europe.
We will continue to build on these, employees contribution to this process programme giving particular attention principally through organic development and thereby making the Group a rewarding to a number of low performing businesses.
and operational improvements, although one to work for.
significant progress has been made in both we will remain alert to good value, bolt-on activities and we have an improved base acquisition opportunities.
Given the nature Highlights of the Year for the coming year.
A number of strategic of the markets, further plant restructuring Overview capital projects have been completed, or cannot be ruled out.
In Plastics, we have Compared to last year, Group sales increased signicantly advanced, in the year, including, created a growing global business in liquid by 3% to 1,440.2 million but Group the upgrading of our lightweight paper packaging and dispensing and a strong operating profit before exceptional items and capability, expansion in both heavy duty European business in industrial returnable amortisation of intangibles was 15% lower corrugated conversion and lightweight transit packaging.
There is the prospect at 72.0 million.
This result in part reected decorative corrugated and the introduction of good growth in these areas and the the tough economic and market conditions of new plastic dispensing products.
in which the Group had to operate but, We made six bolt-on acquisitions: two in more importantly, a disappointing result in Corrugated, three in Plastics and one in Our Office Products businesses have Office Products.
The benets to earnings suffered setbacks this year, exacerbated from these various initiatives will come by particularly tough market conditions.
profit before tax, exceptional items through in 2002 03 and subsequent years.
However, Spicers Wholesaling is a market and amortisation of intangibles fell from leader in the UK and our success in France 72.2 million to 62.6 million.
We have A high degree of emphasis was put on demonstrates the potential returns from taken an exceptional impairment charge of cash management, especially on reducing taking the Spicers model to other markets.
32.4 million mainly relating to our Office working capital.
The Group generated Whilst our short term priority must be Products Manufacturing business and our a cash inow after dividends but before to rebuild profitability, we will continue investment in Turkish corrugated packaging.
acquisitions of 43.0 million compared our development in continental Europe, Return on year end capital employed was with an outow of 6.9 million in 2000 01. principally through investment in new 10.3% compared to last years 11.7%.
This enabled us to end the year with virtually regional distribution centres.
Adjusted earnings per share were 14.0p unchanged borrowings after spending compared with 15.1p in the previous year 44.7 million on acquisitions.
Gearing and basic earnings per share were 5.4p.
increased marginally to 45% and interest cover remained strong at 6.4 times.
05 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Chief Executives Review Tony Thorne Packaging In Plastics, we made substantial progress Corrugated and Paper: Plastics in 2001 02.
Plastics achieved a 14% increase In the Corrugated and Paper segment, in sales and 37% advance in operating a concentration on raising the performance profit before amortisation of intangibles, of the existing operations through pricing partly helped by lower polymer prices in discipline, structural cost reduction and the second half of the year.
During the year, a pursuit of greater efficiency delivered we rened the strategy for this division to a slightly improved overall result despite the increase the focus on liquid packaging and deterioration in the market.
The key feature dispensing and industrial returnable transit of the year was the weakness in the global packaging RTP.
Through both acquisitions paper market, which caused a progressive and organic growth we have developed fall in European prices for corrugated case scale in these areas and the prospects are materials CCM.
In the second half of positive.
In liquid packaging and dispensing, the year, the lower CCM prices were not our US business continues to grow rapidly matched by lower recovered paper prices, and we formed a joint venture in the year in causing a fall in the profits of St Regis Paper.
Australasia in order to secure core technology The Group is an open market player and have a base there for further geographic in CCM, producing more CCM than it expansion.
In industrial returnable transit consumes through its downstream converting packaging, we have grouped a number of operations.
It was therefore encouraging separate businesses under one management that the profit decline at St Regis was and now have a unied European-wide sales compensated by better profits in our force selling an enlarged range of products.
corrugated operations, both in the UK and in continental Europe.
The improved Office Products corrugated returns reected both better gross The office products market was hit by a margins and greater efficiency.
There was sharp slow-down in demand across Europe, considerable success in turning around the speed and extent of which was greater We have a number of a number of the lower performing than expected.
This came at a particularly strong market positions with corrugated businesses both in the UK and difficult time for Spicers, our Office Products continental Europe and in particular our Wholesaling business, which was coming out good potential for further UK conventional plants.
of a restructuring of its distribution network development, a sound asset in the UK and also accelerating its expansion During the year, we acquired two UK into continental Europe.
sheet feeders and eleven sheet plants from Danisco which enabled us to gain In our principal market, the UK, the fall-off both a substantial presence in the growing in profitability was the result of a number lightweight speciality sheetboard market of factors, both external and internal.
The and to strengthen our sheet plant network.
UK market slow-down particularly affected By combining these operations with existing sales of higher margin traditional products Group businesses we were able to rationalise rather than lower margin electronic office the production base and reduce costs.
The resultant poorer sales mix compounded the effect of the overall lower market activity.
Our dealer customers were affected by the market slow-down and a number went into liquidation, pushing up our bad debts.
The consolidation of four distribution centres into two in late 2000 01 plus the roll-out of the upgraded IT systems created disruption and extra costs, in part related to overcoming a deterioration in service.
06 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Considerable attention has been given to Outlook turning around our UK business.
Management During the past year, we improved our has been strengthened, the pricing policy performance in many areas, completed reviewed and is in the course of being a number of strategic acquisitions and adjusted, operating disciplines reinforced projects as well as restructuring some and costs cut.
These actions have positioned for implementation in 2002 03 have been the Group well to take advantage of any announced.
An essential element in this recovery in our markets.
process is to have the support of our customers.
To this end we have targeted As we start the new financial year, recovered and are now achieving a demonstrable paper prices are rising fast, reecting uplift in service levels.
The improved trend increased global usage.
This price rise has in operational performance, coupled with squeezed paper margins.
However, CCM the elimination of some one-off costs, prices are now increasing which will should provide a better result in 2002 03. inevitably require higher corrugated prices.
In continental Europe, Spicers France Whilst we have yet to see an improvement increased its market penetration through in demand in our markets, we are confident organic growth and acquiring a dealer that through the actions taken in Office group, Plein Ciel.
Despite the costs of Products and our continuing concentration integrating Plein Ciel, the business improved on raising operational performance its profits.
In Germany, expansion continued throughout the Group, we can expect to with the opening of a second distribution make progress in the year ahead.
Sales in Germany had been progressing well but difficulty in commissioning an upgraded version of Spicers integrated IT system led to significant customer service problems with a consequent fall in sales development.
By our financial year end the IT problems had been overcome and service levels much Tony Thorne improved, as a result of which it is expected Group Chief Executive that sales will again grow rapidly and the business will return to profit.
In Spain, we opened our first distribution centre, in Barcelona.
This has been well received by the dealer community but it is too early to determine how fast sales will grow.
Our Office Products Manufacturing business, John Dickinson, also suffered from the fall in market demand as well as from significant price pressure.
We have restructured this business, focusing its activities on its more profitable sectors and reducing the workforce.
We are confident that these actions will put the business into profit.
07 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002
