easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Chief Executives review Overview easyJet continues to demonstrate that its business model is robust and that there is strong demand for low fare, point-to-point air services between major European airports.
For the year ended 30 September 2002 easyJet plc made a profit before tax of 71.6 million, an increase of 78.3 per cent on last year.
Revenue grew 54.6 per cent, year-on-year, with 36.1 per cent of the increase stemming from organic growth and 18.5 per cent from the acquisition of the airline Go Fly.
The number of passengers rose 59.5 per cent year-on-year to 11.4 million, driven by the introduction into service of a net eleven additional aircraft, the addition of the 27 aircraft in the Go Fly fleet for two months of the year and a 1.8 percentage point increase in average load factor to 84.8 per cent.
Over the same period, revenue per available seat kilometre increased by 0.4 per cent.
This was partly driven by a 1.6 per cent fall in average sector length.
easyJets organic growth strategy has remained unchanged, with most of the 40 per cent growth in sectors flown being added to existing routes, as increased frequency.
Adding new routes between existing destinations, primarily from London Gatwick, joining the dots accounted for 11 per cent of the increase in sectors and adding routes to new destinations, primarily to Paris, represented 6 per cent of the growth.
Strategy Our strategy and business model continues to be based on six key strengths that support our competitiveness, scalability and sustainable growth: Commitment to safety and customer service: Simple fare structure - book early for low prices: Low unit costs: Strong branding: Multi base network high frequency point-to-point services, mainly between major European airports: and Strong corporate culture.
Acquisition of Go Fly The events of 11 September 2001 created a window of opportunity for easyJet.
The airline responded in two ways: by accelerating organic growth and by gaining a step-up in growth by acquisition.
Therefore, on 31 July 2002, easyJet completed the acquisition of the low cost airline Go Fly for 374 million to become Europes largest low cost airline.
This was partially funded by a rights issue that raised 277 million gross.
At that time, Go Fly had cash balances of 127 million.
The rationale for combining the two airlines was compelling.
As an independent company, Go Fly had a team of high quality people and had established itself as a profitable business.
Both airlines have been built on common business models with complementary route networks and these models have encompassed similar values and staff cultures.
At 30 September, Go Fly operated a fleet of 27 leased Boeing 737-300s over 36 routes.
The integration of the two businesses is well advanced, with two significant milestones close to completion.
The first milestone is the creation of a single easyJet brand, with a single computer reservation system and single yield management system.
The second milestone is the migration to a single UK Air Operators Certificate, rather than the two certificates that currently exist in addition to the Swiss Air Operators Certificate.
In practice, this means that the airlines UK operations will be run as a single unified entity.
2 easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Chief Executives review continued Routes At 30 September, the easyJet network covered 83 routes, 32 cities and 35 airports.
The acquisition of Go Fly added 15 new cities and 36 new routes to the network.
The merging of the networks resulted in minimal overlap.
Only two routes were common to both airlines Edinburgh and Glasgow to Belfast and these were rationalised in August.
During the year, in addition to the acquisition of Go Fly, 12 new routes were added to the easyJet network.
In May and June easyJet began four new routes from Paris: Paris Orly to Geneva and Paris Charles fide Gaulle to Luton, Liverpool and Nice.
easyJet has approximately four aircraft operating a total of sixteen flights a day from Paris.
easyJet also expanded rapidly from London Gatwick, introducing eight routes servicing Barcelona, Edinburgh, Zurich, Malaga, Palma fide Mallorca, Athens, Madrid and Alicante.
easyJet now operates 26 daily services on eleven routes from London Gatwick.
easyJet now serves London at three out of four of its main airports i. e. Gatwick, Stansted and Luton and with twelve airports in the UK, easyJet is now able to offer its services to most major population centres.
easyJets footprint in the UK now covers London, southwest England Bristol, the English Midlands East Midlands, northwest England Liverpool, northeast England Newcastle, Scotland Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Glasgow and Inverness and Northern Ireland Belfast.
In October 2002 three new services were started from East Midlands to Barcelona, Geneva and Venice and one new service from Bristol to Venice.
Services from Liverpool to Alicante will start in January 2003 and the continued expansion of Newcastle in April 2003 has been announced.
Boeing fleet At 30 September 2002 the easyJet fleet comprised 64 Boeing 737 aircraft, an increase of 38 aircraft from the same period last year.
Eleven new Boeing 737-700s were delivered during the year and these were financed using operating leases.
A further new B737-700 aircraft was brought in to the fleet under operating lease in June, with one B737-300 aircraft being returned to its lessor.
In addition, the acquisition of Go Fly added 27 leased Boeing 737-300 aircraft to the fleet.
A further 14 Boeing 737-700s are to be delivered by May 2004.
Eight of these aircraft will arrive in financial year 2003.
New Airbus aircraft In October 2002 after the end of the 2002 financial year, easyJet selected Airbus as the aircraft manufacturer with whom it would negotiate for supply of its next stream of new aircraft.
The proposed order is for 120 A319 aircraft to be delivered over a five year period from the second half of the 2003 calendar year.
In addition, easyJet has options with price protection on a further 120 A319 aircraft, valid until 2012, and options to switch to larger sized A320 and A321 aircraft.
The Airbus aircraft deliveries are intended to provide a stream of new aircraft to follow on from when the last Boeing is delivered in May 2004.
However, easyJet intends to introduce five Airbus aircraft earlier, around September 2003, to build experience with the aircraft before the main delivery stream begins.
These aircraft will be introduced into Switzerland and operated under easyJets existing Swiss Air Operators Certificate.
This will quarantine the introduction from the core easyJet operation and draw on a self-contained management team in Geneva that is not involved in the Go Fly project.
Contracts are being negotiated and once these are finalised, shareholder approval will be sought.
3 easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Chief Executives review continued Option to purchase Deutsche BA In August 2002, easyJet negotiated an option to purchase the German airline Deutsche BA.
This option can be exercised at any time until August 2003.
The German market presents significant growth opportunities for easyJet and the option provides easyJet a low risk, low cost way to assess and enter the German market.
Deutsche BA currently operates 16 leased Boeing 737-300 aircraft on seven German domestic routes.
easyJet is currently undertaking two inter-related activities.
It is assisting the existing management of Deutsche BA to fide-risk the transition of the business to low cost and it is evaluating whether the purchase option should be exercised.
Good progress is being made by the project teams.
The Airline Group As announced at the time of the Interim Result, the Board of easyJet decided to be prudent and to provide for in full its 7.2 million investment in The Airline Group Limited TAG, a consortium of airlines which owns a minority interest in the company which operates the UK air traffic control system NATS.
easyJet reiterates its earlier statements: easyJet has no intention to sell its stake in, or to cease its involvement in, TAG.
easyJet's future growth is critically dependent on the provision of efficient air traffic control services and consequently, easyJet remains vitally interested in NATS.
Our people We often talk about easyJets commercial acumen, speed of response, flexibility, resilience and creativity.
These are not impersonal corporate qualities: they are human qualities.
Our success stems from the 3,100 people that comprise easyJet.
It is a success that has not been achieved effortlessly.
The challenges of operating in the post-11 September 2001 environment, delivering profitable growth in a very competitive world and integrating new structures, practices and approaches in the wake of the merger, have been significant.
However, it has been both individuals and teams of individuals who have provided the solutions through showing a willingness to adapt, act and innovate.
Consequently, once again, I say thank you to our staff and their families for their efforts over the year and look forward to their ongoing support.
Trading outlook easyJet faces a number of uncertainties.
These include the threat of war in the Middle East, terrorist activity and the consumer environment.
Notwithstanding the above uncertainties, market demand continues to be strong, but at lower average fares.
The combining of the Go Fly and easyJet networks has provided easyJet with a much enhanced market presence.
The new routes out of Paris and London Gatwick are proving popular and the proposed expansion at Newcastle means that United Kingdom coverage will be very strong.
The addition of the Go Fly network is likely to result in no new cities being added to the network in the near future.
Additional capacity is likely to appear as increased frequencies on existing routes and as infilling between existing destinations joining the dots.
Although easyJet suffered some bad press during the year when a new rostering system was introduced, punctuality is now fully restored and the rostering regime is stable.
4 easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Chief Executives review continued Trading outlook continued The integration of Go Fly is proceeding well and in some areas faster than initially planned.
The full year effect of the enlarged fleet and the planned deliveries of aircraft during the 2003 financial year are expected to result in sectors growing by approximately 80 per cent, year-on-year compared to 2002, in which 89,939 sectors were flown.
As a low-cost point-to-point airline that flies frequently between major European airports, easyJet is well positioned for the future.
The easyJet business model is robust, resilient and well-placed to prosper.
Ray Webster Chief Executive 25 November 2002 5
