04 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Executive Officers review Establishing Enodis as the clear world leader in Food Service Equipment GAINING COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE THROUGH LEVERAGING THE GROUPS SCALE, PRODUCT RANGE AND LEADING BRANDS Overview Overall we believe the As the Chairman mentions in his Our markets Long-term trends in year has seen substantial progress statement, Kysor Panel Systems our markets are favourable, with as we have restructured, refocused increased profits, with Kysor lifestyle changes driving continued and repositioned the Group in order Warren incurring significant losses.
growth in the sales of food and to achieve our objective of Returning our Kysor Warren beverages for consumption outside becoming the clear world leader in business to profitability is one of the home.
The US food service food service equipment.
We have our key priorities.
market alone is forecast to grow disposed of non-core businesses, The Chairman also commented by well over 40% by the end of refinanced our debt and refocused that we successfully restructured this decade to more than $575bn.
our debt and increased equity.
Though these long term trends are As a result, we believe the Group Operating cash flow, after capital well established in North America, is now well positioned to deliver expenditure, in the year was in the short term, equipment sales on its strategy to create 91.0m.
The sale of non-core are impacted by general economic shareholder value.
We have increased like-for-like Our closing net debt of 186.1m The global market for foodservice operating profits in our Food Service was almost 180m lower than at equipment has an estimated value Equipment North American the previous year end.
of $14bn, of which approximately business despite a background Overall the year has seen good one third is in North America of weak markets.
Actions are well progress in difficult conditions and one third in Europe.
While we progressed to address weaker with net debt considerably are undoubtedly a global business, performance in Food Service reduced and continued success our market share in Europe Asia Equipment Europe Asia, principally in implementing our strategy.
is significantly lower than that in two UK businesses, and losses in North America where we have Vision Our vision is to establish at Kysor Warren which have an estimated share of 14%.
Enodis as the clear world leader in adversely affected the results.
Sales outside North America Food Service Equipment through During the second half of FY01 currently account for 29% of the passion for customer satisfaction.
and the first quarter of FY02 we Groups business and our acted to reduce our cost base medium-term goal is to increase Financial goals We have significantly in the light of declining this proportion to 40%.
established a number of financial markets.
Cost savings have been With an estimated overall global goals including organic sales delivered on plan benefiting margins market share of 6%, we believe growth of 5% pa, for Food Service in our important Food Service Enodis is a global leader in what Equipment operating margins Equipment North America is a highly fragmented market.
of 15%, return on capital businesses.
Our target is to achieve a global employed of greater than 10%, We believe we have gained share of more than 10% in the cash conversion days of less than share in difficult North American medium term.
40, and growth in adjusted markets.
In addition, we have earnings per share of 15%.
These Our strategy We believe that we achieved share gains in certain goals represent targets to be continue to make good progress product categories in Europe.
achieved over the medium to long in implementing our strategy to term assuming constant exchange establish Enodis as the clear world rates and no changes in the leader in Food Service Equipment.
A wide range of actions is being Though the results for FY02 developed to take customer and outlook for FY03 clearly fall satisfaction to a new level, below these goals, our objective focusing on actions required is to progress annually towards before, during and after the sale.
achieving them, despite continuing difficult market conditions.
ESTABLISHING ENODIS AS THE CLEAR WORLD LEADER IN FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT 05 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Executive Officers review BUSINESS FOCUSED ON THREE N. America food and beverage sales KEY AREAS: MAJOR MARKETS, LEADING PRODUCTS AND BRANDS 1.
Full serve 36% AND KEY ACCOUNTS 1 2.
All other 22% 3 2 Source: NRA Restaurant Industry Forecast 2002 2002 estimated Food Service Equipment global market 1.
Rest of World 16% T otal Global Market 3 2 estimated $14bn Source: OC&C, BHM Inc. We have focused our business IT systems Our operating We have now aligned our sales on three key areas: companies work with a range of representatives in all but one major markets where we are different systems, processes and territory in North America, and are evolving our organisation to procedures.
Our objective is to exploring ways of leveraging our focus on profitable share gain establish common systems and scale to improve our distribution with country specific strategies processes in North America and capabilities.
Additionally, we are and working closely with our common ways of doing business.
considering how to improve parts distribution channel partners.
New availability and the profit generated leading products and brands Enterprise Resource Planning by this business.
where our objective is to ERP systems are currently being Operations best practices and establish more of our global implemented at Garland, with best assured quality Some of our and regional country brands practice teams established to plants are world class: the as leaders in their markets.
develop the model that will be Scotsman plant in Fairfax, key accounts where we are introduced across the Group.
South Carolina, for example, has establishing single points of contact, The recruitment of a Chief received an award for being in nationally, regionally and globally to Information Officer is planned to the top 25 plants in the USA provide local and global coordination drive progress in this area.
Similarly, with a focus on solutions and Technology Center Our Technology Frymaster consistently receives innovation to gain share.
Center in Tampa, Florida, is a unique very high marks in customer Our enablers We have identified a facility in the industry.
However, other plants number of enablers which we It provides an excellent resource for require improvement.
must manage well to be successful.
us to work with customers to find Our objective is to introduce solutions to their cooking relevant best practices and People Bob Eimers, Executive Vice requirements.
Current projects assured quality across all of President Global Human Resources, include a number of significant our 28 plants.
has been appointed to the Board, developments for major chains, and demonstrating that we believe This is being achieved by groups we continue to introduce a steady people are a source of competitive establishing and spreading best pipeline of new products, including advantage.
We have made a practice, and by the introduction 30 last year.
We believe we are a number of significant new senior of task forces to develop plans leader in providing solutions in managerial appointments, including and monitor progress for the areas such as speed and flexibility, the strengthening of our central companies where performance safety, energy, automation and operating resources in areas such is below standard.
as Group purchasing, operations, Leading products and brands parts and service and marketing.
Global service and global Enodis has an outstanding We have introduced succession distribution Service is a critical portfolio of leading products and planning and performance issue for our customers.
In North brands, which we will continue to management processes.
America we have formed the enhance through focus on quality, Many of our leadership team have Enodis Service Council so we new product development and attended leadership skills training, can work in partnership with our more effective marketing.
and we are carrying out key account independent service agents to Our objective is to make more of and strategic selling training.
Further improve service to our customers our brands leaders in their own details are included in Bob Eimers including a no hassle warranty.
markets, whether global or local.
In the rest of the world we are planning to build on our existing Frymaster, Garland, Scotsman and other service networks to make better use of our resources.
06 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Executive Officers review OUR VALUES ARE BUILT UPON SEVEN KEY AREAS: CUSTOMER FOCUS, INTEGRITY, TEAMWORK, PARTNERSHIP, RESULTS FOCUS, LEADERSHIP AND RESPECT Enodis Food Service Equipment 2002 Food Equipment sales market share % by destination North America 14 1.
Rest of world 5% RoW 2 2 Source: Global 6 Management estimate continuing businesses Source: Management estimate Tight financial management Exceptional items Net cash through leveraging the Groups 1% with an increase of 3% in We have identified tight financial inflow from exceptional items was scale, product range and leading USA domestic turnover, a robust management as a critical enabler 42.3m predominately due to brands, technology and relationships performance given the market for success and are promoting a disposal proceeds.
with distributors, dealers and service conditions and reflecting share culture of discipline across the Group.
The exceptional losses in partners, end-users and suppliers.
Sales at 469.9m were the year were 104.6m including We believe that, overall, there down on the prior year: however Our progress in successfully 114.0m of goodwill relating is continuing growth in food and this is principally due to the implementing our strategy reinforces to disposals and the Kysor Warren beverage sales as lifestyle effect of disposals and adverse our confidence that we will continue impairment review undertaken changes increase demand for foreign exchange.
to make market share gains and in Q3.
prepared food, eaten out or Operating profits in Food Service improve financial performance More details are included ordered in.
Available data indicates Equipment North America of even with North American markets at note 4 to the attached financial food and beverage sales in the 60.8m were up 3% on a like-forremaining at current levels, as we statements.
USA are likely to grow by up to like basis.
The decline over the prior expect, for 2003.
Choice and year reflects the impact of disposals Cash flow and financing variety are increasing as multi- 1.8m and adverse foreign Results FY02 profit before tax, Operating cash flow, after capital cultural influences impact food and exchange effects.
Operating goodwill amortisation and exceptional expenditure, in the year was beverage offerings all over the margins increased to 12.9% from items was 38.0m 2001: 63.8m.
Health trends are also 12.6% in the prior year.
Compared to FY01 the impact of underlying operating performance, impacting menu and beverage Encouragingly, in Europe our the loss of operating profits from lower capital expenditure choices.
Food safety and Convotherm, Merrychef and businesses sold in 2002 and 2001 and improved working capital environmental concerns both beverage businesses improved including Magnet was 15.9m management.
inside and outside the restaurant performance and our European Ice with an offsetting interest benefit Furthermore, exceptional cash have increased.
businesses continued to deliver a of approximately 7.0m.
inflows see above and the net Despite this positive long-term good return on sales.
However, proceeds of the Rights Issue FY02 operating profit was 67.
3m backdrop for food service overall sales declined 22% to contributed to a reduction in 99.9m.
The reduction is principally equipment suppliers, difficult 144.4m, which is 7% down on a debt from 365.9m at due to the effect of businesses sold economic conditions in the US and like-for-like basis principally in the 29 September 2001 to 186.1m in FY02 and FY01 15.9m, Food elsewhere have led our customers UK.
Operating profits were down at 28 September 2002.
Service Equipment Europe Asia to defer capital expenditure.
45% 35% on a like-for-like basis Lower average debt balances 4.7m and Food Retail Equipment The market for food service again predominantly due to during the year have led to a 10.8m.
Underlying performance equipment in North America has performance of two UK reduced pre-exceptional interest at Food Service Equipment North been weak throughout the period.
businesses where problems charge of 29.3m 36.1m.
The weakening We believe the market overall is associated with low volumes, We are targeting further reduction dollar has reduced operating profits down some 2% compared to product launches and increased in debt, principally from operating in FY02 by 1.3m.
the prior year, reflecting mixed fixed capacity costs have cash generation and focus on cash performance by customer impacted profitability.
Food Service Equipment North conversion days.
segment, product category and Total sales in Global Food America margins increased from significant pricing pressure.
Service Equipment at 614.3m Global Food Service Equipment 12.6% to 12.9%.
Food Service In Europe, as we expected, were down 1% on a like-for-like Global Food Service Equipment Europe Asia margins declined the market has continued to basis, as the steady performance comprises our operations in North from 9.5% to 6.7%.
Food Retail decline and our assessment is that in North America offset the America, approximately 76% of Equipment margins were overall it is down by between 5% reduced European performance.
Food Service Equipment sales, negative 2%.
and 12%, with significant pricing Global Food Service Equipment and our operations in Europe Asia.
Return on capital employed in pressure particularly in the UK.
operating profit is 70.5m, down We offer a range of heavy FY02 was 7.0% 2001: 8.1%.
FY02 like-for-like sales of our 4% on a like-for-like basis.
kitchen equipment to the food North American operations, service industry.
We believe Throughout this annual report, operating including exports, were up by competitive advantage is achieved profit represents operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
07 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Executive Officers review THE ENODIS TECHNOLOGY THE GRAND NATIONAL LODGE CENTER PROVIDES CUSTOMER AND CONFERENCE CENTER IN DRIVEN SOLUTIONS AUBURN, OPELIKA, ALABAMA.
A COMBINATION INSTALLATION INCLUDING FIVE ENODIS PRODUCTS Food Retail Equipment Returning This is important legislation Kysor Warren, and thus Food Retail designed to re-establish the Equipment, to profitability is a key credibility of accounting, financial priority.
A turnaround plan is well reporting and corporate governance underway at Kysor Warren and in the USA.
We have taken further details are provided in the extensive legal and accountancy Chief Operating Officers review.
advice and carried out significant Full year sales at 152.8m are additional procedures to ensure 25% down on prior year, 17% on that we are in compliance with the a like-for-like basis principally Act as it currently applies.
due to the decline at Kysor Warren.
Employee and channel partners We made operating losses of During the year we have developed 3.3m 2001: 10.4m profit with a set of values and ways of working Kysor Panel Systems profits up to be followed throughout the 10% and lost contribution as a Group.
These include customer focus, result of the disposal of Belshaw integrity, teamwork, partnership, and Austral of 2.8m.
Food Retail results focus, leadership and respect.
Equipment losses in FY02, Of particular importance is excluding profits of businesses teamwork as we make progress disposed of, amounted to 5.5m.
towards operating as a single The losses at Kysor Warren integrated company, and are due to a 37% reduction in partnership as we build relationships turnover as we have lost market with customers, dealers, distributors share.
Rapid closure of plants and and other channel partners.
rationalisation of operations has I would like to take this reduced the cost base but with opportunity to thank all our some short-term loss of quality employees and channel partners and customer focus.
We have also who have worked so hard and with had to recognise asset write-offs such passion this year to service and increased warranty provisions.
our very broad range of customers Aggressive initiatives to during a period of adverse improve quality, productivity and market conditions.
We are expecting Kysor Warren to continue to be loss making in FY03 but at a lower rate of losses than experienced in Q4 FY02.
Returning this business to Andrew Allner profitability will take some time.
Chief Executive Officer The Sarbanes-Oxley Act We have a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange, and accordingly, we are required to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
OUR OBJECTIVE IS TO MAKE MORE OF OUR BRANDS LEADERS IN THEIR OWN MARKETS, WHETHER GLOBAL OR LOCAL
