08 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Operating Officers review Good progress in difficult markets Overview As part of our effort to The market The markets in reduce debt and to improve focus, which we operate are changing the Group slimmed down its quickly and moving in directions that operations last year.
The disposal play to our strengths.
of a number of non-core We manufacture and supply businesses, together with the heavy kitchen equipment for closure of our Booth beverage customers who include full serve business, and the relocation of and quick serve restaurants, the Dean fryer operation from hotels, institutions and many Los Angeles to Shreveport, smaller segments.
resulted in eight fewer plants.
Despite widespread economic Significant progress was uncertainty, there is continued made in rebalancing the Group.
growth in the demand for The objective is to create the prepared food that is to be eaten benefit of a single Enodis Operating out or ordered in.
This is a trend Company, with decentralised units based upon enduring changes in working as a team to implement lifestyle throughout the western best practices and integrate sales world.
While health trends, food and service efforts.
safety concerns or new Internally, we are developing cultural culinary influences might common approaches to purchasing, affect menus, they do not reduce manufacturing processes, research the overall pattern of consumption.
and development, information The National Restaurant technology, marketing and human Association reported that food resources.
Externally we are focusing and beverage sales in the USA on channel partnerships and the worlds largest market had customer service before, during and increased by 2.3% in calendar 2001 after the sale, as well as developing and are forecasting a further stronger relationships with major growth of 3.9% in calendar 2002. end customers.
Nonetheless, though the overall Our objective is to make trend continues to be upward, every part of our business more current worries in the global efficient, and in turn to make economy have resulted in the Enodis an easy company to deferral of capital equipment work with.
We believe that this purchases.
We estimate the food will assist us to move towards service equipment market dropped profitable market share gains by approximately 10% in North around the world.
The market sharply declined early last fiscal year, partially recovering to end the period with a 2% fall over the prior year.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO 2003, COMMITTED TO INCREASING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 09 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Operating Officers review COMMITTED TO INNOVATION AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT DELFIELD AND OTHER ENODIS PRODUCTS AT THE CULINARY AND MERRYCHEF AND CONVOTHERM HOSPITALITY INSTITUTE OF OVENS AT TESCO SUPERMARKET CHICAGO, ILLINOIS IN HAYES NEAR LONDON, UK The markets in Europe were, as A CLEVELAND OVEN IN AN expected, much more mixed and ANDRICONOS SUPERMARKET based on available data, we IN SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA believe were down anywhere between 5% and 12%.
Worldwide, we estimate the food service equipment market to be worth around $14bn split thus: North America 33%, Europe 31%, AsiaPacific 20%, and the Rest of the World 16%.
Large chains are acquiring additional brands to diversify their portfolios.
They are changing working methods and or menus in response to health, safety and other trends in consumer choice.
Global contract catering giants are emerging from a series of rapid acquisitions.
More and more non-traditional outlets such as convenience stores and petrol stations are serving both cold and hot food.
Premium coffee brands are expanding globally and increasing their food offering.
Already the majority of US chain new store builds are outside the USA, creating demand for global service, and global manufacturing.
10 10 Enodis annual report and accounts 20 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 02 Chief Operating Officers review WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH OUR CUSTOMERS A GARLAND AND CLEVELAND TO PROVIDE INSTALLATION AT THE CORDON BLEU CULINARY INSTITUTE, FOOD SERVICE MIRAFLORES, LIMA, PERU SOLUTIONS These are developments from HRS HAS ACHIEVED AN EXCELLENT which Enodis is in a particularly POSITION IN THE KOREAN strong position to benefit.
MARKET, BY AMENDING THE TRADITIONAL W A Y OF PREPARING We have 28 manufacturing plants KOREAN FOOD USING A in eight countries, master CONVOTHERM OVEN distributors in more than 140 countries and an extensive global service network that supports both our dealer network and end customers.
Our product portfolio already covers the core of any commercial kitchen including cooking and warming equipment, preparation, refrigeration and ice machines, ware-washing and air purification ventilation systems.
In addition we have a Technology Center in Florida, which works with customers to develop innovative equipment to meet new requirements, or to increase the speed, flexibility, or efficiency of existing types of equipment.
Meeting the requirements of global customers locally Globalisation might mean seeing restaurant brands that we recognise wherever we travel.
But behind the scenes there are many local requirements: electrical voltages, specific country or regional product approvals, metric imperial measurements, space constraints, language, local menu items, and many more.
Tariff barriers can also significantly increase the landed cost of equipment, in addition to freight costs.
11 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Operating Officers review Global brands Regional Country brands Cooking and warming product Ranges, ovens, grills, fryers, kettles Cleveland, Convotherm, Dean, Merco Savory, Frymaster, Garland, Moorwood Vulcan, Lincoln, Merrychef Technyform, US Range, Wearever Refrigeration product Preparation, storage reach-ins, Delfield, Scotsman Icematic, Ice-o-Matic, ice machines, beverage systems New Ton, Sadia, Tecnomac Sanitation & environmental Ventilation purification, warewashing VentMaster, Jackson The expansion of global chains of a global air purification product.
outside the USA has created a new manufacture of certain products demand for local manufacturing.
in Brazil, Japan and China are Enodis is responding: underway for a major hamburger our Scotsman ice group chain to reduce costs.
manufactures different styles By responding to specific of ice machine to fit different customer needs, we will further markets from six plants in develop local manufacturing and North America, Europe and Asia.
The company is thus ideally placed to meet the demands of global, Leading products and brands regional, and local customers Enodis introduced more than through an extensive distribution 30 new products over the course and service network.
Among the most the need for European significant were: manufacturing of a Delfield Garlands Moisture Plus oven, display case to a global which implements the latest specification, was met by our technology of adding steam to Viscount plant in Sheffield, UK.
the convection oven cooking Merrychef, based in the UK, process without the expense of a worked in conjunction with boiler, in order to increase cooking Garland in North America and the speed and improve food quality.
Enodis Technology Center, to Delfields safe chill blast chiller develop a specific oven for a major can blast-freeze a rib roast, and doughnut chain rollout which has soft-chill croissants simultaneously.
When volumes The Scotsman Eclipse remote increase, Garland will assume air-cooled cube ice machine manufacturing for North America.
mounts the condenser and we are expanding our joint compressor on the roof top for venture plant in Thailand to quiet operation and less heat accommodate manufacturing of build-up in the restaurant.
Delfield refrigerators and Clevelands humidity controlled Scotsman ice machines for the CombiCraft oven produces ASEAN region.
consistent results for maximum our German-based, combi-oven food quality and yield.
Automatic business, Convotherm, has fan reversing and controlled manufacturing partners in the USA moisture gives more versatility and Australia New Zealand to and faster production.
VentMaster has plants in Canada, the USA and UK with licensed manufacturers in several other countries to support production 12 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Operating Officers review FRYMASTER HIGH EFFICIENCY GAS GARLAND MASTER SERIES FRYERS WITH IN-BUILT FILTRATION RANGES AT THE VERSACE HOTEL IN A LOTTERIA STORE IN JAPAN IN QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA Ice-O-Matics AgION ice Global distribution Our interface with the dealer machines mould an antimicrobial dealer distributor network is community providing local compound into key components vital to the success of our Company warehousing, local currency price to help prevent the growth of and we remain absolutely lists and administration of a bacteria.
This compound works committed to our channel partners.
24 hours a day, 7 days a week In the USA, most of our Last year, we consolidated destroying and inhibiting the operating companies ship directly more Enodis products through growth of unwanted microbes.
Ice machines, on the these master distributors with Scotsmans one-hand dispenser is other hand, reach dealers from a particular success for Delfield, ideal for hospitals, offices and network of territory distributors Merrychef and Jackson in cafeterias.
It provides a compact, who hold local inventory and Canada and Convotherm in high tech, tabletop TouchFree ice administer local service.
Throughout the rest of and water dispenser with a unique The alignment of our sales the world we use third party infra-red sensor to control the representatives was almost master distributors.
dispensing of ice, water or both.
completed during the year, Going forward, we will resulting in a very powerful field concentrate our efforts on major The pipeline of new projects at sales force selling our complete markets and intend to set up the Enodis Technology Center product line in each US territory.
Enodis sales offices in those ETC and within our operating This was under scored by a 6% where we do not currently have companies remains large, increase in sales through US a master distributor.
including an advanced fryer representatives in fiscal 2002. and a high speed oven for two Global service Our service Enodis has also launched a global chains.
Enodis has Dealer Council as a forum for We have recently enhanced an extensive network of authorised formal two-way communication.
our capabilities at the ETC by hiring third-party service agencies around This has been extremely valuable specialists in microwave electronics the world, supported by parts and in helping us to understand issues, and refrigeration.
Ice machine service specialists at each of our and work together on solutions expertise will be added in 2003. operating companies.
Our goal is to develop We provide training to these stronger partnerships with dealers agencies and normally ship parts and buying groups who provide: to them within 24 hours.
exceptional support to Enodis, and We have created a new position value-added services to our of Vice President Global Service end users.
to provide executive level focus on Sales to the top 25 dealers in USA parts and service.
A Service Council increased by 10% in fiscal 2002. was established in the USA, and In Canada, the UK, Germany, meetings held with major global France and Spain, Enodis has accounts to understand their issues its own master distributors to and requirements.
13 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Operating Officers review IMPROVING OUR MANUFACTURING EFFICIENCIES AROUND THE WORLD LINCOLN CONVEYOR OVEN AT DONATOS PIZZA CHAIN, NOBLEVILLE, INDIANA SCOTSMAN ICE INSTALLATION IN A WELL KNOWN SUPERMARKET IN MILAN, ITALY 14 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Operating Officers review OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO COVERS THE CORE OF ANY COMMERCIAL KITCHEN We are developing strategies THIS INSTALLATION AT to meet these needs and evolve SOUTHAMPTON FOOTBALL a stronger, more consolidated CLUB IS AN IDEAL EXAMPLE OF ENODIS OPERATING network of service agency partners.
COMPANIES WORKING TOGETHER TO MAKE ONE IT systems Many initiatives are OFFERING.
THE SITE INCLUDES underway to improve the flow CONVOTHERM, MOORWOOD of information to end users, VULCAN, SADIA AND GARLAND foodservice consultants and PRODUCTS industry partners.
Our US websites now have a common homepage layout, enabling users to move directly from one Group site to another.
Teams have been working all year on common identification codes to facilitate the development of Enodis sites for reps, dealers, buying groups, service agencies and end customers.
Regular Enodis University classes are held at the ETC to educate our industry partners on Enodis products and technological developments.
These are supported by a commitment to training and demonstrations at our facilities worldwide.
Also during the year we began the implementation of a common ERP system.
This began at Garland, and will be introduced into Scotsman and Lincoln during 2003.
15 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Operating Officers review THE MEALSTREAM 402 BY SCOTSMAN BEVERAGE SYSTEMS CONVOTHERMS LINE OF MERRYCHEF IS ATTRACTING HELPED DEVELOP THE NEW COMBI-OVENS FEATURE PATENTED INTEREST FROM THE WORLDS CARLSBERG TETLEY'S EXTRA DISAPPEARING DOORS AND LEADING HOT FOOD RETAILERS COLD FONT FLEXIBLE COOKING PERFORMANCE AND WILL BE RELEASED BY THE ENODIS TECHNOLOGY CENTER FOR FIELD TRIALS IN JANUARY 2003 Operating performance Food Underlying profit decreased by Service Equipment Overall, the 35% due to volume declines and Global Food Service Equipment price discounting which could group achieved our expectations.
not be fully offset by our cost In North America, we saw a robust reduction efforts.
Underlying sales were exacerbated by operating up 1%, with a domestic sales problems in two UK companies increase of 3% partially offset by a partially offset by significant 5% decline in export sales.
improvement over prior years in Underlying operating profit was four of our 10 business units.
up 3%, and margins improved Actions have been taken to from 12.6% to 12.9% in the face reposition the UK companies for of aggressive price discounting.
In the European Asia This was achieved through Ice group, margins were resilient a combination of the tough cost in the face of market declines.
actions taken in mid 2001 Operating cash flow was very and again in early 2002, taking healthy at a conversion rate of 143%.
advantage of opportunities to While the overall Europe Asia leverage our purchasing effort, results were poor, we are and the consolidation of Dean encouraged by the robust Fryers at our Shreveport facilities.
performance at several units, and Operating cash flow in North the commercial possibilities for America improved by 4.3m growth by leveraging brands, through an intense focus on cash technology and facilities.
We were Overall, the global Food Service delighted to see six of our eight Equipment group achieved an operating companies achieve our EBITA margin of 11.5% compared target of 40 days, and the Food to 11.7% last year, and our Service Equipment North America long-term goal of 15%.
group improve to 40.1 days In the aggregate, we believe from 44.8. that this is a creditable result given Performance in Europe and a highly competitive and fractured Asia was a mixed story.
market, which featured significant Underlying sales decreased by price discounting.
Clearly we are not satisfied with We believe we lost share in some this level of profitability, and intend businesses as they restructured.
to improve under-performing units, However, we were very pleased and implement best practices by growth in three companies across the Group to achieve 15% particularly Merrychefs growth EBITA margin over time.
16 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Operating Officers review MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF GLOBAL CUSTOMERS LOCALLY Operating performance Food Implementation of best CLEVELAND AND GARLAND Retail Equipment While Kysor practices During the year, we PRODUCTS AT THE AIR CANADA Panel Systems performed very recruited Bob Nerbonne as VP CENTRE, HOME OF THE TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS.
ENODIS PROVIDES well, Kysor Warrens market share Operations and Tom Tetlow A TOTAL COOKING SOLUTION TO decline and operational problems as VP Purchasing, joining THE MASTER CHEF BRAD LONG resulted in the Group as a whole Jerry Sank our VP Technology, performing well below expectations.
and stepped up our efforts to Full year sales at 152.8m are cross-fertilise best functional 25% down on prior year, 17% on practices across the Group.
We made Achievements included operating losses of 3.3m substantial improvements in 2001: profit 10.4m with Kysor safety, cash conversion days Panel Systems profits up 10% and and material costs.
lost contribution as a result of the We were also honoured that disposal of Belshaw and Austral our Scotsman plant in Fairfax, of 2.8m.
Food Retail Equipment South Carolina, was voted one of losses in FY02, excluding profits the top 25 best plants in the USA of businesses disposed of, by Industry Week magazine.
Going forward, we are An entirely new executive committed to a continuing drive team has been recruited at Kysor for improvement with customer Warren, led by Ralph Schmitt who satisfaction as the number one has considerable experience in measure.
In this respect, our business turnarounds.
companies will follow the David Frase, the experienced best practices of Scotsman, leader of Kysor Panel Systems, Frymaster, Cleveland and now heads the Kysor Group and Convotherm.
We intend to is bringing to Kysor Warren a develop standard performance proven commitment to customer metrics, supplemented by satisfaction.
Initiatives focusing on quality, productivity, and customer service are in their early stages with signs of progress apparent.
Cash inflow was 2.1m compared to 8.6m last year.
17 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chief Operating Officers review THE SCOTSMAN ECLIPSE ICE MACHINE WITH A REMOTE MOUNTED COMPRESSOR, JACKSON FLIGHT DISHMACHINE INSTALLED AT 7-ELEVEN IN IN HARRAH'S CASINO IN BANGKOK RESULTS IN A QUIET LAUGHLIN, NEVADA OPERATION INSIDE THE STORE Summary Fiscal 2002 was a challenging year in the face of difficult markets.
While Retail Equipment performance was disappointing, Food Service Equipment operations performed adequately overall, with particularly robust performance in North America.
We made good progress in the introduction of new products, in distribution and service strategies, and we expanded our global manufacturing activities.
We improved the quality of our team and enhanced our teamwork to leverage Enodis Group strength, while maintaining the individual strengths of our operating companies.
Our functional leaders made progress in implementing best practices.
Conclusion We look forward to 2003, committed to increasing customer satisfaction and improving shareholder value.
Dave McCulloch Chief Operating Officer
