Chief Executives Statement Forth Ports PLC 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Chief Executives Statement Review of Business Activities Revenue sustainability is an important feature of 2002 was a challenging year all round for the our ports business and gives us a stable platform Group.
The profitability of the ports business in for growth.
An analysis of our revenue streams the first half of the year was down by over 13% shows that more than 50% is sustainable due to compared with the equivalent period in 2001: the tonnage and revenue commitments, significant second half improved substantially and saw a 5% customer investment and regular historical improvement in profitability over 2001, giving a revenue flows.
Of our remaining business, total ports operating profit before exceptional items we estimate that around 30% is with the Group of 31.1 million for the year, a reduction of 3.7% due to location and market factors which have over 2001.
Our property business improved its been established for five years or more.
profitability by 54% to reach 20.5 million compared with 13.3 million in 2001.
Overall, operating Whilst the last year has been challenging, it is profits pre-exceptional increased by 13%.
encouraging to be able to highlight a significant number of new business achievements: Each year, the Board holds an Annual Strategy Conference at which aims and objectives are Tilbury identified to drive the business forward.
During the Three new container services at Tilbury course of 2002, two major goals were achieved: Container Services TCS the establishment of a new management structure A new contract with Ford to handle vans for the Scottish Ports under a Director of Scottish An agreement with Finnforest to expand Ports based at Grangemouth together with a its warehousing capacity newly centralised support staff.
This will enable A contract with Hydro Agri to handle fertiliser us to provide a coordinated approach to exploiting existing and new markets for cargo Rosyth handling and logistics in Scotland.
The second The establishment of the Superfast ferry service was the enhancement of our property capability A new contract to handle coal for ScottishPower through the introduction of an equity partner BJL Plywood imports from the Far East and to bring greater strength and depth to that division.
South America We completed the centralisation of the Grangemouth accounting system for the Scottish ports at Two new container services Grangemouth in September 2002.
In addition, at Tilbury, the Conventional cargo division was Leith restructured to improve our responsiveness to Three new pipe-laying contracts for Bredero customers.
As part of this process, we outsourced Shaw Limited plant engineering with effect from June 2002.
All these initiatives increased productivity At Dundee, the Prince Charles Wharf extension and reliability and reduced costs.
opened at the end of last year which increases the opportunities to generate additional North We disposed of Forthlines container shipping Sea oil business.
The purchaser has entered into a long-term stevedoring agreement These are all positive initiatives which will help to with the port of Grangemouth.
We acquired generate further growth in our ports business.
Grainfax Limited, a business providing services In addition, we are continuing to make progress to the agricultural sector out of the port of Dundee.
on other significant port development projects.
Since the year end, we have contracted to dispose We will continue to drive our business to generate of a small division, Tilbury Freight Station, where additional revenue, reduce costs and improve part of the business was non-core.
The remaining rates of return.
business will be transferred to the Conventional cargo division at Tilbury.
Rosyth A new contract to handle coal for ScottishPower Chief Executives Statement Forth Ports PLC 5 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Chief Executives Statement Forth Ports PLC 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Scottish Ports and Marine that short-sea feeder volumes through the port The total tonnage in 2002 amounted to 43.1 million will continue to grow.
We are looking to extend tonnes compared with 42.7 million tonnes in 2001. our container capacity at Grangemouth to take Excluding the Marine Terminals, where overall advantage of the additional growth.
2003 should tonnage increased by just under 600,000 tonnes, also see the opening of a new 10,000 sq.
m. the ports saw a marginal decrease in tonnage to warehouse to enable us to meet demand to offer 12.6 million tonnes.
Within this tonnage, dry cargo greater distribution facilities to our customers.
improved by over 3% to reach nearly 4.4 million tonnes whereas piped cargo fell by 300,000 Leith tonnes to 8.2 million tonnes.
After a slow start to the year, the dry cargo tonnages improved in the second half of the year Grangemouth and increased marginally over the whole year.
After a record year in 2001, 2002 saw further Grain tonnages increased by 14% to 230,000 growth in container numbers which increased tonnes and aggregates tonnages increased by 15% to just under 103,000 boxes, confirming substantially to 155,000 tonnes.
Animal feed and Grangemouths position as Scotlands leading fertiliser tonnages were disappointing.
The piped cargo tonnages reduced from cement imports improved by 14% to reach record levels of 7.7 million tonnes to a more 150,000 tonnes, there was a significant decline in normal level of 7.4 million tonnes.
Within forest cement exports to Norway.
Tonnages from Bredero products, timber tonnages improved, although Shaw formerly British Pipe Coaters, recovered in pulp and paper were down.
Iron and steel exports the second half and ended the year up 10% at just improved but were more than offset by a reduction under 600,000 tonnes.
Pipe load-out activity is in imports which suffered from reduced activity expected to be intensive in the first half of 2003 to within the oil and gas sector.
Continued congestion service the new contracts won by Bredero Shaw in the South East of England together with at the end of 2002.
They are currently tendering increasing road and rail costs give us confidence for further significant contracts for 2004.
Prince Charles Wharf The new Prince Charles Wharf extension at Dundee increases the opportunities to generate additional North Sea oil business.
Timber Rosyth tonnages continued to increase with timber and coal being the main drivers.
Chief Executives Statement Forth Ports PLC 7 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Dundee Rosyth Total tonnage was down marginally at 1.1 million Rosyth tonnages continued to increase with tonnes in 2002.
The highlight of the year was a 53% timber and coal being the main drivers.
We were increase in agripods which reached 207,000 tonnes successful in concluding a short-term contract with accounting for 36% of the total dry cargo tonnage ScottishPower for the importation of coal over an at Dundee.
North Sea oil related revenue increased eighteen month period from September 2002. by nearly 13% to reach over 0.5 million and grain This is a minimum throughput agreement which warehousing also saw a significant increase in saw in excess of 150,000 tonnes being imported revenue year on year.
As noted in the Interim at Rosyth in the last three months of 2002.
Statement, Dundees pulp tonnages were down significantly following the closure of three Scottish Last year also marked the opening of the Superfast, paper mills.
During the second half of the year, Rosyth to Zeebrugge, ferry service.
Demand from there was a slow down in paper tonnages which the Scottish public for this service has been excellent.
contributed to an overall decline in forest products Levels of freight traffic have built up gradually.
We tonnages from 268,000 tonnes to 176,000 tonnes.
are working closely with Superfast and the port of Zeebrugge to attract additional volumes of freight The new Prince Charles Wharf extension at from both Scotland and the continent.
Dundee was completed at the end of 2002 providing additional income diversification.
We Fife Ports are encouraged by the level of enquiries for this It was announced in September last year that new facility which is now being utilised on a regular the Alcan Chemicals Europe alumina facility was basis by several major oil supply companies.
As a consequence, tonnages of imported bauxite at Burntisland Grainfax Limited was purchased in August 2002 reduced from just under 200,000 tonnes to and has shown positive results with a profit of 150,000 tonnes last year.
All imports have since 222,000 arising in the five months since acquisition.
As a consequence of the Alcan closure, Whilst this is a seasonal business, with most of the four employees left on voluntary severance at the annual profit being generated in that five month end of last year.
We are currently reviewing the period, it was nevertheless an excellent result.
Containers, Grangemouth 2002 saw further growth in container numbers which increased by 15% to just under 103,000 boxes.
Grainfax Grainfax Limited was purchased in August 2002 and has achieved an excellent result.
Chief Executives Statement Forth Ports PLC 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Chief Executives Statement Forth Ports PLC 9 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Tilbury 2002.
A new South American service, the P&O Tilburys performance was marked by a very Lambada service, also started calling at Tilbury difficult first half where tonnages fell over 11% and towards the end of the year Mediterranean to 3.3 million tonnes but which improved in the Shipping Company also commenced two services second half by 3% over the equivalent period in through Tilbury.
With the full year benefit of these 2001 to reach a total of 7.1 million tonnes 2001 new services in 2003, we expect that there will be 7.4 million tonnes.
This major turnaround arose a significant increase in profitability.
principally from the significant increase in grain export tonnages in the second half which reached There have been important changes to the 244,000 tonnes compared with 54,000 tonnes in management structure within the Conventional the first half.
Whilst this improvement was welcome, cargo division at Tilbury where a thorough analysis it was still below our expectations for the last six of our cost structure is underway.
Since we acquired Tilbury in closely with our customers to improve productivity 1995, last year saw by far the lowest volume of and to increase the level of service being offered.
throughputs at the grain terminal.
This was entirely This new structure has only recently been put in as a result of the poor harvest in the harvest year place but already there are encouraging signs that July 2001 to June 2002.
The current indications for it is being positively received by both customers the following harvest year are that there should be and employees.
an exportable surplus of approximately 3.5 million tonnes.
A sizeable share of this surplus is The second half of the year saw the implementation committed under contract.
of the outsourcing of plant engineering within the Conventional cargo division.
Far Eastern timber imports more than doubled in the second half of the year compared with the first We are currently in discussions with a potential half.
Bulk tonnages, principally animal feed, were major new customer.
If negotiations are successful, also up by over 50% in the full year compared this would result in a large new facility being built with 2001.
Tonnages from our operating tenants at Tilbury.
There is also a reasonable level of interest fell by just over 100,000 tonnes.
During the year, in the Fortress Distribution Park as either a site for Tilbury won a new contract with Ford to be the warehousing or for port related ro-ro and car traffic.
import centre for its new vans from Turkey.
Marine Terminals One of the highlights of the year was the 15% Hound Point exported 27.1 million tonnes in increase in new business won by our associated 2002 compared with 26.4 million tonnes in 2001. company TCS.
Last year, TCS attracted the EPIC At Braefoot Bay, the tonnages were down Consortium to Tilbury with effect from September marginally at 3.4 million tonnes.
Containers, Tilbury One of the highlights of the year was the 15% increase in new business won by our associated company TCS.
Chief Executives Statement Forth Ports PLC 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Property It has recently been announced that funding from Last year was an important year strategically the Scottish Executive Integrated Transport Fund for property with two major events taking place: will be available for the first two phases of the the grant of outline planning for a 3,000 flat tram system which includes the link between the development at Western Harbour Leith and the City Centre and our waterfront sites.
Although the introduction of BJL as an equity partner within service is not expected to be operational until our property sub-group.
Design Guide approval 2009, this will increase the attractiveness of the for plots 1, 2a and 2b at Western Harbour was waterfront as a vibrant community in which to granted by City of Edinburgh Council in live and work.
November, following which the remaining plot 2a was sold to Taylor Woodrow Developments In spite of fears of a slowdown in housing prices Limited, thus maintaining our steady release and activity in other parts of the UK, the of plots from this development.
Our current underlying factors driving demand for housing in masterplan assumes plot sales continuing Edinburgh continue to be strong.
These include: for the next five years.
A long-term shortfall of over 4,000 housing We advised shareholders of the introduction of units in Edinburgh to meet forecast demand BJL as our 10% equity partner with effect from the even with the proposed supply of apartments end of May 2002.
I am pleased to report that the from our major waterfront sites integration of personnel between BJL and our Changing demographics will mean a greater property team has gone extremely well with BJL demand for smaller, more efficient flatted units bringing complementary strengths and increasing Increasing densities will be maintained by the our capacity to carry out more developments.
presence of the greenbelt around the City We had hoped that outline planning approval The Edinburgh market is more mature than would have been given to the Granton any of its Scottish counterparts and has not development prior to the year end.
However, until experienced the dramatic peaks and troughs the Council had finalised the route of the new of most urban property markets in the UK tram through our land ownership at Leith and Average selling prices for waterfront residential Granton, it would not determine our application.
development in Edinburgh are still below those Nevertheless, we have completed all the work of other regional cities and well below those in required to support the planning application.
some traditional prime locations of Edinburgh A report has now been issued to the Planning Committee recommending approval at a During the year, we continued to discuss various meeting to be convened in the next few weeks.
other sites with other interested parties and, in Notwithstanding the fact that outline approval has particular, we are hopeful that this year will see not been granted, we sold two plots at Granton progress on the sale of further sites at Western last year to a local developer.
Our forward plan for Harbour and Granton which are now going plot sales at Granton extends out over ten years.
through design and planning phases.
Western Harbour, Leith One of the major events which took place in 2002 was the grant of outline planning for a 3,000 flat development at Western Harbour, Leith.
Granton Development Plans for living in Grantons waterfront.
Chief Executives Statement Forth Ports PLC 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Chief Executives Statement Forth Ports PLC 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Property continued Training We reported in September that our joint ventures The Group places considerable emphasis on with AWG Residential had shown a healthy demand training and development at all levels in all for flats.
At the end of the year, all but 2 of the locations.
It continues to support the attainment 105 flats at Queens Quay Leith have been sold as of vocational qualifications and remains the largest have all the flats at Kirkcaldy and Newhaven Phase employer of vocationally qualified port operators in 1.
At City Quay Dundee, over 60% of the units in the UK.
In order to meet management succession, the current Phase of 169 units have been sold.
the graduate programme and management development training continues.
The Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre continues to make steady progress in spite of a difficult retail Safety market.
We recently announced that Marks & During the course of last year, the Group approved Spencer will be opening a Simply Food outlet and adopted a Port Marine Safety Management on the first floor of the centre next month and that System which meets the requirements of the Port terms have been concluded with Boots for a ground Marine Safety Code.
These measures introduce floor letting.
Both of these will enhance the retail and comply with national standards for every aspect offering within the shopping centre and increase of port marine safety.
In addition to the foregoing, footfall.
In addition, we have recently attracted within our ports we have conducted a thorough Baxters Foods and French Connection which review of our safety systems which has resulted has resulted in 77% of the floor space being let.
in the rewriting and production of new forms of We have appointed Tom Scott, formerly a Retail risk assessments for all high risk activities within Asset Manager at Standard Life, as Managing the Group through a process of training, Director of Ocean Terminal Limited to manage the communication and feedback.
With an increasing number of flats being built and occupied around the shopping The accident incidence rate, per 100,000 centre, we remain confident that Ocean Terminals employees, for Forth Ports PLC was 3,979 long-term potential will be realised with a build up compared with a rate of 4,123 for the port of rental income from quality tenants.
The Group views safety as an integral part of providing an efficient and professional The Board has taken a prudent view of value at the service to customers and is committed to further year end which incorporates a temporary reserve improvements in our safety practices.
in the Balance Sheet pending full letting of the shopping centre.
Our intention continues to be Corporate Social Responsibility CSR to hold the centre for the long-term to maximise Forth Ports PLC is a long-term sustainable its growth and value.
business which makes a substantial contribution to the environment and to the regeneration of the In Dundee, we have commenced a master communities within which it operates.
There are a planning exercise for the whole area around great many examples of this in action throughout the Victoria Dock, including the City Quay the Group and some of these are explained in more retail development, and will progress this detail in the CSR section of the Report, on page 21. vision over the course of the next few years.
Chief Executives Statement Forth Ports PLC 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Pension Schemes From this low position, grain exports improved, During last year, actuarial valuations were container volumes continued to improve at completed on the two main defined benefit Grangemouth, the new Ferry Service commenced pension schemes operated by the Group.
and new coal business was won at Rosyth, all of Broadly, the Forth Ports Scheme was in surplus, which combined to give an improved performance whereas the Tilbury Scheme was in deficit.
in the second half of 2002 as against 2001.
In In common with many other companies in the UK, property, the trend continued firmly upwards with a the poor stock market performance of equities major increase in profits coming from the property over the past few years has had a significant business as the regeneration of Leith and Granton negative effect on the value of pension fund assets.
gathers momentum, all of which combined to produce another year of record profits.
In consultation with our Actuary, Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited Mercer, the Last year, we successfully centralised the finance Board reviewed its commitment to the funding of and administration functions within the Scottish the two schemes and concluded that both defined ports and outsourced the plant engineering benefit schemes should be retained subject to function at Tilbury.
This year, we have reviewed the level of employee contributions increasing for the marine function within Scotland and will be existing employees from 5% to 6% of pensionable implementing a new structure over the course salary.
New employees joining the Group will be of this year with consequent savings.
able to decide on a contribution level of 6%, 8% or 10% for benefits based on an accrual rate With the current outlook positive on new business, of 1 80th, 1 70th or 1 60th of salary per annum we will continue to grow our ports business respectively.
Mercers advice was that with these organically but at the same time be aware of any employee contribution levels, together with the opportunities that might arise from acquisition.
We adjustment in benefits for new employees, the will continue to maximise the long-term property Companys contribution should be able to remain potential from our extensive land holdings.
Cash at its current level.
generation remains vitally important but equally the uses to which that cash is put, in terms of The Board believes that this increased contribution returns on investment, remains a primary objective from the employees recognises the benefits of for the management team.
We remain committed the existing schemes whilst at the same time to share buy-backs as part of our overall strategy contributing more to the ongoing funding costs.
Summary Trading conditions within the ports in the first 2002 was perhaps the most challenging year which two months of 2003 are in line with expectations the Group has faced for a number of years.
For the and ahead of the equivalent period last year.
first time in seven years, a major downturn in grain Underlying economic conditions are challenging exports through the port of Tilbury, combined but we are cautiously optimistic that 2003 will be with delayed exports of coated pipes from Leith, another successful year for the Group in both the resulted in a first half ports operating performance ports and property businesses.
which was significantly down on the previous year.
C. G. Hammond Chief Executive
