GlaxoSmithKline 03 Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer New product growth drives commercial strength The success of our new products is providing the fuel for future growth, with new products now representing 27 per cent of total pharmaceutical sales, up 36 per cent in 2002.
Sales of Seretide Advair for asthma, now our second largest product, continued to grow impressively, up 96 per cent to 1.6 billion.
We recently launched Avandamet for type 2 diabetes and Avodart for benign prostatic hyperplasia, as well as important line extensions of Augmentin and Paxil.
During 2003-2004 we look forward to launching 12 new compounds and line extensions.
These include Levitra, a new treatment for erectile dysfunction, which we are copromoting with Bayer, and Wellbutrin XL, a new and improved version of our successful anti-depressant.
Creating the most productive R&D organisation At the outset of the merger we rethought the way R&D was carried out at GlaxoSmithKline, with the aim of creating the most The purpose of GlaxoSmithKline is to deliver productive R&D organisation in the industry.
We established six medicines that have a positive impact on the quality therapeutically focused Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery of human life.
We have chosen this fundamental and CEDDs.
The CEDDs are nimble and entrepreneurial with the range challenging objective as the theme of this years of skills and scale of resources required to drive mid-stage development projects through to their key decision point, proof of Annual Review.
concept, before large-scale phase III clinical trials.
We are pleased to report that 2002 was a year of significant After two years of activity by the new R&D organisation, we are progress in establishing GlaxoSmithKline as one of the worlds seeing significant progress as we advance our promising early stage leading pharmaceutical companies.
We achieved strong financial pipeline of pharmaceutical products through clinical development.
results in 2002, despite the entry of generic competition in the GlaxoSmithKline has 123 projects in clinical development, of which USA to Augmentin, one of our major products.
61 are new chemical entities in a number of therapy areas, and 23 new vaccines.
The number of new chemical entities starting phase Our progress stems from the Groups key strengths: a broadly II clinical trials has more than doubled since the merger.
We are based product portfolio, strong financial capability and a promising confident that, as these and our phase I pipeline move through early stage pipeline of products.
We have built on each of these development, we will build the best late stage pharmaceutical core attributes in 2002 and we are confident that they will help pipeline in the industry.
We plan to provide a detailed update on GlaxoSmithKline to continue to deliver success in the future.
progress in R&D towards the end of 2003.
While achieving business success it is essential that we demonstrate to all our stakeholders, around the world, how we Success as partner of choice conduct our business with integrity and continue to make a The size and quality of our global R&D organisation, together with positive contribution to society.
the strength of our sales and marketing teams, have enabled GlaxoSmithKline to become the partner of choice in the industry.
Good financial performance We have signed an unprecedented 24 major external collaborations We delivered a very solid financial performance in 2002 in a in the last two years which has helped to boost our product challenging operating environment.
It has also provided some exciting new opportunities in a grew eight per cent to nearly 18 billion and US pharmaceutical number of areas of unmet medical need such as erectile sales grew 13 per cent, despite generic competition to Augmentin.
The Group demonstrated continued financial strength with total sales up seven per cent and business performance trading profit up Patent challenges 15 per cent.
There were strong performances from our key therapy Over the last year there have been a number of developments areas including central nervous system, respiratory, anti-virals and involving the patents on some of our key products.
In July, in the USA, the first generic version of Augmentin was Our business performance earnings per share grew by 13 per cent, launched.
This followed a ruling by a federal judge that our delivering on our guidance and demonstrating the continuing Augmentin patents were invalid.
We are appealing against this financial strength that will provide the Group with a sound decision, in the rm belief that our patents are valid.
Meanwhile, platform for the future.
we have already offset some of the impact of generics with recent successful launches of new improved versions of Augmentin - the GlaxoSmithKline has made good progress with its merger and ES and XR formulations.
manufacturing restructuring plans and we remain on track to deliver forecast total annual merger and manufacturing GlaxoSmithKline is also involved in litigation over the patents on restructuring savings of at least 1.8 billion by 2003.
We are not Wellbutrin SR and Zyban in the USA.
We are awaiting the outcome stopping there: our continuous improvement programme, of our appeal against a judgement last year in favour of Andrx Operational Excellence, is delivering additional savings and will Corporation, which has applied to market generic versions of the continue to do so.
04 GlaxoSmithKline Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer Seroxat Paxil continues to be subject to threat of generic Positive Action, our international programme of HIV AIDS competition, particularly in the USA.
education, care and support has now been established for ten years backing international programmes in 32 countries.
A federal judge in Chicago recently ruled that GlaxoSmithKlines patent in the USA covering the hemihydrate form of Paxil was valid GlaxoSmithKline is a key partner in the global effort to eliminate but not infringed by generics company Apotexs product.
This disabling and disguring disease currently believe our patent to be infringed by Apotexs product and will affects 120 million people and threatens a further one billion in appeal against the ruling.
Also, we will continue to pursue some of the poorest nations of the world.
To date, litigation for infringement of other patents relating to Paxil against GlaxoSmithKline has donated 145 million tablets as part of our Apotex and other generics companies in the USA.
20-year commitment to eradicate this disease.
As a result of these pending matters, the possible timing of generic The Guardian newspapers Giving List recently recognised that competition to Paxil in the USA is unclear.
Consequently, GlaxoSmithKlines total global community expenditure in 2001 was GlaxoSmithKlines published earnings guidance for 2003 remains as greater than that of any other British company.
We increased our previously stated.
The guidance is for high single digit percentage comprehensive programme of social investment in 2002, investing growth in business performance earnings per share at constant 239 million in support of global community programmes, product exchange rates, assuming there is no generic competition to Paxil donations and charitable contributions.
If a generic launch of paroxetine hydrochloride became imminent, GlaxoSmithKline would reassess this guidance.
Corporate governance Corporate governance continues to be a high prole issue with the Uptake of Paxil CR, our enhanced form of the antidepressant publication of the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of launched in 2002, has been excellent and it now represents over Non-Executive Directors and Sir Robert Smiths Report on audit 30 per cent of Paxils new prescriptions in the USA.
In the USA, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act became law in patent challenges to a number of other products such as Zofran July 2002 and will have an impact on GlaxoSmithKline in relation and Lamictal.
These cases illustrate an industry-wide trend in which to certication of the Annual Report on Form 20-F, disclosure generics companies are ling more patent challenges earlier.
We processes, our relationship with external auditors, internal controls will obviously defend our intellectual property vigorously.
and a number of governance issues.
GlaxoSmithKline regularly undertakes thorough reviews of the Groups internal control Contribution to society systems and is committed to remaining a leader in governance The responsible behaviour of all types of organisations, including processes and structure.
multinational companies, governments and charities, is high on the public agenda.
Last year, in our first report of corporate and social Acknowledgements responsibility, we set out our commitment to reecting ethical, Our business is to discover effective medicines and healthcare social and environmental concerns in our business decisions.
Our products for people throughout the world and, as a result, create second report, updating our activities in 2002, is being published shareholder value.
We are in a great position to build on the at the same time as this Annual Report and covers the issues that success of the last year, to build the best pipeline in the industry have generated significant interest from stakeholders.
and launch further new products.
We extend our thanks to all our The Corporate and Social Responsibility Report also includes some employees who are so committed to making this happen.
indicators to show our progress in addressing these issues.
Bob Ingram, Chief Operating officer and President, Pharmaceutical Corporate responsibility is an integral part of our business and Operations, retired at the end of December but will continue to inherent in our mission.
GlaxoSmithKline makes a significant work part-time as Vice Chairman of Pharmaceuticals and special positive contribution to society around the world, through the advisor to the Group.
We would like to express our appreciation medicines, vaccines and healthcare products that we research, for his contribution to the company and in particular for his develop, manufacture and sell.
significant role in making the merger a success.
Our products must improve peoples lives and ensure a profitable On behalf of the Board and the Corporate Executive Team, we also and sustainable future for our business.
We also understand that thank you, our shareholders, for your support and hope that you stakeholders, including employees, want to know how we make share our enthusiasm for our company and look forward to its this profit, and need to be reassured of the sound ethical basis for continued success in 2003. our business.
Our focus on making a contribution to improving healthcare and alleviating suffering in the developing world has never been greater.
significant progress has been made towards tackling the enormous challenge of HIV AIDS.
By the end of 2002, we had secured some 120 arrangements to supply  HIV AIDS medicines to 50 of the worlds poorest countries.
Shipments of these medicines to the developing world continue to grow signicantly year on year.
In September 2002, we further reduced the preferential prices of our HIV AIDS medicines by up to 33 per cent.
Sir Christopher Hogg J P Garnier Chairman Chief Executive officer
