Chairman and Chief Executives overview Highlights of the year The Companys resilience and defensive qualities have enabled us to report pre-tax profits in line with last year despite tough trading conditions in our key US and UK markets.
We have benefited from our continuing focus on margin and cost control, lower nancing costs, the strength and commitment of our management team and employees, a healthy geographic mix and a clearly dened operating strategy.
Highlights of the year were an increase in margins in all our UK operations, accomplished through both price increases and operational efficiencies, and a greatly improved result in Australia.
These achievements have offset the effect of falling volumes in the USA and weaker markets in Asia.
Strategy The fundamentals of our strategy, which is reviewed annually by the board, remain unchanged.
We will continue to: focus on our core products of aggregates, ready-mixed concrete, concrete products and bricks invest further capital to reduce operating costs and increase efficiency make disciplined bolt-on acquisitions in markets with good demographics and structure enhance our long-term mineral reserves improve or dispose of underperforming assets The USA and UK will remain our principal markets.
The long-term outlook is good for both countries, in terms of population growth and the continuing need and support for infrastructure development.
These characteristics also underpin our business in Australia.
Ninety per cent Christopher Collins Chairman of our operating earnings in 2002 came from these Alan Murray Chief Executive three countries.
Operations Our operations, through the strength of the underlying asset base and our strong market positions, continue to generate powerful cash ow.
Free cash ow in 2002 was 479.3m, 7.6% up on the prior year.
We use this to pay dividends and reduce our borrowings: during the year we reduced net debt by 259.8m.
It also provides the capacity to supplement organic growth through Our strength is our consistent capital investment and bolt-on acquisitions.
ability to generate strong cash Over 90% of the acquisition spend in the six years since ow.
This enables us to reduce demerger is meeting or exceeding pro-forma expectations.
We completed a further 10 acquisitions last year for debt, invest in the business a total of 152.7m.
Integration of the largest of these and raise the dividend.
Choctaw Inc, the US concrete pipe and products manufacturer bought for 92.5m is proceeding ahead Christopher Collins, Chairman of schedule.
There are still many more opportunities for industry consolidation, particularly in the USA, where the top six aggregates companies have an estimated one-third of the market.
After a period of relatively modest activity, reecting the desire to conserve our financial resources, investment for growth will be a key theme for 2003.
Careful management of our asset portfolio is also a priority.
We made a number of disposals during the year, including 4 Chairman and Chief Executives overview our 50% share in North Texas Cement Company for 78.8m.
These proceeds, received after the year end, further strengthen our financial position.
In view of the heightened interest in US asbestos-related claims, in November 2002 we felt it was appropriate to provide investors with further information regarding our situation.
We have provided updated information as at December 31, 2002 in the full Annual Report.
Assuming that current trends continue, we do not expect that the costs of resolving such claims will have a material financial effect on the groups operations.
Dividend The board recommends a final dividend of 10.85p 9.55p per share see the shareholder information section for payment details.
This, together with the interim dividend paid last September, makes a total of 15.4p 14.0p for the year.
The annual increase of 10%, which reects a change to our policy, demonstrates our progressive approach to your dividend and our confidence in the cash generative nature of the business.
Over the past five years we Outlook have demonstrated our ability Looking ahead, market conditions in the USA are likely to deliver value from bolt-on to remain difficult, although continued margin focus should help to mitigate weakness in volumes and exchange rates.
This remains our Infrastructure, which drives 40% of our US business, has seen preferred route for growing lower state spending during 2002 which is likely to continue into 2003.
We are also in the final year of the TEA-21 the Company.
highway funding programme, but anticipate a slightly Alan Murray, Chief Executive higher six year plan to be enacted in due course.
Residential demand is likely to see a modest decline from the very high levels seen in recent years.
Industrial and commercial construction is not expected to recover during 2003.
Our operations in the UK and Australia will continue to provide some protection against short-term earnings pressure in the USA.
The UK Governments infrastructure programme should provide a welcome increase in expenditure.
Early indications are that we are beginning to see a gradual increase in activity in this area.
In Australia, residential demand has slowed in recent months but infrastructure and resource-related projects should increase during the year.
As a result, we would expect to see some further progress in our Australian operations in 2003.
We continue to work to high standards of corporate governance.
This means commitment to our stakeholders and full compliance with health and safety and environmental standards.
We have a clear vision, good prospects and the people and assets to take the business forward when the climate improves.
The fundamentals which underpin your company remain strong.
We are committed to creating long-term value for our shareholders.
Chairman and Chief Executives overview 5
