For the past two years we have been engaged in a generating 30 per cent of our output from these significant repositioning of the Group, building our facilities.
As well as the reduction in labour costs, future around businesses which can develop valuesignificant savings will also be generated by switching creating solutions for market-leading customers.
Slimming organisational IMI will be focused in just two areas, Fluid Control and structures, eliminating low margin product lines, and Retail Dispense, where innovative, knowledge-based streamlining administrative processes have resulted in solutions provide protection from low-priced a further reduction of 500 overhead positions by the competition, and where a highly targeted, blue chip end of 2002.
By 2004 we anticipate that our operating customer base provides the momentum for long cost base compared to 2000, will have reduced by term growth.
The sale of under-utilised property Delivering this repositioning requires us to: assets including the Witton site has yielded over i Reshape the business portfolio by exiting 30m in cash in the year.
commodity businesses, and making bolt-on With the savings generated, we have added acquisitions in our platform businesses: significantly to our customer development ii Significantly increase the resource dedicated to capabilities, this year alone bringing 140 top quality developing customer solutions and partnerships, whilst sales professionals through the IMI Academy: injecting minimising downstream operational costs through a further 5m into the enlargement of our three process simplification, the transfer of manufacturing to technology centres: and investing further in low cost economies, and the disposal of under-utilised e-commerce initiatives to transform our supply chain assets.
We are greatly encouraged by the impact In 2002 we have made considerable progress in both these initiatives are already having in building first class respects: customer relationships and stimulating higher growth i Of the businesses earmarked for disposal Building opportunities.
Products, we have sold both Copper Fittings and Two years into our repositioning we stand in good Copper Tube, to separate trade buyers, for a combined shape.
Much of the portfolio reshaping has been sum of 78m.
The major remaining business, Polypipe, completed: we are focused around a much smaller continues to generate good profits and excellent number of higher added value businesses, each with cashflow, and will only be sold when full value can be leading market positions in closely defined global extracted.
We reinvested 47m in acquiring Milanniches: we have a much greater proportion of our based STI for 4m, and Milwaukee-based DCI for 43m, assets and resources engaged in value-building welcome additions to our Fluid Controls and Retail activities with a high quality customer base: our Dispense platforms respectively.
Both businesses have operational cost base has been materially reduced: and made an excellent first year contribution.
the cash-generating qualities of our businesses have ii Following the 45m of cost incurred in 2001, we significantly strengthened the balance sheet.
have committed an additional 32m in 2002 in Although economic and political uncertainties bringing about the required redistribution of our assets continue to cloud the outlook, we are confident of our and resources within our platform businesses.
The future direction and our ability to deliver long term, required restructuring has now either been completed sustainable growth in shareholder value.
or provided for, and rationalisation costs in 2003 will revert to the more traditional amount of less than 10m per year.
Significant reductions in our cost base have been achieved, with six manufacturing plants now established in low cost economies three in Mexico, two in the Czech Republic, one in China collectively employing more than 1000 people, rising to 1500 by Martin Lamb Chief Executive the end of this year.
By the end of 2004 we will be 10 March 2003 4 chief executives review two years into our repositioning we stand in good shape Martin Lamb Chief Executive delivering value 5 IMI plc Annual Report 2002
