04 Chief Executives review from Peter Johnson The revised European Block Exemption legislation has turned out much as predicted and the opportunities for large, well financed groups to invest further with their chosen OEM partners are considerable.
We have had another successful year Changes in the European Block and have come a long way since Inchcape Exemption legislation have required all OEMs became a pure automotive services group to terminate their existing agreements with in mid 1999. distributors and dealers.
The revised legislation Our overseas businesses now have many has turned out much as we predicted and common characteristics: long term stable the opportunities for large, well financed relationships with quality Original Equipment groups to invest further with their chosen Manufacturer OEM partners, market OEM partners are considerable.
Many leading sales performances and outstanding OEMs have used the revised legislation to aftersales returns delivered by the highest revisit existing agreements with their current quality management.
retail partners and most now see fewer but In addition the success of our integrated much larger scale relationships as the way Distribution and Retail business model in forward.
We are in discussion with our key Hong Kong and Singapore has provided OEM partners in the UK and envisage a a template for our investments in Greece positive outcome, overall, for the Group.
Our investment in logistics, re-marketing It is in the UK market where Inchcape and refurbishment through the acquisition now has both its greatest challenges and of Eurofleet Ltd is an important strategic opportunities.
Much of our earlier investment move.
OEMs are constantly seeking, from in Retail, Business Services and alternative well funded and professionally managed sales channels will start to deliver growth companies, new and innovative ways allied to improved margins.
Graeme Potts to drive cost out of the supply chain.
arrival has strengthened our UK management Our Business Services operations can team.
Our balance sheet strength will successfully address this need.
allow us to act rapidly should suitable We remain confident of leveraging growth opportunities arise in either Retail the Business Services infrastructure into or Business Services.
Continental European markets within the next two years.
We see particular opportunities for our integrated logistics and re-marketing service in France and Germany, as OEMs continue to seek pan European solutions and partners.
As the problems of over capacity and inadequate returns continue to affect the OEMs, the key to gaining a competitive advantage will arise not only from delivering lower costs through greater efficiency, but increasingly through ever higher levels of customer satisfaction driven by brand strength, excellent products and outstanding levels of service.
It is here Inchcape offers an unrivalled track record to its OEM partners.
