Chairman and Chief Executives review continued Law and Tax Life Sciences Informas position as the leading provider of commercial law, In intellectual property, we launched Domain Names and The continued rapid rate of technological change and advertising spend decrease by 5%.
While significant editorial, shipping law, construction, intellectual property and healthcare Media World, and doubled delegate numbers at our leading increased funding of the life science sector, together with the marketing and branding benefits have already been realised information allowed us to deliver a solid and predictable profit Protecting the Media event.
Established IP products, including development of new products and growth in our existing between our existing conferences and the journal as a result from our English Language publications.
In addition, despite the industry-respected Trademark World and Patent World all brands, has helped our biotechnology conference and of its successful integration into the US life sciences division, the depressed nature of the international commercial market, showed continued growth.
In healthcare, continued investment publishing division deliver outstanding profit growth of 38% we believe that there are further opportunities for synergies our continental conference operations showed a creditable in brands such as the market-leading Medical Directory as well compared to 2001.
We have been one of the main information and economies of scale.
One of these opportunities will be performance by concentrating on maximising the profitability as leading newsletters such as Personal and Medical Injury providers in this area for more than eight years and we have the launch of BioTechniques Live!
- the first BioTechniques of market leading events.
Law Letter, enabled solid growth to be achieved.
grown with the market to our present strong positions in the branded conference.
This launch will occur in the first quarter pharmaceutical and biotech sectors in both Europe and the 2003, and will coincide with the 20th anniversary of this In shipping and commercial law, we remain market leaders due Profits from our taxation products and events grew through US.
We have been successful in building on our existing publication.
In addition we have launched a range of to our specialist titles including the Shipping and Commercial higher fees, lower breakevens and higher delegate numbers brands, launching new conferences, training courses, a trade supplements to compliment the magazine and we have Law Library range of reference books and looseleafs.
The in 2002, delivering successful conferences including Tax on show and developing new publications.
increased investment on the European focused edition of internationally renowned Lloyds Law Reports, delivered solid Shareholdings and Advanced Corporate Tax Planning.
In the journal, which has resulted in a significant boost to sales.
profit growth year on year because of the must have nature Holland, Euroforums Fiscaal up to Date remains one of In the US, our key events Drug Discovery Technology DDT We expect further growth from the European journal and from of its content and its position as the leading brand in maritime the leading electronic taxation information services for Dutch and Chips to Hits again delivered strong revenues, with two new titles, BioProcess International, leveraging off our and trade law.
In 2003 an updated CD and internet version, practitioners with a growing number of products on-line attendances and profits reaching expected targets.
DDT, held dominance in the biopharmaceutical manufacturing conference Lloyds Electronic Law Reports, will be relaunched which will and on CD.
The number of subscribers to the hardcopy in August in Boston, remains the leading commercial event in market, and PreClinica, which seeks to serve the underenable quicker searches and cross references to be made.
newsletters Fiscaal up to Date and Douane Update is the world for professionals in this field and exhibition bookings exploited area of translational research, which are being increasing steadily.
A new hardcopy newsletter Pensioen Alert for the 2003 event are already sold out.
Chips to Hits, our launched in the first quarter of 2003.
D&MD, our newsletter and Our construction law portfolio, including leading publications was also successfully launched.
annual conference and exhibition for the biochip market, reports business, saw profits hold steady on the year with the Construction Industry Law Letter, and Building Law Reports, was also successful, as were leading antibodies events, focus on new reports and increased marketing, which should exploited a growth in international construction projects and an In 2003 we expect to consolidate our position in key markets Antibody Engineering and Antibody Production, held in San yield significant growth in the coming year.
abundance of claims in the sector.
Our new product, Construction with a range of products linked to our conferences.
We also made a substantial push into the lifescience Directory, was particularly well received and is expected to make delighted with our Advanced EC Competition Law event, course business, launching over 40 training events designed Our UK operation enjoyed a strong performance from our a major contribution to our performance in 2003. delivering 15% growth and which allowed us to successfully to provide intensive and detailed small group instruction to lifesciences events, exceeding budgeted profit by over 30% launch the Competition Law Insight magazine in November.
professionals looking for strategies to overcome process and and showing a net profit improvement of 250% over 2001.
Other notable successes included our Dutch distance learning regulatory challenges.
Our UK events, largely focusing on legal and regulatory products, UK Legal Summer Schools, and our German events controls on biotechnology, included The Biocidal Products Tax Reform and Provision for Old Age.
Our Lifesciences publishing businesses, BioTechniques and Directive, and Protecting Biotech Inventions.
Long-standing D&MD Publications, performed very well.
BioTechniques, the annual events, including Drug Discovery Europe and InfoTech leading scientific peer-reviewed methods journal in bioresearch, Pharma, showed improved profits over the prior year.
Our acquired in early 2001, made significant gains in market share Continental European events, BioBusiness 2002 and German against all major competitors in a market that saw overall Trends in Biotechnology also performed well.
Fiscaal Pharmaceutical Pensions Today Biotechnology Farm Law Asthma Up to Date Newsletters IT Law Today Chemicals in China Beyond Viagra Chemicals on the web Infotech Pharma Informa Annual Report 2002 10 Informa Annual Report 2002 11 Financial review Group Results We have incurred an exceptional charge of 7m.
This Cash flow Turnover fell from 323million to 283million, a decrease of represents a provision of 4.2m to provide for future empty Informa uses operating cash flow as a percentage of Acquisitions and Disposals 12%.
This reflects the difficult conditions in the markets in property costs, 2.3m on senior operating board restructuring, operating profit as its key cash management measure.
During the year the Group spent 4m on acquistions.
Excluding goodwill amortisation operating cash flow as a majority of the payment 3.1m was paid for our US energy percentage of operating profit was 125% 2001:108%.
consultancy business on the completion of an earn-out period.
The analysis of revenues by media has altered with subscription Profit before tax fell from 15million to 12.1million.
Excluding In addition we made two small acquisitions during the period.
income, whether hard copy or electronic, becoming our largest goodwill amortisation and the exceptional items the profit Net debt fell from 119m to 96m at the end of 2002.
This These were for a Dutch magazine and a UK legal conference.
revenue stream and now accounting for 35% of total revenue before tax stayed level at 30.1million.
was due to several factors, most notably an improvement in 2001:32%.
Fees from delegates attending our conferences working capital and reduced tax and capital expenditure Tax fell to 34% 2001:36% of turnover as we cut the number of Earnings per share payments.
In addition we sold our Dutch office building for The Groups operating tax rate on profits excluding amortisation conferences we produced by 181 to 3,075.
Sponsorship and Adjusted earnings per share rose to 16.36p 2001:16.12p.
The net interest cost is covered 5.2 times by Group of goodwill and exceptional items was 31%.
This was below exhibition revenue associated with events fell to 12% of This is calculated after removing the amortisation of goodwill operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and the rate in 2001 of 33% which has been restated to comply revenue 2001:13%.
Advertising sales remained a low and the exceptional items.
Reported basic earnings per share exceptional items.
with the introduction of FRS 19. proportion of total revenue at only 12% 2001:12%, whilst were 3.74p 2001:4.07p.
other sales remained steady, accounting for the remainder of Treasury Policy Summary the Groups turnover.
Dividend Treasury activity is managed centrally and is principally The Group remains in robust financial health and we are A final dividend of 4.94p is proposed giving a total for the concerned with the monitoring of working capital, managing looking forward to another successful year.
By location of customer the revenues were 40% from year of 7.6p 2001:7.6p.
The recommended dividend is internal and external funding requirements and monitoring Continental Europe, 21% from the UK, 28% from the US and covered 2 times by earnings excluding goodwill amortisation and managing the Groups interest rate and foreign currency 11% from the Rest of the World.
and will be fully funded by cash flow from operations.
As in 2001, the Group reacted to the difficult market conditions Capital Expenditure The treasury operation is not a profit centre and its activities by adjusting the cost base to reflect the reduced turnover The Group significantly reduced its fixed asset expenditure are carried out in accordance with the policy guidelines levels.
Around 9% of the Groups workforce were made during 2002 to 5million from 15.8million in 2001.
This was established by the Board which are detailed in note 32 to the redundant at a cost of 2.5m.
This brings the total number of mainly due to the completion of the implementation of SAP.
staff who have left the Group to 25% of the workforce employed SAP has replaced existing bespoke systems covering the at 31 March 2001.
Apart from employment costs we have registration of delegates, the order processing and management Foreign Currency managed to cut our direct costs so that they remain around of subscriptions and human resource information software.
A significant portion of the Groups revenues, operating 50% of revenue.
We have also managed to sublet several profits and cash flows are in currencies other than sterling.
properties which we no longer required.
These costs are The reported earnings of the Group are affected by the value included before reaching the operating profit before goodwill of sterling relative to overseas currencies, the most significant amortisation.
The expected cost savings of approximately being the Euro and the United States Dollar.
Earnings were 8m largely benefited 2002. reduced on translation into Sterling by 0.8million when compared to 2001 at constant currency.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation Adjusted eps and exceptional items m During the year we have succeeded 44.6 2002 16.36p 16.36p 2002 in maintaining 43.9 2001 16.12p 2001 profitability, 51.1 2000 23.17p 2000 maximising cashflow 38.9 1999 18.79p 1999 and reducing external borrowing levels.
31.8 1998 16.34p 1998 Net debt reduced by 23m to Operating profit, before Operating cashflow improves 96m 2001:119m amortisation of goodwill and from 108% of operating profit exceptional items but after to 125% interest unchanged at 30.1m Jim Wilkinson Finance Director Informa Annual Report 2002 12 Informa Annual Report 2002 13
