ANNUAL REPORT 2002 3 Chief Executive Officers statement Dear Shareholders, that continues to operate reliably and profitably in a positive market.
In the Our financial performance in 2002 Middle East we have a very healthy and was exceptional and I am very proud growing portfolio of fully contracted of the people at International Power assets.
In continental Europe our assets who delivered this result, despite the continue to perform well, and this market general turmoil in the independent is also attractive as it offers new growth power generation sector that followed opportunities.
The benefit of our the collapse of Enron.
We demonstrated international diversity has given us our ability to overcome challenges and strength over the past year that our will continue to take advantage of the counterparts lacked and, over time, it And, finally, we will move aggressively but opportunities that present themselves.
should continue to give us a healthy prudently to use the very real competitive Following this note you will find a report degree of protection against the inherent advantage that International Power explaining our current businesses across local cycles of individual markets.
presently enjoys, in order to strengthen the globe and highlighting our growth the business for the ultimate benefit of Our financial strength is our competitive opportunities.
The report will also give shareholders and other stakeholders in advantage at this time when access to you some indication as to how we met International Power.
capital is the single most important issue some of the unusual challenges that for our industry.
We seek to take We aim to make a difference.
confronted us over the year.
In the fourth advantage of this strength to enhance our quarter of 2002 alone, your Company position and grow the Company through responded quickly and effectively to both, acquisitions and greenfield projects.
adversity such as the physical collapse of the boiler house roof at EOP and Looking ahead, we are a wholesale power the financial collapse of TXU Europe.
generation company and that is what we will remain.
Any other business venture I assumed executive responsibility for your we undertake will be very closely related Company at a pivotal time.
Our financial David Crane to it.
We will continue to strive to achieve performance in the first three years of our Chief Executive Officer the best possible financial results from our existence has been increasingly robust.
But business through revenue optimisation we now face tough conditions in two of and judicious cost cutting.
We will our key markets, the US and the UK.
This continue to demand the best possible has caused us to revise our earnings health and safety environment at all guidance to a lower level for next year.
locations for the benefit not only of the Nonetheless we believe that we will personnel of International Power, but also emerge out of this environment in the for the benefit of our guests and strongest competitive position that we neighbours.
We will continue to support have enjoyed to date.
and participate actively in the local Our other key markets namely Australia, communities that host the Companys the Middle East and continental Europe power plants for the betterment of all.
In Australia, we have a merchant portfolio
