CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW During 2002, AMEC made further significant progress in its strategy of building an international engineering services business founded on a steady base of recurring revenues from longer-term client relationships.
AMEC is financially sound, has a balanced portfolio of activities, excellent client partnerships and is well positioned to benefit from its international presence.
Major markets in oil and gas, transport and infrastructure are strong and offer significant potential for growth.
Against the boards original expectations, results for 2002 were disappointing.
AMEC faced challenges in certain of its industrial markets, took action to close or sell a number of noncore or under performing small businesses and focused on cost reduction.
Pre-tax profit for 2002 was in line with the boards revised expectations at the time of the December 2002 trading statement.
The average net debt during 2002 was reduced and the order book has strengthened with several large contracts being awarded in recent weeks.
MARKET REVIEW In addition to the analysis of AMECs activities into Client Support Services, Capital Projects and Investments which appears in the Financial Review, a review of sales and orders by market has also been introduced to present AMECs key activities more clearly and provide a perspective on its ongoing performance and growth prospects.
Markets are defined in terms of work performed for clients in the oil and gas, transport, infrastructure and industrial sectors.
Separately identified is AMECs regional services business, which serves clients across all of AMECs key market sectors and follows a distinct local business model.
This market review is based on the pro forma inclusion of SPIE at 100 per cent, in order to provide a meaningful basis for future comparisons.
OIL AND GAS Sir Peter Mason KBE Oil and gas, with sales of about 1.0 billion, generated 19 per cent of total turnover in 2002.
Chief Executive This is a strong part of AMECs business, with a sound base of long-term operational service contracts and major projects.
The sector has enjoyed an excellent intake of new orders in the first part of 2003.
Offshore activities and pipelines continue to lead growth in this market sector and encouraging prospects are also seen in downstream, following a recent period of relatively quiet activity.
AMEC is well positioned with leading oil industry clients as they move to invest in the development of new deepwater, offshore production areas.
BP alone plans to spend more than US$20 billion over the next five years on new profit centres including West Africa, Azerbaijan, the Gulf of Mexico and Asia Pacific all areas where AMEC is already well established.
AMEC IS FINANCIALLY SOUND, HAS A BALANCED PORTFOLIO OF BUSINESS ACTIVITIES, EXCELLENT CLIENT PARTNERSHIPS AND IS WELL POSITIONED TO BENEFIT FROM ITS INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE.
Based on total turnover with the pro forma inclusion of SPIE at 100 per cent.
6 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 TRANSPORT Transport also generated about 1.0 billion, or 19 per cent, of total turnover in 2002.
AMECs work includes services and projects for clients in rail, highways and airports.
Rail is currently the leading growth element in the transport sector.
In the UK, rail maintenance activities are at unprecedented levels and a number of important new capital project orders have been received.
Opportunities in continental Europe for high-speed projects, rail renewals, municipal tramways and other work are considered equally promising.
AMEC continues to win a leading share of the growing UK market for highways and, if the Government fulfils its commitment to increase substantially its spending in this area, the outlook is more promising than it has been for many years.
Airports continue to be affected by the events of 11 September 2001, but this market is also providing AMEC with growth opportunities.
The company is focused on US homeland security services at airports, since spending is directed to these immediate priorities.
AMECs work on 100 per cent hold baggage screening at Logan Airport, Boston is one example in this area.
Activity levels in certain areas remain high, as seen in a new partnership agreement with BAA, with the potential for 800 million of activity over ten years, together with increasing levels of activity at Heathrows Terminal 5.
HIGH OUTPUT TRACK RENEWAL Utilising industry leading expertise and INFRASTRUCTURE specialist equipment manufactured to meet AMECs work in the infrastructure sector includes construction and maintenance of UK specifications, the AMEC SPIE rail business public and private sector buildings, particularly in defence, detention and urban renewal.
will provide high output track renewal across Infrastructure represented about 1.2 billion, or 22 per cent, of total turnover in 2002 and the UK for Network Rail.
includes much of AMECs UK work in urban renewal and non-transport PFI projects.
In September 2002, AMEC was selected in joint venture as preferred bidder for the seven year 460 million Regional Prime Contract AMEC share 50 per cent for property services to the Ministry of Defences Scottish Estate, which includes some 400 facilities.
Growth potential is also seen in the US defence sector, where AMEC is well established with key clients such as the Pentagon and various branches of the Armed Forces.
AMEC continues to be active in PFI PPP and recently took two projects to financial close.
AMEC is currently bidding on a further five contracts.
INDUSTRIAL The industrial market sector includes work for a number of private sector industries and generated some 0.9 billion, or 16 per cent, of total turnover in 2002.
In December 2002, AMEC signalled its concern at the impact of a rapid downturn in industrial spending and indicated delays or cancellations on some 20 industrial projects worth more than US$500 million in total.
Project delays affected both the Americas design and engineering services and UK activities and impacted their results during 2002.
At present, AMEC remains cautious about the outlook for this market sector in 2003, and its strategy has been to reduce costs and maximise long-standing client relationships.
REGIONAL SERVICES AMECs multi-market regional services businesses generated sales of about 1.3 billion and contributed 24 per cent of total turnover in 2002.
This segment includes the earth and environmental business in the Americas and SPIEs electrical, HVAC, communications, mechanical and industrial services activities delivered locally across continental Europe.
Regional services follow a distinct business model focused on repeat business and ongoing support for numerous clients at the local level.
Historically, it has been a stable business characterised by a very large volume of small or renewable contracts.
AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW AMECs objectives in this sector are to sell more services to existing customers and to continued expand the network geographically.
A good example is the recent selection of AMEC by the US Air Force to provide environmental and engineering support within a long-term framework agreement.
Another is SPIEs communications services, which benefited from the acquisition of Matra Nortel Communications in 2002 and has now entered into distribution agreements with EADS TELECOM, Nortel Networks, Siemens and CISCO.
ORDER BOOK AND MARKET PROSPECTS The oil and gas market remains strong.
The order book at 31 December 2002 was just over 1 billion, equivalent to about one years sales.
The order book has been boosted recently by contract awards in North-East Russia, South Korea, West Africa, the UK and the Gulf of Mexico.
Upstream and pipelines activities are driving growth in this sector, which is expected to remain buoyant for the foreseeable future.
The transport sector is also strong, with the year-end order book standing at about 1 billion, again around one years sales.
The order book has recently been increased by major contracts for the Docklands Light Railway extension, A1 M motorway and various contracts for Network Rail.
Prospects in rail and highways are particularly promising.
After taking account of the 400 million fall in the Construction Management order book as a result of the planned downsizing and adjusting the December 2002 order book for new contracts recently announced in other areas of the sector, the infrastructure order book would have been about 600 million, similar to the level reported in 2001.
The outlook for defence, health and other public buildings continues to be encouraging.
The order book situation in industrial reflects the sharp downturn in investment seen in the second half of 2002 and in the fourth quarter in particular.
At 31 December 2002, the industrial order book stood at some 300 million, down only slightly on the previous year.
The reduction in the order book would be more apparent but for the large volume of shortterm work carried out for industrial clients.
Of over US$500 million of projects announced as deferred or cancelled in December 2002, around US$250 million, mostly power projects, is now seen as cancelled: US$50 million is still deferred: US$150 million is underway and US$50 million is presently very active.
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS In contrast with the situation in the industrial sector, the position elsewhere is very different, AMEC continues to be active in PPP and with new projects recently announced expected to be worth in excess of 1.5 billion.
Further recently took the Docklands Light Railway contract announcements are expected shortly.
The order book in regional services at any point in time is not a guide to prospects, with order intake and sales in a given period being more meaningful.
At 30 June 2002, orders and sales in regional services were comfortably ahead of the previous year but slowed in the second half to end the year very much in line with 2001, at around 1.3 billion.
MAJOR MARKETS IN OIL AND GAS, TRANSPORT AND INFRASTRUCTURE ARE STRONG AND OFFER SIGNIFICANT POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH.
With the pro forma inclusion of SPIE at 100 per cent.
8 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 SUSTAINABILITY In its first annual sustainability report, published in association with the 2001 annual report and accounts, AMEC set out its core sustainability principles and commitments for sustainability measurement and reporting.
In 2002, significant effort was made to gather, analyse and validate relevant information from across AMEC.
In addition to measuring its progress against its published indicators, AMEC sought to identify opportunities for improvement.
AMECs board and senior management took time to listen to company stakeholders and to communicate the importance of its sustainability principles as fundamental elements of the AMEC way of doing business.
Sustainability issues were more formally incorporated into AMECs project tender review and risk management processes.
The board also established an ethics and compliance committee and appointed a senior manager with responsibility for business ethics and compliance throughout AMEC.
AMEC believes that these and other steps taken in 2002, including its delivery of environmental and related engineering services for clients worldwide, are assisting AMEC to improve identification and management of risks and to help meet its stated objective of building a strong, profitable and sustainable business for the future.
Details of AMECs PIPELINE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION sustainability programme and performance will be published in the 2002 sustainability Experience of working in environmentally report and will also be available at www.
sensitive locations was a vital requirement for Spie Capag in working on the oil pipeline OUTLOOK from Chad to Cameroon.
In December 2002, the board stated that, whilst it expected AMEC to benefit significantly from the addition of SPIE in 2003, conditions in certain markets suggested a pause in organic growth.
Industrial markets remain a concern and the UK property development market is expected to be challenging before levels of activity on major UK regeneration schemes increase in 2004.
Notwithstanding its cautious stance on prospects in these markets, AMEC is taking advantage of opportunities in the oil and gas, transport and infrastructure markets.
With a strong financial position, AMEC has flexibility to develop its existing markets both organically and through small strategic acquisitions.
The board remains of the view that prospects for 2003 are in line with the position taken in December 2002.
In summary, the last 12 months have seen AMEC take further important steps in its development, with the company now being firmly established as a world class international engineering services business.
The company is well positioned in its major markets, the majority of which remain strong, and is on the right side of significant barriers to entry.
AMEC is financially sound, and subject to current geopolitical uncertainty, recently announced contracts give increased confidence in the future.
Sir Peter Mason KBE Chief Executive 6 March 2003 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 9
