Sir William Castell Chief Executive Chief Executives review 2002 was a watershed year for Amersham.
We achieved our goal of becoming one company focused on enabling molecular medicine.
The process of transformation began in 1997, when we merged Amershams businesses with Nycomed, now Amersham Health, and Pharmacia Biotech, now Amersham Biosciences.
This gave us the global franchise and breadth of skills in medical diagnostics and life sciences that are critical for delivering our strategy in molecular medicine skills that we have since built on and strengthened in two fully-fledged, profitable businesses.
Our purchase of the remaining equity in Amersham Biosciences in March 2002 completed the merger process.
We now have full ownership of our three main business areas in medical diagnostics, protein separations and discovery systems.
This enables us to draw on the total skills base in molecular medicine across the company to drive towards our long-term vision of enabling personalised medicine.
Our newly formed Portfolio Committee plays an important role in enabling innovation across the company.
Composed of colleagues at the most senior level in the company as well as distinguished external scientists, the Portfolio Committee oversees the direction of science in Amersham and approves the investment in research, ensuring that we stay on track both commercially and strategically as we go forward.
Amershams business maintained the good momentum we have seen in previous years.
Our turnover, at constant exchange rates, grew seven per cent, with sales in Amersham Health up by eight per cent to 948 million and Amersham Biosciences sales up six per cent to 670 million.
Trading profit increased by seven per cent to 494 million.
After an investment in R&D of 184 million, corresponding to approximately 11 per cent of total sales, we had an operating profit, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, of 310 million, up seven per cent at constant exchange rates.
We continue to drive our businesses for profits and cash, and we saw strong performance in 2002 in medical diagnostics, with over 20 per cent growth in sales of our patented diagnostic products, and in protein separations, driven by excellent growth in bioprocess systems for the manufacture of biopharmaceuticals.
Each of these business areas has a global 1 market share of 35 to 40 per cent in growing markets, and they consistently deliver good sales and profits.
Our discovery systems business area is fundamental to our focus on molecular medicine, as it develops the innovative technologies that will feed future advances in life sciences 1 Company estimates 24 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 and medical diagnostics.
We intend for this business area to as Pfizer.
Eventually, as we learn more about genetic variation, contribute to profits as well as innovation.
In 2002, discovery we will have diagnostics that can identify individuals at high systems financial performance did not improve as rapidly as risk for development of particular diseases or side-effects of we would like, due to market developments in the life science given drugs.
Further we can monitor the expression of genes market, and a restructuring programme has been put in place and proteins within cells.
Together this will allow physicians to accelerate its move into profitability during 2004.
The R&D to segment patient populations according to their genetic portfolio will be refocused on a smaller number of high-value makeup, leading to tailored prevention and therapies.
products and systems and we will drive cost efficiencies by reducing the number of employees and consolidating activities Our protein separations business area grew sales by 15 per cent on fewer sites.
Amersham will incur one-off costs in the range of in 2002, accelerating throughout the year as new production 45-50 million, which are expected to result in savings running plants for manufacturing biopharmaceuticals were brought on at the rate of 30-35 million per annum by the end of 2004. stream and new drugs entered clinical trials.
There are over 100 biopharmaceuticals on the market and our bioprocess We continue to invest in our businesses to expand capacity instruments and media are used in the manufacture of over and support growth.
In medical diagnostics, we expanded 90 per cent of these products.
In addition, two new areas manufacturing capacity at several sites in 2002, increasing contributed to the progress, the rapid growth in development manufacturing efficiencies and enabling us to meet the growing of DNA medicines and sales of our membrane separation demand for our diagnostic products.
The operating profit was 107 million, up from expansion of the Lindesnes Norway contrast media plant has 96 million in 2001.
To increase the visibility of this business been approved, to be completed in 2005.
Protein separations area, Peter Ehrenheim, President of protein separations, now also benefited from capacity expansion in 2002 and further reports directly to me.
Acquisitions in Amersham Biosciences during the year included a controlling stake in In discovery systems, we have an excellent technology base Cimarron in informatics, two filtration companies which added in genomics, proteomics and bioassays, backed by a growing membrane separation to our bioprocess product offering in informatics capability.
Genomics moved into profit in 2002, protein separations, and the CodeLink pre-arrayed slides benefiting from restructuring steps taken at the beginning of business, which in addition to its use in gene expression has 2002 and the Applera litigation settlement.
Discovery systems significant further potential for leverage into proteomics experienced a significant decline in instrument sales as a result and diagnostics.
of reduced capital spending by pharmaceutical companies.
Overall, although sales of reagents, consumables and software Amersham Health is a global leader in medical diagnostics remained good, sales in discovery systems were down one per and our four leading brands Omnipaque, Visipaque, cent and this business area had an operating loss of 32 million.
Omniscan and Myoview account for 65 per cent of sales.
Andrew Carr, President of Amersham Biosciences, is focusing Our patented portfolio of medical diagnostic products grew on discovery systems and this will strengthen performance sales by 22 per cent in 2002, surpassing sales of our management as it moves towards profitability.
unpatented products, for the first time, in the second half of the year.
Amersham Healths operating profit was up nine per In December 2002, Peter Loescher joined the company as cent to 256 million, growing at a faster rate than sales, and President of Amersham Health.
Peter, most recently head of operating margins improved over those of 2001, driven by Aventis business in Japan and with many years of experience product mix and manufacturing efficiencies.
in the international pharmaceutical industry, brings additional strength and diversity to our executive management team.
New studies are supporting or extending the clinical usefulness He is also an Executive Director on the Board and a member of our top three patented medical diagnostic products.
In of our Portfolio Committee.
cardiac angiography, Visipaque has been shown to have a significantly improved renal safety profile compared to other 2002 marked the 20th anniversary of Amershams privatisation, X-ray products.
Our heart diagnostic, Myoview, is now and it is illuminating to consider just how dramatically our approved for use in breast tumour imaging, and our magnetic world has changed since 1982.
Twenty years ago, Amersham resonance agent, Omniscan, is being developed for the had a turnover of 63 million from its core business in diagnosis of cardiovascular disease.
In addition to life cycle radioactive products.
Today, our turnover exceeds 1.6 billion projects, Amersham Health has implemented changes in its and we are world leaders in medical diagnostics and in life R&D organisation to improve productivity and significantly sciences.
We played a part in the sequencing of the human reduce the time to market for projects in the pipeline.
This has genome a monumental scientific achievement, science fiction also involved reallocating resources to projects with the 20 years ago.
In 1982, there were no biopharmaceutical drugs.
No one imagined being able to screen 1,000,000 potential drug compounds a day.
Formal confirmation of Parkinsons disease Our research in medical diagnostics is focused on the was only possible at post-mortem, there was no molecular development of molecular diagnostics, targeted towards major diagnostic to aid in diagnosis.
Our innovation has enabled diseases such as cancer, Alzheimers disease and heart disease.
these advances in healthcare and many more.
These new molecular diagnostics will improve the way medicine is delivered in the future and our company is among Innovation, combined with focused management attention the leaders, working not only in our own research laboratories on the commercial opportunities in our global marketplace, but also, through our Imanet network of imaging research has enabled us to make good progress in 2002, as the following centres, in collaboration with pharmaceutical companies such detailed review of our business shows.
Amersham plc 25 Peter Loescher President, Amersham Health Amersham Health Amersham Health is a market-leading, global business In X-ray diagnostics, sales were 335 million, up eight per cent.
specialising in the field of in vivo diagnostic products for the Sales in magnetic resonance imaging MRI totalled 97 million, early and accurate detection of disease.
Today our products up 17 per cent.
The radiopharmaceutical diagnostic business are primarily used to aid in the diagnosis of anatomical and grew 14 per cent to 269 million.
functional abnormalities of soft tissue within the body.
Increasingly, however, Amersham is developing products that Therapy sales were down by 9 million to 62 million in 2002, detect changes in cells at the molecular level.
Such changes impacted by continuing price pressure in the US market for usually occur well before symptoms or functional changes brachytherapy seed implants for prostate cancer treatment.
However, sales in Europe continued to grow strongly through the opening of new centres using our patented stranded seed We focus on the management of heart disease, circulatory product, Rapid Strand.
disease and stroke: degeneration of the brain such as is seen in Alzheimers disease and Parkinsons disease: lung disease Production and a range of cancers.
In addition, we are a major provider We achieved further significant milestones in bringing more of therapy products to treat prostate and thyroid cancer.
of our production in house, which improves process control as well as manufacturing cost efficiency.
As the cost of healthcare continues to rise and populations age, governments and healthcare providers increasingly recognise In September, we opened the extension to our secondary the value of investment in early and accurate diagnosis, in manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland and the first shipment order to most effectively manage therapeutic intervention and of Omnipaque and Omniscan products into the US started its associated costs.
This, together with increased capability and the same month.
A major upgrade for the production of our numbers of scanning machines, greater incidence of disease leading radiopharmaceutical, Myoview, was successfully and improved medical practices which rely on the completed at Gloucester, UK at mid-year and we also received identification of the underlying cause of disease, continues FDA approval to supplement Myoview production at our Oslo, to drive growth and demand for our products.
In 2002, turnover increased by eight per cent to 948 million, In primary manufacturing, the investment in bulk iohexol driven by sales of our portfolio of patented diagnostic products, capacity completed in 2001 at Lindesnes, Norway showed up 22 per cent to 354 million.
In the second half of the year, major volume benefits with record yields achieved by the end sales of patented diagnostics surpassed those of our unpatented of the year.
A major 47 million project at Lindesnes to source products for the first time, even though sales of our unpatented increased volumes of a significant intermediate for contrast diagnostic products also grew by five per cent in 2002. media production in-house was approved in June and will, when completed, help to deliver further unit cost reductions.
Trading profit increased 10 per cent to 351 million, driven by growth in higher margin products and manufacturing In North America, we added five new radiopharmacies to our efficiencies.
Our total spend on researching new molecules, radiopharmacy distribution network, bringing the number of developing new products and extending established products Amersham owned pharmacies to 30 and the total to 187, into new indications rose 14 per cent to 95 million.
After R&D giving us excellent customer reach and coverage.
expenses, our operating profit was 256 million, up nine per cent.
Excluding profits from the sale of the TARC research Portfolio development facility in 2001, operating profit grew 11 per cent.
The Our four largest products Omnipaque and Visipaque operating margin of 26.9 per cent was slightly higher than in X-ray, Omniscan in MRI and Myoview in the 26.1 per cent achieved in 2001. radiopharmaceutical imaging are used in a number of disease areas.
Life cycle management of these products is key, and we Excluding Japan, total sales of medical diagnostic products were continue to extend their usefulness through new indications good in all regions, growing by 60 million to 723 million.
and innovative packaging and presentations.
In Japan, despite a modest volume increase, sales fell six per cent following a reduction in in-market prices as a result of the Significant progress was made during the year in refocusing our Japanese governments biennial pharmaceutical price review.
This R&D efforts towards molecular diagnostics, and we now have affected bulk sales of iohexol the raw material for Omnipaque a higher number of projects for molecular diagnosis of human X-ray diagnostic into Japan, which were down 13 per cent.
pathology in development than at any time in the past.
We are 26Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 concentrating on products that can aid the detection and gauge the effectiveness of ongoing treatment in our four areas of focus: cardiology, neurology, oncology and pulmonology.
Cardiology Cardiovascular disease continues to be one of the most rapidly expanding disease areas globally and a major cause of death in North America and Europe.
Amersham offers a broad range of products across the range of modalities to enable physicians to understand the health of a patients heart.
Myoview is our leading radiopharmaceutical diagnostic for visualising the supply of blood to the heart, with sales of 133 million in 2002, up 26 per cent.
In 2001, this product was approved for use with pharmacological stress agents.
In 2002 we completed a phase III trial with Myoview for a new cardiac indication, left ventricular function, and the file has been submitted to the US regulatory authorities.
The safety profile of our third generation X-ray diagnostic, through cellular change in the brain, and to distinguish this Visipaque, was further strengthened through a landmark study from a similar disease, Essential Tremor.
DaTSCAN is also being carried out by the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden in developed for the differentiation of Lewy body from other forms 2002 and published in the prestigious New England Journal of of dementia.
Based on supporting proof-of-concept data from Medicine in February 2003.
The NEPHRIC study showed that external studies, a revised development programme has been Visipaque significantly reduces the relative risk of developing initiated to greatly reduce time-to-market and we will proceed contrast media-induced impairment of renal function, a serious directly to phase III studies of DaTSCAN for this new indication.
clinical problem in some patient groups.
Sales of Visipaque grew 18 per cent to 91 million in 2002.
The X-ray diagnostic A technetium-based product, Trodat, also for the diagnosis of Omnipaque, which remains the worlds best selling in vivo Parkinsons disease, is being developed for the US market and diagnostic product after 20 years in the market, reached sales all pre-clinical milestones have been met to date.
of 222 million, up six per cent.
Cancer We successfully completed phase II trials to extend the use Myoview, our radiopharmaceutical diagnostic, obtained of our MRI product Omniscan in cardiac perfusion and for approval for a new indication in Europe for use in breast monitoring blood flow through the renal arteries.
Phase III tumour imaging in 2002.
Breast cancer is one of the most studies in the US and Europe are being planned and should common cancers in women, and while advances have been commence towards the end of 2003. made in breast cancer treatment, the success of these treatments is highly dependent upon early and accurate In the US and Europe, myocardial perfusion has been the diagnosis of the functional status of the disease.
Such diagnosis primary target market for the development of Sonazoid, can now be achieved with the use of Myoview.
The use of ultrasound for this indication has been limited by the slow development The new chemical entity NC100692 for the imaging of of sufficiently robust imaging procedures.
Therefore, although angiogenesis blood supply to a tumour and other potential Sonazoid has shown excellent safety data, a decision has been indications has progressed well in its pre-clinical safety, taken to suspend work in the US and Europe and to continue pharmacology and formulation stages.
to focus on Optison, our ultrasound product which is marketed for improved visualisation of the surfaces of the heart muscle.
Pulmonology In Japan, the development of Sonazoid by our partner, Daiichi Lung disorders involve a range of problems, from chronic Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. continues.
The first use of Sonazoid conditions such as asthma to sudden death due to pulmonary imaging in Japan will be established in the liver disease market.
We are beginning to see excellent results from our Thrombus agent, NC100668, which moved into phase II trials In its first full year under Amershams ownership, Optison in April.
This radiopharmaceutical agent has the potential achieved excellent results with sales of 9 million in the new, to identify patients with pulmonary embolism earlier than yet emerging, ultrasound contrast media market.
In North other diagnostic techniques.
We also continue to develop the America, we have built a specialised sales force for developing technology relating to Spin Signal, using Helispin to enable this new market through focused education and by working early detection of lung disease through high-resolution with key opinion leaders.
EU marketing authorisation for ventilation imaging of gases using MRI.
Optison was granted in June.
Developments in PET imaging Neurology The use of positron-emission tomography PET for the early Omniscan, our leading MRI product, is used in neurology to detection of tumours is becoming widely accepted, using detect stroke, brain tumours and other brain abnormalities.
fluoro-deoxyglucose FDG as the imaging agent.
Progress is Omniscan continues to be a market leader in this area and being made in our collaboration with General Electric Medical is the number one non-ionic MRI contrast medium sold Systems on the development of a solid-phase chemistry throughout the world, achieving sales of 96 million in 2002, delivery system for use in an FDG cassette.
collaboration, we will be able to provide hospitals and clinics with PET imaging products such as FDG, with consistently high DaTSCAN, a molecular diagnostic, is Amershams newest entrant quality.
We are also working to develop new PET diagnostics for to the field of neuro-imaging.
It is the only registered product neurological indications.
enabling physicians to objectively identify Parkinsons disease Amersham plc 27 Dr Andrew Carr President, Amersham Biosciences Amersham Biosciences Nihon Medi-Physics NMP, our joint venture with Sumitomo Amersham Biosciences is a leading global provider of products Chemical in Japan, is planning to invest 68 million in and services used in gene, protein and cell research, drug manufacturing facilities to deliver PET diagnostic products to discovery and development, and biopharmaceutical key medical centres in Japan.
NMP aims to construct six new manufacturing.
Comprising two business areas, discovery manufacturing facilities to supplement its three existing sites.
systems and protein separations, we bridge the gap between Under current regulations NMP expects to gain a six-year life sciences and healthcare.
In discovery systems, we provide exclusivity period in the Japanese market for its first PET high throughput systems to help researchers in industry and diagnostic product.
academia understand the genetic and molecular basis of disease and speed up their drug development.
In protein We continue to expand our Imanet network of imaging separations, we provide research and manufacturing research centres, which began in 2001 with the formation of technologies that enable pharmaceutical and biotech a joint venture with the Medical Research Council in the UK.
companies to bring new biological drugs to the market.
In 2002 we added a second Imanet centre in conjunction with Together, our activities cover the entire gene to drug spectrum.
the University of Uppsala, Sweden.
In February 2003, we established a new centre in Finland, TRIS Turku Research In 2002, we undertook a number of strategic initiatives.
We Imaging Solutions Oy, which will work in partnership with acquired two filtration companies in the US, adding membrane Turku PET Centre.
Imanet provides diagnostic services, including separation to our product range in industrial-scale protein PET, to assist the pharmaceutical industry in monitoring the separations.
We strengthened our capability in informatics effectiveness of new drugs during the development stage.
through the acquisition of a controlling stake in our long-term This helps us identify new diagnostic molecules for use in partner, Cimarron.
We bought the CodeLink pre-arrayed very specific therapeutic applications, and in January 2002 slides technology from Motorola, building our strength in gene we announced a major research collaboration with Pfizer to expression and providing us with further opportunities in achieve this.
With contractual work for the majority of the genotyping, proteomics and diagnostics.
In addition, we worlds top pharmaceutical companies in addition to the launched important new products in proteomics and bioassays.
strategic collaboration with Pfizer, Imanet is progressing well financially as well as scientifically.
The R&D expenditure in Market conditions were difficult in the life sciences discovery Imanet, which in 2002 included an incremental spend of systems market in 2002.
Pharmaceutical companies, 3 million, is fully recovered by its revenues.
particularly in the US, saw their sales and profits threatened by patent expirations, generic competition and market pricing, and as a result they spent markedly less on life science research instrumentation.
We also saw fewer start-up companies emerging from the biotech sector, reduced later stage public funding and more caution on spending by companies in new areas such as high throughput proteomics.
Importantly, customer spending on consumables, reagents and software remained good for all areas of our business, helping to offset a significant decline in instrument sales.
Pharmaceutical companies continued to invest in research and development, and we saw good take-up of new instruments that were viewed as truly enabling and that significantly improved the drug development process, particularly in the later stages.
Across the breadth of our global franchise, we saw good sales growth in Europe and Japan.
The market picture was quite different for protein separations, where continued strong demand for biopharmaceutical drugs led to good growth in sales of both engineering-based bioprocess systems and the separations media used in the manufacture of these drugs.
Indeed, one of the biggest concerns for our biopharmaceutical customers has been the lack of 28 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 manufacturing capacity, and new plants are being commissioned Sales in 2002 were 394 million, down one per cent, impacted or existing facilities expanded to meet the growing demand.
by market conditions, notably the slowdown in pharmaceutical company spending on capital equipment.
Instrument sales, With protein separations continuing to be a strong growth representing about one quarter of discovery systems sales, driver, total sales in Amersham Biosciences in 2002 were were down significantly compared with 2001.
However, 670 million, up six per cent.
Trading profit increased by customer spending on consumables, reagents and software one per cent to 163 million.
As planned, the rate of growth in remained good.
Discovery systems had an operating loss of R&D expenditure was held back, with investment of 88 million, 32 million, including the dilutive impact of the CodeLink and up three per cent.
Operating profit was flat at 75 million.
Excluding this, the operating loss was Excluding the dilutive impact of the CodeLink and Cimarron unchanged from 2001. acquisitions, operating profit grew nine per cent, benefiting from the excellent margins in protein separations and the The steps taken in our genomics business at the beginning of settlement in February of the Applera patent litigation.
2002, together with the Applera litigation settlement, moved genomics into profit for the year.
We are the market leader in Protein separations enzymology as applied in genomics, and our good sales of Our protein separations business area is the market leader in reagents and consumables not only reduce our exposure to the chromatography systems instruments, software and media for market slowdown in instrumentation sales, but also underpin the purification of proteins on a laboratory and manufacturing our vision of developing technologies to enable personalised scale.
The good growth in this market is driven by the increasing medicine.
TempliPhi, the DNA template preparation kit, number and volume of biopharmaceuticals such as insulin, continued to make good progress.
All of the five major public monoclonal antibodies and vaccines on the market or in genome centres now use TempliPhi, with three of them the clinical trials.
Our products are used in the manufacture of Joint Genome Institute, the Whitehead Institute, and Baylor over 90 per cent of these biologically-based drugs.
College of Medicine using it in daily sequence production.
It is also seeing very good acceptance in Japan.
New products Protein separations sales in 2002 were 276 million, up based on this technology are in development, and the first of 15 per cent, driven by excellent growth in bioprocess sales these, GenomiPhi, will be launched in 2003 for use in whole and including first-time benefit from filtration or membrane genome amplification.
Operating profit was up from 96 million to 107 million.
Our operating margin was 39 per cent.
In July, we acquired the CodeLink pre-arrayed slides business As anticipated, our sales accelerated through the year, with from Motorola Life Sciences.
The acquisition takes us into the the fourth quarter being particularly strong as biotech and pre-arrayed ready-to-use chip market, building on our wellpharmaceutical companies purchased manufacturing established business of spotters and scanners for researchers instruments and media for new production plants and for new to make their own arrays.
CodeLink has a unique, patented drugs going into clinical trials.
We also saw good replenishment manufacturing process that produces arrays of high quality, sales of media for existing biopharmaceuticals.
sensitivity and reproducibility, and with more useable data points than any other pre-arrayed slide.
There are currently In addition, two further areas contributed to the growth for six CodeLink products on the market, with several more in industrial-scale bioprocess systems in 2002.
First, the market development including higher density chips with 20,000 DNA for products used in the manufacture of DNA-based spots per slide.
CodeLink has been undergoing comparison tests pharmaceuticals began to grow rapidly, driving sales of our in customer laboratories and the feedback has been very OligoProcess systems.
Second, the membrane separation positive.
As anticipated, the pre-arrayed slide distribution businesses, acquired in January, delivered good sales as agreement with Affymetrix in Japan ended in December.
biopharmaceutical customers took advantage of our broader product offering.
Membrane separation has been successfully The proteomics product area also saw good sales growth integrated into Amersham Biosciences and a new site in in reagents and consumables.
Our market-leading 2D DIGE Massachusetts, USA, will be completed early in 2003. technology, which allows the protein content of several samples to be simultaneously analysed and compared, The laboratory separations area saw lower instrument sales, continued to grow well and development work is ongoing following the exceptionally high growth in 2001, and as a result to expand further the range of DIGE reagents and software.
of more cautious spending by pharmaceutical companies.
During 2002, we launched our new MALDI mass spectrometer, Media sales continued to be good, and a new instrument, the Ettan MALDI-TOF Pro for protein characterisation, as part KTApilot, launched in December for the production of of the complete Ettan range of systems for stand alone or clinical grade proteins on the benchtop, has been well received integrated protein analysis.
In February 2003 we entered into by customers.
an alliance with Thermo Electron Corporation to co-market mass spectrometry products to life science researchers.
We continue to innovate to maintain our market share and The collaboration enables us to offer customers a complete leadership, and in 2003 we will be increasing our R&D and user-friendly solution, combining our strong franchise and investment in protein separations.
During 2002, a new R&D knowledge of the proteomics market with Thermo Electrons laboratory was established at our site in Uppsala, Sweden.
portfolio of mass spectrometry products and extensive sales Good progress was made with a number of new products that and support infrastructure.
will be launched in 2003, including a new Streamline resin and column and new filtration membranes.
Bioassays products are used by researchers to quantify the biological processes involved in cellular activity, metabolism Discovery systems and disease.
Pharmaceutical customers use our products Our discovery systems business area provides high throughput to identify drug targets and develop potential new drugs, systems to improve the effectiveness of life science and eliminating poor drug candidates and those with side effects as pharmaceutical R&D, as well as a broad range of laboratory early as possible, thus reducing the time and cost spent in drug research tools and technology to purify, detect and analyse development.
We launched two new instruments in 2002. biological molecules.
The latest generation LEADseeker was launched in September Amersham plc 29 and enables researchers to screen over one million drug Outlook compounds a day, in a number of different modalities including Following the good performance in 2002, Amersham is well radiometric, luminescent and fluorescent.
The IN Cell Analyzer placed to achieve further good growth in 2003.
The following high throughput system enabling researchers to study the guidance is given before the impact of foreign exchange, which effects of a potential new drug in living cells in real time, is discussed in the Financial review on page 33. continued to be well received by customers, and a number of systems were sold in the last quarter of the year.
As well as its Amersham Health is expected to continue the good growth in use by pharmaceutical companies, the IN Cell Analyzer is also medical diagnostics excluding Japan, and operating margins are being used in a collaboration between Amersham and the anticipated to be at similar levels to those achieved in 2002.
Sloan-Kettering Institute to study the human genome for Amersham Health sales in Japan are expected to decline at disease-related genes.
We also saw particularly good growth a lower rate than in 2002. in custom-labelled products used in the drug development process, as pharmaceutical companies began to outsource more Within Amersham Biosciences, protein separations is expected of this work.
to see good growth, with sales growth again expected to be stronger in the second half of the year.
Increased investment Informatics and software continue to be critical elements of in R&D will bring operating margins down slightly.
the life science market, with researchers needing tools to help them manage, store and analyse the vast amounts of data Discovery systems is expected to see good sales growth being generated.
In May 2002, we announced an agreement to in reagents, consumables and software.
Visibility for capital acquire a controlling stake in our long-term partner, Cimarron, expenditure on instrumentation remains low.
The restructuring an informatics company based in Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.
plans are expected to bring benefits in 2003 moving the This has given us increased synergy and flexibility in the business to profitability during 2004. development of informatics products, and enabled us to better integrate these products with our existing platforms.
We launched a number of new products Laboratory Workflow Systems for sequencing, microarrays and genotyping towards the end of the year.
Total software sales across Amersham Biosciences grew well in 2002.
Restructuring of discovery systems Sir William Castell Chief Executive Discovery systems is a business area with good long-term growth prospects, and its market franchise and strong portfolio position it well for the future.
In light of developments in the life sciences market, a restructuring programme has been put in place to accelerate the move into profitability during 2004.
The research and development portfolio will be refocused on a smaller number of high-value, systems-based products linking instruments with reagents, and on high-value, standalone consumables.
Our sales and marketing team will increase efficiency by more effectively targeting the high growth customer segments.
Driving to deliver a more efficient manufacturing cost base and focusing research and development on fewer sites will result in the loss of approximately 400 jobs.
30 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
