16 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW During a year in which Johnston Press again outperformed market expectations, the undoubted highlight was the successful acquisition of Regional Independent Media Holdings Limited RIM, consolidating the Groups position as one of the UKs four leading publishers of regional and local newspapers.
In contrast to the difficulties encountered by many media businesses, the enlarged Group achieved modest advertising revenue growth in the year.
Coupled with the early benefits of the RIM acquisition, continued tight control of costs and reduced newsprint prices, this enabled the Group to make further excellent progress and to report increased levels of profitability.
LIFE IS LOCAL STRATEGIC FOCUS This focus on meeting the needs of local to adopt a deregulatory approach and The theme, which is illustrated in these marketplaces is the cornerstone of the their proposals do include the welcome accounts, again emphasises the essential Groups business strategy.
Through a abolition of compulsory advance ministerial dependence of our business on the local combination of organic and acquisitive consent to newspaper transfers, backed nature of our markets.
Our publishing means, Johnston Press is committed to by criminal sanction.
activities are a reflection of numerous local building on its position as one of the UKs economies across the United Kingdom and, market leading local publishers.
This was We are currently engaged in a process of in turn, the behaviour of local consumers clearly demonstrated by our purchase of lobbying and consultation to ensure that and advertisers.
During the year, consumer RIM but, although the Group remains the eventual legislation does deliver the confidence at the local level remained actively interested in further acquisitive deregulation which the Government has positive, undoubtedly assisted by low levels growth, this will only be pursued on a promised.
In particular, we are concerned of inflation and unemployment, reduced selective basis.
For this reason, we that the operation of the proposed interest rates and the buoyancy of the decided not to make an offer for the exceptional public interest test for property market.
With some local variations, newspaper titles owned by Scottish Media newspaper mergers will perversely result in this has been reflected in continued modest Group plc, since we did not believe that, a more uncertain and rigorous regime than advertising growth for the Group as a whole.
for Johnston Press, they represented the is currently the case.
We are also right opportunity at the right time.
concerned at the extent of the proposed It is this dependence on local markets involvement of OFCOM in newspaper which differentiates the regional and local MEDIA OWNERSHIP transfers.
We regard it as particularly press from so many other branches of the Publication of the Governments draft important that the Government lives up to media and which has enabled Johnston Communications Bill has put the whole its assurances that OFCOM will have no Press to grow in terms of profit and question of media ownership and related part to play in industry self-regulation for margins during 2002.
The Group enjoys a newspaper transfers firmly on the political editorial or advertising content as leading position in almost all of its local agenda.
This is to be welcomed as the exercised through the Press Complaints markets and this enables our companies special newspaper provisions of the 1973 Commission and the Advertising to offer readers extensive local news Fair Trading Act are long outdated and Standards Authority respectively.
coverage and advertisers high levels of unduly onerous.
This has been recognised local market penetration.
by the Government in their stated intention 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 We remain firmly of the view that further of accounting, payroll, marketing, IT, industry consolidation is both desirable national sales, personnel, training and new and inevitable, being one of the key media.
The resultant loss of approximately determinants in ensuring the continuance 250 jobs was minimised following of a healthy and vibrant UK regional press.
extensive consultation with those affected.
Following the disappointing Competition Commission inquiry into our proposal to Several non-core activities have been acquire eight free newspapers from Trinity disposed of including Writers News, a Mirror, we have made the DTI aware of our specialist publication for aspiring authors.
detailed concerns in an effort to help the We also sold four Scottish-based regulators better understand the way in newspaper titles which did not represent a which our markets operate, particularly good fit with our existing activities.
The with regard to market definition, the Stornoway, Galloway and Carrick Gazettes existence of competition from other forms were sold to Scottish Radio Holdings plc of advertising media and ease of market and the Alloa-based Wee County News to entry.
We remain confident that the its management.
During the year, we also regulatory environment, including changes took steps to withdraw from all RIM local brought by the Communications Bill, will radio initiatives, leaving a 33% holding in permit a continuation of the consolidation Two Boroughs Radio in Burnley, which we process, one in which Johnston Press expect to dispose of in due course.
expects to play a leading role.
Immediately following the acquisition and REGIONAL INDEPENDENT MEDIA RIM in order to facilitate rapid integration, we The acquisition of RIM has consolidated made a number of organisational changes.
the position of Johnston Press as one of Two enlarged publishing divisions were the four leading UK regional publishers formed, one based in Leeds creating an with a market share of 14.3% of total expanded North division and the other in copies circulated.
With 244 titles, Sheffield to bring together the South Johnston Press now has more Yorkshire and North Midlands-based newspapers than any other UK regional companies.
In addition, we established a publisher and is the largest owner of paidnew division based in Preston covering the for weeklies which represent half of the Lancashire operations of RIM.
The ex-RIM titles include case, appointments were made such that a strong mix of market leading paid-for one or other of the Managing Director or daily, weekly and free newspapers Finance Director was an existing Johnston representing an excellent complement to Press employee.
These organisational the Groups existing publications.
As a changes have facilitated the achievement result, Johnston Press is now the market of operational savings through leading regional newspaper publisher in rationalisation of backroom activities at the Yorkshire, has acquired an extensive regional level.
A good example of this has presence in Lancashire and has made a been the closure of printing and pre-press useful addition to our existing Scottish activities in Harrogate with the reallocation businesses.
of work primarily to Leeds but with some printing also transferring to other Group The post-acquisition integration process presses.
We have also incorporated is now substantially complete although Letterbox Direct, RIMs leaflet sales and there will be continuing benefits as distribution management company, into we progressively take advantage of the Groups structure and we will use this opportunities at the operating level.
to drive revenue, particularly from national The key changes were achieved rapidly clients and to regionalise related following completion of the deal and administration.
included closure of the RIM head office, termination of advisory arrangements, The excellent progress which has been savings on newsprint as well as other made with the integration of RIM could not major purchase items and closure or have been achieved without the rationalisation of the RIM central functions cooperation and support of our new 18 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 colleagues and their willingness to After a marginal decline in the first half, embrace the changes which a new motors advertising returned to growth in ownership inevitably brings.
In overall the second six months, ending the year terms, we are totally confident of delivering 2.3% ahead.
Performance across the the 9 million annual savings in 2003 country was patchy with no discernable which were envisaged at the time of the trends.
The major influence has acquisition.
continued to be the process of consolidation amongst motor dealerships.
ADVERTISING REVENUE GROWTH ON A LIKEThe performance of other classified FOR-LIKE BASIS WAS 2.1%, COMPRISING advertising was particularly encouraging with strong growth recorded in each half 1.2% IN THE FIRST HALF AND INCREASING TO resulting in a full year increase of 4.5%.
Whilst there were variations in 3.0% IN THE SECOND.
performance around the Group, good growth was achieved in the majority of TRADING REVIEW EXISTING BUSINESSES markets, in part reflecting a recovery Advertising revenue growth on a like-forfrom the foot and mouth affected like basis was 2.1%, comprising 1.2% in outcome in 2001. the first half and increasing to 3.0% in the second.
Growth was achieved in every Display advertising was stronger in the advertising category in the second half first half with growth of 2.9% against and over the year as a whole, an 0.5% in the second half, resulting in a improvement on the first six months year-on-year increase of 1.7%.
Again, when there were modest declines in both most markets experienced growth motors and recruitment advertising.
although there was a marginal decline in the south, reflecting more difficult local The performance of recruitment conditions compared with the previous advertising with growth of 0.3%, year.
surpassed our expectations, which were influenced by challenging comparatives in Operating margins for the Group were 2001, especially in the early months, and once again ahead of the previous year, caution over general market conditions.
with a like-for-like increase of 1.5% to This encouraging outcome reflects the 31.7%.
On a comparable basis and with fact that unemployment remains low in the sole exception of our South division, many of our marketplaces and provides every one of our publishing divisions evidence that business and consumer matched or exceeded the prior years confidence at the local level held up operating margins, a reflection of better than anticipated.
There was a excellent control over costs in a more disparity in performance between the challenging market than for some time.
north and south of the country with Market conditions were more difficult in revenue declining slightly in the south the south of the country than elsewhere where the impact of the economic and our South division did well to come slowdown was most marked.
very close to matching the prior years performance.
Property advertising also experienced geographic disparity but with Despite the more difficult trading performance in the south, buoyed by environment, the Scottish businesses stronger new homes building again performed well producing a further programmes, faring better than further improvement in profitability.
Overall, growth of 3.7% was Tweeddale Press in the Scottish borders achieved despite property prices and was strengthened by the successful sales being so buoyant that in many integration of the south of Edinburghmarkets the necessity for advertising, based Bonnyrigg operation acquired with certainly on a repeat basis, was RIM and this will bring further benefits in somewhat diminished.
In a market which produced no 19 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 overall advertising revenue growth, Isle of Counties Newspapers into two separate Man Newspapers also performed well to businesses, based in Aylesbury and increase profit.
Banbury respectively, also helped to improve market focus.
The challenging Excellent progress was again made by market conditions which prevailed on the Northeast Press which benefited from a south coast led to a modest reduction in healthy increase in recruitment advertising both recruitment and local display and further improvements in operating revenues.
This was substantially mitigated efficiency.
The four companies comprising as the reorganisation of the South Division the North division were also assisted by implemented in 2001 helped to maximise good growth in recruitment advertising revenues and contain cost levels.
and the continued progress of the Doncaster and Scarborough-based TRADING REVIEW NEWLY ACQUIRED BUSINESSES businesses was particularly noteworthy.
To enable meaningful comparison, the The Dewsbury operation acquired with figures quoted below reflect full year RIM has been merged with Wakefieldgrowth rates despite the fact that RIM was based Yorkshire Weekly Newspaper Group only part of Johnston Press for 37 weeks.
and this will bring benefits in 2003.
Doncaster-based South Yorkshire Over the full year, advertising revenue Newspapers has been transferred into the growth on a like-for-like basis was 1.4%, enlarged North Midlands and South comprising 1.1% in the first half and 1.8% Yorkshire division which will also create in the second.
Apart from a marginal operational efficiencies.
The Chesterfield decline in motors advertising, growth was and Mansfield-based businesses, which achieved in every category.
AWARD WINNING TITLES comprised the North Midlands division, had another excellent year, building on the With its northerly focus, RIM fared better good progress already made in 2001.
In a than the overall existing business for trading environment which improved after recruitment advertising with growth of 2.3%.
This was despite a marginal decline at Yorkshire Post Newspapers due to its greater dependence on more senior job THE LAUNCH OF THE LINCOLNSHIRE CITIZEN, advertisements where the effect of the downturn has been most marked.
A NEW FREE NEWSPAPER, AND THE MERGING Property and other classified advertising saw OF SEVERAL SMALL WEEKLY PAID-FOR very similar performances to the existing businesses with growth rates of 1.3% and TITLES IN THE REGION, ARE BEGINNING TO 3.0% respectively.
A marginal decline of PAY DIVIDENDS.
2.1% in motors advertising reflected a a slow start to the year, the three difficult marketplace in Leeds where dealer companies comprising the East Midlands consolidation and related advertising division all made good progress.
The retrenchment held back performance.
launch of the Lincolnshire Citizen, a new free newspaper, and the merging of Display advertising grew by 1.0%.
several small weekly paid-for titles in the Following the acquisition, we closed the region, are beginning to pay dividends.
We RIM national sales operation and have announced plans to split Welland transferred the business to Mediaforce Ltd Valley Newspapers into two separate which represents all Johnston Press titles.
businesses and we expect the resulting The transfer was achieved without improved market focus to bring about a disruption to the business.
Against an operating margin before In the more difficult market conditions exceptional items of 23% in 2001, the which prevailed in the South Midlands newly acquired business is already area, the four companies which make up performing strongly under Johnston Press that division did well to improve ownership, reflecting the substantial profitability.
The reorganisation of Central savings which have been achieved since 20 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 which we now sell approaching 600,000 EVERY RIM BUSINESS HAS ACHIEVED AN copies six days per week.
In overall terms, their contribution to like-for-like newspaper IMPROVEMENT IN BOTH OPERATING MARGIN sales revenues rose by 3.6%, despite the underlying trend of modest circulation AND ABSOLUTE OPERATING PROFIT.
During the six months to 31 December 2002, average circulations of our nine existing evening titles fell by 2.5% acquisition.
This has resulted in a prealthough the underlying trade sale exceptional operating margin of 28% performed better with a reduction of 1.8% although, as this only relates to a 37-week after stripping out a further reduction in period, an accurate year-on-year bulk sales which now account for only 2% comparison is impossible.
Every RIM of the total sale.
The acquired titles business has achieved an improvement in including the Yorkshire Post and five both operating margin and absolute evening paid-for newspapers also operating profit.
experienced a decline with circulations falling by 3.3% after adjusting for a For the reasons outlined above, the Leeds significant reduction in bulk sales which marketplace proved challenging with still account for 5.4% of the total.
A significant improvement in profitability was Group policy is to pursue a programme of driven by cost savings following acquisition.
gradual reduction in the inclusion of bulk The Dewsbury market was also difficult, sales in the circulation figures, despite this although in Harrogate more buoyant having a detrimental effect on the reported conditions helped that company to a good headline ABC performance whilst that profit increase.
The improved performance takes place.
Although the use of in Sheffield was assisted by modest growth promotional copies continues where in recruitment advertising.
The companies appropriate, the Johnston Press policy comprising the Northwest division did encourages newspaper sales departments particularly well with every company making to concentrate on their primary task of good progress and achieving strong building the single copy sale.
revenue growth in almost every category.
During the period, a considerable amount CIRCULATIONS of work has been done to seek ways of A 1.3% increase in the circulation of our improving the circulation performance of existing weekly paid-for titles for the six our daily titles.
This will be assisted by the months to 31 December 2002 means that completion of the press development we have now experienced six years of projects at Northampton, Peterborough unbroken growth in our average weekly and Portsmouth and the improved sale.
Circulations of the acquired weekly reliability which is now being achieved.
The titles also increased, by 2.9% in the second year has seen improved circulation six months following growth of 1.8% in the performances in a number of cases, most first half.
This positive performance notably the growth achieved in Blackpool demonstrates the underlying strength of where the sale of the Gazette increased by local weekly newspapers and reflects our 1.4% and 0.7% in the first and second continued investment in content and colour halves respectively.
We remain confident in order to increase reader appeal and to that real improvements in the daily sale meet advertisers needs.
We now publish can be achieved and this remains a top 119 weekly paid-for newspapers priority for the Group.
representing half of the Groups total portfolio and circulating more than 1.5 CONTENT million copies per week.
We also have 109 Across Johnston Press, our newspapers free weekly newspapers which distribute have been at the forefront of a number of almost 4.2 million copies each week.
important local issues and campaigns.
The Groups editorial policy encourages editors Considerable focus continues to be placed to reflect the concerns and aspirations of on the sale of our daily newspaper titles of local communities in the widest sense and 21 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 enshrines the right of editors to edit their Evening Telegraph in Peterborough played newspapers without interference from a key role in helping to secure additional general management whilst following the Government funding for Cambridgeshire Press Complaints Commissions Code of police following the huge cost burden of Practice.
Amongst the vast range of the Soham murder investigation and important issues covered by our increased animal rights activity at newspapers during the course of the year, Huntingdon Life Sciences.
Our it is difficult to single out a few but there newspapers have also played an were a number which were particularly important part in the exposure of child noteworthy.
abuse with the Halifax Evening Courier again being praised for its role in the The Yorkshire Posts long running investigation, arrest and subsequent jailing investigation into the so-called Donnygate of Glyn Kenyon, who is regarded by some scandal culminated in March 2002 with as one of the countrys worst child sex the conviction of two senior Doncaster offenders.
On a positive note, our newspapers played an important role in the events OUR NEWSPAPERS PLAYED AN IMPORTANT surrounding the Golden Jubilee.
Apart ROLE IN THE EVENTS SURROUNDING THE from providing a vital catalyst for celebrations in many communities over GOLDEN JUBILEE.
the special holiday weekend in June, we also gave extensive coverage to the councillors, a property developer and two Queen and Prince Philips visits around others for corruption, bringing to 30 the the country.
From the Golden Jubilee total number found guilty.
The murder of Community Volunteer Awards launched by have-a-go hero, Kevin Jackson, by car the Harrogate Advertiser Series to The thieves in Halifax became a national story Falkirk Heralds coverage of the Royal but it was the Evening Courier, aided by Opening of the remarkable Falkirk Wheel, excellent contacts with local police, which the worlds first rotating boatlift, our titles played an important part in the eventual provided extensive coverage of the arrest and conviction of the killers, celebrations.
providing the paper with a series of dramatic front pages.
Relations between During the course of the year, a number of the regional press and the police have not our newspapers have received awards for all been as good, with a number of police their excellence.
Amongst the many forces actively obstructing legitimate successes, the most noteworthy was requests for information.
These problems undoubtedly The Yorkshire Post which were highlighted by editors at the annual won a number of prestigious awards, Johnston Press editorial conference and including Regional Newspaper of the Year.
since they have raised their concerns with the Home Secretary.
We expect our newspapers to play an active part in the affairs of their During the year, our newspapers had to communities, campaigning vigorously on deal with a number of high profile and matters of local importance.
The Luton Herald & newspapers also have a vital role in Post was the first to report the case of bringing people together and building Diane Pretty and, after her death, ran a community links.
A review of our extensive well supported campaign for legislation to community involvement is included in the permit the right to choose to die.
In a Corporate Social Responsibility Statement number of our areas, there are genuine on pages 38 and 39.
CIRCULATION MAP concerns about increasing numbers of asylum seekers, not least in Wigan where ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING JOHNSTON PRESS our newspapers have endeavoured to Following the acquisition of RIM, we now present a balanced analysis of the issues have over 140 websites which together REGIONAL INDEPENDENT MEDIA and have published numerous readers cover almost every local marketplace in BOTH letters representing a range of views.
Further launches are 22 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 planned in 2003 to cover the few shareholder with all websites now remaining gaps.
All websites are an powered by Johnston Press own on-line integral part of the local publishing mix and classified capability.
The Groups enlarged come under the commercial and editorial electronic publishing activities are control of the respective local newspaper expected to make a contribution to profit management.
News content is generally in 2003. updated at least daily by newsroom staff with advertisers being encouraged to PRINTING place advertisements on-line as well as in 2002 was a further year of transition for our local newspapers.
the printing division with completion of the major press development programme Revenue growth of 14% has been and the closure of the Burgess Hill achieved on a like-for-like basis and, as in pressroom.
The integration of the major 2001, our existing on-line activities have RIM printing plants in Leeds and Sheffield made a positive contribution to profit.
and the closure of the Harrogate press Considerable progress has been made in also took place during the year.
the design and functionality of our sites Profitability of the division fell slightly, with improved use of database technology.
primarily as a result of a significant Electronic publishing is a key part of our change in the mix of throughput with an portfolio with organisational focus and increase in internal work offsetting a resourcing set accordingly.
Total page reduction of external contract printing, a impressions are now running at around 10 change which is beneficial for the Group million per month.
The major press development programme, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING IS A KEY PART OF which has cost approximately 40 million over three years, gives us a substantial OUR PORTFOLIO WITH ORGANISATIONAL increase in colour capacity and press capability at the three major pressrooms FOCUS AND RESOURCING SET ACCORDINGLY.
in Northampton, Peterborough and Portsmouth.
In addition to major During the year, we made considerable enhancements to the existing double improvements to our property portal width presses at Northampton and which is now searchable by both location Peterborough, an old press at or choice of school.
At any one time, we Peterborough has been replaced and now carry over 40,000 properties, 60,000 a new press has also been installed at cars and more than 12,000 jobs, all of Portsmouth.
Additional costs were incurred which are updated weekly.
The ability of during the commissioning process each publishing centre to upload jobs including significantly increased overtime individually has contributed to a 20% but we are now experiencing much greater growth in our new media recruitment reliability.
During the year, we also revenues.
introduced computer-to-plate technology into the same three pressrooms and, after A major task during the year was the a period of commissioning, this is now integration of the RIM electronic giving greatly increased efficiency and publishing activities which, unlike those of improved print quality.
Johnston Press, were organised centrally and had yet to make a positive financial During the year, we had the advantage of contribution.
The successful transition a significant reduction in newsprint has resulted in the closure of Regional prices, effectively reversing the increases Interactive Media, the RIM central experienced in 2001.
Prices for 2003 operation, and the launching of new have seen a further modest reduction.
In websites under local management control part, this reflects our increased using the Johnston Press template.
We purchasing power as a result of the RIM have also withdrawn from Fish4, the acquisition, accompanied by a reduction regional press-owned on-line classified in the number of suppliers to the advertising venture in which RIM was a enlarged Group.
23 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 2003 will be a year of consolidation for the particularly for the training of journalists major pressrooms in Northampton, where we use a number of accredited Peterborough and Portsmouth.
However, courses including one at Darlington we have plans to introduce additional College of Technology which has been colour capacity at Leeds and Sunderland designed specifically for Johnston Press.
and have also placed orders for a full Improvements have also been made to conversion to computer-to-plate our induction courses for new employees, technology at Leeds.
These projects, part of our successful efforts to reduce coupled with others around the Group, will levels of staff turnover.
result in total capital expenditure exceeding depreciation in 2003.
We have We remain acutely aware that our staff are also initiated a feasibility study into the our most critical and valuable resource.
development of the Sheffield-based We acknowledge their considerable printing facilities which could well result in contribution to the success of the Group.
Given our increased dependence on fewer, larger pressrooms, we have taken steps to strengthen our management capabilities with four new senior management appointments in early 2003.
TIM BOWDLER ORGANISATION AND PEOPLE Chief Executive Our senior management team has 19 March 2003 remained unchanged throughout 2002 with the exception of the addition of a Group Business Development Manager, Henry Faure Walker, who joined us in March.
It is that team which has carried the primary responsibility for the integration of RIM and the excellent progress we have made is greatly to their credit.
Following the acquisition, we also strengthened our Group management structure with the appointment of Graham Gould as Group Head of IT.
Graham has been with the Group for some years and was previously Managing Director, North of England division, based in Halifax.
The acquisition of RIM has strengthened the pool of talent available to the Group to meet both our current and future needs.
Indeed, we have been impressed with the general calibre and commitment of all the staff within the newly acquired business.
A number of senior appointments have been made since the acquisition and many of these have been filled by former RIM staff.
Continued improvements have been made to the scope and delivery of in-house training programmes of both skill-based and management development courses.
Our training programmes are highly regarded and where appropriate are supplemented by external resources,
