Chief Executives statement Hilton and Ladbrokes both demonstrated their capacity to cope with rapidly changing and evolving markets.
The Group experienced a year of mixed being totally refurbished in most cases closed The challenge presented by ever more fortunes with betting doing well while hotels and to be reopened such as Sydney, Athens demanding and discerning customers in faced very trying conditions especially in and Vienna.
a tough market is one the Group will tackle Continental Europe.
The inherent strengths with enthusiasm.
of the brands remained intact, however, with Within Ladbrokes, expansion is also Hilton and Ladbrokes both demonstrating internationally driven but we have not their capacity to cope with rapidly changing had to leave these shores often to do it!
eGaming, helped by new product launches and improved presentation and service, our David Michels Due Credit overseas business is growing and for the Chief Executive Particular credit is due to the Ladbrokes team, sportsbook now represents 46% of turnover.
27 February 2003 led by Chris Bell, which had a good year with Ladbrokespoker.
com is another good example.
In the benets of the zero customer tax regime under a year, without accepting bets from US and growing eGaming profitability, coupled citizens as players, we have established with the upside from a number of innovative ourselves as one of the biggest sites in the world.
products and strategic investment in technology owing through.
Similarly, driven by new technology and customer service levels, our telephone betting Our 25 million investment in the EPOS business now takes calls and bets from over Anthony R Harris system provided a technological backbone 35 countries.
- 1955 2003 for our shop estate, which is being further invested in with a 3,500 unit self service Our shop businesses in the UK, Ireland and On 11 March 2003, customer terminal programme and new TV Belgium are all continually being refreshed with screen presentation and information.
This acquisitions, relocations and refurbishments Anthony Harris, Chief further 20 million investment will be we are always trying to bring a better service, Executive of our Hilton concluded this year.
environment and new ideas to the customer.
International hotels Inventiveness Strong Finances division, sadly died after Led by Anthony Harris, the hotel division had My deputy, Brian Wallace, leads a respected to deal with very tough trading conditions and finance team.
Their prudent management of a six-month illness.
His his team demonstrated great skill in adapting cash and strong focus on liquidity help present career with Hilton spanned quickly to the new challenges, especially the a solid business prole essential for future downturn in international travel.
Our sales growth and development at the appropriate some 25 years during and marketing colleagues displayed great time, whilst affording funding security during which time he spent two inventiveness in driving increased domestic periods of economic uncertainty.
and regional business an invaluable skill spells at the company, as a in the current market.
Customer Led Vice President, and latterly We are a customer led business and, despite Steady Expansion these uncertain times, good service delivery as Chief Executive.
His We have managed to expand into new territories must remain our key aim.
My primary outstanding contribution in both businesses over the past year.
For hotels objective for the year ahead is to build upon we have added contracts for a number of new and improve levels of guest and customer was driven by a passion for properties in important destinations to Hilton satisfaction, which in turn, will enable us to the hotels business and an perhaps surprisingly so given the climate.
continue to outperform our competitors.
enthusiasm for Hilton, its We will see in the coming years a third and In the year ahead, the challenges are to guests and its staff.
He will well located Hilton in Paris, the first Hilton in control the costs of a growing set of businesses Moscow and the first Hilton in Venice as well without affecting our well-respected customer be sorely missed.
as some of our older and most famous hotels service delivery.
Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2002 3
