Chief executives review The merger of Logica and CMG makes compelling sense.
It gives the new company increased strength, scale and breadth to drive revenues in a consolidating market.
It provides new momentum to the business and the means to lower operating costs.
Market background Merger dynamics The IT services industry was born in the 1960s and has enjoyed Given this market background, the merger of Logica and CMG strong growth in most years since.
This growth accelerated makes compelling sense.
It gives the new company increased dramatically in the late 1990s with the rapid expansion of the strength, scale and breadth to drive revenues in a consolidating internet and preparations for the millennium and the introduction of market.
It brings new momentum to the business because we the euro.
However, since 2001, life has been very different.
Every can sell products and skills from both former companies to each business in the sector has had to deal with the first steep and others customers.
It also provides us with the means to lower sustained downturn in the industry.
operating costs through the creation of a single management, delivery and support structure for the combined customer base.
In this environment, LogicaCMGs response has been to manage costs tightly and to address overcapacity in line with reduced The opportunities provided by the merger are substantial: demand.
As a result, in the six months under review, we raised our operating margin in IT services against falling demand and managed Cross-selling to keep our wireless networks business profitable despite continuing The overlap of major customers between the two companies constraints on capital investment by our customers.
was relatively small and their geographical spread was different.
Hence, the potential for selling our respective skills Our customers have different priorities in uncertain times.
They and products into already established customers is significant.
focus on essentials and look for faster returns on their IT Our initial analysis of the most promising short-term investments.
They concentrate primarily on maintaining and opportunities identified some 60 situations to be targeted optimising what they have, rather than on installing new systems.
To and we are continuing to add to them.
For example, in human get greater certainty of cost at lower risk, they look to outsource resources and payroll systems, CMG has an offering non-core activities or contract via longer term and fixed price developed over more than 30 years that is relevant to every arrangements.
More generally, they want to deal with a smaller Logica customer that has not yet outsourced these processes.
number of suppliers who can provide them with a broader range of offerings, who can support them internationally and who have a track record of delivering quality work on time and to budget.
Increasingly, they need to be confident that their chosen suppliers will still be there to support them in the years ahead.
4 Chief executives review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Repeatable solutions Meeting the need for outsourcing We now have a much larger portfolio of mission-critical, An increased depth of resources is particularly powerful when repeatable solutions to deploy globally.
For example, in the competing for outsourcing business and large public sector banking sector, Logicas products in settlements, card transaction tenders.
LogicaCMG targets value-based outsourcing, where processing, security and financial messaging can be introduced to industry and business process knowledge are critical.
Similarly, CMGs expertise in bank Successful delivery requires a high degree of flexibility and regulatory reporting, risk management systems and capital a comprehensive portfolio of business solutions, both of which adequacy reporting for compliance with the Basel II Accord, can have been enhanced by the merger.
be taken to Logica customers, particularly in countries where CMG had no presence at all.
Many other opportunities exist in Adding the offshore dimension sectors such as energy and utilities and automotive.
The availability of offshore facilities is a competitive tool of growing importance.
For example, I visited our Bangalore facility in Better leverage of accounts India just six weeks into the merger and reviewed the top 10 CMG has demonstrated, most notably in the Benelux countries, prospects that had been brought to them by LogicaCMG the power of managing deep customer and alliance relationships operations around the world.
Three of those prospects had over years, even decades.
By extending this experience and originated from former CMG business units which previously had methodology across the combined group, we are able to no such offering available to them.
Combining offshore maximise the cross-selling potential in the short-term and the development and support with our enlarged, locally-based teams development of revenues and margins into the future.
of industry experts and account managers will enable our customers to get the benefit of reduced cost, within an environment of seamless planning and delivery.
com Chief executives review 5 The new business will be much stronger and will provide increased scope to broaden the experience of our people.
Our goal is to create an open, meritocratic and performance-oriented company in which the best people can build their careers.
A stronger wireless networks business In multimedia messaging, we continue to make progress with sales The combination of our two mobile telecom businesses positions us and installations.
Competition from the handset and infrastructure as the only tier one, global player that is independent of the handset vendors remains fierce.
However, we are confident that our track and infrastructure vendors.
We can now address our customer base record for delivering high performance, high reliability systems will of more than 260 operators worldwide using one streamlined, costprevail, as volumes increase and the issues of inter-operability and effective global structure.
We moved swiftly to remove the customer service diversity become more pressing.
The Telecom Italia Group is uncertainty that inevitably arises when two companies with the first tangible example of a tier one operator that launched competing products are brought together.
In February, our multimedia services using system components from their combined product strategy and development plan for wireless infrastructure suppliers, before going on to sign a framework networks was presented to the market at the 3GSM World Congress agreement with LogicaCMG.
in Cannes and was very well received.
In unified communications, there is a large installed base of ageing Despite the market downturn, short messaging service SMS voicemail systems that needs upgrading to internet protocol IP volumes are continuing to grow and fixed-line operators are standards so that voice, fax and email traffic can be handled in a now beginning to offer this facility to their users.
Moreover, the consistent and interchangeable fashion.
LogicaCMGs uOne product traffic generated by applications beyond interpersonal is well placed to address this market.
In addition, the wireless messaging such as promotions, games, voting, TV-interaction platforms we are providing to Hutchison 3G globally are based on a and location-based services is now reaching meaningful levels.
unified communications structure that incorporates multimedia These applications generate a significant level of peak traffic messaging, SMS, delivery of video content and other functionality which, taken together with interpersonal SMS volume growth, via an attractive and consistent user interface.
They demonstrate the meant that some tier one European operators returned to direction in which the wireless market is moving.
LogicaCMG for major capacity upgrades during the last six months of 2002.
We believe that SMS product and maintenance revenues will remain important for years to come.
6 Chief executives review LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 In billing, we continue to secure revenues with our prepay products LogicaCMG today and are broadening our offerings across the total billing spectrum.
Our company is now a major international force in IT services and There are growing synergies between our wireless networks business wireless telecoms, with around 21,000 people in 34 countries.
Our and our wider exposure to the sector through our systems customers have access to a broader range of offerings across key integration capability.
For example, we have been working during the industry sectors from a single supplier.
We can offer them a strong period on a next generation customer care and billing system for global distribution and support network and long-term operational Vodafone in Sweden which integrates prepaid and postpaid strength, dependability and certainty.
customers for both voice and data services.
In addition, we are already generating revenues by enabling banking, ticketing, voting We are, therefore, well placed to pursue our mission of helping and access control over wireless networks.
We believe that mobility leading organisations worldwide achieve their business objectives, applications will be a key differentiator and revenue source for through the innovative delivery of information technology and LogicaCMG in the years ahead.
Crucially, emerging markets for higher bandwidth mobile Our strategy is one of market focus and differentiation based on: communications demand far more than just the delivery of software black boxes.
Users will demand much richer content if they are to value-added, mission-critical, repeatable, global offerings pay more to their operators and service providers.
Much of this content will come from third party suppliers and applications and strong relationships with customers, partners, suppliers and will need integrating onto the delivery platform.
Billing will need to staff and reflect the relative values of the different services and content chosen.
Content enablement may need to be hosted and managed full service provision covering consultancy, design, systems in a different environment.
All these are opportunities that favour integration, products and outsourcing LogicaCMG with its unique product offerings and proven system integration expertise across many industries and technologies.
While this strategy cannot insulate us from todays economic and political uncertainty, it will enable us to maximise our Integrating the two businesses performance in difficult times.
The merger of two leading international companies is clearly complex.
From the outset, we approached this task with clear Areas of growth in todays difficult market still exist and we are targets, detailed planning and a determined pace.
As a result, determined to seize them.
Our merger creates particular integration is progressing well.
Focused teams, working to opportunities through cross-selling our skills and products, delivering agreed plans and milestones, are systematically addressing the more repeatable solutions, leveraging our accounts and meeting the remaining elements of the integration, much of which has need for outsourcing, including offshore services.
In any medium-term view, we continue to regard IT as an attractive As a result of these efforts, the merger is now expected to deliver industry to be in.
It affects every aspect of business and government.
savings above our initial estimates, through the rationalisation of Whenever an organisation seeks to offer a new service, make a premises and higher than anticipated headcount reductions.
change in its operations, achieve greater efficiencies or achieve competitive edge, it needs to invest in IT.
While todays uncertainty The reductions in staff numbers are a painful but necessary element creates lack of confidence and purchasing delays in the short-term, of the integration and I realise this is a very difficult time for our pent-up demand for IT services is building.
At LogicaCMG, we are staff.
However, it is vital that we align our headcount to the needs of positioning ourselves strongly for an upturn but we are not waiting our combined and streamlined business and position ourselves to for it, nor making assumptions as to when it will arrive.
In the prosper when markets pick up.
Our overriding principle is that meantime, our merger places us in a good position to deliver value clarity and speed are in the best interests of our people and the for our stakeholders over the coming year.
As a result, the integration task is well on the way to completion in many of our operations.
In the remainder, detailed consultation with individuals and staff representative bodies continues in accordance with local legislation.
Over 90% of our people will continue to have a role in the new business, which will be much stronger and will provide increased scope to broaden experience and more opportunities to work on large, mission-critical projects for a variety of customers.
There will be more overseas assignments available for those who want to Martin Read travel, and staff will be exposed to new ideas and approaches to Group chief executive doing business from their new colleagues.
