McCarthy & Stone plc Chief Executives Review Year end Stock Units 2002 2001 Change Finished 1,519 1,759 Under Construction 1,976 1,242 3,495 3,001 16% Land 5,015 4,734 8,510 7,735 10% Unit Sales 1,671 1,550 Keith Lovelock The mix of sales between North and South was Land and Stock We have again produced record not a significant factor in raising the average The Group exchanged contracts on 60 sites 62 results.
All our key measures in selling price as we recorded a similar proportion of but contracts lapsed on 6 sites showing a net building long term value for the sales in the South as we did last year.
This represented a net selling price would have been slightly higher if we Group show very good progress.
The average cost had recorded a similar proportion of 2 Bedroom of land units acquired was 25,100 compared to We are in an excellent position in sales as we recorded last year.
This year the mix 22,100 last year.
Despite the increase in the cost terms of volume sales, selling was 27% 2 Bedroom 30%.
of land, the Group has continued to acquire land prices, land acquisition, planning, on its standard required margins.
Indeed, The increase in selling prices of 13% has enabled following the events of September 11th further the Group to move gross margins forward again build starts, forward workflow, controls were put on land acquisition to ensure although land and build costs also increased, cash and financial strengths.
the Groups risk profile was carefully managed.
reflecting the higher cost of land coming through During the year the Group only acquired 4 sites These results support our straightforward and and some build cost increases.
At 31 August 2002, finished effective business model.
We concentrate on what Our South East Region produced another stock and work in progress amounted to 3,495 we know best, retirement housing.
The Regions are impressive performance both in units and units 3,001, an increase of 16%.
Units in land at responsible for all the key development operations, profitability as did our Midlands and South West year end amounted to 5,015 units 4,734.
Overall land buying, planning, construction and sales, but Regions.
The newer Western and North East the number of units in stock was 8,510 7,735, an we operate with an Executive Committee and Regions produced sharply improved outturns.
increase of 10% and this represents approximately strong central and financial controls.
The new Assisted Living business produced an five years of sales at last years sales rate.
All of our Regions have contributed to these results.
outstanding contribution helped by a very good With the sites and equivalent number of units that The mature Regions have returned significantly performance from its Llandudno site but will be we have acquired in recent years, the Group is well enhanced profits and the newer Regions and short of stock in the current financial year.
Our placed to grow the business and manage its Assisted Living have produced good volume growth.
Scottish Region met all its objectives even though construction programmes in a cost effective three sites on which it was originally hoping to RETIREMENT HOUSING fashion.
Over the last two years the contribution achieve completions were held back by the poor of our newer Regions and Assisted Living with Sales and Margins weather of the spring and summer.
Our North their land buying presence on the ground has We sold 1,671 units 1,550, an increase of 8%.
In West Region performed admirably after a slow start provided a significant contribution to this the first half year we increased our sales to 619 to the year and our new North London Region increasing rate of land acquisition.
units 570 and in the second half we sold 1,052 achieved its first completions at the end of the units 980.
During the year we sold from a total financial year.
Planning of 118 sites 113 and had an average of 70 active I am pleased to note the increasing importance of The Group achieved 52 planning consents selling sites 67.
We obtained an average selling our website www.
co. uk as a equating to 2,575 units, a record number in price of 112,000 99,000, an increase of 13%.
source of enquiries that lead through to recent years.
We continue to update and enhance We achieved increases in selling prices across the Given the current uncertainty of the planning our website which provides details of all our sites as board but, as might be expected, some of the system we continue to expend tremendous effort well as information on McCarthy & Stone including stronger performances came from the South East.
and resources on our design and planning land acquisition and employment opportunities.
Page 8 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc operations in order that we can respond to the increasing difficulties we face in achieving our planning consents.
We have seen a slight improvement in the average time that it has taken us to achieve our planning consents over the year, from 52 weeks last year to 48 weeks this year but this is still unacceptable.
I hope that, with any new Planning legislation, the Government will assist our cause by responding positively to the need to improve the planning system but I remain doubtful that it will do so.
During the year, four applications were refused by planning committees contrary to officer recommendations.
We have already faced a similar situation on six further sites in this new financial year.
Decisions of this kind simply lead Howard Court, Timperley to unnecessary and costly appeals.
We are having to spend more time, prior to work in progress at the year end was substantially The poll, conducted by speaking face to face with securing sites, to try to ascertain and improve the higher at 1,976 units 1,242.
Once again our some 8,000 adults across the country, has also planning prospects.
Yet even after we have construction teams demonstrated their control of shown a marked rise in the number of people acquired sites we find that we are now having to build costs over the period with very few intending or thinking of moving into a retirement abort some as the goal posts are changed by instances of build cost overruns.
These intentions reflect the greater Local Authorities, thus undermining their acceptability of retirement housing for older We monitor the constituents of our build cost commercial viability.
Over a five-year period since 1998 there carefully and we do note further evidence of has been a significant increase of peoples We had a relatively disappointing year for appeals Government action forcing cost increases on us awareness of purpose-built retirement housing as a with 16 sites going to appeal but with only 6 and the industry.
As an industry we are having whole, and McCarthy & Stone in particular.
However, our success rate, 37.5%, still to bear higher levels of Landfill Tax, new This awareness reflects a greater appreciation of compares favourably with the national average.
Aggregates Taxes and a raft of new Building purpose-built retirement housing for older people.
Moreover, of the 10 sites which were lost at Regulations which have the effect of raising The results of the poll confirm what we have appeal we were provided with a blueprint for our costs.
believed for a long time, that people are development on 7 sites, thereby securing a level Our material costs have moved very little over increasingly seeing retirement housing as the of development better than that which we would the year.
As previously reported, we have had answer to their longer term housing needs.
have achieved had we not chosen to pursue an difficulty in securing good quality subcontractors appeal.
In only two instances have we had to Once again, McCarthy & Stone was successful in who can perform on a timely basis to help us abort following unsuccessful appeals.
the UKs two most prestigious housebuilding meet our growing construction programme.
We were voted medium sized Housebuilder We have built up a core of expertise within our We have been successful in operating within our of the Year, for the fifth time, in the Building Planning Bureau and regional design teams.
Our ability to offer continuity to Magazine Awards.
We also claimed top honours We now have a structure in place that provides a subcontractors is always most helpful to enable with a Gold award in the 751-1,500 unit category in comprehensive planning service to all Regions, us to hold rates.
the Daily Express British Housebuilder Awards from the appraisal of emerging planning policies Overall, when we compare our total build costs and, what is more, came top in all eleven to advice on land acquisition and negotiation of year on year they increased by approximately 4% categories measured by customer feedback.
It is this expertise and compared to a 10% increase in the previous year.
consistency in approach which provides a key I mentioned in my last statement that the Group This low level of increase has only been achieved differentiating feature for our specialist form of was increasing its focus on environmental issues.
by our great attention to build costs.
I am delighted to note that at Highbury Court, As we indicated last year, we have withdrawn our development in Kings Heath, Birmingham, Construction from our design and build activity which has we became the first housebuilder in Britain to Following the events of September 2001, released our construction resources to focus meet the Greenleaf Standard, a hallmark of we reduced our targeted number of sites for entirely on our own developments.
As the market The standard has also been granted to another of stabilised and then strengthened from January THE McCARTHY & STONE the Companys West Midlands developments, St 2002 onwards the Group geared up its BRAND Saviours Court in Worcester Road, West Hagley.
32 sites 39 As sales volumes increase, the Group is were delivered by our construction teams to first continually seeking to strengthen the McCarthy & By signing up to the Greenleaf Standard, an occupation equating to 1,431 units 1,768.
I am therefore, delighted to report extension of the Greenleaf scheme established in addition, as the planning consents came through that McCarthy & Stone has emerged as the UKs 1987 by the National House Builders Federation, and the forward visibility of the construction most recognised retirement builder according to a McCarthy and Stone is making a pledge to programme became more evident we committed recent NOP poll.
preserve and respect natural landscape features to 2,173 units to build starts 1,732.
As a result, for these new developments.
McCarthy & Stone plc Page 9 McCarthy & Stone plc Oakley Court, Shirley Chief Executives Review continued MANAGEMENT AND STAFF Over the year we have operated at more sales outlets, submitted more planning applications, secured more planning consents and started work on more construction sites.
To support this we have increased the size of our regional teams, particularly in the newer Regions, and our headcount at 31 August 2002 was 795 staff, an increase of 8% on the previous year.
As we take on more staff we are committing further resources to effective recruitment, induction and training.
It is always difficult to recruit at the level and quality that we would wish but we have had considerable success in recruiting and in developing the breadth and quality of our own management resources.
I am pleased at the number of successful internal promotions that we have achieved over the last year.
We undertake a regular survey of our staff Despite the uncertainties surrounding the equity As I look forward, we are particularly well placed satisfaction and their views.
I am glad to record capital markets, the Directors were pleased to in terms of enquiries, visitors, net reservations that the returns indicate a high level of note that within the Group we now have 257 and completions year to date.
In terms of total satisfaction although there are always areas that subscribers to our SAYE Schemes and 154 sales and forward sales we are well ahead of can be improved upon.
participants in our Share Incentive Plan Scheme.
where we were this time last year.
I must record my thanks to the authors and We are looking out for pockets of weakness but STRATEGY AND ACHIEVEMENTS editors of our in-house magazine Signpost, there is no real evidence of that to date and the It is over nine years since I became Chief which provides a very useful medium for market across the country remains strong.
Under John McCarthys communicating across the Group.
Chairmanship and the efforts of all my Our objectives are to continue to deliver One of the aspects that we always have to pay colleagues I believe we have made considerable industry leading margins, increasing volumes, great attention to in our industry is site safety progress since the difficulties of the recession of a consistently high return on capital and to build and security.
Despite our substantial and the late 80s and early 90s.
We have now shareholder value.
increasing building programme and the inherent recorded our ninth year of successive profit risks associated with building sites we reported improvement.
no fatalities and achieved a high rating from our The recollection of those difficult times has been external safety consultants for our safety on site.
a strong influence in the way we have shaped the By careful site management we have also Group and sought to deliver performance.
improved the security of our sites.
As part of We have pursued controlled, profitable growth.
Keith Lovelock our ongoing programme of maintaining sound To do so we have: Chief Executive financial controls we are rolling out a fraud awareness campaign to our Regions.
We have increased our central administrative closed or sold non-core activities.
support where necessary and our Information applied strong Group-wide policies.
Technology Department has made a major business contribution across the key functions of focused on our key skills.
the Regions in a cost effective fashion.
We are well on the way to installing a new accounting built up and strengthened our staff and package across the Group that will operate management resources.
alongside an integrated construction system which will pull together the estimating, costing, extended our regional coverage to achieve purchasing and finance processes.
greater penetration of key local markets.
"Page 10 McCarthy & Stone plc Silver Birch Court, Cheshunt ""We liked it so much here, we persuaded our friends to take a flat on the same development"" Phil and Betty Rose, Buckingham Court, Middleton-on-Sea, West Sussex Typical Residents Lounge McCarthy & Stone plc Page 11"
