Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Material existing and emerging risks Deterioration in emerging markets could affect In several countries, reversals of capital inflows, Material existing and emerging as well as fiscal austerity, have already caused the Group if it results in higher impairment risks to the Groups future deterioration in political stability.
This could be charges for the Group via sovereign or exacerbated by a renewed rise in asset price counterparty defaults.
performance volatility or sustained pressure on government More broadly, a deterioration of conditions in the Material risks are those to which senior finances.
In addition, geopolitical tensions in key markets where the Group operates could management pay particular attention and some areas of the world, such as the Korean affect performance in a number of ways which could cause the delivery of the Groups Peninsula, the Middle East and Eastern Europe, including, for example: i deteriorating business, strategy, results of operations, financial are already acute and at risk of further consumer or investor confidence leading to condition and or prospects to differ materially deterioration, thus potentially increasing market reduced levels of client activity, including from current expectations.
uncertainties and adverse global economic and demand for borrowing from creditworthy market conditions.
Emerging risks are those that have largely customers, or indirectly, a material adverse unknown components, the impact of which In the US, there is uncertainty around the policy impact on GDP growth in significant markets could crystallise over a longer time horizon.
and therefore on Group performance: ii higher platform of the administration which took office These could currently be considered immaterial in 2017.
There is the possibility of significant levels of default rates and impairment: iii mark but over time may individually or cumulatively to market losses in trading portfolios resulting changes in policy in sectors including trade, affect the Groups strategy and cause the same healthcare and commodities which may have from changes in factors such as credit ratings, outcomes as detailed above regarding material share prices and solvency of counterparties iv an impact on associated Barclays portfolios.
In addition, certain factors beyond the significant proportion of the Groups portfolio is reduced ability to obtain capital from other Groups control, including escalation of financial institutions for the Group operations: located in the US, including a major credit card terrorism or global conflicts, natural disasters portfolio and a range of corporate and and v lower levels of fixed asset investment and similar calamities, although not detailed and productivity growth overall.
Stress in the US below, could have a similar impact on the economy, weakening GDP, an unexpected rise Group.
ii Interest rate rises adversely impacting in unemployment and or an increase in interest rates could lead to increased levels of credit conditions The risks described below are material risks that To the extent that central banks increase impairment.
senior management has identified with respect interest rates particularly in the Groups main to the Group, which is defined as Barclays PLC Most major central banks have indicated that markets, in the UK and the US, there could be and its consolidated subsidiaries including the they expect prevailing loose monetary policies an impact on consumer debt affordability and Barclays Bank PLC Group.
In connection with to tighten.
Should normalisation paths diverge corporate profitability.
the planned implementation in the first half of substantially, flows of capital between countries 2018 of ring-fencing certain of the Groups UK could alter significantly, placing segments with While interest rate rises could positively impact businesses, Barclays Bank PLC will transfer what sizeable foreign currency liabilities, in particular the Groups profitability, as retail and corporate are materially the assets and business of the emerging markets, under pressure.
In addition, business income may increase due to margin Barclays UK division to another subsidiary of the possible divergence of monetary policies fide-compression, future interest rate increases, if Group, Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Senior between major advanced economies risks larger or more frequent than expectations, management expects that upon this transfer, triggering further financial market volatility see could cause stress in the loan portfolio and the material risks with respect to the Barclays also ii Interest rate rises adversely impacting underwriting activity of the Group.
Higher credit Bank PLC Group will be the same in all material credit conditions, below.
losses driving an increased impairment respects as those risks with respect to the allowance would most notably impact retail In the UK, the vote in favour of leaving the EU Group.
For more information on certain risks unsecured portfolios and wholesale nonsee iii Process of UK withdrawal from the senior management has identified with respect investment grade lending.
European Union, below has given rise to to the Barclays Bank PLC Group, see v Certain political uncertainty with attendant Interest rates rising faster than expected could potential consequences of ring-fencing to also have an adverse impact on the value of consequences for investment and market Barclays Bank PLC.
The initial impact was a high quality liquid assets which are part of the Group Treasury functions investment activity depreciation of Sterling resulting in higher costs Material existing and emerging for companies exposed to imports and a more that could consequently create more volatility through the Groups available for sale reserves favourable environment for exporters.
Rising risks potentially impacting more domestic costs resulting from higher import than expected.
than one Principal Risk prices may impact household incomes and the affordability of consumer loans and mortgages.
iii Process of UK withdrawal from the i Business conditions, general economy and European Union In turn this may affect businesses dependent on geopolitical issues consumers for revenue.
There has also been a The uncertainty and increased market volatility The Group offers a broad range of services, following the UKs decision to leave the EU in reduction in activity in both commercial and including to retail, institutional and government residential real estate markets which has the 2019 is likely to continue until the exact nature customers, in a large number of countries.
The of the future trading relationship with the EU potential to impact value of real estate assets breadth of these operations means that and adversely affect mortgage assets.
The potential risks associated deterioration in the economic environment, or with an exit from the EU include: an increase in political instability in countries Sentiment towards emerging markets as a where the Group is active, or in any systemically Increased market risk with the impact on the whole continues to be driven in large part by important economy, could adversely affect the value of trading book positions, mainly in developments in China, where there is some Groups operating performance, financial Barclays International, expected to be driven concern around the ability of authorities to condition and prospects.
predominantly by currency and interest rate manage growth while transitioning from volatility.
Although the Although economic activity continued to Chinese governments efforts to stably increase Potential for credit spread widening for UK strengthen globally in 2017 a change in global the weight of domestic demand have had some institutions which could lead to reduced economic conditions and the reversal of the success, the pace of credit growth remains a investor appetite for Barclays debt securities, improving trend may result in lower client concern, given the high level of leverage and which could negatively impact the cost of activity of the Group and or an increase of the despite regulatory action.
A stronger than and or access to funding.
Potential for Groups default rates, delinquencies, write-offs, expected slowdown could result if authorities continued market and interest rate volatility and impairment charges, which in turn could fail to appropriately manage the end of the could affect the interest rate risk underlying, adversely affect the Groups performance and investment and credit-led boom.
and potentially affect the value of the assets prospects.
in the banking book, as well as securities held home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 121 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks The implementation of these changes involves including with regard to issuance and by Barclays for liquidity purposes.
a number of risks which include: deployment of capital, MREL and funding for Changes in the long-term outlook for UK the Group : changing the Groups business interest rates which may adversely affect IAS The Group is restructuring its intra-group and mix or exiting other businesses: and or 19 pension liabilities and the market value of external capital, funding and liquidity undertaking other actions to strengthen the equity investments funding those liabilities.
arrangements to meet regulatory Groups position.
See Treasury and capital requirements and support business needs.
Increased risk of a UK recession with lower risk on pages 164 to 190 and Supervision and The changes will impact the sources of growth, higher unemployment and falling UK Regulation on pages 197 to 204 for more funding available to the different entities house prices.
This would likely negatively information.
including their respective ability to access the impact a number of Barclays portfolios, capital markets.
These changes may affect The derivatives market has been the subject particularly in Barclays UK, notably: higher funding costs.
of particular focus for regulators in recent Loan to Value mortgages, UK unsecured years across the G20 countries and beyond, lending including credit cards and The changes to the Group structure may with regulations introduced which require the Commercial Real Estate exposures.
negatively impact the assessment made by reporting and clearing of standardised over credit rating agencies and creditors over time.
Changes to current EU Passporting rights the counter OTC derivatives and the The risk profile and key risk drivers of the which will likely require adjustments to the mandatory margining of non-cleared OTC ring-fenced bank and the non ring-fenced current model for the Groups cross-border derivatives.
Reforms in this area are ongoing bank will be specific to the activities and risk banking operation which could increase with further requirements expected to be profile of each entity.
As a result, different operational complexity and or costs.
implemented in the course of 2018.
More Group entities such as Barclays Bank PLC may The ability to attract, or prevent the departure broadly, the recast Markets in Financial also be assessed differently in future which of, qualified and skilled employees may be Instruments Directive in Europe MiFID II, could result in differences in credit ratings.
impacted by the UKs future approach to the which came into force in January 2018, has Changes to the credit assessment at the EU freedom of movement and immigration fundamentally changed the European Group or individual entity level, including the from the EU countries and this may impact regulatory framework, and entails significant potential for ratings downgrades and ratings Barclays access to the EU talent pool.
operational changes for market participants differences across entities, could impact The legal framework within which Barclays in a wide range of financial instruments as access and cost of certain sources of funding.
well as changes in market structures and operates could change and become more Implementation of ring-fencing introduces a uncertain as the UK takes steps to replace or practices.
In addition, the EU Benchmarks number of execution risks.
Technology Regulation which also came into force in repeal certain laws currently in force, which change could result in outages or operational are based on EU legislation and regulation January 2018 regulates the administration errors.
Legal challenge to the ring-fence and use of benchmarks in the EU.
including EU regulation of the banking transfer scheme may delay the transfer of Compliance with this evolving regulatory sector.
Certainty of existing contracts, assets and liabilities to the ring-fenced bank.
framework entails significant costs for market enforceability of legal obligations and Delayed delivery could increase reputational participants and is having a significant impact uncertainty around the outcome of disputes risk or result in regulatory non-compliance.
on certain markets in which the Group, may be affected until the impacts of the loss There is a risk that Barclays does not meet notably Barclays International, operates.
of the current jurisdictional arrangements regulatory requirements across the new Other regulations applicable to swap dealers, between UK and EU courts and the universal structure.
Failure to meet these requirements including those promulgated by the US enforceability of judgements across the EU may have an adverse impact on the Groups Commodity Futures Trading Commission, including the status of existing EU case law profitability, operating flexibility, flexibility of have imposed significant costs on the are fully known.
deployment of capital and funding, return on Groups derivatives business.
These and any equity, ability to pay dividends, credit ratings, future requirements, including the US SECs iv Regulatory change agenda and impact on and or financial condition.
regulations relating to security-based swaps business model and the possibility of overlapping and or The Group remains subject to ongoing In addition to Structural Reform there are contradictory requirements imposed on significant levels of regulatory change and several other significant pieces of legislation derivative transactions by regulators in scrutiny in many of the countries in which it areas of focus which will require significant different jurisdictions, are expected to operates including, in particular, the UK and the management attention, cost and resource: continue to impact such business.
As a result, regulatory risk will remain a Changes in prudential requirements, focus for senior management and consume The Group and certain of its members are including the proposals for amendment of significant levels of business resources.
subject to supervisory stress testing exercises the CRD IV and the BRRD as part of the EUs Furthermore, a more intensive regulatory in a number of jurisdictions.
These exercises risk reduction measures package may approach and enhanced requirements together currently include the programmes of the BoE, impact minimum requirements for own funds with the uncertainty particularly in light of the the EBA, the FDIC and the FRB.
These and eligible liabilities MREL including UKs decision to withdraw from the EU and exercises are designed to assess the resilience requirements for internal MREL, leverage, potential lack of international regulatory of banks to adverse economic or financial liquidity or funding requirements, applicable co-ordination as enhanced supervisory developments and enforce robust, forwardbuffers and or add-ons to such minimum standards are developed and implemented may looking capital and liquidity management requirements and risk weighted assets adversely affect the Groups business, capital processes that account for the risks calculation methodologies all as may be set and risk management strategies and or may associated with their business profile.
by international, EU or national authorities result in the Group deciding to modify its legal Assessment by regulators is on both a from time to time.
Such or similar changes to entity structure, capital and funding structures quantitative and qualitative basis, the latter prudential requirements or additional and business mix, or to exit certain business focusing on the Groups or certain of its supervisory and prudential expectations, activities altogether or not to expand in areas members business model, data provision, either individually or in aggregate, may result despite otherwise attractive potential.
stress testing capability and internal in, among other things, a need for further management processes and controls.
The The most significant of the regulatory reforms management actions to meet the changed stress testing requirements to which the affecting the Group in 2018 is the creation of requirements, such as: increasing capital, Group and its members are subject are the ring-fenced Bank under the Banks MREL or liquidity resources, reducing becoming increasingly stringent.
Failure to structural reform programme for more on leverage and risk weighted assets: restricting meet requirements of regulatory stress tests, Structural Reform, see Supervision and distributions on capital instruments: or the failure by regulators to approve the Regulation on page 204. modifying the terms of outstanding capital stress test results and capital plans of the instruments: modifying legal entity structure Group, could result in the Group being 122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information required to enhance its capital position, limit of the Group as a whole or that of the UK real estate market.
With UK property capital distributions or position additional ring-fenced bank: representing a significant portion of the capital in specific subsidiaries.
For more overall UK Corporate and Retail credit more dependent on wholesale funding information on stress testing, please see exposure, the Group is at risk from a fall in sources, as the UK retail deposit base will be Supervision and Regulation on page 200. property prices in both the residential and transferred to the ring-fenced bank.
The UK commercial sectors in the UK.
The introduction and implementation of both retail mortgage assets will also be transferred PSD2 and the Open API standards and data to the ring-fenced bank, which reduces Strong house price growth in London and sharing remedy imposed by the UK Barclays Bank PLCs access to funding the South East of the UK, fuelled by foreign Competition and Markets Authority following sources reliant on residential mortgage investment, strong buy-to-let BTL demand its Retail Banking Market Investigation Order collateral.
The Barclays Bank PLC Group may and subdued housing supply, has resulted together Open Banking from January therefore experience more difficult financing in affordability metrics becoming stretched.
2018 is anticipated to transform the conditions and or higher costs of funding Average house prices as at the end of 2017 traditional UK banking model and including in situations of stress.
As a result of were more than 5.6 times average earnings.
conventional relationship between a the implementation of ring-fencing, different Large single name losses.
The Group has customer and their bank.
It will do this by Group entities, such as Barclays Bank PLC, large individual exposures to single name providing customers with the ability to share may be assessed differently by credit rating counterparties both in its lending activities their transactional data with authorised third agencies, which may result in different, and and in its financial services and trading party service providers either for aggregation possibly more negative, assessments of activities, including transactions in derivatives or payment services.
It is anticipated that Barclays Bank PLCs credit and thus in lower and transactions with brokers, central these aggregation or payment services will be credit ratings than the credit ratings of the clearing houses, dealers, other banks, mutual offered by third parties to Barclays customers.
Group, which in turn could adversely affect and hedge funds and other institutional Members of the Barclays Group will be able the sources and costs of funding for Barclays clients.
The default of such counterparties to offer these same services to customers of Bank PLC: and could have a significant impact on the other banks.
A failure to comply with Open potentially subject to different regulatory carrying value of these assets.
In addition, Banking requirements could expose Barclays obligations, including different liquidity where such counterparty risk has been to regulatory sanction, potential financial loss requirements and capital buffers.
mitigated by taking collateral, credit risk may and reputational detriment.
While Open remain high if the collateral held cannot be As a result of any or all of the foregoing, Banking will affect the Group as a whole, the realised, or has to be liquidated at prices implementation of ring-fencing may adversely impact is likely to be particularly relevant for which are insufficient to recover the full affect the market value and or liquidity of Barclays UK.
amount of the loan or derivative exposure.
securities issued by Barclays Bank PLC.
Any such defaults could have a material v Certain potential consequences of adverse effect on the Groups results due to, ring-fencing to Barclays Bank PLC Material existing and emerging for example, increased credit losses and In connection with the planned implementation higher impairment charges.
risks impacting individual in the first half of 2018 of ring-fencing certain of Leverage finance underwriting.
The Group the Groups UK businesses, Barclays Bank PLC Principal Risks takes on sub-investment grade underwriting will transfer what are materially the assets and exposure, including single name risk, i Credit risk business of the Barclays UK division to another particularly in the US and Europe.
The Group a Impairment subsidiary of the Group, Barclays Bank UK PLC.
is exposed to credit events and market The introduction of the impairment Senior management expects that upon this volatility during the underwriting period.
Any requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, transfer, the material risks with respect to the adverse events during this period may implemented on 1 January 2018, results in Barclays Bank PLC Group will be the same in all potentially result in loss for the Group, mainly higher impairment loss allowances that are material respects as those risks with respect to through Barclays International, or an recognised earlier, on a more forward looking the Group.
However, senior management has increased capital requirement should there be basis and on a broader scope of financial identified certain potential differences in risks a need to hold the exposure for an extended instruments than is the case under IAS 39 and, with respect to the Barclays Bank PLC Group as period.
as a result, will have a material impact on the compared to risks to the Group.
Measurement The transfer of the assets and liabilities of the ii Market risk involves increased complex judgement and Barclays UK division from Barclays Bank PLC will Market volatility impairment charges will tend to be more mean that the Barclays Bank PLC Group will be Elevated market volatility, which can be volatile.
Unsecured products with longer less diversified than the Group as a whole.
triggered and or aggravated by disappointment expected lives, such as revolving credit cards, Barclays Bank PLC will not be the parent of in economic data, divergent monetary policies, are the most impacted.
The capital treatment Barclays Bank UK PLC and thus will not have political uncertainty or conflicts, would likely on the increased reserves has the potential to recourse to the assets of Barclays Bank UK PLC.
entail a significant deflation of assets which in adversely impact regulatory capital ratios.
In Relative to the Group, the Barclays Bank PLC turn may put under strain counterparties and addition, the move from incurred to expected Group will be, among other things: have knock-on effects on the bank.
credit losses has the potential to impact the more focused on businesses outside the UK, Groups performance under stressed economic In addition, the Groups trading business is conditions or regulatory stress tests.
For more particularly in the US, and thus more exposed generally exposed to a prolonged period of information please refer to Note 1 on pages 241 to the US economy and more affected by elevated asset price volatility, particularly if it to 246. movements in the US dollar and other negatively affects the depth of marketplace non-sterling currencies relative to sterling, liquidity.
Such a scenario could impact the b Specific sectors with a relatively larger portion of its business Groups ability to execute client trades and may The Group is subject to risks arising from exposed to US regulation: also result in lower client flow-driven income changes in credit quality and recovery rate of more focused on wholesale businesses, such and or market-based losses on its existing loans and advances due from borrowers and as corporate and investment banking and portfolio of market risks.
These can include counterparties in a specific portfolio.
Any capital markets, which expose Barclays Bank having to absorb higher hedging costs from deterioration in credit quality could lead to PLC Group to a broader range of market rebalancing risks that need to be managed lower recoverability and higher impairment in a conditions and to counterparty and dynamically as market levels and their specific sector.
The following are areas of operational risks and thus the financial associated volatilities change.
uncertainties to the Groups portfolio which performance of Barclays Bank PLC may be could have a material impact on performance.
subject to greater fluctuations relative to that home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 123 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks d Adverse changes in FX rates impacting provide an active cyber security response iii Treasury and capital risk The Group may not be able to achieve its capital ratios capability could result in increased fraud losses, The Group has capital resources, risk weighted inability to perform critical economic functions, business plans due to, among other things: a being unable to maintain appropriate capital assets and leverage exposures denominated in customer detriment, potential regulatory foreign currencies.
Changes in foreign currency censure and penalty, legal liability, reduction in ratios: b being unable to meet its obligations as they fall due: c rating agency downgrades: d exchange rates may adversely impact the shareholder value and reputational damage.
Sterling equivalent value of these items.
As a adverse changes in foreign exchange rates on capital ratios: e adverse movements in the result, the Groups regulatory capital ratios are b Service resilience sensitive to foreign currency movements, and Loss of or disruption to the Groups business pension fund: f non-traded market risk interest rate risk in the banking book.
any failure to appropriately manage the Groups processing, whether arising through impacts on balance sheet to take account of foreign technology systems, real estate services, a Inability to maintain prudential ratios and currency movements could result in an adverse personnel availability or the support of major impact on regulatory capital and leverage ratios.
suppliers, represents a material inherent risk other regulatory requirements Inability to maintain appropriate prudential theme for the Group.
e Adverse movements in the pension fund ratios could lead to: an inability to support Building resilience into business processes and business activity: a failure to meet regulatory Adverse movements in pension assets and into the services of technology, real estate and liabilities for defined benefit pension schemes capital requirements including any additional suppliers on which those processes depend can capital add-ons or the requirements set for could result in a pension deficit which, reduce disruption to the Groups business depending on the specific circumstance, may regulatory stress tests: increased cost of activities or avoid it altogether.
Failure to do so funding due to deterioration in investor appetite require the Group to make substantial may result in significant customer detriment, additional contributions to its pension plans.
or credit ratings: restrictions on distributions cost to reimburse losses incurred by our including the ability to meet dividend targets: The liabilities discount rate is a key driver and, in customers, potential regulatory censure or accordance with International Financial and or the need to take additional measures to penalty, and reputational damage.
strengthen the Groups capital or leverage Reporting Standards IAS 19, is derived from position.
the yields of high quality corporate bonds c Outsourcing deemed to be those with AA ratings and The Group depends on suppliers for the b Inability to manage liquidity and funding consequently includes exposure to both UK provision of many of its services and the risk effectively sovereign gilt yields and corporate credit development of future technology driven Inability to manage liquidity and funding risk spreads.
product propositions, though the Group effectively may result in the Group either not Therefore, the valuation of the Groups defined continues to be accountable for risk arising having sufficient financial resources to meet its benefits schemes would be adversely affected from the actions of such suppliers.
Failure to payment obligations as they fall due or, by a prolonged fall in the discount rate due to a monitor and control the Groups suppliers could although solvent, only being able to meet these persistent low rate and or credit spread potentially lead to client information, or critical obligations at excessive cost.
Inflation is another significant risk infrastructures and services, not being the Group to fail to meet regulatory liquidity driver to the pension fund, as the liabilities are adequately protected or available when standards, be unable to support day-to-day adversely impacted by an increase in long-term required.
banking activities including meeting deposit inflation expectations.
The dependency on suppliers and subwithdrawals or funding new loans or no longer be a going concern.
contracting of outsourced services introduces f Non-traded market risk interest rate risk in concentration risk where the failure of specific the banking book The stability of the Groups current funding suppliers could have an impact on our ability to profile, in particular that part which is based on A liquidity buffer investment return shortfall continue to provide services that are material to could increase the Banks cost of funds and accounts and savings deposits payable on the Group, especially for those individual demand or at short notice, could be affected by impact the capital ratios.
The Banks structural businesses within the Group to which many hedge programmes for interest rate risk in the the Group failing to preserve the current level of services are provided centrally by the newly customer and investor confidence.
The Group banking book rely heavily on behavioural established Group Service Company.
assumptions, as a result, the success of the also regularly accesses the capital markets to provide long-term funding to support its hedging strategy is not guaranteed.
A potential Failure to adequately manage outsourcing risk mismatch in the balance or duration of the through control environments which remain operations.
Several factors, including adverse macroeconomic conditions, adverse outcomes hedge assumptions could lead to earnings robust to ever changing threats and challenges deterioration.
could result in increased losses, inability to in legal, regulatory or conduct matters and loss of confidence by investors, counterparties and perform critical economic functions, customer iv Operational risk detriment, potential regulatory censure and or customers in the Group, can affect the ability of the Group to access the capital markets and a Cyber threat penalty, legal liability and reputational damage.
The frequency of cyber attacks continues to or the cost and other terms upon which the Group is able to obtain market funding.
grow on an annual basis and is a global threat d Operational precision and payments which is inherent across all industries, including The risk of material errors in operational c Credit rating changes and the impact on the financial sector.
As the financial sector processes, including payments, are exacerbated remains a primary target for cyber criminals, during the present period of significant levels of funding costs Any potential or actual credit rating agency 2017 saw a number of highly publicised attacks structural and regulatory change, the evolving involving ransomware, theft of intellectual technology landscape, and a transition to digital downgrades could significantly increase the Groups borrowing costs, credit spreads and property, customer data and service channel capabilities.
unavailability across a wide range of materially adversely affect the Groups interest Material operational or payment errors could margins and liquidity position which may, as a organisations.
disadvantage the Groups customers, clients or result, significantly diverge from current The cyber threat increases the inherent risk to counterparties and could result in regulatory expectations.
Such adverse changes would also censure and penalties, legal liability, reputational the availability of the Groups services and to the have a negative impact on the Groups overall Groups data whether it is held by the Group or damage and financial loss by the bank.
in its supply chain, to the integrity of financial transactions of the Group, its clients, counterparties and customers.
Failure to adequately manage this threat and to continually evolve enterprise security and 124 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information h Tax risk testing, assessing capital adequacy, supporting e New and emergent technology Technological advancements present The Group is required to comply with the new business acceptance and risk reward domestic and international tax laws and evaluation, managing client assets, and meeting opportunities to develop new and innovative ways of doing business across the Group, with practice of all countries in which it has business reporting requirements.
There is a risk that the Group could new solutions being developed both in-house Models are, by their nature, imperfect and and in association with third party companies.
suffer losses due to additional tax charges, incomplete representations of reality because other financial costs or reputational damage as Introducing new forms of technology has the they rely on assumptions and inputs, and so potential to increase inherent risk.
a result of failing to comply with such laws and they may be subject to errors affecting the practice, or by failing to manage its tax affairs in Failure to closely monitor risk exposure could accuracy of their outputs.
For instance, the an appropriate manner, with much of this risk quality of the data used in models across lead to customer detriment, loss of business, attributable to the international structure of the regulatory censure, missed business Barclays has a material impact on the accuracy Group.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has and completeness of our risk and financial opportunity and reputational damage.
introduced substantial changes to the US tax metrics.
system, including the introduction of a new tax, f Fraud the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax.
These Models may also be misused.
Model errors or Fraud is a constantly evolving risk to the Group.
changes have increased the Groups tax misuse may result in the Group making This is exacerbated during periods of significant compliance obligations and require a number of inappropriate business decisions and being change, including the digitisation of products, system and process changes which introduce subject to financial loss, regulatory risk, which carry higher levels of inherent risk.
As the additional operational risk.
In addition, reputational risk and or inadequate capital Group continues to invest in new and upgraded increasing customer tax reporting requirements reporting.
fraud systems, criminals continually adapt and around the world and the digitisation of the become ever more sophisticated in their administration of tax has potential to increase vi Conduct risk approach.
Risks from social engineering and the Groups tax compliance burden further.
There is the risk of detriment to customers, attempts to trick customers into authorising clients, market integrity, competition or Barclays payments also continue to grow and increasing i Critical accounting estimates and from the inappropriate supply of financial regulatory focus is placing more responsibility services, including instances of wilful or judgements on the industry to protect consumers.
The preparation of financial statements in negligent misconduct.
This risk could manifest itself in a variety of ways: In addition, internal fraud arising from areas accordance with IFRS requires the use of such as failure of the Groups trading controls estimates.
It also requires management to a Product governance and life cycle could result in high profile material losses exercise judgement in applying relevant together with regulatory censure penalties accounting policies.
The key areas involving a Ineffective product governance, including design, approval and review of products, and significant reputational damage.
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions are significant to the inappropriate controls over internal and third party sales channels and post sales services g Ability to hire and retain appropriately consolidated and individual financial statements qualified employees include credit impairment charges for amortised could lead to poor customer outcomes, as well as regulatory sanctions, financial loss and The Group has resource requirements to cost assets, taxes, fair value of financial support existing revenue streams, moves into instruments, pensions and post-retirement reputational damage.
new business models and to deliver complex benefits, and provisions including conduct and multi-year regulatory commitments and legal, competition and regulatory matters.
b Financial crime The Group may be adversely affected if it fails to mandatory change.
These commitments There is a risk that if the judgement exercised, require diversified and specialist skilled or the estimates or assumptions used, effectively mitigate the risk that its employees or third parties facilitate, or that its products and colleagues and Barclays ability to attract, subsequently turn out to be incorrect, this could develop and retain such a diverse mix of talent result in significant loss to the Group, beyond services are used to facilitate financial crime money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery is key to the delivery of its core business activity what was anticipated or provided for.
This is impacted by a range of and corruption and sanctions evasion.
A major The further development of standards and focus of US and UK government policy relating external and internal factors.
External regulation interpretations under IFRS could also such as the introduction of the Individual to financial institutions continues to be significantly impact the financial results, combating money laundering and enforcing Accountability Regime and the required deferral condition and prospects of the Group.
and clawback provisions of our compensation compliance with US and EU economic sanctions.
The failure to comply with such arrangements may make Barclays a less j Data management & information protection attractive proposition relative to both our regulations may result in enforcement actions The Group holds and processes large volumes by the regulators and in the imposition of severe international competitors and other industries.
of data, including personally identifiable Similarly, the impact of exit of the UK from the penalties, with a consequential impact on the information, intellectual property, and financial Groups reputation and financial results.
EU, in March 2019 see Process of UK data.
Failure to accurately collect and maintain withdrawal from the European Union on pages this data, protect it from breaches of c Data protection and privacy 121 and 122, could potentially have a more confidentiality and interference with its immediate impact on our ability to hire and Proper handling of personal data is critical to availability exposes the Bank to the risk of loss sustaining long-term relationships with our retain key employees.
or unavailability of data including customer customers and clients and to meeting privacy Failure to attract or prevent the departure of data covered under vi, c Data protection and laws and obligations.
Failure to protect personal privacy below, data integrity issues and could appropriately qualified and skilled employees data can lead to potential detriment to our who are dedicated to overseeing and managing result in regulatory censure, legal liability and customers and clients, reputational damage, reputational damage.
current and future regulatory standards and regulatory sanctions and financial loss, which expectations, or who have the necessary under the new EU Data Protection Regulation v Model risk diversified skills required to deliver the Group may be substantial.
strategy, could negatively impact our financial Enhanced model risk management requirements performance, control environment and level of employee engagement.
Additionally, this may Barclays relies on models to support a broad range of business and risk management result in disruption to service which could in turn lead to disenfranchising certain customer activities, including informing business decisions and strategies, measuring and limiting groups, customer detriment and reputational damage.
risk, valuing exposures including the calculation of impairment, conducting stress home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 125 Risk review Material existing and emerging risks legal proceedings, including class actions.
Other prevent and detect the conduct that gave rise to d Regulatory focus on culture and accountability legal disputes may also arise between the the plea agreement and iii strengthen its Group and third parties relating to matters such compliance and internal controls as required by Regulators around the world continue to emphasise the importance of culture and as breaches, enforcement of legal rights or relevant regulatory or enforcement agencies.
obligations arising under contracts, statutes or Potential consequences of breaching the plea personal accountability and the adoption and enforcement of adequate internal reporting and common law.
Adverse findings in any such agreement include the imposition of additional matters may result in the Group being liable to terms and conditions on the Group, an whistleblowing procedures in helping to promote appropriate conduct and drive positive third parties seeking damages, or may result in extension of the agreement, or the criminal the Groups rights not being enforced as prosecution of Group entities, which could, in outcomes for customers, clients and markets.
Failure to meet the requirements and intended.
turn, entail further financial penalties and collateral consequences and have a material expectations of the UK Senior Managers Details of legal, competition and regulatory Regime, Certification Regime and Conduct adverse effect on the Groups business, matters to which the Group is currently exposed operating results or financial position.
Rules may lead to regulatory sanctions, both for are set out in Note 29.
In addition to matters the individuals and the firm.
There is also a risk that the outcome of any specifically described in Note 29, the Group is engaged in various other legal proceedings in legal, competition or regulatory matters in vii Reputation risk which the Group is involved may give rise to the UK and US and a number of other overseas Barclays association with sensitive sectors jurisdictions which arise in the ordinary course changes in law or regulation as part of a wider and its impact on reputation response by relevant law makers and regulators.
The Group is also subject to A risk arising in one business area can have an requests for information, investigations and A decision in any matter, either against the adverse effect upon Barclays overall reputation: Group or another financial institution facing other reviews by regulators, governmental and any one transaction, investment or event that, other public bodies in connection with business similar claims, could lead to further claims in the perception of key stakeholders reduces against the Group.
activities in which the Group is or has been their trust in the Groups integrity and engaged.
The Group is cooperating with the competence, has the potential to give rise to relevant authorities and keeping all relevant reputation risk for Barclays and may result in agencies briefed as appropriate in relation to loss of business, regulatory censure and missed these matters and others described in Note 29 business opportunity.
Barclays association with sensitive sectors is an The outcome of legal, competition and area of concern for stakeholders and the regulatory matters, both those to which the following topics are of regular interest: Group is currently exposed and any others Disclosure of climate risks and opportunities, which may arise in the future, is difficult to including the activities of certain sections of predict.
However, in connection with such the client base.
This is becoming the subject matters the Group may incur significant of increased scrutiny from regulators, NGOs expense, regardless of the ultimate outcome, and other stakeholders.
and any such matters could expose the Group to any of the following outcomes: substantial The risks of association with human rights violations through the perceived indirect monetary damages, settlements and or fines: remediation of affected customers and clients: involvement in human rights abuses committed by clients and customers.
other penalties and injunctive relief: additional litigation: criminal prosecution in certain The manufacture and export of military and circumstances: the loss of any existing agreed riot control goods and services by clients and protection from prosecution: regulatory customers.
restrictions on the Groups business operations including the withdrawal of authorisations: viii Legal risk and legal, competition and increased regulatory compliance requirements: regulatory matters suspension of operations: public reprimands: Legal disputes, regulatory investigations, fines loss of significant assets or business: a negative and other sanctions relating to conduct of effect on the Groups reputation: loss of business and breaches of legislation and or confidence by investors, counterparties, clients regulations may negatively affect the Groups and or customers: risk of credit rating agency results, reputation and ability to conduct its downgrades: potential negative impact on the business.
Legal outcomes can arise as a availability and or cost of funding and liquidity: consequence of legal risk or because of past and or dismissal or resignation of key and future actions, behaviours and business individuals.
In light of the uncertainties involved decisions as a result of other Principal Risks.
in legal, competition and regulatory matters, The Group conducts diverse activities in a there can be no assurance that the outcome of highly regulated global market and therefore is a particular matter or matters will not be exposed to the risk of fines and other sanctions material to the Groups results of operations or relating to the conduct of its business.
In recent cash flow for a particular period, depending on, years, authorities have increasingly investigated among other things, the amount of the loss past practices, pursued alleged breaches and resulting from the matter s and the amount of imposed heavy penalties on financial services income otherwise reported for the period.
This trend is expected to continue.
A In January 2017, Barclays PLC was sentenced to breach of applicable legislation and or serve three years of probation from the date of regulations could result in the Group or its staff the sentencing order in accordance with the being subject to criminal prosecution, terms of its May 2015 plea agreement with the regulatory censure, fines and other sanctions in DOJ.
During the term of probation Barclays PLC the jurisdictions in which it operates, must, among other things, i commit no crime particularly in the UK and the US.
Where clients, whatsoever in violation of the federal laws of customers or other third parties are harmed by the US, ii implement and continue to the Groups conduct, this may also give rise to implement a compliance program designed to 126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
