Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Principal Risk management Credit risk management Credit risk audited The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully honour their obligations to the firm, including the whole and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.
For wholesale portfolios, credit risk approval is Overview Organisation and structure undertaken by experienced credit risk The credit risk that the Group faces arises Wholesale and retail portfolios are managed professionals operating within a clearly mainly from wholesale and retail loans and separately to reflect the differing nature of the defined delegated authority framework, with advances together with the counterparty assets: wholesale balances tend to be larger only the most senior credit officers entrusted credit risk arising from derivative contracts and are managed on an individual basis, while with the higher levels of delegated authority.
Other sources of credit risk arise retail balances are larger in number but The largest credit exposures, which are from trading activities, including: debt smaller in value and are, therefore, managed outside the Risk Sanctioning Unit or Risk securities, settlement balances with market on a homogeneous portfolio basis.
Distribution Committee authority require the counterparties, available for sale assets and support of the Group Senior Credit Officers Credit risk management responsibilities have reverse repurchase loans.
GSCOs, the Groups most senior credit risk been structured so that decisions are taken as sanctioners.
For exposures in excess of the Credit risk management objectives are to: close as possible to the business, while GSCOs authority, approval from the Group enforcing robust review and challenge of maintain a framework of controls to enable CRO is required.
In the wholesale portfolios, performance, risk infrastructure and strategic credit risk taking to be based on sound credit risk managers are organised in plans.
The credit risk management teams in credit risk management principles: sanctioning teams by geography, industry each business are accountable to the relevant identify, assess and measure credit risk and or product.
Business CRO who, in turn, reports to the clearly and accurately across the Group and Group CRO.
The role of the Central Risk function is to within each separate business, from the provide Group-wide direction, oversight and level of individual facilities up to the total Roles and responsibilities challenge of credit risk taking.
Central Risk portfolio: sets the Credit Risk Control Framework, which The responsibilities of the credit risk control and plan credit risk taking in line provides the structure within which credit risk management teams in the businesses, the with external stakeholder expectations and is managed, together with supporting credit sanctioning team and other shared services avoiding undesirable concentrations: risk policies.
include: sanctioning new credit agreements monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed principally wholesale : setting policies for controls: approval of transactions principally retail : enable risk-reward objectives to be met.
setting risk appetite: monitoring risk against limits and other parameters: maintaining More information covering the reporting of robust processes, data gathering, quality, credit risk can be found in Barclays PLC Pillar 3 storage and reporting methods for effective Report 2017. credit risk management: performing effective turnaround and workout scenarios for wholesale portfolios via dedicated restructuring and recoveries teams: maintaining robust collections and recovery processes units for retail portfolios: and review and validation of credit risk measurement models.
Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee reviews and recommends to the Board the Groups risk appetite for wholesale and retail credit risk reviews the Groups risk profile on behalf of the Board for wholesale and retail credit risk commissions, receives and considers reports on wholesale and retail credit risk issues Group Risk Committee reviews appetite for wholesale and retail credit risk and makes recommendations on the setting of limits to the Board monitors the risk profile for wholesale and retail credit risk reviews and monitors the control environment for wholesale and retail credit risk Business Unit Risk Committees Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Management Committees oversee activities and manage information relating to business unit portfolios, monitor the wholesale and retail credit risk profile against plan and agree and identify actions needed to mitigate current and arising credit risks required actions review and approve business unit mandate and scale limits and, where review key wholesale and retail risk issues relevant, provide recommendations for limits managed by wholesale and retail review credit risk policies and framework risk committees monitor risk appetite consumption key credit portfolio mandate and review relevant decisions made by, and material issues and topics raised by, scale limits other forums and committees home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 127 Risk review Principal Risk management Credit risk management other retail lending: includes charges over Credit risk mitigation motor vehicle and other physical assets: The Group employs a range of techniques and second lien charges over residential strategies to actively mitigate credit risks.
property, which are subordinate to first These can broadly be divided into three types: charges held either by the Group or by another party: and finance lease receivables, netting and set-off for which typically the Group retains legal collateral title to the leased asset and has the right to risk transfer repossess the asset on the default of the borrower.
Netting and set-off derivatives: the Group also often seeks to In most jurisdictions in which the Group enter into a margin agreement e. g. Credit operates, credit risk exposures can be reduced Support Annex with counterparties with by applying netting and set-off.
In exposure which the Group has master netting terms, this credit risk mitigation technique has agreements in place.
These annexes to the largest overall impact on net exposure to master agreements provide a mechanism derivative transactions, compared with other for further reducing credit risk, whereby risk mitigation techniques.
collateral margin is posted on a regular For derivative transactions, the Groups basis typically daily to collateralise the normal practice is to enter into standard mark to market exposure of a derivative master agreements with counterparties e. g. portfolio measured on a net basis.
These master agreements typically Group may additionally negotiate the allow for netting of credit risk exposure to a receipt of an independent amount further counterparty resulting from derivative mitigating risk by collateralising potential transactions against the obligations to the mark to market exposure moves.
counterparty in the event of default, and so reverse repurchase agreements: collateral produce a lower net credit exposure.
These typically comprises highly liquid securities agreements may also reduce settlement which have been legally transferred to the exposure e. g. for foreign exchange Group subject to an agreement to return transactions by allowing payments on the them for a fixed price.
same day in the same currency to be set-off financial guarantees and similar offagainst one another.
balance sheet commitments: cash collateral may be held against these Collateral arrangements.
The Group has the ability to call on collateral in the event of default of the counterparty, Risk transfer comprising: A range of instruments including guarantees, home loans: a fixed charge over residential credit insurance, credit derivatives and property in the form of houses, flats and securitisation can be used to transfer credit other dwellings.
The value of collateral is risk from one counterparty to another.
These impacted by property market conditions mitigate credit risk in two main ways: which drive demand and therefore value of if the risk is transferred to a counterparty the property.
Other regulatory interventions which is more creditworthy than the original on ability to repossess, longer period to counterparty, then overall credit risk is repossession and granting of forbearance reduced may also affect the collateral value.
where recourse to the first counterparty wholesale lending: a fixed charge over remains, both counterparties must default commercial property and other physical before a loss materialises.
This is less likely assets, in various forms.
than the default of either counterparty individually so credit risk is reduced.
Detailed policies are in place to appropriately recognise and record credit risk mitigation and more information can be found in the Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.
128 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Principal Risk management Market risk management Market risk audited The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the firms assets and liabilities from fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.
The BRC recommends market risk appetite to VaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising Overview the Board for their approval.
The Market Risk from unfavourable market movements if the Market risk arises primarily as a result of client Principal Risk Lead PR Lead is responsible for current positions were to be held unchanged facilitation in wholesale markets, involving the Market Risk Control Framework and, for one business day.
For internal market risk market-making activities, risk management under delegated authority from the Group management purposes, a historical simulation solutions and execution of syndications.
Upon CRO, agrees with the Business CROs a limit methodology with a two-year equally execution of a trade with a client, the Group framework within the context of the approved weighted historical period, at the 95% will look to hedge against the risk of the trade market risk appetite.
confidence level is used for all trading books moving in an adverse direction.
Mismatches and some banking books.
The Market Risk Committee approves and between client transactions and hedges result makes recommendations concerning the The Management VaR model in some in market risk due to changes in asset prices.
This includes instances may not appropriately measure overseeing the operation of the Market Risk some market risk exposures, especially for Organisation and structure Framework and associated standards and market moves that are not directly observable policies: reviewing arising market or via prices.
Market risk managers are required Market risk in the businesses resides primarily regulatory issues, limits and utilisation: and to identify risks which are not adequately in Barclays International and Group Treasury.
risk appetite levels to the Board.
The captured in VaR risks not in VaR or RNIVs.
These businesses have the mandate to incur Committee is chaired by the PR Lead and market risk.
Market risk oversight and When reviewing VaR estimates, the following attendees include the business heads of challenge is provided by business Committees considerations are taken into account: market risk, business aligned market risk and Group Committees, including the Market the historical simulation uses the most managers and Internal Audit.
recent two years of past data to generate The head of each business is accountable for possible future market moves, but the past all market risks associated with its activities, Roles and responsibilities may not be a good indicator of the future: while the head of the market risk team the one-day time horizon may not fully The objectives of market risk management covering each business is responsible for capture the market risk of positions that are to: implementing the risk control framework for cannot be closed out or hedged within one market risk.
understand and control market risk by day: robust measurement, limit setting, reporting More information on market risk management VaR is based on positions as at close of and oversight can be found in Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report business and consequently, it is not an facilitate business growth within a 2017. appropriate measure for intra-day risk controlled and transparent risk arising from a position bought and sold on management framework the same day: Management Value at Risk control market risk in the businesses VaR does not indicate the potential loss according to the allocated appetite estimates the potential loss arising from beyond the VaR confidence level.
unfavourable market movements, over one To meet the above objectives, a well day for a given confidence level Limits are applied at the total level as well as by established governance structure is in place to risk factor type, which are then cascaded down differs from the Regulatory value at risk manage these risks consistent with the ERMF.
to particular trading desks and businesses by VaR used for capital purposes in scope, See pages 119 and 120 on risk management the market risk management function.
confidence level and horizon strategy, governance and risk culture.
backtesting is performed to test the model See page 162 for a review of management is fit for purpose.
Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee reviews and recommends to the Board the Groups risk appetite for market risk reviews material events impacting market risk Group Risk Committee monitors risk profile with respect to financial risk appetite debates and agrees actions on the financial risk profile and risk strategy across the Group considers issues escalated by Risk Type Heads and Business Risk Directors Market Risk Committee oversees the management of the Groups market risk profile reviews market risk appetite proposals from the business reviews arising market or regulatory issues reviews state of the implementation of the risk frameworks in the businesses home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 129 Risk r Risk review eview Principal Risk management Treasury and capital risk management Treasury and capital risk Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets.
Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal business activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments or stressed conditions both actual and as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes.
This includes the risk from the firms pension plans.
Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its non-traded assets and liabilities.
To maintain market confidence in the The control framework incorporates a range Overview Groups name.
of ongoing business management tools to Barclays Treasury manages treasury and monitor, limit and stress test the Groups This is achieved via a combination of policy capital risk on a day-to-day basis with the balance sheet and contingent liabilities and formation, review and governance, analysis, Treasury Committee acting as the principal the Recovery Plan.
Limit setting and transfer stress testing, limit setting and monitoring.
To enforce effective pricing are tools that are designed to control Together, these meet internal and regulatory oversight and segregation of duties and in line the level of liquidity risk taken and drive the requirements.
with the ERMF, the Treasury and capital Risk appropriate mix of funds.
Together, these function is responsible for oversight of key tools reduce the likelihood that a liquidity capital, liquidity, interest rate risk in the Roles and responsibilities stress event could lead to an inability to meet banking book IRRBB and pension risk the Groups obligations as they fall due.
The The Treasury and Capital Risk function is management activities.
The following control framework is subject to internal responsible for the management and describes the structure and governance conformance testing and internal audit review.
governance of the liquidity risk mandate associated with the risk types within the defined by the Board and the production of The liquidity stress tests assess the potential Treasury and capital Risk function.
Treasury has the primary responsibility contractual and contingent stress outflows for managing liquidity risk within the set risk under a range of scenarios, which are then Liquidity risk management appetite.
The CRO for treasury and capital risk used to determine the size of the liquidity pool reports to the Group CRO.
that is immediately available to meet audited anticipated outflows if a stress occurs.
Barclays comprehensive control framework for managing the Groups liquidity risk is The Group maintains a range of management Overview designed to deliver the appropriate term and actions for use in a liquidity stress, these are The efficient management of liquidity is structure of funding consistent with the documented in the Group Recovery Plan.
Since essential to the Group in retaining the Liquidity Risk Appetite LRA set by the Board.
the precise nature of any stress event cannot confidence of the financial markets and be known in advance, the actions are designed The Board sets the LRA based on the internal maintaining that the business is sustainable.
to be flexible to the nature and severity of the liquidity risk model and external regulatory There is a control framework in place for stress event and provide a menu of options requirements namely the Liquidity Coverage managing liquidity risk and this is designed to that can be drawn upon as required.
The LRA is represented as the meet the following objectives: Barclays Group Recovery Plan also contains level of risk the Group chooses to take in To maintain liquidity resources that are more severe recovery options to generate pursuit of its business objectives and in sufficient in amount and quality and a additional liquidity in order to facilitate recovery meeting its regulatory obligations.
The funding profile that is appropriate to meet in a severe stress.
Any stress event would be approved LRA is implemented in line with the the liquidity risk appetite as expressed by regularly monitored and reviewed using key control framework and policy for liquidity risk.
the Board management information by key Treasury, Risk and business representatives.
Organisation and structure Capital risk management audited Board Risk Committee reviews and recommends to the Board the Groups risk appetite for treasury and capital risk Overview reviews material issues impacting treasury and capital risk approves the ICAAP and ILAAP Capital risk is managed through ongoing monitoring and management of the capital position, regular stress testing and a robust Group Risk Committee capital governance framework.
reviews and recommends risk appetite to the BRC escalates material issues impacting treasury and capital risk to the BRC reviews and recommends the ICAAP and ILAAP to the BRC for approval Roles and responsibilities The management of capital risk is integral to the Groups approach to financial stability and Treasury and Capital Risk Committee sustainability management, and is embedded manages treasury and capital risk appetite in the way businesses and legal entities monitors the treasury and capital risk profile operate.
monitors the treasury and capital risk control environment reviews and recommends risk appetite to the GRC and BRC Capital risk management is underpinned by a escalates material issues impacting treasury and capital risk to the GRC and BRC control framework and policy.
The capital 130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information management strategy, outlined in the Group Lag risk: arises from the delay in repricing Interest Rate Risk in the and legal entity capital plans, is developed in customer rates for certain variable Banking Book alignment with the control framework and managed rate products, following an policy for capital risk, and is implemented underlying change to market interest rates.
Overview consistently in order to deliver on the Groups This is typically driven by either regulatory objectives.
constraint around customer notification on Banking book operations generate non-traded pricing changes, processing time for the market risk, primarily through the mismatch The Board approves the Group capital plan, Groups notification systems or contractual between the duration of assets and liabilities internal stress tests and results of regulatory agreements within a products terms and and where interest rates on products reset at stress tests, and the Group recovery plan.
As per the Groups policy to Treasury Committee is responsible for remain within the defined risk appetite, Asset swap spread risk: the spread monitoring and managing capital risk in line interest rate and FX risks residing in the between Libor and sovereign bond yields with the Groups capital management banking books of the businesses are that arises from the management of the objectives, capital plan and risk frameworks.
transferred to Treasury where they are liquidity buffer investments and its The Treasury and Capital Risk Committee centrally managed.
Currently, these risks are associated hedges.
monitors and reviews the capital risk profile transferred to Treasury via funding and control environment, providing Second Furthermore, liquidity buffer investments are arrangements, interest rate or FX swaps.
Line oversight of the management of capital generally subject to Available for Sale AFS However, the businesses remain susceptible to risk.
The BRC reviews the risk profile, and accounting rules, whereby changes in the market risk from seven key sources: annually reviews risk appetite and the impact value of these assets impact capital via Other of stress scenarios on the Group capital plan Repricing Residual risk: the impact from Comprehensive Income, creating volatility in forecast in order to agree the Groups the mismatch between the run-off of capital directly.
product balances and the associated interest rate hedges or from unhedged Local management assures compliance with Roles and responsibilities liquidity buffer investments: an entitys minimum regulatory capital Structural risk: the change to the net The Non-traded Market Risk team provides requirements by reporting to local Asset and interest income on hedge replenishment risk management oversight and monitoring of Liability Committees with oversight by the due to adverse movements in interest rates, all traded and non-traded market risk in Groups Treasury Committee, as required.
assuming that the balance sheet is held Treasury and customer banking books, which Treasury has the primary responsibility for static: specifically includes: managing and monitoring capital and reports Prepayment risk: the potential loss in value interest rate risk assessment in the to the Group Finance Director.
The Treasury if actual prepayment or early withdrawal customer banking books, and Capital Risk function contains a Capital behaviour from customers deviates from review and challenge the behavioural Risk Oversight team, and is an independent the expected or contractually agreed assumptions used in hedging and transfer risk function that reports to the Group CRO behaviour, which may result in a hedge or pricing, and is responsible for oversight of capital risk funding adjustment at a cost to the bank.
risk management of the liquidity buffer Exposures are typically considered where investments and funding activities, appropriate net of any applicable offsetting Pension risk oversight of balance sheet hedging, early repayment charges.
This risk The Group maintains a number of defined principally relates to early repayment of review of residual risk in the hedge benefit pension schemes for past and current fixed rate loans or withdrawal from fixed accounting solution and hedging of net employees.
The ability of the pension fund to rate savings products: investments, meet the projected pension payments is Recruitment risk: the potential loss in value proposes and monitors risk limits to maintained principally through investments.
if the actual completion or drawdown manage traded and non-traded market risk Pension risk arises because the estimated behaviour from customers deviates from within the agreed risk appetite.
market value of the pension fund assets might the expected behaviour, which may result in decline: investment returns might reduce: or a hedge or funding adjustment at a cost to the estimated value of the pension liabilities the bank.
This risk principally relates to the might increase.
The Group monitors the completion timing around the Banks fixed pension risks arising from its defined benefit rate mortgage pipeline process: pension schemes and works with Trustees to Margin compression risk: the effect of address shortfalls.
In these circumstances the internal or market forces on a banks net Group could be required or might choose to margin where, for example, in a low rate make extra contributions to the pension fund.
environment any fall in rates will further The Groups main defined benefit scheme was decrease interest income earned on the closed to new entrants in 2012. assets whereas funding cost cannot be reduced as it is already at the minimum level.
Capital risk management primary objectives Capital risk management core practices maintain adequate capital to withstand the impact of the risks that may arise meet minimum regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions under the normal and stressed conditions analysed by the Group.
maintain capital buffers over regulatory minimums perform Group-wide internal and regulatory stress tests develop contingency plans for severe and extreme stresses, which include maintain adequate capital to cover the Groups current and forecast business stress management actions and recovery actions.
needs and associated risks in order to provide a viable and sustainable business offering.
maintain capital ratios aligned with rating agency expectations.
maintain a capital plan on a short-term and medium-term basis aligned with the Groups strategic objectives, balancing capital generation of the business with business growth and shareholder distributions.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 131 Risk r Risk review eview Principal Risk management Operational risk management Operational risk The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed processes, systems, human factors or due to external events for example, fraud where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.
capital requirements using the Basic Indicator Fraud Risk: The risk of financial loss when Overview Approach BIA.
The Group works to an internal or external party acts dishonestly The management of operational risk has three benchmark its internal operational risk with the intent to obtain an undue benefit, key objectives: management and measurement practices cause a loss to, or to expose either the with peer banks.
Deliver an operational risk capability owned Group or its customers and clients to a risk of loss.
and used by business leaders which is The Group is committed to operating within a pragmatic, relevant, and enables business Payments Process Risk: The risk of strong system of internal controls that enables leaders to make sound risk decisions over payments being processed inaccurately, business to be transacted and risk taken the long term.
with delays, without appropriate without exposing the Group to unacceptable Provide the frameworks, policies and tools authentication and authorisation.
potential losses or reputational damages.
The to enable management to meet their risk Group has an overarching ERMF that sets out People Risk: The risk that Barclays is management responsibilities while the the approach to internal governance.
The exposed to by virtue of being an employer Second line of defence provides robust, ERMF establishes the mechanisms and excluding Health and Safety related risk.
independent, and effective oversight and processes by which the Board directs the Premises and Security Risk: The risk of challenge.
organisation, through setting the tone and interruption to Barclays business due to the expectations from the top, delegating Deliver a consistent and aggregated unavailability of premises and infrastructure authority and monitoring compliance.
measurement of operational risk that will as a result of intentional or accidental provide clear and relevant insights, so that damage to premises and moveable assets, the right management actions can be taken physical security breaches and safety and Organisation and structure to keep the operational risk profile security incidents.
Operational risk comprises a number of consistent with the Groups strategy, the Supplier Risk: The risk that is introduced to specific risks defined as follow: stated risk appetite, the client franchise, and the firm or entity as a consequence of other stakeholder needs.
Data Management and Information Risk: obtaining services or goods from another The risk that Barclays information is not The Group is committed to the management legal entity as a result of inadequate captured, retained, used or protected in and measurement of operational risk and was selection, inadequate exit and supplier accordance with its value and legal and granted a waiver by the FSA now the PRA to management, resulting in operational, regulatory requirements.
operate an advanced measurement approach financial, or reputational risk to the bank, AMA for operational risk, which commenced Financial Reporting Risk: The risk of a failure of services and or negative customer material misstatement or omission within in January 2008.
The majority of the Group impact.
calculates regulatory capital requirements the Groups external financial, regulatory reporting or internal management using AMA 94% of capital requirements, except for small parts of the organisation reporting.
acquired since the original permission 6% of Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee BRC Board Audit Committee BAC approves Operational Risk Management Framework oversees that the operating effectiveness of the control environment is satisfactory operational risk capital oversight oversees remediation of control issues recommends and monitors operational risk appetite and the residual risk feedback to the Board Risk Committee where concerns exist over the impact on position, supported by feedback from the Board Audit Committee Group Chief residual risk through either the design or operating effectiveness of the control Controls Officer environment Group Risk Committee Group Controls Committee reviews and recommends risk appetite and risk limits across the Principal Risks oversees effectiveness of control environment to the Board reviews and recommends control framework monitors the Group risk profile and the utilisation of risk appetite oversees control remediation activities reviews appetite, limit usage and risk management within tolerance agreed oversees execution of Operational Risk Management Framework consistently by the Board across the Group reviews deep dives of specific risks as requested oversees risk and internal control matters including significant issues reviews the impact of any material acquisitions and disposals on the risk profile escalations to Board level reviews remediation plans and actions taken, and agrees any further action required escalations to Board level Business and Function Risk Committees Business and Function Control Committees manage and oversee the risk at the Business Unit Function level manage and oversee the control environment at the Business Unit escalate to Group level Function level escalate to Group level 132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport [] Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Tax Risk: The risk of unexpected tax cost in The Group Head of Operational Risk is relation to any tax for which Barclays is responsible for establishing, owning and liable, or of reputational damage on tax maintaining an appropriate Group-wide matters with key stakeholders such as tax Operational Risk Management Framework authorities, regulators, shareholders or the and for overseeing the portfolio of operational public.
Tax cost includes tax, interest or risk across the Group.
penalties levied by a taxing authority.
Operational Risk Management ORM acts in Technology Risk: The risk that comes a second line of defence capacity, and is about due to dependency on technological responsible for defining and overseeing the solutions and is defined as failure to implementation of the framework and develop, deploy and maintain technology monitoring Barclays operational risk profile.
solutions that are stable, reliable and deliver ORM alerts management when risk levels what the business needs.
exceed acceptable ranges or risk appetite in Transaction Operations Risk: The risk of order to drive timely decision making and actions by the first line of defence.
Through Customer Client or Bank detriment due to unintentional error and or failure in the attendance at Business Risk Committee meetings, ORM provide specific risk input into end-to-end process of initiation, processing and fulfilment of an interaction between a the issues highlighted and the overall risk profile of the business.
Operational risk issues Customer Client and the Bank with an underlying financial instrument e. g. escalated from these meetings are considered through the second line of defence review mortgage, derivative product, trade product etc.. meetings.
Depending on their nature, the outputs of these meetings are presented to These risks may result in financial and or the BRC or the BAC.
non-financial impacts including legal regulatory breaches or reputational damages.
For further information on operational risk management, Risk and Control Selfassessments and risk scenarios, please refer to Roles and responsibilities the operational risk management section on The prime responsibility for the management pages 170 to 173 in Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017. of operational risk and compliance with control requirements rests with the business and functional units where the risk arises.
The operational risk profile and control environment is reviewed by business management through specific meetings which cover governance, risk and control.
Businesses are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an event-driven basis.
The reports include a profile of the material risks that may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness of key controls, operational risk events and a review of scenarios.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 133 Risk r Risk review eview Principal Risk management Model risk management Model risk The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
two main units: the Independent Validation the Treasurer, the Chief Financial Officer, Overview Unit IVU, responsible for model validation etc.
annually attest to the completeness Barclays uses models to support a broad and approval, and Model Governance and and accuracy of the model inventory.
MGC range of activities, including informing Controls MGC, covering model risk undertakes regular conformance reviews on business decisions and strategies, measuring governance, controls and reporting, including the model inventory.
and limiting risk, valuing exposures, ownership of model risk policy and the model Enforcing that every model has a model conducting stress testing, assessing capital inventory.
owner who is accountable for the model.
adequacy, managing client assets, and The model owner must sign off models The model risk management framework meeting reporting requirements.
prior to submission to IVU for validation.
consists of the model risk policy and Since models are imperfect and incomplete The model owner works with the relevant standards.
The policy prescribes group-wide, representations of reality, they may be subject technical teams model developers, end-to-end requirements for the identification, to errors affecting the accuracy of their implementation, monitoring, data services, measurement and management of model risk, output.
Model errors can result in regulatory to maintain that the model covering model documentation, development, inappropriate business decisions being made, presented to IVU is and remains fit for implementation, monitoring, annual review, financial loss, regulatory risk, reputational risk purpose.
independent validation and approval, change and or inadequate capital reporting.
The policy is Overseeing that every model is subject to may also be misused, for instance applied to supported by global standards covering model validation and approval by IVU, prior to products that they were not intended for, or inventory, documentation, validation, being implemented and on a continual not adjusted, where fundamental changes to complexity and materiality, testing and basis.
While all models are reviewed and their environment would justify re-evaluating monitoring, overlays, risk appetite, as well as re-approved for continued use each year, their core assumptions.
Errors and misuse are vendor models and stress testing challenger the validation frequency and the level of the primary sources of model risk.
review and challenge applied by IVU is tailored to the materiality and complexity of Robust model risk management is crucial to Barclays is continuously enhancing model risk each model.
Validation includes a review of assessing and managing model risk within a management.
The function reports to the the model assumptions, conceptual defined risk appetite.
Strong model risk Group CRO and operates a global framework.
soundness, data, design, performance culture, appropriate technology environment, Implementation of best practice standards is a testing, compliance with external and adequate focus on understanding and central objective of the Group.
Model risk requirements if applicable, as well as any resolving model limitations are crucial reporting flows to senior management as limitations, proposed remediation and components.
Material model changes are subject to prioritised Organisation and structure Roles and responsibilities validation and approval.
Barclays allocates substantial resources to Defining model risk appetite in terms of risk The key model risk management activities identify and record models and their usage, tolerance, and qualitative metrics which are include: document and monitor the performance of used to track and report model risk.
Correctly identifying models across all models, validate models and adequately Maintaining specific standards that cover relevant areas of the firm, and recording address model limitations.
Barclays manages model risk management activities relating models in the Group Models Database model risk as an enterprise level risk similar to to stress testing challenger models, model GMD, the Group-wide model inventory.
overlays, vendor models, and model The heads of the relevant model ownership complexity and materiality.
Barclays has a dedicated Model Risk areas typically, the Business Chief Risk Officers, Business Chief Executive Officers, Management MRM function that consists of Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee reviews and recommends to the Board the Groups risk appetite for model risk reviews the effectiveness of the processes and policies by which Barclays identifies and manages model risk assesses performance relative to model risk appetite Group Risk Committee reviews risk appetite across model risk monitors the group risk profile for model risk, including emerging risks, against expected trends, and the utilisation of risk appetite Business Unit Risk Committees review critical updates on model risk e. g. updates on group-wide remediation plans review targeted updates on progress toward meeting regulatory deliverables review identified policy breaches 134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Principal Risk management Conduct risk management Conduct risk The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of financial services, including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct.
Senior Managers have ownership within their Overview areas for managing conduct risk.
These The Group defines, manages and mitigates individuals have a Statement of conduct risk with the goal of providing Responsibilities identifying the activities and positive customer and client outcomes, areas for which they are accountable.
The protecting market integrity and promoting primary responsibility for managing conduct effective competition.
This includes taking risk and compliance with control requirements reasonable steps to assure the Groups culture sits with the business where the risk arises.
and strategy are appropriately aligned to these The First Line Business Control Committees goals, products and services are reasonably provide oversight of controls relating to designed and delivered to meet the needs of conduct risk.
customers and clients, as well as promoting The Group Chief Compliance Officer is the fair and orderly operation of the markets responsible for owning and maintaining an in which the Group does business and that the appropriate Group-wide CRMF for overseeing Group does not commit or facilitate money Group-wide conduct risk management.
This laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and includes defining and owning the relevant corruption or breaches of economic sanctions.
conduct risk policies and oversight of the Product Lifecycle, Culture and Strategy and implementation of controls to manage the Financial Crime are the risk categories under risk.
Businesses are required to report their conduct risks on both a quarterly and an Organisation and structure event-driven basis.
The quarterly reports detail conduct risks inherent within the business The governance of conduct risk within strategy and include forward looking horizon Barclays is fulfilled through management scanning analysis as well as backward looking Committees and forums operated by the evidence-based indicators from both internal First and Second Lines of Defence with clear and external sources.
escalation and reporting lines to the Board.
The Business Unit Risk Committees and the The GRC is the most senior executive body Financial Crime Business Oversight responsible for reviewing and monitoring the Committees are the primary Second Line effectiveness of Barclays management of governance forums for oversight of conduct conduct risk.
risk profile and implementation of the CRMF.
The responsibilities of the Business Unit Risk Roles and responsibilities Committees include approval of the conduct risk tolerance and the business defined key The Conduct Risk Management Framework indicators.
Additional responsibilities include CRMF comprises a number of elements that the identification and discussion of any allow the Group to manage and measure its emerging conduct risks exposures which have conduct risk profile.
Organisation and structure Board Reputation Committee reviews and recommends to the Board the Groups risk appetite for conduct risk reviews the effectiveness of the processes and policies by which Barclays identifies and manages conduct risk monitors the conduct risk profile of the Group monitors culture and cultural transformation Group Risk Committee reviews and monitors the effectiveness of conduct risk management Business Unit Risk Committees and Financial Crime Business Oversight Committees oversee the management of the Groups conduct risk profile as the primary Second Line governance forum oversee the implementation of the Conduct Risk Management Framework CRMF oversee existing and emerging conduct risk exposures home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 135 Risk r Risk review eview Principal Risk management Reputation risk management Reputation risk The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the firms integrity and competence by clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or the public.
Overview Roles and responsibilities A reduction of trust in Barclays integrity and The Chief Compliance Officer is accountable competence may reduce the attractiveness of for developing a reputation risk framework Barclays to stakeholders and could lead to and policies including limits against which negative publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory data is monitored, reported on and escalated, or legislative action, loss of existing and as required.
potential client business, reduced workforce Reputation risk is by nature pervasive and can morale and difficulties in recruiting talent.
be difficult to quantify, requiring more Ultimately it may destroy shareholder value.
subjective judgement than many other risks.
The Reputation Risk Framework sets out what Organisation and structure is required to manage reputation risk effectively and consistently across the bank.
The GRC is the most senior executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the The primary responsibility for identifying and effectiveness of Barclays management of managing reputation risk and adherence to reputation risk.
the control requirements sits with the business and support functions where the risk arises.
Barclays International and Barclays UK are required to operate within established reputation risk appetite and their component businesses submit quarterly reports to the Group Reputation Management team, highlighting their most significant current and potential reputation risks and issues and how they are being managed.
These reports are a key internal source of information for the quarterly reputation risk reports which are prepared for the GRC and RepCo.
Organisation and structure Board Reputation Committee reviews the effectiveness of the processes and policies by which Barclays identifies and manages reputation risk considers and evaluates regular reports on Barclays reputation risk issues and exposures considers whether significant business decisions will compromise Barclays ethical policies or core business beliefs and values Group Risk Committee reviews the monitoring processes utilised by Compliance and Citizenship & Reputation for appropriateness given the level of risk identified in the businesses reports reputation issues in accordance with Barclays Reputation Risk Framework for all material issues which may have the potential to incur reputation risk for Barclays Business Unit Risk Committees review and escalate reputation risks in accordance with the Reputation Risk Framework 136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Principal Risk management Legal risk management Legal risk The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations including regulatory or contractual requirements.
The LRMF requires businesses and functions Overview Roles and responsibilities to integrate the management of legal risk The Legal Risk Management Framework The primary responsibility for identifying and within their strategic planning and business LRMF prescribes Group-wide requirements managing legal risk and adherence to the decision making, including adopting for the identification, escalation, measurement minimum control requirements sits with the processes to identify legal risk exposures and and management of legal risk, covering businesses functions where the risk resides.
managing adherence to the minimum control assessment, risk tolerance, key indicators and requirements.
On behalf of the businesses functions, the governance.
The LRMF is supported by aligned General Counsel or members of Legal In addition to legal risk detailed above, legal Group-wide legal risk policies and associated senior management provide oversight and outcomes, including losses or the imposition standards aligned to the following legal risks: challenge of the legal risk profile, for example of penalties, damages, fines and sanctions, Contractual Arrangements the Groups by undertaking legal risk tolerance may arise because of past and future actions, rights and remedies in its relationships with assessments, and providing advice on legal behaviours and business decisions aligned to other parties not being enforceable as risk management.
Legal risk tolerance the Principal Risk which gave rise to the intended due to the absence of appropriate assessments include both quantitative and outcome, including but not limited to conduct contractual documentation or defects qualitative criteria such as: and operational risk.
contentious legal matters in relation to the Risk and control self-assessment, lessons Group are set out in Note 29.
Litigation Management failure to learned, testing and monitoring processes.
adequately manage litigation involving the Analysis of legal risk material control issues Group.
Organisation and structure Intellectual Property IP failure to protect Potential legal risks resulting from Business function risk forums have oversight the Groups IP assets or the Group infringing upcoming changes in the control of their legal risk profile and implementation valid IP rights of third parties.
environment, systems, or internal of the LRMF.
The Legal Executive Committee Competition Anti-trust failure to organisational structures.
oversees, challenges and monitors legal risk adequately manage competition anti-trust Potential implications on the Group of across the Group.
The GRC is the most senior issues or failure to manage relationships forthcoming changes in the external legal executive body responsible for reviewing and with competition anti-trust authorities.
and regulatory environment and or monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays Use of Law Firms failure to control prevailing decisions from courts and management of risk.
Escalation paths from instruction of external law firms.
enforcing authorities as they relate to this forum exist to the BRC.
Contact with Regulators failure to manage interactions with regulators or The Group General Counsel supported by the failure to manage the receipt and handling Global Head of Legal Risk, Governance and of regulatory information from a regulatory Control is responsible for maintaining an or government agency appropriately.
appropriate LRMF and for overseeing Group-wide legal risk management.
Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee approves risk tolerances reviews risk profile and material risk issues commissions, receives and considers reports on key risk issues Group Risk Committee monitors risk profile with respect to non-financial risk tolerances debates and agrees actions on the non-financial risk profile and risk strategy across the Group considers escalated issues Legal Executive Committee oversees, challenges and monitors legal risk across the Group oversees and challenges effectiveness of the non-financial risk and control environment within the legal function considers issues of significance relating to legal risk and control Business Function Risk Forums and Committees oversee the legal risk profile of the relevant business function review conclusions from risk and control assessments and emerging risk issues oversee significant risk events and lessons learned assessments home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 137
