110 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Emerging risks The Group considers the following to be risks that have the potential to increase in significance and affect the performance of the Group.
These risks are considered alongside the Groups operating plan.
Risk Key mitigating actions Regulatory and legal: The industry continues to witness increased We continue to embed the regulatory and legal agenda across all government and regulatory intervention in the financial sector with areas of the Group ensuring that the customer is at the heart of our increasing regulatory rules and laws from both the UK and overseas businessplanning.
We work closely with regulatory authorities and industry bodies to ensure that the Group can identify and respond to the evolving regulatory and There remains uncertainty as to the impact of EU exit on the regulatory and legal landscape.
legal landscape: for example, the ability that the UK can continue to share data under the new data protection regime both with other European We actively implement programmes to deliver regulatory and legal countries and internationally after EU exit.
Macroeconomic headwinds and political uncertainties: Uncertainty Internal contingency plans recalibrated and regularly reviewed for over the UKs eventual relationship with the EU, and the implications of potential strategic, operational and reputational impacts, with a plan a minority UK government, create a more uncertain outlook for the UK specifically for working through the potential impacts of the EU exit on economy.
A rise in global protectionism led by the US, fuelled by growing theGroup.
income inequality and an accompanying rise in political populism, and the Engagement with politicians, officials, media, trade and other bodies to recent indecisive German election, generate heightened risks to the global reassure our commitment to helping Britain prosper.
Wide array of risks considered in setting strategic plans.
Further, high levels of credit market liquidity have reduced spreads and Capital and liquidity is reviewed regularly through committees, ensuring weakened terms in some sectors, creating a potential under-pricing of risk.
compliance with risk appetite and regulatory requirements.
IT resilience and cyber: Increasing digitisation places greater reliance Continued investment in IT and to improve the effectiveness of the on the provision of resilient and secure services to customers.
increase in the volume and sophistication of cyber-attacks could disrupt Continued investment in the Groups Cyber Programme to ensure service for customers, causing financial loss reputational damage.
confidentiality and integrity of data and availability of key systems.
Collaboration with regulators and law enforcement agencies.
Response to market changes agility : As technology and customer needs The Group is transforming the business to improve customer experience change, the typical banking model is evolving and as such, operational by digitising customer journeys and leveraging branches for complex complexity has the potential to restrict our speed of response.
needs, in response to customers evolving needs and expectations.
The Group will deepen insight into customer segments, their perception of brands and what they value.
Agility will be increased by consolidating platforms and building new architecture aligned with customer journeys.
Strategic use of customer data: The implementation of open banking The Group has implemented open banking and is actively monitoring the introduces data sharing with third parties, potentially increasing the risks of implications for our customers, including protecting them from fraud.
There is a continued need to defend against dynamic The Group is making a significant investment to improve data privacy, external challengers and meet consumer expectations.
Failure to address including the security of data and oversight of third parties.
growth in data movement or understand the supply chain third party The Groups strategy is to introduce advanced data management controls may increase exposure to cyber and fraud leading to conduct practices, based on Group-wide standards, data-first culture and andreputational issues.
modern enterprise data platforms, supported by a simplified modern ITarchitecture.
Geopolitical shocks: Current uncertainties could further impede the global Risk appetite criteria limits single counterparty bank and non-bank economic recovery.
Events in North Korea, Russia, the Middle-East, as well exposures complemented by a UK-focused strategy.
as terrorist activity, have the potential to trigger changes in the economic The Chief Security Office develops and maintains the Stability Response outlook, market risk pricing and funding conditions.
Plan with the Financial Stability Response Team acting as a rapid reaction group, should an external crisis occur.
The Chief Security Office also maintains the operational resilience framework to embed resilience activities across the Group and limit the impact of internal or external events.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 The engagement of all required business, Risk and Finance areas is built Capital stress testing into the preparation process, so that the appropriate analysis of each risk Overview categorys impact upon the business plans is understood and documented.
The methodologies and modelling approach used for stress testing Stress testing is recognised as a key risk management tool within the ensure that a clear link is shown between the macroeconomic scenarios, Group by the Board, senior management, the businesses and the Risk the business drivers for each area and the resultant stress testing outputs.
It is fully embedded in the planning process of the All material assumptions used in modelling are documented and justified, Group as a key activity in medium term planning, and senior management with a clearly communicated review and sign-off process.
Modelling is actively involved in stress testing activities via a strict governance process.
is supported by expert judgement and is subject to the Group Model The Group uses scenario stress testing for: Governance Policy.
Risk identification: Governance To understand key vulnerabilities of the Group under adverse Clear accountabilities and responsibilities for stress testing are assigned to economicconditions.
senior management and the Risk and Finance functions throughout the Risk appetite: Group.
This is formalised through the Group Business Planning and Stress Testing Policy and Procedure, which are reviewed at least annually.
Assess the results of the stress test against the Groups risk appetite to ensure the Group is managed within its risk parameters.
The Group Financial Risk Committee GFRC, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and attended by the Chief Financial Officer and other senior Risk Inform the setting of risk appetite by assessing the underlying risks under and Finance colleagues, is the Committee that has primary responsibility stress conditions.
for overseeing the development and execution of the Groups stress tests.
Strategic and capital planning: The review and challenge of the detailed stress forecasts, the key Allow senior management and the Board to adjust strategies if the plan assumptions behind these, and the methodology used to translate the does not meet risk appetite in a stressed scenario.
economic assumptions into stressed outputs conclude with the divisional Support the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP Finance Directors, appropriate Risk Directors and Managing Directors by demonstrating capital adequacy, and meet the requirements of sign-off.
The outputs are then presented to GFRC, Group Asset and regulatory stress tests that are used to inform the setting of the Groups Liability Committee Group Risk Committee Group Executive Committee Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and management buffers see and Board Risk Committee for Group level executive and non-executive capital risk on pages 137144. review and challenge, before being approved by the Board.
Risk mitigation: How risk is managed in Drive the development of potential actions and contingency plans to Lloyds Banking Group mitigate the impact of adverse scenarios.
Stress testing also links directly to the Groups recovery planning process.
The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF see risk overview, page 32, is structured around the following components which meet and Regulatory stress tests align with the industry-accepted internal control framework issued by the The concurrent UK stress test run by the Bank of England was also Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission.
As announced in November, despite the severity of the The RMF applies to every area of the business and covers all types of risk.
stress scenario, the Group exceeded the capital and leverage thresholds It is reviewed, updated and approved by the Board at least annually to set out for the purpose of the stress test and was not required to take any reflect any changes in the nature of our business and external regulations, capital action as a result.
law, corporate governance and industry best practice.
In 2017 the annual update was also informed by the findings of an independent external Internal stress tests review.
The RMF provides the Group with an effective mechanism for On at least an annual basis, the Group conducts macroeconomic stress developing and embedding risk policies and risk management strategies tests of the operating plan, which are supplemented with higher-level which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses.
It also seeks to refreshes if necessary.
The exercise aims to highlight the key vulnerabilities facilitate effective communication on these matters across the Group.
of the Groups business plan to adverse changes in the economic environment, and to ensure that there are adequate financial resources in Role of the Board and senior management the event of a downturn.
Key responsibilities of the Board and senior management include: Reverse stress testing setting risk appetite and approval of the RMF: Reverse stress testing is used to explore the vulnerabilities of the Groups approval of Group-wide risk principles and policies: strategies and plans to extreme adverse events that would cause the the cascade of delegated authority for example to Board business to fail, in order to facilitate contingency planning.
The scenarios sub-committees and the Group Chief Executive : and used are those that would cause the Group to be unable to carry on its effective oversight of risk management consistent with risk appetite.
Where reverse stress testing reveals plausible scenarios with an unacceptably high risk when considered against the Groups risk Risk appetite appetite, the Group will adopt measures to prevent or mitigate that risk, Risk appetite is defined within the Group as the amount and type of risk which are then reflected in strategic plans.
that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate see the Groups approach to risk, pages 108109.
Other stress testing activity The Groups stress testing programme also involves undertaking Governance frameworks assessment of liquidity scenarios, market risk sensitivities and scenarios, The policy framework is founded on Board-approved key principles and business specific scenarios see the primary risk categories on for the overall management of risk in the organisation, which are pages115156 for further information on risk specific stress testing.
If aligned with Group strategy and risk appetite and based on a current required, ad hoc stress testing exercises are also undertaken to assess and comprehensive risk profile that identifies all material risks to the emerging risks, as well as in response to regulatory requests.
The principles are underpinned by a hierarchy of policies ranging programme provides a comprehensive view of the potential which define mandatory requirements for risk management and control impacts arising from the risks to which the Group is exposed and reflects which are consistently implemented across the Group.
the nature, scale and complexity of the Group.
Regular policy framework assessments are undertaken in all business areas, Methodology driving Board-level risk appetite metrics which monitor the operating The stress tests at all levels must comply with all regulatory requirements, effectiveness of policy controls and overall policy implementation.
Robust processes and controls to identify and report policy breaches include clear achieved through comprehensive construction of macroeconomic scenarios and a rigorous divisional, functional, risk and executive review materiality criteria and escalation procedures which ensure an appropriate level of visibility and prioritisation of remedial actions.
and challenge process, supported by analysis and insight into impacts on customers and business drivers.
The risk committee governance framework is outlined on page 113.
112 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued business and the Risk division, and seeks to ensure objective challenge to Three Lines of Defence model the effectiveness of the risk governance framework.
The RMF is implemented through a three lines of defence model which defines clear responsibilities and accountabilities and ensures effective Risk and control cycle from identification to independent oversight and assurance activities take place covering reporting keydecisions.
To allow senior management to make informed risk decisions, the business Business lines first line have primary responsibility for risk decisions, follows a continuous risk management approach which includes producing identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risks within their areas appropriate, accurate and focused risk reporting and risk management.
They are required to establish effective governance and The risk and control cycle sets out how this should be approached and control frameworks for their business to be compliant with Group policy produced with the appropriate controls and processes in place.
This cycle, requirements, to maintain appropriate risk management skills, mechanisms from identification to reporting, ensures consistency and is intended to and toolkits, and to act within Group risk appetite parameters set and manage and mitigate the risks impacting the Group.
The process for risk identification, measurement and control is integrated Risk division second line is a centralised function headed by the Chief Risk into the overall framework for risk governance.
Risk identification processes Officer and consisting of eight Risk Directors and their specialist teams.
The are forward looking to ensure emerging risks are identified.
Risks are role of Chief Risk Officer was held by Juan Colombs until 4September captured and measured using robust and consistent quantification 2017 when he was succeeded by Stephen Shelley, previously Commercial methodologies.
The measurement of risks includes the application of Banking Risk Director.
Within Risk division the Compliance function has stress testing and scenario analysis, and considers whether relevant been headed throughout 2017 by Letitia Smith, Group Director, Conduct, controls are in place before risks are incurred.
Identified risks are reported on a monthly basis or as frequently as Risk division provides oversight and independent constructive challenge necessary to the appropriate committee.
The extent of the risk is to the effectiveness of risk decisions taken by business management, compared to the overall risk appetite as well as specific limits or triggers.
providing proactive advice and guidance, reviewing, challenging and When thresholds are breached, committee minutes are clear on the reporting on the risk profile of the Group and ensuring that mitigating actions and timeframes required to resolve the breach and bring risk actions are appropriate.
There is a clear process for escalation of risks and It also has a key role in promoting the implementation of a strategic risk events.
approach to risk management reflecting the risk appetite and RMF agreed All business areas complete a Control Effectiveness Review CER annually, by the Board that encompasses: reviewing the effectiveness of their internal controls and putting in place embedded effective risk management processes: a programme of enhancements where appropriate.
The CER reports are approved at divisional risk committees or directly by the relevant transparent, focused risk monitoring and reporting: member of the Group Executive Committee to confirm the accuracy of the provision of expert and high quality advice and guidance to the Board, assessment.
This key process is overseen and independently challenged executives and management on strategic issues and horizon scanning, by Risk division, reviewed by Group Internal Audit against the findings of its including pending regulatory changes: and assurance activities, and reported to the Board.
a constructive dialogue with the first line through provision of advice, development of common methodologies, understanding, education, Risk culture training, and development of new tools.
Supporting the formal frameworks of the RMF is the underlying culture, The Chief Risk Officer is accountable for developing and leading an or shared behaviours and values, which sets out in clear terms what industry-wide recognised Risk function that adds value to the Group by: constitutes good behaviour and good practice.
In order to effectively manage risk across the organisation, the functions encompassed within providing a regular comprehensive view of the Groups risk profile, both the three lines of defence have a clear understanding of risk appetite, current and emerging key risks, and management actions: business strategy and an understanding of and commitment to the role with input from the business areas and Risk division proposing Group they play in delivering it.
A number of levers are used to reinforce the risk appetite to the Board for approval, and overseeing performance of risk culture, including tone from the top, clear accountabilities, effective the Group against risk appetite: communication and challenge and an appropriately aligned performance developing an effective RMF which meets regulatory requirements for incentive and structure.
approval by the Board, and overseeing execution and compliance: and Risk resources and capabilities challenging management on emerging risks and providing expert risk and control advice to help management maintain an effective risk and Appropriate mechanisms are in place to avoid over-reliance on key control framework.
personnel or system technical expertise within the Group.
Adequate resources are in place to serve customers both under normal working The Risk Directors: conditions and in times of stress, and monitoring procedures are in provide independent advice, oversight and challenge to the business: place to ensure that the level of available resource can be increased design, develop and maintain policies, specific functional risk type if required.
Colleagues undertake appropriate training to ensure they have the skills and knowledge necessary to enable them to deliver fair frameworks and guidance to ensure alignment with business imperatives and regulatory requirements: outcomes for customers, being mindful of the Groups strategic conduct agenda, customer treatment policy standards and Financial Conduct establish and maintain appropriate governance structures, culture, .
oversight and monitoring arrangements which ensure robust and efficient compliance with relevant risk type risk appetites and policies: There is ongoing investment in risk systems and models alongside the Groups investment in customer and product systems and processes.
lead regulatory liaison on behalf of the Group including horizon scanning and regulatory development for their risk type: and This drives improvements in risk data quality, aggregation and reporting leading to effective and efficient risk decisions.
recommend risk appetite and oversight of the associated risk profile across the Group.
Group Internal Audit third line provides independent and objective assurance designed to add value and improve the organisations operations.
Group Internal Audit has been headed throughout 2017 by Paul Day, Chief Internal Auditor, on an interim secondment basis from 1January to 31May, and on a permanent basis thereafter.
It helps the Group accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance to the Audit Committee and the Board that risks within the Group are recognised, monitored and managed within acceptable parameters.
Group Internal Audit is fully independent of the
