32 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk overview Effective risk management and control As a Group, managing risk effectively is fundamental to our strategy and to operating Risk as a strategic differentiator successfully.
We are a simple, low risk, UK Group strategy and risk appetite are risk control and ensures that the Group focused bank with a culture founded on a developed together to ensure one informs risk appetite is continually developed and prudent through the cycle risk appetite.
the other to deliver on our purpose to adhered to.
A strong risk management culture is crucial for help Britain prosper whilst becoming sustainable growth and within Lloyds it is at the Business focus and accountability the best bank for customers, colleagues heart of everything we do.
Effective risk management is a key focus and andshareholders.
is included in key performance measures Our approach to risk is founded on an effective Risks are identified, managed and mitigated against which business units are assessed.
control framework, which guides how our using our comprehensive Risk Management Business units in the first line of defence colleagues work, behave and the decisions Framework see below, and our well are accountable for risk with oversight from they make.
Risk appetite the amount and articulated risk appetite provides a clear a strong and independent, second line of type of risk we are prepared to seek, accept framework for effective decision making.
or tolerate is approved by the Board and The principal risks we face, which could embedded in policies, authorities and limits significantly impact the delivery of our Effective risk analysis, management across the Group.
strategy, are discussed on pages 34 37. andreporting Our prudent risk culture and appetite, along Continuing to deliver regular close We believe effective risk management can monitoring and stringent reporting to with close collaboration between Risk division be a strategic differentiator, in particular: and the business, supports effective decision all levels of management and the Board ensures appetite limits are maintained and making and has enabled us to continue to Prudent approach to risk deliver against our strategic priorities in 2017, subject to stressed analysis at a risk type and Implementing a prudent approach to portfolio level.
simplifying and strengthening the business risk across the Group and embedding a whilst growing in targeted areas.
We have strong risk culture ensures alignment to Sustainable growth created a strong foundation to enable this ourstrategy.
Embedding a risk culture that ensures progress, ensuring we react appropriately proactive support and constructive Strong control framework to the ever changing macroeconomic and challenge takes place across the business is The Groups Risk Management Framework regulatory environment.
important for delivering sustainable growth.
is the foundation for the delivery of effective Our risk management framework The diagram below outlines the framework in place for risk management across the Group.
Accountability for ensuring risk is managed Confirmation of the effectiveness of consistently with the Risk Management the Risk Management Framework Framework approved by the Board and underlying risk and control Setting risk appetite and strategy.
Approval of the Risk Management Framework and Group-wide Board Board authorities role risk principles Review risk appetite, frameworks and principles Through Board-delegated executive authorities to be recommended to the Board.
Be exemplars Senior there is effective oversight of risk management management role of risk management consistent with risk appetite Determined by the Board and senior management.
The risk appetite framework ensures our risks are Business units formulate their strategy in line with Risk appetite managed in line with our risk appetite the Groups risk appetite Supporting a consistent approach to Group-wide Supports a consistent approach to enterprise-wide behaviour and risk decision making.
Consistency Governance framework is delivered through the policy framework and risk behaviour and decision making committee structures Maintains a robust control framework, Monitoring, oversight and assurance ensure Three lines of defence identifying and escalating emerging risks and effective risk management across the Group supporting sustainable growth Risk and control cycle Defined processes exist to identify, measure and Carried out by all three lines of defence and is an from identification to reporting control our current and emerging risks integral part of our control effectiveness assessment Risk Risk resources In line with our code of responsibility.
Culture ensures Processes and infrastructure are being invested in to culture and capabilities performance, risk and reward are aligned further improve our risk management capabilities Risk-specific needs defined in detail for Primary risk categories Risk-type specific sub-frameworks e. g. credit risk implementation by each business Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Risk considerations The potential risks and impacts arising from the external environment are outlined below.
They are grouped using the same classification as on pages89, with links to our principal risks and strategic priorities.
For information on how we manage our emerging risks, see page 110.
Economy Regulation and legal Customer Risk and potential impact Risk and potential impact Risk and potential impact Economic headwinds such as rising inflation The financial services industry continues The availability and delivery of services through could impact households disposable income toexperience significant legislative and digital channels is becoming increasingly and businesses profitability, impairing regulatory change and interpretation important for customer satisfaction.
customers ability to repay their borrowing, givingrise to uncertainty surrounding Accelerated change in customer behaviour and potentially hindering sustainable growth.
the nature, scale and complexity of and expectations may require increased agility implementation requirements.
to accommodate the pace and scale of change The impact of EU exit on our portfolios and could lead to customer detriment if this remains uncertain.
Operational changes are This has the potential to impact, for example, change is poorly executed.
likely to be limited given our UK focus but the resource and investment available to the impact on the UK economy may affect allocate to the Groups strategic priorities.
The Group will continue to focus on business performance.
change execution whilst keeping pace with The Group has a proven track record in developments to meet new and evolving We consider an array of scenarios as part of implementing complex legal and regulatory customer needs.
our operating plan and stress testing exercises, programmes and will continue to manage to identify and implement appropriate any potential impact by remaining actively Link to principal risks mitigatingactions.
engaged with governmental bodies, regulatory Regulatory and legal authorities and industry associations.
Conduct Link to principal risks Operational Link to principal risks Credit Operational Credit Link to strategic priorities Insurance underwriting Regulatory and legal Delivering a leading customer experience Capital Capital Funding and liquidity Funding and liquidity Market Market Link to strategic priorities Link to strategic priorities Maximising the Groups capabilities Delivering a leading customer experience Technology Competition Risk and potential impact Risk and potential impact New technologies such as public cloud and Technological change is driving an increase artificial intelligence along with growing in the number, and changing the nature of interconnectivity between the Group, competitors in the UK financial services industry, customers, and third parties create new risks.
opening up opportunities for consumers even as levels of regulatory focus rise.
Increasing capabilities of cyber-attackers We must ensure that an unexpectedly fast pace and higher volumes of connected devices of change, which may accelerate customer increases the potential for cyber-enabled fraud disintermediation, does not lead to our and other crime, including attacks that could involvement in anti-competitive practices, or disrupt service for customers.
prevent certain customer groups from having equal access to our products and services.
We continue to optimise our approach to operational resilience by enhancing systems We will continue to address this through that support the Groups critical business innovation and developing new products processes, evolving controls within new thatrespond to market trends and meet technologies and channels, and making customer changing needs.
significant investment to improve data privacy, including the security of data.
Link to principal risks Regulatory and legal Link to principal risks Conduct Conduct Operational Operational People Link to strategic priorities Link to strategic priorities Delivering a leading customer experience Delivering a leading customer experience Digitising the Group Maximising the Groups capabilities Find further discussion on the impact of The links shown here between these five factors and our these factors on our business on pages 89 principal risks and strategic priorities are not an exhaustive list.
34 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk overview continued Principal risks The most significant risks which could impact the delivery of our long-term strategic objectives and our approach to each risk, are detailed below.
As part of the Groups ongoing assessment of the potential implications of the UK Credit Regulatory and legal leaving the European Union, the Group continues to consider the impact to its The risk that parties with whom we have The risks of changing legislation, regulation, customers, colleagues and products contracted, fail to meet their financial policies, voluntary codes of practice and as well as legal, regulatory, tax, financial and obligations both on and off balance sheet.
their interpretation in the markets in which capital implications.
we operate may have a significant impact on Example There remains continued uncertainty the Groups operations, business prospects, Adverse impact on profitability due to around both the UK and global political and structure, costs and or capital requirements an increase in impairment losses, write macroeconomic environment.
The potential and ability to enforce contractual obligations.
downs and or decrease in asset valuations impacts of external factors have been which can occur for a number of reasons, Examples considered in all principal risks to ensure including adverse changes in the economic, Increased regulatory oversight and any material uncertainties continue to be geopolitical and market environment.
monitored and are appropriately mitigated.
example, low interest rates have helped Increased legislative requirements, such as Principal risks and uncertainties are reviewed customer affordability, but there is a risk of ring-fencing legislation, Payment Services and reported regularly.
This year we have increased defaults as interest rates rise.
Directive 2 PSD2, Open Banking and added a new principal risk, model risk, to General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
reflect the Groups increasing use of analytics Key mitigating actions and models to make decisions.
Key mitigating actions Credit policy, incorporating prudent lending criteria, aligned with Board approved risk Ensure we develop comprehensive plans appetite, to effectively manage risk.
for delivery of all legal and regulatory Robust risk assessment and credit changes and track their progress.
sanctioning to ensure we lend Group-wide projects implemented to appropriately and responsibly.
Extensive and thorough credit processes Continued investment in people, processes, and controls to ensure effective risk training and IT to assess impact and help identification, management and oversight.
meet our legal and regulatory commitments.
Effective, well-established governance Engage with regulatory authorities and process supported by independent industry bodies on forthcoming regulatory credit risk assurance.
changes, market reviews and investigations.
Early identification of signs of stress leading to prompt action in engaging the customer.
Key risk indicators Mandatory, legal and regulatory investment spend Key risk indicators Impairment charge Impaired assets 886m 2016: 555m 795m 7,841m 2016: 645m 2016: 8,495m Alignment to strategic priorities and future focus Delivering a leading customer experience Alignment to strategic priorities and future focus We are committed to operating sustainably Maximising the Groups capabilities and responsibly, and commit significant resource and expense to ensure we meet We seek to support sustainable growth in our our legal and regulatory obligations.
We have a conservative and well balanced credit portfolio, managed We respond as appropriate to impending through the economic cycle and supported by legislation, regulation and associated strong credit portfolio management.
consultations and participate in industry bodies.
We continue to be subject to We are committed to better addressing our significant ongoing and new legislation, customers banking needs through consistent, regulation and court proceedings.
fair and responsible credit risk decisions, aligned to customers circumstances, whilst staying within prudent risk appetite.
Impairments remain below long-term levels and are expected to increase as the level of write-backs and releases reduces and impairments normalise.
Read more Read more on pages 116133 on page 133 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Conduct Operational People Conduct risk can arise from a number of We face significant operational risks which Key people risks include the risk that we fail areas including selling products to customers may disrupt services to customers, cause to maintain organisational skills, capability, which do not meet their needs: failing to deal reputational damage, and result in financial resilience and capacity levels in response to with customers complaints effectively: not loss.
These include the availability, resilience organisational, political and external market meeting customers expectations: failing to and security of our core IT systems, unlawful change and evolving business needs.
promote effective competition in the interest or inappropriate use of customer data, theft Example of customers: and exhibiting behaviours which of sensitive data, fraud and financial crime Inability to attract or retain colleagues with could impact on the integrity of the market or threats, and the potential for failings in our key skills could impact the achievement of undermine wider regulatory standards.
Example Example The most significant conduct cost in recent The dynamic threat posed by cyber risk to Key mitigating actions years has been PPI misselling.
the confidentiality and integrity of electronic Focused action to attract, retain and data or the availability of systems.
Delivering Key mitigating actions initiatives which reinforce behaviours to Key mitigating actions Conduct risk appetite metrics provide a generate the best outcomes for customers and colleagues.
granular view of how our products and Investing in enhanced cyber controls to services are performing for customers.
protect against external threats to the Managing organisational capability and confidentiality or integrity of electronic data, Product approval, continuous product capacity to ensure there are the right or the availability of systems, and to ensure review processes and customer skills and resources to meet our effective third party assurance.
outcome testing across products customers needs.
and services supported by conduct Enhancing the resilience of systems that Effective remuneration arrangements to .
support critical business processes with promote appropriate colleague behaviours independent verification of progress on an Learning from past mistakes through and meet regulatory expectations.
root cause analysis and clear customer accountabilities for colleagues, with rewards Significant investment in compliance with Key risk indicators driven by customercentric metrics.
GDPR and Basel Committee on Banking Best bank for customers index Supervision standards.
Further enhancements and embedding of our framework to support customers Working with industry bodies and law 80% invulnerable circumstances.
enforcement agencies to identify and 2016: 77% combat fraud and money laundering.
Key risk indicators Conduct risk appetite metric Key risk indicators performance-Group Availability of core systems Alignment to strategic priorities and future focus 92.3% 99.98% Transforming ways of working 2016: 92.1% 2016: 99.97% Continued regulatory change relating to personal accountability and remuneration rules could affect the Groups ability to attract Alignment to strategic priorities and retain the calibre of colleagues required and future focus Alignment to strategic priorities to meet our changing customer needs.
We and future focus Delivering a leading customer experience will continue to invest in the development Delivering a leading customer experience of colleague capabilities and agile working As we transform our business, minimising practices in order to deliver a leading customer conduct risk is critical to achieving our strategic We recognise that resilient and secure experience, and to respond quickly to the goals and meeting regulatorystandards.
technology, and appropriate use of data, rapidly evolving change in customers decision is critical to delivering a leading customer Our focus on embedding a customercentric making in an increasingly digital marketplace.
experience and maintaining trust across culture and delivering good outcomes through thewider industry.
good conduct is subject to robust review by the Group Customer First Committee.
The availability and resilience of IT systems This supports our vision of being the best remains a key strategic priority and the Cyber bank for customers, enabling the delivery Programme continues to focus on enhancing of a leading customer experience through cyber security controls.
Internal programmes effective root cause analysis and learning ensure that data is used correctly, and the fromcustomerfeedback.
control environment is regularly assessed through both internal and third party testing.
Read more Read more Read more on page 134 on pages 135136 on page 136 36 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk overview continued Insurance underwriting Capital Funding and liquidity Key insurance underwriting risks within the The risk that we have a sub-optimal quantity The risk that we have insufficient financial Insurance business are longevity, persistency or quality of capital or that capital is resources to meet our commitments as and property insurance.
Longevity risk is inefficiently deployed across the Group.
expected to increase as our presence in the Example Example bulk annuity market increases.
A worsening macroeconomic environment A deterioration in either the Groups or Example could lead to adverse financial performance, the UKs credit rating, or a sudden and Uncertain property insurance claims impact which could deplete capital resources and significant withdrawal of customer deposits, Insurance earnings and capital, e. g. extreme or increase capital requirements due to a would adversely impact our funding and weather conditions, such as flooding, can deterioration in customers creditworthiness.
result in high property damage claims.
Key mitigating actions Key mitigating actions Key mitigating actions A comprehensive capital management Holding liquid assets to cover potential cash Processes for underwriting, claims framework that includes setting of capital and collateral outflows and to meet regulatory management, pricing and product design risk appetite and dividend policy.
In addition, maintaining a seek to control exposure.
Longevity and further pool of assets that can be used to Close monitoring of capital and leverage access central bank liquidity facilities.
bulk pricing experts support the bulk ratios to ensure we meet regulatory annuity proposition.
Undertaking daily monitoring against a The merits of longevity risk transfer and number of market and Group-specific Comprehensive stress testing analyses to hedging solutions are regularly reviewed for early warning indicators.
evidence capital adequacy under various the Insurance business.
Maintaining a contingency funding plan Property insurance exposures are mitigated detailing actions and strategies available in by a broad reinsurance programme.
Key risk indicators 1,3 Common equity UK leverage ratio 1,2 tier 1 ratio Key risk indicators Key risk indicators Insurance Life and General Insurance 13.9% 5.4% LCR eligible Pensions present underwritten total value of new business gross written premiums assets Loan to deposit ratio 2016: 13.0% 2016: 5.3% premiums 121bn 110% 9,951m 733m 2016: 121bn 2016: 109% 2016: 8,919m 2016: 831m Alignment to strategic priorities and future focus Alignment to strategic priorities Alignment to strategic priorities Maximising the Groups capabilities and future focus and future focus Ensuring we hold an appropriate level of Delivering a leading customer experience Maximising the Groups capabilities capital to maintain financial resilience and We are committed to meeting the changing market confidence, underpins our strategic We maintain a strong funding position in needs of customers by working to provide objectives of supporting the UK economy line with our low risk strategy and the loan to a range of insurance products via multiple and growth in targeted segments.
deposit ratio remains within our target range.
The focus is on delivering a leading Our funding position allows the Group to 1 Pro forma.
customer experience by helping customers grow targeted business segments and better 2 CET1 ratio after ordinary dividends and share buyback.
protect themselves today whilst preparing 2016 adjusted for MBNA.
3 Calculated in accordance with the UK Leverage Ratio Framework which requires qualifying central bank claims to Strategic growth initiatives within Insurance be excluded from the leverage exposure measure.
are developed and managed in line with a defined risk appetite, aligned to the Group risk appetite and strategy.
Read more Read more Read more on page 137 on pages 137144 on pages 144149 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 Governance Market Model NEW The risk that our capital or earnings profile is The risk of financial loss, regulatory censure, Against a background of increased regulatory affected by adverse market rates, in particular reputational damage or customer detriment, focus on governance and risk management, interest rates and credit spreads in the banking as a result of deficiencies in the development, the most significant challenges arise from business, equity and credit spreads in the application and ongoing operation of financial meeting the requirements to ring-fence core Insurance business, and credit spreads in the models and rating systems.
UK financial services and activities from January Groups defined benefit DB pension schemes.
2019 and further requirements under the Senior Examples Manager & Certification Regime SM&CR.
Examples Examples of the consequences of inadequate Earnings are impacted by our ability to models include: Examples forecast and model customer behaviour Inappropriate levels of capital or Inadequate or complex governance accurately and establish appropriate arrangements to address ring-fencing impairments.
requirements could result in a weaker control Inappropriate credit or pricing decisions.
environment, delays in decision making and The Insurance business is exposed indirectly Adverse impacts on funding or liquidity, to equity risk through the value of future lack of clear accountability.
or the Groups earnings and profits.
management charges on policyholder Non-compliance with or breaches of SM&CR funds.
Credit spread risk within the Insurance requirements could result in lack of clear Key mitigating actions business primarily arises from bonds and accountability and legal and regulatory loans used to back annuities.
A comprehensive model risk management consequences.
framework including: Narrowing credit spreads will increase the cost of pension scheme benefits.
Key mitigating actions Defined roles and responsibilities, with clear ownership and accountability.
Leveraging our considerable change Key mitigating actions Principles regarding the requirements of experience to meet ring-fencing Structural hedge programmes implemented data integrity, development, validation, requirements before the regulatory to manage liability margins and margin implementation and ongoing maintenance.
deadlines, and the continuing evolution compression.
Equity and credit spread risks are closely Programme in place to address ring-fencing.
monitored and, where appropriate, In close and regular contact with regulators Periodic validation and re-approval asset and liability matching is undertaken.
to develop and deploy our planned of models.
The Groups DB pension schemes have increased their credit allocation Evolving risk and governance arrangements N A and hedged against nominal rate and to continue to be appropriate to comply with inflationmovements.
Key risk indicators N A IAS19 Pension surplus Alignment to strategic priorities 509m and future focus 2016: 244 m Digitising the Group The Groups models play a vital role in Alignment to strategic priorities supporting Group strategy to ensure and future focus profitable growth in targeted segments Alignment to strategic priorities Maximising the Groups capabilities and the Groups drive toward automation and future focus and digital solutions to enhance customer We actively manage our exposure to Delivering a leading customer experience outcomes.
Model risk management helps movements in market rates, to drive lower ensure these models are implemented in a Ring-fencing will ensure we become safer volatility earnings and offer a comprehensive controlled and safe manner for both the Group and continue to deliver a leading customer customer proposition with hedging strategies and customers.
experience by providing further protection to support strategic aims.
Mitigating actions to core retail and SME deposits, increasing are implemented to reduce the impact of transparency of our operations and facilitating market movements, resulting in a more stable the options available in resolution.
Effective interest rate and inflation hedging has kept volatility in the Our governance framework and strong culture Groups DB pension schemes low and helped of ownership and accountability enabled to return the schemes to IAS19 surplus in effective, on time, compliance with the 2017.
This allows us to more efficiently utilise SM&CR requirements and enable us to available capital resources to better enable the demonstrate clear accountability for decisions.
Group to maximise its capabilities.
Read more Read more Read more on page 150 on pages 151156 on page 156 38 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL RESULTS Summary of Group results 39 Divisional results 45 Other financial information 49 HELPING BRITAINS BUSINESSES BECOME GREENER Through our 1 billion Green Loan Initiative, we are supporting Britains businesses to make their real estate more energy efficient.
In 2017, we agreed a 50million loan to help Ei Group, Britains largest leased and tenanted pub company, introduce energy saving upgrades across its network.
This is the first loan made outside the commercial real estate sector through the Initiative, which we launched in 2016.
5m square feet of real estate we'five helped to become energy efficient in 2017 Visit www.
