Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk review Supervision and regulation In the UK, the Bank of England BoE has Both the PRA and the FCA have continued to Supervision of the Group The Groups operations, including its overseas responsibility for monitoring the UK financial develop and apply a more assertive approach system as a whole, including by way of to supervision and the application of existing branches, subsidiaries and associates, are subject to a large number of rules and conducting annual stress tests on UK banks.
This may include application of The day-to-day regulation and supervision of standards that either anticipate or go beyond regulations that are a condition for authorisations to conduct banking and the Group is divided between the Prudential requirements established by global or EU Regulation Authority PRA a division of the standards, whether in relation to capital, financial services business in each of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
BoE and the Financial Conduct Authority leverage and liquidity, resolvability and FCA.
resolution or matters of conduct.
These apply to business operations, impact financial returns and include capital, leverage The FCA has retained an approach to In addition, the Financial Policy Committee and liquidity requirements, authorisation, FPC of the BoE has influence on the enforcement based on credible deterrence registration and reporting requirements, that has seen significant growth in the size of prudential requirements that may be imposed restrictions on certain activities, conduct of on the banking system through its powers of regulatory fines.
The approach appears to be business regulations and many others.
These trending towards a more US model of direction and recommendation.
requirements are set in legislation and by the enforcement including vigorous enforcement relevant central banks and regulatory Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC of criminal and regulatory breaches, are authorised and subject to solo prudential authorities that authorise, regulate and heightened fines and proposed measures supervise the Group in the jurisdictions in supervision by the PRA and subject to conduct related to increased corporate criminal liability.
regulation and supervision by the FCA.
Often, the requirements may reflect global standards developed by Barclays is also subject to prudential The FCA has focused strongly on conduct risk supervision by the PRA on a Group and on customer outcomes and will continue international bodies such as the G20, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision consolidated basis.
Barclays Bank UK PLCs to do so.
This has included a focus on the BCBS, the International Organisation of authorisation is subject to restrictions on design and operation of products, the Securities Commissions lOSCO and the activities expected to be lifted prior to April behaviour of customers and the operation of Financial Stability Board FSB.
Barclays Services Limited is an markets.
This may affect both the incidence of such as central banks and self-regulatory appointed representative of Barclays Bank PLC conduct costs and increase the cost of organisations, also create voluntary Codes of and Clydesdale Financial Services Limited the remediation.
Conduct which affect the way the Group does principals.
This status enables Barclays The FCA and the PRA have also increasingly business.
Services Limited to undertake activities which focused on individual accountability within would otherwise require authorisation, with firms.
This focus is reflected in the Senior Regulatory developments impact the Group the principals assuming regulatory globally.
We focus particularly on EU, UK and Managers and Certification Regime the responsibility for the conduct of Barclays SMCR which came into force in 2016.
The US regulation due to the location of Barclays Services Limited as their appointed principal areas of business.
Regulations SMCR, which implements the representative.
Barclays Bank PLCs German, recommendations in the final report of the elsewhere may also have a significant impact French and Italian branches are also subject to on Barclays due to the location of its branches, Parliamentary Commission on Banking direct supervision by the European Central Standards relating to individual accountability subsidiaries and, in some cases, clients.
Barclays Bank Ireland PLC, which more information on the risks related to in banks, imposes a regulatory approval, is licensed as a credit institution by the Central accountability and fitness and propriety supervision and regulation of the Group, Bank of Ireland, has submitted an application including regulatory change, please see the framework in respect of senior or key for an extension of its current licence to individuals within relevant firms.
Risk Factor entitled Regulatory Change support the Groups ability to provide services agenda and impact on Business Model on The UK Serious Fraud Office SFO has played to EU clients after Brexit.
page 122. an active role in recent years in investigating In its role as supervisor, the PRA seeks to and prosecuting complex fraud, bribery and maintain the safety and soundness of financial Supervision in the EU corruption.
If, as a result of an investigation, Financial regulation in the UK is to a institutions with the aim of strengthening, but the SFO determines that it has sufficient not guaranteeing, the protection of customers significant degree shaped and influenced by evidence to support a realistic prospect of EU legislation.
This provides the structure of and the financial system.
The PRAs continuing conviction, and to prosecute would be in the supervision of financial institutions is the European Single Market, an important public interest, the SFO may bring forward a feature of which is the framework for the conducted through a variety of regulatory prosecution.
Alternatively, the SFO may tools, including the collection of information regulation of authorised firms in the EU.
This consider using a Deferred Prosecution framework is designed to enable a credit by way of prudential returns, reports obtained Agreement DPA.
DPAs, which were from skilled persons, visits to firms and regular institution or investment firm authorised in introduced in February 2014, are judicially one EU member state to conduct banking or meetings with management to discuss issues supervised agreements between the SFO and such as performance, risk management, investment business in another member state organisations that could be prosecuted through the establishment of branches or by conduct and culture and strategy.
whereby the SFO suspends prosecution while the provision of services on a cross-border The regulation and supervision of market the organisation in question complies with basis without the need for local authorisation.
conditions imposed on it by the DPA, such as conduct matters is the responsibility of the Barclays operations in Europe are authorised FCA.
The FCAs regulation of the UK firms in the payment of fines.
and regulated by a combination of both home the Group is carried out through a and host regulators.
The impact of the UKs combination of continuous assessment, departure from the EU in this respect and, regular thematic work and project work based more broadly, its impact on the UK domestic on the FCAs sector assessments, which regulatory framework, is yet to be determined.
analyse the different areas of the market and the risks that may lie ahead.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 197 Risk review Supervision and regulation In addition to umbrella oversight by the FRB Supervision in Asia Pacific Supervision in the US Barclays US activities and operations are and applicable Federal Reserve Banks, Barclays operations in Asia Pacific are certain of Barclays branches and subsidiaries supervised and regulated by a broad range of subject to umbrella supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System are regulated by additional authorities based national regulators including: the Japan on the location or activities of those entities.
Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, FRB, as well as additional supervision, requirements and restrictions imposed by The New York and Florida branches of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Hong Barclays Bank PLC are subject to extensive Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the other federal and state regulators.
Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and their US branches supervision and regulation by, as applicable, Monetary Authority of Singapore, the Reserve the New York State Department of Financial Bank of India, the Securities and Exchange and subsidiaries are subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework Services NYSDFS and the Florida Office of Board of India and the Peoples Bank of China, Financial Regulation.
Barclays Bank Delaware, Chinas State Administration of Foreign involving numerous statutes, rules and regulations, including the International a Delaware chartered commercial bank, is Exchange and the China Banking Regulatory subject to supervision and regulation by the Commission.
Such supervision and regulation Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 BHC Act, the USA Delaware Office of the State Bank extends to activities conducted through Commissioner.
The deposits of Barclays Bank branches of Barclays Bank PLC in the Asia PATRIOT Act of 2001, the Commodity Exchange Act, the federal securities laws, and Delaware are insured by the Federal Deposit Pacific region as well as subsidiaries of the Insurance Corporation FDIC pursuant to the Group.
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 DFA, Federal Deposit Insurance Act, which also provides for FDIC supervisory authority over Global regulatory developments which comprehensively amended the regulation of financial institutions in the US in Barclays Bank Delaware and requires that Regulatory change continues to affect all large Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and BUSL act financial institutions.
Such change emanates response to the financial crisis, including by from global institutions such as the G20, FSB, amending the other aforementioned statutes.
as a source of strength for the insured bank.
ln some cases, US requirements may impose This could, among other things, require these IOSCO and BCBS, the EU regionally, and national regulators, especially in the UK and restrictions on Barclays global activities in entities to inject capital into Barclays Bank addition to its activities in the US.
Delaware if it fails to meet applicable US.
The level of regulatory and supervisory uncertainty faced by the Group and the regulatory capital requirements.
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, along with financial markets more broadly continues to Barclays US LLC BUSL, Barclays top-tier US Barclays US securities broker dealer and remain elevated in our primary markets.
In the investment banking operations, primarily holding company that holds substantially all of EU, the legislative and regulatory bodies have Barclays US subsidiaries and assets including conducted through Barclays Capital Inc. are been implementing, and continue to propose, also subject to ongoing supervision and Barclays Capital Inc. and Barclays Bank multiple financial regulatory reforms, and the Delaware are regulated as bank holding regulation by the Securities and Exchange conditions of the UKs eventual exit from the Commission SEC, the Financial Industry companies BHCs by the FRB.
BUSL is subject EU remain unclear, so the extent to which the to requirements that are similar to those Regulatory Authority FINRA and other UK will continue to follow EU legislation after government agencies and self-regulatory applicable to large US domestic bank holding Brexit remains unclear.
In the US, the financial companies, including in respect of capital organisations SROs as part of a regulatory environment continues to evolve comprehensive scheme of regulation of all adequacy, capital planning and stress testing due to political developments and the ongoing including FRB non-objection to proposed aspects of the securities and commodities implementation of regulations arising from business under US federal and state securities capital distributions, risk management and the DFA.
Furthermore, the application of governance, liquidity, leverage limits and laws.
various regional rules on a cross-border basis financial regulatory reporting.
Barclays Bank Similarly, Barclays US commodity futures, increases regulatory complexity for global PLCs US branches are also subject to enhanced financial institutions.
For more information, commodity options and swaps-related and prudential supervision requirements relating to, client clearing operations are subject to please see the Risk Factor entitled Regulatory among others, liquidity and risk management.
Change agenda and impact on Business ongoing supervision and regulation by the Because the BHC Act generally restricts the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Model on page 122. activities of BHCs to banking and activities CFTC, the National Futures Association and The programme of reform of the global closely related to banking, Barclays PLC, other SROs.
Barclays Bank PLC is also regulatory framework previously agreed by Barclays Bank PLC and BUSL have elected to prudentially regulated as a swaps dealer so is G20 Heads of Government in April 2009 has be treated as financial holding companies subject to the FRB swaps rules with respect to continued to be taken forward throughout under the BHC Act.
Financial holding margin and capital requirements.
The G20 continues to monitor emerging company status allows these entities to Barclays US retail and consumer activities, risks and vulnerabilities in the financial system engage in a variety of financial and related including the US credit card operations of and has stated that it will take action to activities, directly or through subsidiaries, Barclays Bank Delaware, are subject to direct address them if necessary.
including underwriting, dealing and making supervision and regulation by the Consumer markets in securities.
Failure to maintain The FSB has been designated by the G20 as Financial Protection Bureau CFPB.
The CFPB the body responsible for co-ordinating the financial holding company status could result has the authority to examine and take in increasingly stringent penalties and delivery of the global reform programme in enforcement action related to compliance relation to the financial services industry.
It ultimately, in the closure or cessation of with federal laws and regulations regarding certain operations in the US.
To qualify as a has focused particularly on the risks posed by the provision of consumer financial services systemically important financial institutions.
In financial holding company, Barclays PLC and and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive or Barclays Bank PLC, as foreign banking 2011, G20 Heads of Government adopted FSB abusive acts and practices.
proposals to reform the regulation of global organisations and BHCs, and BUSL, as a BHC, must maintain certain regulatory capital ratios systemically important financial institutions G-SIFls, including global systemically above minimum requirements and must be deemed to be well managed for U. S. bank important banks G-SIBs, such as Barclays.
In December 2017, the BCBS finalised Basel III regulatory purposes.
In addition, any US depository institution subsidiaries of the the BCBS international regulatory framework for banks, with the majority of the December foreign banking organisation or BHC must also maintain certain regulatory capital ratios 2017 changes expected to be implemented by 1 January 2022, including by regulators in above minimum requirements and be deemed to be well managed and must have at least a many jurisdictions where Barclays operates.
satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977.
198 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information In January 2016, the BCBS endorsed a new IFRS 9 an accounting standard that covers Financial regulatory framework Financial services regulation can broadly be market risk framework, including rules made accounting for financial instruments, which as a result of its fundamental review of the was adopted into EU law by the European categorised as follows: a prudential regulation, which aims to promote safety and trading book FRTB.
The implementation of Commission in November 2016, came into this framework has now been delayed, with force on 1 January 2018.
In October 2016, the soundness of financial institutions and reduce risk in the financial system: b recovery and the BCBS setting an expected implementation BCBS issued two documents on the treatment date of 1 January 2022 to allow for a review of of accounting provisions in the regulatory resolution, a key aspect of which is to ensure that G-SIFls are capable of being resolved the calibration of the framework.
framework, to take account of the future move to expected credit loss provisioning without recourse to taxpayer support and The BCBSs finalisation of Basel III, noted minimising market disruption: c structural under IFRS and Financial Accounting above, among other things, eliminated Standards Board FASB standards.
One paper reform and the Volcker rule: d market model-based approaches for certain infrastructure regulation, aimed at enhancing considered transitional arrangements to phase categories of risk weighted assets RWAs for in the immediate capital impact of the new client protection, financial stability and market example, operational risk RWAs, CVA volatility integrity: and e conduct, culture and other provisioning standards, while the other and credit risk RWAs for equity exposures, discussed more fundamental changes to the regulation.
revised the standardised approachs risk recognition of provisions in regulatory capital weights for a variety of exposure categories, and changes to the risk weighting framework.
a Prudential regulation replaced the four current approaches for The BCBS then published an interim approach Certain Basel III standards were implemented operational risk including the advanced including transitional arrangements on in EU law through the Capital Requirements measurement approach with a single 29 March 2017, retaining the current Directive IV CRD IV, which came into effect standardised measurement approach, regulatory treatment of provisions under the in 2014 and included new or enhanced established 72.5% of standardised approach Basel framework for an interim period and requirements for the quality and quantity of RWAs for exposure categories as a floor for proposing to consider more thoroughly the capital, liquidity and leverage.
Beyond the RWAs calculated under advanced approaches longer term regulatory treatment of minimum standards required by CRD IV, the referred to as the output floor, and for PRA has expected Barclays, in common with provisions.
On 28 December 2017, an EU G-SIBs introduced a leverage ratio buffer in an Regulation came into force to provide other major UK banks and building societies, amount equal to 50% of the applicable G-SIB to meet a 7% Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 transitional arrangements for mitigating the buffer used for RWA purposes meaning, for impact of the introduction of IFRS 9, in large ratio at the level of the consolidated group Barclays, a leverage ratio buffer of 0.75%.
The since 1 January 2016. part, on CET1 capital arising from the majority of the final Basel III changes are expected credit loss accounting measures set expected to be implemented commencing G-SIBs are subject to a number of additional out in IFRS 9.
The Regulation has applied since prudential requirements, including the 1 January 2022, with a five-year phase-in 1 January 2018. period for the output floor.
requirement to hold additional loss absorbing capacity and additional capital buffers above In the US, BUSL and Barclays Bank PLCs US The BCBS has also published final standards branches are subject to enhanced prudential the level required by Basel III standards.
The on the securitisation framework and interest level of G-SIB buffer is set by the FSB supervision requirements as required by the rate risk in the banking book and guidelines DFA and described above in Supervision in according to a banks systemic importance on step-in risk.
The final standards for and can range from 1% to 3.5% of risk the US.
measuring and controlling large exposures weighted assets.
The G-SIB buffer must be were published by the BCBS in April 2014 to In addition to prudential regulations already met with common equity.
promulgated under the DFA, the FRB has take effect in 2019.
In November 2016, the In November 2017, the FSB published an European Commission adopted a proposal issued proposed regulations for NSFR implementation.
The NSFR, as proposed by update to its list of G-SIBs, maintaining the commonly referred to as CRD V to begin the 1.5% G-SIB buffer that applies to Barclays.
The legislative process for introducing these the FRB, would apply to US bank holding companies with more than $250bn in total additional G-SIB buffer has been phased in standards within the EU.
These proposals, if from January 2016, from when G-SIBs were implemented in their current form, would, assets or $10bn or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposures, including BUSL, and required to meet 25% of their designated among other things, implement FRTB by buffer.
This increased to 50% in 2017, 75% in overhauling existing rules relating to consolidated depositary institution subsidiaries of such banking organisations 2018 and will increase to 100% in January standardised and advanced market risk and 2019.
Barclays is also subject to, among other the rules governing the inclusion of positions with more than $10bn in assets, including Barclays Bank Delaware.
Under the proposed buffers, a countercyclical capital buffer CCyB in the regulatory trading book.
The proposals based on rates determined by the regulatory would also enhance rules for counterparty rule, such entities would be required to maintain a minimum level of available stable authorities in each jurisdiction in which credit risk, in line with BCBS proposals Barclays maintains exposures.
These rates finalised in 2014, strengthen requirements funding that equals or exceeds the amount of required stable funding over a one-year may vary in either direction.
On 27 June 2017, relating to leverage and large exposures and the FPC raised the UK CCyB rate from 0% to introduce a net stable funding ratio NSFR, period.
Although the proposal provides for an effective date of 1 January 2018, the FRB has 0.5% with binding effect from 27 June 2018.
In requiring banks to fund their assets with November 2017, the FPC raised the UK CCyB stable sources of funds.
CRD V also proposes not finalised its NSFR proposal and the schedule for finalisation is uncertain.
rate from 0.5% to 1% with binding effect from to require that where i two or more credit 28 November 2018.
In May 2016, the FPC set institutions or investment firms established in out a framework for determining a systemic the EU have a common parent undertaking risk buffer SRB for ring-fenced bodies and established outside the EU and ii the group large building societies SRB Firms.
The SRB has been identified as a G-SIB or has entities is a firm-specific buffer, that is designed to in the EU whether subsidiaries or branches increase the capacity of SRB Firms to absorb with total assets of at least 30 billion, the stress, and which must be met solely with group must establish an intermediate parent CET1.
The framework set out by the PRA, undertaking, authorised and established in, which sets SRB at rates between 0% and 3% and subject to the supervision of, an EU of risk weighted assets, will apply from member state.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 199 Risk review Supervision and regulation Under the Banking Act, UK resolution The BoEs preferred approach for the Stress testing The Group and certain of its members are authorities are empowered to intervene in and resolution of the Group is a bail-in strategy resolve a UK financial institution that is no with a single point of entry at Barclays PLC.
subject to supervisory stress testing exercises in a number of jurisdictions.
Pursuant to these laws, the BoE Under such a strategy, Barclays PLCs in consultation with the PRA and HM subsidiaries would remain operational while currently include the annual stress testing programmes of the BoE, the FDIC and the FRB Treasury as appropriate has several Barclays PLCs eligible liabilities would be stabilisation options where a banking written down or converted to equity in order and the biannual stress testing programme of the EBA.
These exercises are designed to institution is failing or likely to fail: i transfer to recapitalise the Group and allow for the some or all of the securities or business of the continued provision of services and operations assess the resilience of banks to adverse economic or financial developments and bank to a commercial purchaser: ii transfer throughout the resolution.
some or all of the property, rights and ensure that they have robust, forward-looking While regulators in many jurisdictions have capital planning processes that account for liabilities of the bank to a bridge bank wholly indicated a preference for single point of entry owned by the BoE or to a commercial the risks associated with their business profile.
resolution, additional resolution or bankruptcy Assessment by regulators is on both a purchaser: iii transfer the impaired or provisions may apply to certain of Barclays problem assets to an asset management quantitative and qualitative basis, the latter Bank PLCs subsidiaries or branches.
In the US, focusing on the Groups data provision, stress vehicle to allow them to be managed over Title II of the DFA established the Orderly time: iv cancel or reduce certain liabilities of testing capability and internal management Liquidation Authority, a regime for orderly processes and controls.
Failure to meet the institution or convert liabilities to equity to liquidation of systemically important financial absorb losses and recapitalise the institution requirements of regulatory stress tests, or the institutions, which could apply to BUSL.
failure by regulators to approve the stress test and v transfer the banking institution into Specifically, when a systemically important temporary public ownership.
In addition, the results and capital plans of the Group or its financial institution is in default or danger of members subject to these exercises, could BoE may apply for a court insolvency order in default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver result in the Group or certain of its members order to wind up or liquidate the institution or under the Orderly Liquidation Authority being required to enhance its capital position to put the institution into special instead of the institution being resolved or limit capital distributions, to any external administration.
When exercising any of its through a voluntary or involuntary proceeding holders of its equity or capital or within the stabilisation powers, the BoE must generally under the US Bankruptcy Code.
provide that shareholders bear first losses, circumstances, including insolvency, violations followed by creditors in accordance with the of law and unsafe business practices, the In the US, certain financial institution priority of their claims under normal intermediate holding companies formed in licensing authorities of each US branch of insolvency proceedings.
Barclays Bank PLC and of Barclays Bank 2016, including BUSL, were not required to participate in the FRBs Comprehensive Capital In order to enable the exercise of its Delaware have the authority to take stabilisation powers, the BoE may impose a possession of the business and property of Analysis and Review CCAR process in 2017.
These firms, however, were required under the temporary stay on the rights of creditors to the applicable Barclays entity they license or terminate, accelerate or close out contracts, to revoke or suspend such licence.
Specific FRBs capital plan rule to submit a capital plan to the FRB that was subject to a confidential and in some cases to override events of resolution regimes may apply to certain default or termination rights that might Barclays entities or branches in other review process based on the assessment criteria in the capital plan rule.
These capital otherwise be invoked as a result of a jurisdictions in which Barclays does business.
In addition, the Banking Act plans were not subject to the FRBs quantitative assessment - which evaluates a gives the BoE the power to override, vary, or TLAC and MREL impose conditions or contractual obligations The BRRD requires competent authorities to firms ability to meet its capital requirements under stress - under CCAR or supervisory between a UK bank, its holding company and impose a Minimum Requirement for own its group undertakings, in order to enable any funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL on stress testing in 2017. transferee or successor bank to operate financial institutions to facilitate their orderly effectively after any of the resolution tools resolution without broader financial disruption b Recovery and Resolution Stabilisation and resolution framework have been applied.
There is also power for HM or recourse to public funds.
Following the Treasury to amend the law excluding finalisation of the BRRD, in November 2015, An important component of the EU legislative framework is the 2014 Bank Recovery and provisions made by or under the Banking Act the FSB finalised its proposals to enhance the for the purpose of enabling it to use its powers loss absorbing capacity of G-SIBs to ensure Resolution Directive BRRD which establishes a framework for the recovery and resolution of under this regime effectively, potentially with that there is sufficient loss absorbing and retrospective effect.
The Banking Act powers recapitalisation capacity available in resolution EU credit institutions and investment firms.
The UK implemented the BRRD through the apply regardless of any contractual to implement an orderly resolution which restrictions and compensation that may be minimises the impact on financial stability, Bank Recovery and Resolution Order 2014, which amended the Banking Act 2009 the payable.
ensures the continuity of critical functions and avoids exposing taxpayers to losses.
To this Banking Act and the Financial Services and In July 2016, the PRA issued final rules on Markets Act 2000 FSMA, and the Banks and end, the FSB has set a new minimum ensuring operational continuity in resolution.
requirement for total loss absorbing capacity Building Societies Depositor Preference and The rules will apply from 1 January 2019 and Priorities Order 2014, which amended the TLAC.
As the TLAC standard requires a will require banks to ensure that their certain amount of those loss absorbing Insolvency Act 1986 among other insolvency operational structures facilitate effective legislation.
resources to be committed to subsidiaries or recovery and resolution planning and the sub-groups that are located in host continued provision of functions critical to the jurisdictions and deemed material for the economy in a resolution scenario.
resolution of the G-SIB as a whole, the FSB In November 2016, the European Commission published guiding principles on internal TLAC proposed a package of amendments to the on 6 July 2017.
These provide guidance on the BRRD, including the introduction of two new size and composition of the internal TLAC moratorium tools.
On 28 December 2017, an requirement, cooperation and co-ordination EU directive came into force harmonising the between home and host authorities and the priority ranking of unsecured debt trigger mechanism for internal TLAC.
instruments under national insolvency laws.
EU member states are required to transpose the directive into national law by 29 December 2018.
200 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information In December 2016, the FRB issued final In the US, Title I of the DFA and the The EU has proposed to implement the TLAC standard including internal TLAC via the regulations for TLAC, which apply to BUSL.
implementing regulations issued by the FRB The FRBs final TLAC rule, while generally and the FDIC require each bank holding MREL requirement and the European Commission has proposed amendments in its following the FSB term sheet, contains a company with assets of US $50 billion or number of provisions that are more restrictive.
more, including Barclays, to prepare and CRD V proposal to achieve this.
As the proposals remain in draft, it is uncertain what For example, the FRBs TLAC rule includes submit annually a plan for the orderly provisions that require BUSL the Barclays IHC resolution of subsidiaries and operations in the final requirements and timing will be.
Under the BoEs statement of policy on MREL, to have i a specified outstanding amount of the event of future material financial distress eligible long-term debt, ii a specified or failure.
Barclays next submission will be the BoE will set MREL for UK G-SIBs as necessary to implement the TLAC standard outstanding amount of TLAC consisting of due on 1 July 2018. common and preferred equity regulatory and institution or group-specific MREL Similar requirements which include powers requirements will depend on the preferred capital plus eligible long-term debt, and iii a for competent authorities to adopt resolution specified common equity buffer.
In addition, resolution strategy for that institution or measures are in force or expected to come group.
The MREL requirements will be phased the FRBs TLAC rule would prohibit BUSL, for into force imminently in various other so long as the Groups overall resolution plan in from 1 January 2019 and will be fully jurisdictions, which will affect the Group to the implemented by 1 January 2022, at which time treats BUSL as a non-resolution entity, from extent it has operations in a relevant issuing TLAC to entities other than the Group G-SIBs with resolution entities incorporated in jurisdiction.
the UK, including Barclays, will be required to and its non-US subsidiaries.
meet an MREL equivalent to the higher of i c Structural reform and the Volcker rule two times the sum of its Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A Bank Levy Recent developments in banking law and The BRRD requires EU member states to requirements or ii the higher of two times its regulation in the UK have included legislation leverage ratio or 6.75% of leverage exposures.
establish a pre-funded resolution financing designed to ring-fence the retail and smaller However, the PRA will review the MREL arrangement with funding equal to 1% of business deposit-taking businesses of large calibration by the end of 2020, including covered deposits by 31 December 2024 to banks.
The Financial Services Banking assessing the proposal for Pillar 2A cover the costs of bank resolutions.
Where the Reform Act 2013 put in place a framework for recapitalisation which may drive a different amount of such pre-funding is insufficient, the this ring-fencing and secondary legislation 1 January 2022 MREL requirement than BRRD requires that EU member states raise passed in 2014 elaborated on the operation currently proposed.
In addition, it is proposed subsequent contributions.
The UK and application of the ring-fence.
Ringthat CET1 capital cannot be counted towards government raises both pre-funded and fencing will require, among other things, the both MREL and the combined buffer subsequent contributions that would be separation of the retail and smaller business requirement CBR, meaning that the CBR will required were the pre-funded contributions deposit-taking activities of UK banks in the UK effectively be applied above both the Pillar 1 not to cover costs or other expenses incurred and branches of UK banks in the European and Pillar 2A requirements relating to own by use of the resolution funds by way of a tax Economic Area EEA into a legally distinct, funds and MREL.
on the balance sheets of banks known as the operationally separate and economically Bank Levy.
In October 2016, the BCBS published its final independent entity, which will not be permitted to undertake a range of activities standard on the prudential treatment of banks Recovery and Resolution Planning investments in TLAC instruments issued by from 1 January 2019.
Ring-fencing rules have The PRA has made rules that require been published by the PRA, further other institutions, confirming that authorised firms to draw up recovery plans internationally active banks both G-SIBs and determining how ring-fenced banks will be and resolution packs, as required by the BRRD.
Further rules published non-G-SIBs must deduct their holdings of Recovery plans are designed to outline TLAC instruments that do not otherwise qualify by the FCA set out the disclosures that credible actions that authorised firms could non-ring-fenced banks are required to make as regulatory capital from their own Tier 2 implement in the event of severe stress in capital.
Where the investing bank owns less to prospective account holders of non-ringorder to restore their business to a stable and fenced banks who are individuals.
Barclays than 10% of the issuing banks common shares, sustainable condition.
The resolution pack TLAC holdings are to be deducted from Tier 2 approach to compliance with the terms of the contains detailed information on the UK ring-fencing regime is described in the capital only to the extent that they exceed 10% authorised firm in question which will be used of the investing banks common equity or 5% section entitled Structural Reform on page to develop resolution strategies for that firm, 204. for non-regulatory capital TLAC holdings : assess its current level of resolvability against below this threshold, holdings would instead be US regulation places further substantive limits the strategy, and to inform work on identifying subjected to risk-weighting.
G-SIBs may only barriers to the implementation of operational on the activities that may be conducted by apply risk-weighting to non-regulatory capital banks and holding companies, including resolution plans.
In the UK, recovery and TLAC holdings by the 5% threshold where resolution planning RRP work is considered foreign banking organisations such as those holdings are in the trading book and are Barclays.
The Volcker Rule, which was part part of continuing supervision.
Removal of sold within 30 business days.
potential impediments to an orderly resolution of the DFA and which came into effect in the US in 2015, prohibits banking entities from of the Group or one or more of its subsidiaries is considered as part of the BoEs and PRAs undertaking certain proprietary trading activities and limits such entities ability to supervisory strategy for each firm, and the PRA can require firms to make significant sponsor or invest in certain private equity funds and hedge funds in each case broadly changes in order to enhance resolvability.
Barclays currently provides the PRA with a defined.
As required by the rule, Barclays has developed and implemented an extensive recovery plan annually and with a resolution pack every other year.
compliance and monitoring programme addressing proprietary trading and covered fund activities both inside and outside of the US.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 201 Risk review Supervision and regulation The new Markets in Financial Instruments The EU Benchmarks Regulation came into d Market infrastructure regulation In recent years, regulators have focused on Directive and Markets in Financial Instruments force in June 2016.
Although some provisions Regulation collectively referred to as MiFID II have applied since 2016, the majority of improving transparency and reducing risk in markets, particularly risks related to over-thehave applied in large part since 3 January provisions have applied since 3 January 2018 2018.
MiFID II affects many of the investment subject to transitional provisions.
This focus has resulted in a variety of new regulations across markets in which the Group operates, the Regulation applies to the administration, instruments in which it trades and the way it contribution of data to and use of benchmarks the G20 countries and beyond that require or encourage on-venue trading, clearing, posting transacts with market counterparties and within the EU.
Financial institutions within the other customers.
Changes introduced by EU will be prohibited from using benchmarks of margin and disclosure of information related to many derivatives transactions.
Some MiFID II include, among others: the unless their administrators are authorised, introduction of a new type of trading venue registered or otherwise recognised in the EU.
of the most significant developments are described below.
the organised trading facility, capturing This may impact the ability of Barclays to use non-equity trading that fell outside the MiFID I certain benchmarks in the future.
The European Market Infrastructure regime: the strengthening of conduct of In 2015, the European Commission launched Regulation EMIR has introduced business requirements, including in relation to requirements designed to improve work on establishing a Capital Markets Union conflicts of interest: the expansion of the CMU within the EU.
The CMU aims to transparency and reduce the risks associated concept of, and requirements applicable to, with the derivatives market, some of which increase the availability of non-bank financing firms which systematically trade against in the EU, deepen the EU single market for are still to be fully implemented.
EMIR requires proprietary capital systematic internalisers : that certain entities that enter into derivative financial services and promote growth and and increased obligations on firms to secure financial stability.
The CMU work programme contracts: report such transactions: clear best execution for their client.
In addition, certain over the counter OTC transactions is now being considered in light of Brexit.
MiFID II mandates a trading obligation for Recent proposals have therefore included where mandated to do so: and implement risk certain types of cleared derivatives.
mitigation standards in respect of uncleared considerably broadened central supervisory powers for the European Supervisory OTC trades.
The obligation to clear derivatives MiFID II strengthens investor protections, only applies to certain counterparties and imposes new curbs on high frequency and Authorities ESAs including in relation to outsourcing, and delegation and risk transfer specified types of derivatives.
In October 2016, commodity trading, increases pre-and the European Commission adopted a post-trade transparency and introduces a new by entities authorised in the EU to entities or branches in third countries and an increased delegated regulation relating to the exchange regime for third country non-EU firms.
MiFID of collateral, one of the risk mitigation II also includes new requirements relating to focus by the ESAs on ongoing equivalence assessments in the context of third country techniques under EMIR.
Provisions relating to non-discriminatory access to trading venues, initial margin have entered into force, subject central counterparties and benchmarks, regimes in various EU regulations and research unbundling and harmonised directives.
Provisions relating to variation margin have supervisory powers and sanctions across the Certain participants in US swap markets are EU.
EMIR has potential required to register with the CFTC as swap operational and financial impacts on the Some final rules and guidance on the dealers or major swap participants and or, Group, including by imposing collateral application of MiFID II are yet to be published, following the compliance date for relevant SEC requirements.
rules, with the SEC as security-based swap and so we anticipate continuing development The European Commission has recently of application of the rules within the market dealers or major security-based swap participants.
Such registrants are subject to proposed various technical changes to EMIR, into 2018. some of which could result in certain central CFTC, and would be subject to SEC regulation US regulators have imposed similar rules as and oversight.
The SEC finalised the rules counterparties CCPs used by the Group the EU with respect to the mandatory being forced to relocate to a Eurozone governing security based swap dealer on-venue trading and clearing of certain registration in 2015 but clarified that jurisdiction.
The changes proposed may have derivatives, and post-trade transparency, as additional operational and financial impacts registration timing is contingent upon the well as in relation to the margining of OTC finalisation of certain additional rules under on the Groups derivatives business.
US regulators have addressed the Title VII of DFA, several of which are still CRD IV aims to complement EMIR by applying applicability of certain of their regulations to pending.
Additional SEC rules governing cross-border transactions, and are continuing higher capital requirements for bilateral, security-based swap transactions, including uncleared OTC derivative trades.
Lower capital to review and consider their rules with respect security-based swap reporting, will become to their application on a cross-border basis, requirements for cleared derivative trades are effective after the security-based swap dealer only available if the CCP through which the including with respect to their registration registration date.
Entities required to register requirements in relation to non-US swap trade is cleared is recognised as a qualifying are subject to business conduct, recordcentral counterparty QCCP which has been dealers and security-based swap dealers.
The keeping and reporting requirements and will regulators may adopt further rules, or provide authorised or recognised under EMIR.
Higher be subject to capital and margin requirements capital requirements may apply to the Group further guidance, regarding the cross-border in connection with transactions with certain applicability of such rules.
In December 2017, following the UKs departure from the EU if UK US and non-US counterparties.
Barclays Bank CCPs are then no longer regarded as QCCPs the CFTC and the European Commission PLC has provisionally registered with the CFTC recognised the trading venues of each others and vice versa.
as a swap dealer and is subject to CFTC rules jurisdiction to allow market participants to on business conduct, record-keeping and comply with mandatory on-venue trading reporting.
With respect to margin and capital, requirements while trading on certain venues Barclays is subject to the rules of the FRB in recognised by the other jurisdiction.
connection with its swap dealer business.
202 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Our regulators have also enhanced their focus Sanctions and financial crime The CFTC has approved certain comparability determinations that permit substituted on the promotion of cultural values as a key The UK Bribery Act 2010 introduced a new area for banks, although they generally view form of corporate criminal liability focused compliance with non-US regulatory regimes for certain swap regulations related to the responsibility for reforming culture as broadly on a companys failure to prevent primarily sitting with the industry.
The legislation has broad business conduct and other requirements, while other determinations remain pending.
application and in certain circumstances may Data protection and PSD2 have extraterritorial impact as to entities, Most recently, in October 2017, the CFTC issued an order permitting substituted Barclays has to comply with national data persons or activities located outside the UK, protection laws, governing the collection, use including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries.
In compliance with EU margin rules for certain uncleared derivatives.
However, as Barclays is and disclosure of personal data, in a majority practice, the legislation requires Barclays to of the countries in which it operates.
From have adequate procedures to prevent bribery subject to the margin rules of the FRB, it will not benefit from the CFTCs action unless the 25 May 2018, data protection laws throughout which, due to the extraterritorial nature of the the EU will be replaced by a single General status, makes this both complex and costly.
The CFTC has stated that its transaction-level rules such as Data Protection Regulation GDPR which On 30 September 2017, the Criminal Finances enhances the rights and protections available margin and documentation requirements Act 2017 introduced new corporate criminal would apply to certain transactions entered to data subjects.
The UK government has offences of failing to prevent the facilitation of confirmed the UK will adopt and apply the into between a non-US swap dealer and a UK and overseas tax evasion.
The legislation non-US counterparty, if the transactions are GDPR from May 2018 and a bill has been has very broad extra-territorial application and published to implement GDPR.
The impact arranged, negotiated or executed by personnel may impact entities, persons or activities in the US, but has delayed the compliance across Barclays will be significant, affecting located outside the UK, including Barclays PLC not only Group entities operating and date for this requirement until the effective and its subsidiaries.
It also requires Barclays to date of future CFTC action addressing the way processing personal data within the EU but have reasonable prevention procedures in in which each transaction-level requirement also those outside the EU offering goods or place to prevent the criminal facilitation of tax must be applied.
services to, or monitoring, individuals within evasion by persons acting for, or on behalf of, the EU.
The GDPR contains significant It is unclear whether further changes will be Barclays.
financial penalties for data protection made to the CFTCs proposed rules or when breaches and non-compliance, of up to 4% of In the US, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA they will become effective.
In addition, it is Group global turnover.
PATRIOT Act 2001 and regulations thereunder uncertain whether and to what degree other contain numerous anti-money laundering and US regulators, such as the FRB, will take an A number of recent developments have anti-terrorist financing requirements for indicated a clear political and regulatory desire approach similar to the CFTCs regarding financial institutions.
In addition, Barclays is substituted compliance.
to make customer transactional account subject to the US Foreign Corrupt Practices information more easily accessible to Act, which prohibits certain payments to e Conduct, culture and other regulation customers and parties providing services to foreign officials, as well as rules and them, such as the revised Payment Services Conduct and culture regulations relating to economic sanctions On 7 March 2016, the PRA and FCA Directive PSD2 which, in accordance with and embargo programs administered by the the requirements under that Directive, must introduced measures to increase the US Office of Foreign Assets Control which individual accountability of senior managers have been implemented by 13 January 2018. restrict certain business activities with certain In addition to attempting to harmonise and other covered individuals in the banking individuals, entities, groups, countries and sector.
The new regime comprises the Senior conduct rules for all providers of electronic territories.
payment services in the EU, PSD2 also creates Managers Regime, which applies to a limited number of individuals with senior a new prudential authorisation regime for Two significant new regulatory rules will be non-bank payment services providers.
PSD2 coming into force in the US in 2018: the New management responsibilities within a firm, the Certification Regime, which is intended to replaces the previous Payment Services York Department of Financial Services DFS Directive, and has a wider scope, applying Rule 504 and the US Department of Treasurys assess and monitor the fitness and propriety of a wider range of employees who could pose transparency and information requirements to Financial Crime Enforcement Network payment transactions in all currencies where FinCEN Customer Due Diligence CDD Rule.
a risk of significant harm to the firm or its customers, and conduct rules that individuals the provider of at least one leg of the payment Rule 504 enumerates detailed transaction service is located in the EU.
filtering and screening requirements for subject to either regime must comply with.
From March 2017, the conduct rules have potential Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money Cyber security laundering violations and transactions with applied more widely to other staff of firms within the scope of the regime.
The Financial Regulators in the EU and US have been sanctioned entities, applicable to institutions increasingly focused on cyber security risk regulated by the DFS including Barclays Bank Services Act 2010, among other things, requires the UK regulators to make rules about management for banking organisations and PLC, New York branch and requires a senior have proposed laws and regulations and other bank official to certify compliance.
The CDD remuneration and to require regulated firms to have a remuneration policy that is consistent requirements that necessitate implementation Rule requires Barclays to identify natural of a variety of increased controls for regulated beneficial owners above a certain threshold of with effective risk management.
These include, among clients that are legal entities within the US The Banking Act also amended FSMA to allow others, the adoption of cyber security policies market.
the FCA to make rules requiring firms to and procedures meeting specified criteria, In some cases, US state and federal operate a collective consumer redress scheme minimum required security measures, to deal with cases of widespread failure by regulations addressing sanctions, money enhanced reporting, compliance certification laundering and other financial crimes may regulated firms to meet regulatory requirements and other cyber and information requirements that may have created impact entities, persons or activities located risk governance measures.
When outside the US, including Barclays PLC and its consumer detriment.
implemented, the proposals may increase subsidiaries.
The enforcement of these technology and compliance costs for Barclays.
regulations has been a major focus of US state and federal government policy relating to financial institutions in recent years, and failure of a financial institution to ensure compliance could have serious legal, financial and reputational consequences for the institution.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 203 Risk review Supervision and regulation a Barclays PLC Future State Legal Entity Barclays Bank UK PLC Barclays Services Limited Barclays Bank PLC Divisional Constructs Barclays UK ServCo Barclays International and ServCo UK consumers and business bank Provides critical services to Barclays UK Diversified wholesale and consumer bank differentiated by scale and digital and Barclays International to deliver innovation operational continuity Enabling world-class services for our customers and clients while driving efficiency Note a Illustration of Barclays business divisions in preparation for regulatory ring-fencing.
Plans are subject to internal and regulatory approvals and may change.
Structural Reform Timeline Transfers of employees to the target Overview Barclays Structural Reform timeline, including structure employing entities took place in Barclays intends to achieve ring-fencing progress to date and indicative future September 2017 under the Transfer of separation by transferring the Barclays UK milestones is as follows: Undertakings Protection of Employment division of Barclays Bank PLC to Barclays Bank Regulations 2006 2015: UK PLC, the ring-fenced bank of the Group.
Sort codes have been split between Barclays Bank UK PLC, the legal entity Immediately following the transfer, Barclays Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank which will become the ring-fenced bank, Bank PLCs shares in Barclays Bank UK PLC will PLC, with the last tranche completed in was incorporated.
be distributed to the Parent company, Barclays January 2018, so that each of the Groups 2016: PLC, establishing Barclays Bank UK PLC as a sort codes is aligned to a single bank direct subsidiary of Barclays PLC.
Barclays Barclays UK and Barclays International RFTS court process has been initiated Bank PLC will continue to house the Barclays business divisions were established with the Directions Hearing held at the International division.
The two banking Barclays US intermediate holding High Court of England and Wales on entities will operate alongside one another, company was established as an umbrella 10 November 2017, where the Barclays together with Barclays Services Limited holding company for Barclays US Groups communications programme for ServCo, as subsidiaries of Barclays PLC subsidiaries, including Barclays Capital notifying customers and other within the Barclays Group.
US broker-dealer that operates key stakeholders of the RFTS was approved.
investment banking businesses and In order to achieve this target-state structure, 2018: Barclays Bank Delaware that operates Barclays will need to undertake a number of Sanction Hearing will be held on 26 and Barclaycard US legal transfers, including the transfer of 27 February 2018 at which the Court will customer and non-customer assets, liabilities Barclays Bank UK PLC banking be asked to sanction Barclays RFTS and contractual arrangements.
authorisation application was submitted Subject to the Court sanctioning the to the regulators Barclays is using a court approved statutory RFTS, Barclays UK businesses and related ServCo became a direct subsidiary of ring-fencing transfer scheme RFTS process items will be transferred to Barclays Bank Barclays PLC.
as set out in the Financial Services and UK PLC at the RFTS effective date, Markets Act 2000 to conduct the majority of 2017: currently expected to be 1 April 2018 these transfers.
In addition to the transfers Banking licence with restrictions Immediately following the RFTS transfers, the conducted through the RFTS, certain items granted to Barclays Bank UK PLC in April shares in Barclays Bank UK PLC will be will be transferred via separate arrangements.
2017 transferred from Barclays Bank PLC to Barclays Barclays is on track to be compliant with The majority of assets, liabilities, and PLC, establishing Barclays Bank UK PLC as a ring-fencing requirements well in advance of other items connected with service direct subsidiary of Barclays PLC.
provision were transferred from Barclays Illustrative unaudited pro-forma financials for Bank PLC to ServCo, resulting in the Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC execution of the ServCo build being are available at home.
substantially complete 204 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Financial review A review of the performance of Barclays, including the key performance indicators, and the contribution of each of our businesses to the overall performance of the Group.
Financial review Page Key performance indicators 206 Consolidated summary income statement 208 Income statement commentary 209 Consolidated summary balance sheet 210 Balance sheet commentary 211 Analysis of results by business 212 Non-IFRS performance measures 223 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 205
