Risk management with a structure and governance that enable us to manage risk Three Lines of Defence Barclays is exposed to external risks as part of our The First Line of Defence comprises the ongoing activities.
These risks are managed as part revenue generating and client facing areas, along with all associated support functions.
The First Line identifies the risks, and sets the policies, standards and controls, within the criteria set by the Second Line of Defence.
The Second Line of Defence comprises Risk and Compliance employees and oversees the First Line, setting the limits, rules and constraints, consistent with the Risk Appetite of the firm.
The Third Line of Defence comprises Internal Audit employees, providing independent assurance to the Board and Executive Management.
The recent changes to the structure of the Risk Appetite The Legal function does not sit in any of the bank in anticipation of ring fencing, together Risk Appetite defines the level of risk we are three lines, but supports them all and plays a with the closure of the Non-Core, and the willing to take across the different risk types, role in overseeing Legal Risk.
The legal partial sell down of our shareholding in BAGL taking into consideration varying levels of function is also subject to oversight from the mean that we have even more clarity on our financial stress.
Risk Appetite is key for our Risk and Compliance functions with respect to strategic direction.
The risks we undertake in decision making process, including business the management of operational and conduct delivering this strategy are now also wellplanning, mergers and acquisitions, new risks.
product approvals and business change Together with a governance process using initiatives.
By applying mandate and scale Business and Group level Risk Committees Enterprise Risk Management Framework limits across legal entities and businesses, we and Board level forums, the main Board of At Barclays, risks are identified and managed can enable and control specific activities that Barclays receives regular information in in the business through the Enterprise Risk may have material concentration.
respect of the risk profile of the Group, and Management Framework ERMF, which The management of risk is embedded into has ultimate responsibility for risk appetite supports the CEO and Chief Risk Officer in each level of the business, with all colleagues and capital plans.
embedding effective risk management and a being responsible for the understanding and strong risk culture.
This is done by specifying Risk management post-ring fencing responsibilities according to the Three Lines There are no significant changes to the ERMF By applying mandate and of Defence.
Each Line of Defence is overseen proposed following ring-fencing.
However, by the next, resulting in a strong design, each of the Boards of Barclays Bank UK PLC scale limits, we can enable implementation, remediation, monitoring and and Barclays Bank PLC will approve and and control specific activities.
testing framework, with independence and implement the ERMF at an entity level, with robust governance.
any requirements specific to the relevant legal The EMRF specifies the Principal Risks of the entity documented within the ERMF.
Group-wide risk management principles will Group and the approach to managing them.
govern both Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC and their own legal entity governance processes around risk management, capital and liquidity plans.
We believe that our structure and governance will enable us to manage risk in changing economic, political and market environments.
12 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Principal Risks are overseen by a dedicated Second Line function Risks are classified into Principal Risks, as below How risks are managed Credit Risk The risk of loss to the firm from the failure of clients, Credit risk management teams set the Risk Appetite, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, monitoring risk against limits and help manage risk through to fully honour their obligations to the firm, including the the credit cycle.
whole and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.
Market Risk The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in A range of complementary approaches to evaluate market the value of the firms assets and liabilities from risk including specific management and regulatory fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited measures, are used to capture exposure to market risk.
These to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, are overseen and managed by dedicated market risk commodity prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and management teams who engage with the businesses to asset correlations.
challenge the risk profile on a regular basis.
Treasury and Liquidity Risk: Treasury and capital risk is managed and monitored through Capital Risk The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or a wide range of activities including: managing limits on a contingent obligations or that it does not have the variety of on and off-balance sheet exposures: monitoring of appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding market indicators for early signs of liquidity risk: recovery and liquidity to support its assets.
planning: capital planning and allocation: internal Groupwide stress testing: management of foreign exchange and Capital Risk: pension risk, and uses a range of metrics and sensitivity The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or analysis to measure non-traded market risk.
composition of capital to support its normal business activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments or stressed conditions both actual and as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes.
This includes the risk from the firms pension plans.
Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book: The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its non-traded assets and liabilities.
Operational Risk The risk of loss to the firm from inadequate or failed The Group assesses its operational risk and control processes or systems, human factors or due to external environment across its businesses and functions with a view events e. g. fraud where the root cause is not due to to maintaining an acceptable level of residual risk.
Model Risk The risk of the potential adverse consequences from Models are validated and approved upon implementation financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or and on an ongoing basis.
misused model outputs and reports.
Reputation Risk The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event Reputation risk is managed by maintaining a controlled will reduce trust in the firms integrity and competence by culture within Barclays, with the objective of acting with clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or integrity, enabling strong and trusted relationships to be built the public.
with customers and clients, colleagues and broader society.
Conduct Risk The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market All colleagues are responsible for the management and integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate mitigation of conduct risk.
The Compliance function sets the supply of financial services, including instances of wilful minimum standards required, and provide oversight to or negligent misconduct.
monitor that these risks are effectively managed and escalated where appropriate.
Legal Risk The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or The Group conducts diverse activities in a highly regulated fines from the failure of the firm to meet its legal global market and therefore is exposed to legal risks in the obligations including regulatory or contractual conduct of its business.
The Group General Counsel and the requirements.
Legal function support colleagues to manage legal risks.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 13 Risk management and help us focus on climate change Climate change and resource scarcity are acknowledged as two of the greatest global challenges facing society today.
As a global institution, we support our clients and communities as they adopt measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change such as clean technologies and infrastructure resilience.
We acknowledge the validity of climate science and support the efforts of public and private stakeholders around the world aiming to limit global temperature rise to two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
Barclays participated in the Financial Stability Boards Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures TCFD, which published its final recommendations in June 2017.
Barclays endorsed the final report, and will work to implement the recommendations over the coming years.
The principles laid out in the TCFD recommendations are an important step in providing the foundations from which companies, investors, banks and other market participants can move forward together to improve transparency and build better understanding of potential climaterelated risks and opportunities.
This is the start of a longer-term process to enhance disclosures and improve understanding of potential material financial impacts.
Strategy Managing Climate Risk and Opportunity This is the start of a longerThrough a dedicated Environmental Risk Significant financing requirements for energy transition and resilient infrastructure will Management team within the Credit Risk term process to enhance function, we are focused on managing both necessitate access to the capital markets, bank disclosures and improve debt and wider funding solutions, providing physical risks, for instance flood risk for our UK mortgage book, as well as potential transition revenue pools that are projected to grow over understanding of potential time.
Our approach is to focus on managing risks if carbon intensive industries do not plan material financial impacts.
strategically for a smooth medium to long term potential climate change related risks at a client and transactional level, and assess current and transition to a low carbon economy emerging opportunities across our product During 2017, we have significantly increased Governance suite and geographical footprint.
On behalf of the Board, the Board Reputation our focus on developing new climate In the shorter term, Barclays sees immediate opportunities, including the launch of a suite of Committee reviews and approves Barclays overall Environmental, Social and Governance opportunities in Green Bonds and other industry-leading Green Products driven by the financing solutions.
We actively manage our Green Banking Council and the issuance of ESG strategy, which includes the approach taken on climate change and emission own direct carbon footprint and are making Barclays inaugural Green Bond.
Please see the good progress towards our target of 30% Green Bonds case study on page 7. targets.
The Committee discussed the outcome of an externally facilitated review reduction by end 2018, against a 2015 baseline, Please refer to the 2017 ESG Report reducing our emissions by 26.1% in 2017. on Barclays alignment with the TCFD f or further information, found at recommendations in 2017.
barclays annualreport 74 for the Board Reputation Committee report.
14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
