Capital and risk management Page Risk management framework Introduction 150 Risk culture 151 Risk governance 152 Risk appetite 154 Risk control frameworks and limits 155 Risk identification, measurement, treatment and mitigation 156 Risk and conduct assurance 156 Stress testing 157 Capital, liquidity and funding risk Definition and sources 161 Key developments 161 Capital liquidity and funding management 162 Minimum requirements 164 Measurements 165 Credit risk: management basis Definition and sources 177 Credit risk management function 177 Risk appetite, risk measurement and models 177 Risk mitigation 178 Portfolio assessment and monitoring summaries 183 Credit risk: balance sheet analysis Financial assets 192 Loans, REIL and impairment provisions 196 Securities and available-for-sale reserves 201 Derivatives and valuation reserves 204 Market risk Non-traded market risk 206 Traded market risk 214 Pension risk 220 Conduct risk 223 Operational risk 225 Business risk 228 Reputational risk 228 Presentation of information Except as otherwise indicated, information in the Capital and risk management section pages 149 to 228 is within the scope of the Independent auditors report.
149 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited Introduction RBS operates an integrated risk management framework, It is a key element of RBSs risk management framework and centred around the embedding of a strong risk culture, which is culture, providing a structured approach to risk-taking within designed to achieve the correct balance between prudential and agreed boundaries.
Each element of the risk management framework functions both individually and as part of a larger Effective governance, underpinned by our three lines of defence continuum.
The framework ensures the tools and capability are in model is essential to ensure the right decisions are being made place to facilitate risk management and decision-making across by the right people at the right time.
Governance includes regular the organisation.
and transparent risk reporting as well as discussion and decisionmaking at senior management committees, which informs RBSs strategy is informed and shaped by an understanding of management strategies across the organisation.
the risk landscape, including a range of significant risks and uncertainties in the external economic, political and regulatory RBS aims to have the right tools in place to support effective risk environment.
Identifying these risks and understanding how they management.
Having the appropriate capability, people and affect RBS informs risk appetite and risk management practice.
This is supported by a strong emphasis on systems, training and development to ensure threats are Risk appetite, which is supported by a robust set of principles, anticipated and managed appropriately within the boundaries policies and practices, defines our levels of tolerance for a variety determined by the agreed risk appetite.
RBS is able to absorb RBSs strategy is shocks and is prepared to informed and shaped by manage new, emerging and an understanding unforeseen risks of the risks it faces RBS identifies the RBS continually Stress & Business risks that arise as improves how risk is scenario strategy a result of running managed, by taking analysis its business action where and delivering necessary its strategy Risk Response identification Risk RBS has the Control appropriate culture Risk Defining the level definition & policies and controls appetite of risk which RBS effectiveness embedded in the is willing to accept business to manage the risks it takes Measurement, evaluation & Governance transparency Capability, people & Ensuring RBS RBS understands infrastructure is confident the right and communicates decisions are the financial and being taken, by the non-financial risks right people, at it is taking RBS has the tools and the right time capability to support risk management and decision-making across the organisation RBS has a strong focus on defining the control environment to Measurement, evaluation and transparency are also fundamental ensure the effective operation of policies and processes elements of the framework, providing robust analysis of the embedded in the customer-facing businesses, thus facilitating the materiality and likelihood of specific threats as well as supporting management of the risks they take in the course of their day-tounderstanding and communication of the financial and nonday activities.
financial risks RBS is exposed to.
150 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited continued RBS also has a strong focus on continually improving the way To support a consistent tone from the top, senior management risk is managed, particularly in terms of how threats are regularly communicate the importance of the required risk anticipated or responded to, but also in terms of simplifying or behaviours, linking them to the achievement of good customer enhancing existing controls, policies and practice.
Essential to this is the ability to scan both the mediumand longRBSs target risk culture behaviours have now been embedded term horizon for risks.
Stress testing is used to quantify, evaluate into Our Standards.
These are clearly aligned to the core values and understand the potential impact that changes to risks may of serving customers, working together, doing the right thing have on the financial strength of RBS, including its capital and thinking long term.
They act as a clear starting point for a position.
In turn, the results of stress tests can be used to inform strong and effective risk culture because Our Standards are used and shape strategy.
for performance management, recruitment and selection and development.
Given the evolving external landscape, including the structural reform required by the UKs ring-fencing requirements, in 2017 Risk culture behaviour assessment is incorporated into there was an emphasis on enhancing both the risk culture and performance assessment and compensation processes for risk appetite elements of the framework as well as the enhanced governance staff.
In Q1 2017, an objective aligned to interconnectivity between framework components.
RBSs risk culture target was set for the Executive Committee.
Activity against that objective over the year was integral to All RBS employees share ownership of the way risk is managed.
The businesses, the control and support functions, and Internal Audit work together to make sure business activities and policies A risk culture measurement and reporting framework has been are consistent with risk appetite: following the three lines of developed, enabling RBS to benchmark both internally and defence model.
RBS constantly monitors its risk profile against its externally.
The purpose of the framework is to assess progress in defined risk appetite and limits, taking action when required to embedding RBSs target risk culture where risk is simply part of balance risk and return.
In 2017, external validation indicated that good progress had been made against that objective Risk culture demonstrating that the continued focus and actions are moving A strong risk culture is essential if RBS is to achieve its ambition RBS towards its target risk culture.
to build a truly customer-focused bank.
RBSs risk culture target is to make risk simply part of the way that employees work and Risk-based key performance indicators think.
RBS-wide remuneration policy ensures that the remuneration arrangements for all employees reflect the principles and Such a culture must be built on strong risk practices and standards prescribed by the PRA rulebook and the FCA appropriate risk behaviours must be embedded throughout the handbook.
Training To achieve this, RBS is focusing on leaders as role models and Enabling employees to have the capabilities and confidence to taking action to build clarity, continuing to develop capability and manage risk is core to RBSs learning strategy.
motivate employees to reach the required standards of risk culture behaviour, including: RBS offers a wide range of risk learning, both technical and Taking personal accountability and proactively managing behavioural, across the risk disciplines.
This training can be risk.
mandatory, role-specific or for personal development.
Respecting risk management and the part it plays in daily work.
Mandatory learning for all staff is focused on keeping employees, Understanding clearly the risks associated with individual customers and RBS safe.
This is easily accessed online and is roles.
assigned to each person according to their role and business Aligning decision-making to RBSs risk appetite.
The system allows monitoring at all levels to ensure Considering risk in all actions and decisions.
Escalating risks and issues early.
Taking action to mitigate risks.
Code of Conduct Learning from mistakes and near-misses.
Aligned to RBSs values is the Code of Conduct Our Code.
The Challenging others attitudes, ideas and actions.
code provides guidance on expected behaviour and sets out the Reporting and communicating risks transparently.
standards of conduct that support the values.
It explains the effect of decisions that are taken and describes the principles that To embed and strengthen the required risk culture, a number of must be followed.
RBS-wide activities were undertaken in 2017.
These included ethical scenario training, mandatory Group Policy Learning, and Managing Our Performance meetings designed to enhance risk culture at a team and individual employee level.
151 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited continued Is what I am doing meeting the standards of conduct These principles cover conduct-related issues as well as wider required?
They focus on desired outcomes, with In five years time would others see this as a good way to practical guidelines to align the values with commercial strategy work?
The embedding of these principles facilitates sound Each of the five questions is a prompt to think about how the decision-making and a clear focus on good customer outcomes.
situation fits with RBS Groups values.
It ensures that employees They are also consistent with the people management and can think through decisions that do not have a clear answer, and remuneration processes and support a positive and strong risk guides their judgements.
culture through appropriate remuneration structures.
If conduct falls short of RBSs required standards, the A simple decision-making guide the YES check has been accountability review process is used to assess how this should included in the Code of Conduct.
It is a simple set of five be reflected in pay outcomes for those individuals concerned.
questions, designed to ensure RBS values guide day-to-day RBSs approach to remuneration and related policies promotes decisions: effective risk management through a clear distinction between Does what I am doing keep our customers and RBS safe fixed remuneration which reflects the role undertaken by an and secure?
individual and variable remuneration, which is directly linked to, Would customers and colleagues say I am acting with and reflects performance and can be risk-adjusted.
Performance & Remuneration Committee considers risk Am I happy with how this would be perceived on the performance and conduct when determining overall bonus pools.
Such pay decisions aim to reinforce the need for all employees to demonstrate acceptable risk management practice.
Risk governance Committee structure The diagram illustrates the risk committee structure in 2017 and the main purposes of each committee.
BoardRiskCommittee ExecutiveRiskForum Asset&LiabilityManagement PensionCommittee Committee :current Actsonallmaterialand orenterprise , risk  , and  management, balancesheetand  futureriskstrategy, including acrossRBS.
TechnicalAsset&Liability CapitalManagement&Stress Functionalrisk  ManagementCommittee TestingCommittee committees    limits, policiesandcontrols   endtoendcapital   Forumsubcommittees, andannualdeep managementprocess.
 exposures, nontradedmarket assetqualityreviews Committee, WholesaleCreditRisk  andstresstesting.
ProvisionsCommittee Committee,  currencyrisks.. Committee,   Committee,  .
Note: 1 The IFRS 9 Metrics Oversight Committee has delegated authority from the RBS Provisions Committee to approve the Significant Deterioration framework, the data rules for missing variables, materiality decisions relating to the expected credit loss calculation, adjustments relating to the expected credit loss calculation if necessary, and changes in expected credit loss provision calculation methodology.
152 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited continued Risk management structure The diagram illustrates RBSs risk management structure in 2017 and key risk management responsibilities.
Proactive support to the Chief Risk Officer including Risk, Conduct & Chief of Staff Restructuring strategy Chief Credit Officer Credit risk and control framework including Personal and Wholesale Head of Restructuring Manages RBSs problem and potential problem Wholesale debt exposures Enterprise-wide risk and control framework including stress testing and risk Director of Enterprise-Wide Risk capital, risk appetite and framework, strategic and earnings risk, non-traded market risk and risk model build Chief Risk Officer Risk and conduct capabilities including information services, Director of Risk & Conduct transformation, control room and surveillance, and whistleblowing Infrastructure Operational risk and control framework including business Director of Operational Risk processes, technology, data and organisation Independent challenge on the adequacy and effectiveness of risk and conduct Head of Risk & Conduct Assurance management practices and behaviour, model risk management and governance Franchise Directors of Risk & Oversight and challenge to the business in their management of risk and conduct Conduct Chief Risk Officers Director of Financial Crime Financial crime framework and standards, and oversight of implementation Manages legal risk and provides legal advice on customer transactions and Chief Executive RBS Group General Counsel products, acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures and intellectual property as well as managing major litigation Head of Regulatory Developments and Chief Governance Regulatory advisory support across all customer businesses and management of Head of Regulator & Control Function Officer and Board Counsel relationships with core regulators Liaison Capital, liquidity and funding risk as well as recovery and resolution planning.
Chief Financial Treasurer Treasury also participates in the Capital Management & Stress Testing Officer Committee Notes: 1 RBS risk management framework In 2017, the Chief Risk Officer CRO led Risk, Conduct & Restructuring.
The CRO reported directly to the Chief Executive and had a dotted reporting line to the Board Risk Committee, as well as a right of access, to the chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
Risk, Conduct & Restructuring was a function independent of the franchises, structured by risk discipline to facilitate the effective management of risk.
Risk, Conduct & Restructuring was organised into eight functional areas: Chief of Staff: Credit Risk: Restructuring: Enterprise-Wide Risk: Risk & Conduct Infrastructure: Operational Risk: Risk & Conduct Assurance: and Financial Crime.
There were also Directors of Risk & Conduct Chief Risk Officers for each of the franchises and for Services.
Risk committees in the customer businesses and key functional risk committees oversaw risk exposures arising from management and business activities and focused on ensuring that they were adequately monitored and controlled.
2 Regulatory Affairs In 2017, Regulatory Affairs was responsible for providing leadership of RBSs relationships with its regulators.
Regulatory Affairs is part of Corporate Governance & Regulatory Affairs.
Remediation & Complaints reports to the Services Chief Operating Officer.
153 Risk and control framework, risk appetite and challenge, oversight of risk management Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited continued Risk appetite Three lines of defence Risk capacity defines the maximum level of risk RBS can assume RBS uses the three lines of defence model to articulate before breaching constraints determined by regulatory capital accountabilities and responsibilities for managing risk across the and liquidity needs, the operational environment, and from a organisation.
The three lines of defence model is adopted across conduct perspective.
Articulating risk capacity helps determine the industry to support the embedding of effective risk where risk appetite should be set, ensuring there is a buffer management and is expressed through a set of principles as between internal risk appetite and RBSs ultimate capacity to outlined below: absorb losses.
First line of defence Management and supervision Risk appetite defines the level and types of risk RBS is willing to The first line of defence includes customer franchises, accept, within risk capacity, in order to achieve strategic Technology and Services as well as support and control functions objectives and business plans.
It links the goals and priorities to such as Human Resources, Communications & Marketing and risk management in a way that guides and empowers staff to Finance.
Responsibilities include: serve customers well and achieve financial targets.
Owning, managing and supervising, within a defined risk appetite, the risks which exist in business areas and support Risk appetite framework functions.
The risk appetite framework bolsters effective risk management Ensuring appropriate controls are in place to mitigate risk, by promoting sound risk-taking through a structured approach, balancing control, customer service and competitive within agreed boundaries.
It also ensures emerging risks and advantage.
risk-taking activities that would be out of appetite are identified, Ensuring that the culture of the business supports balanced assessed, escalated and addressed in a timely manner.
risk decisions and compliance with policy, laws and regulations.
To facilitate this, a detailed annual review of the framework is Ensuring the business has effective mechanisms for carried out.
The review includes: identifying, reporting and managing risk and controls.
Assessing the adequacy of the framework when compared to internal and external expectations.
Second line of defence Oversight and control Ensuring the framework remains effective as a strong The second line of defence includes Risk, Conduct & control environment for risk appetite.
Restructuring, RBS Legal, and the financial control element of Assessing the level of embedding of risk appetite across the RBSs Finance function.
Working with the businesses and functions to develop risk and control policies, limits and tools for the business to use The Board approves the risk appetite framework annually.
in order to discharge its responsibilities.
Overseeing and challenging the management of risks and controls.
Leading the articulation, design and development of risk culture and appetite.
Analysing the aggregate risk profile and ensuring that risks are being managed within risk appetite.
Providing expert advice to the business on risk management.
Providing senior executives with relevant management information and reports, and escalating concerns where appropriate.
Third line of defence Internal Audit Responsibilities include: Providing assurance to the Group Audit Committee that the main business risks have been identified and effective controls are in place to manage these risks.
Engaging with management to provide perspectives, insights and challenge in order to influence the building of a sustainable bank.
Providing independent assurance to the Financial Conduct Authority, Prudential Regulation Authority, Central Bank of Ireland and other key jurisdictional regulators on specific risks and controls.
154 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited continued Risk control frameworks and limits Establishing risk appetite Risk control frameworks and their associated limits are an integral part of the risk appetite framework and a key part of embedding risk appetite in day-to-day risk management decisions.
The risk control frameworks manage risk by Our priorities and long-term targets expressing a clear tolerance for material risk types that is aligned to business activities.
The RBS policy framework directly supports the qualitative aspects of risk appetite, helping to rebuild and maintain Risk capacity stakeholder confidence in RBSs risk control and governance.
Its integrated approach is designed to ensure that appropriate controls, aligned to risk appetite, are set for each of the strategic and material risks it faces, with an effective assurance process Risk appetite for strategic risks put in place to monitor and report on performance.
Risk identification and measurement Risk identification and measurement within the risk management process comprise: Regular assessment of the overall risk profile, incorporating Risk appetite for material risks market developments and trends, as well as external and internal factors.
Monitoring of the risks associated with lending and credit exposures.
Assessment of trading and non-trading portfolios.
Legal entity Franchise Function risk risk risk Review of potential risks in new business activities and appetite appetite appetite processes.
statements statements statements Analysis of potential risks in any complex and unusual business transactions.
The effective communication of risk appetite is essential in RBS has developed a risk directory which contains details of the embedding appropriate risk-taking into RBSs culture.
financial and non-financial risks that it faces each day.
It provides a common risk language to ensure consistent terminology is used Risk appetite is communicated across RBS through risk appetite across RBS.
The risk directory is subject to annual review.
The risk appetite statements provide clarity on the ensures that the directory continues to provide a comprehensive scale and type of activities that can be undertaken in a manner and meaningful list of the inherent risks within the businesses.
that is easily conveyed to staff.
Risk treatment and mitigation Risk treatment and mitigation is an important aspect of ensuring Risk appetite statements consist of qualitative statements of that risk profile remains within risk appetite.
Risk mitigation appetite supported by risk limits and triggers that operate as a strategies are discussed and agreed with the businesses.
They are established at RBS-wide level for all strategic risks and material risks, and at When evaluating possible strategies, costs and benefits, residual legal entity, franchise, and function level for all other risks.
risks risks that are retained and secondary risks those caused by the risk mitigation actions are considered.
Monitoring and The annual process of establishing risk appetite statements is review processes are in place to track results.
completed alongside the business and financial planning Information about regulatory developments and discussions is process.
This ensures plans and risk appetite are appropriately communicated to each customer-facing business and function.
This helps identify and execute any required mitigating changes to strategy or to business models.
The Board sets risk appetite for our most material risks to help ensure RBS is well placed to meet its priorities and long-term Early identification and effective management of changes in targets even under challenging economic environments.
It is the legislation and regulation are critical to the successful mitigation basis on which RBS remains safe and sound while implementing of conduct and regulatory risk.
The effects of all changes are its strategic business objectives.
managed to ensure timely compliance readiness.
Changes assessed as having a high or medium-high impact are managed RBSs risk profile is frequently reviewed and monitored to ensure closely.
it remains within appetite and that management focus is concentrated on all strategic risks, material risks and emerging risk issues.
Effective processes are in place for reporting risk profile relative to risk appetite to the Board and senior management.
155 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited continued The Risk & Conduct Assurance Committee ensures a consistent Top and emerging risks that may affect future results and and fair approach to all aspects of the teams assurance review performance are reviewed and monitored.
Action is taken to activities.
The committee also monitors and validates the ongoing mitigate potential risks as and when required.
In depth analysis is programme of reviews and tracks the remediation of the more carried out, including the stress testing of exposures relative to material review actions.
Model risk The Board Risk Committee, Asset & Liability Management Model risk is the risk that a model is specified incorrectly not Committee and Executive Risk Forum provide governance and achieving the objective for which it is designed, implemented oversight.
incorrectly an error in translating the model specification into the version actually used, or being used incorrectly correctly Risk and conduct assurance specified but applied inappropriately.
Risk & Conduct Assurance is an independent second line of RBS uses a variety of models as part of its risk management defence function which provides assurance to both internal and process and activities.
Key examples include the use of model external stakeholders including the Board, senior management, outputs to support risk assessments in the credit approval risk functions, franchises, Internal Audit and regulators.
process, ongoing credit risk management, monitoring and reporting, as well as the calculation of risk-weighted assets.
The function has three main elements assurance, model risk Other examples include the use of models to measure market and risk culture.
Risk & Conduct Assurance teams perform risk exposures and calculate associated capital requirements, as quality assurance on targeted credit, market, financial crime and well as for the valuation of positions.
The models used for stressconduct risk activities.
They also review selected key controls testing purposes also play a key role in ensuring RBS holds and manage model risk governance and validation activities.
In sufficient capital, even in stressed market scenarios.
addition, the Head of Risk & Conduct Assurance oversees the delivery of work to embed and strengthen RBSs desired risk Model Risk Governance culture.
Model Risk Governance is responsible for setting policy and providing a governance framework for all of RBSs models and The Head of Risk & Conduct Assurance also oversees the three related processes.
It is also responsible for defining and lines of defence model, including relevant principles.
For further monitoring model risk appetite in conjunction with model owners information refer to page 154. and model users, monitoring the model risk profile and reporting on the model population as well as escalating issues to senior Assurance management, through the Model Risk Forum, and the respective Qualitative reviews are carried out to assess various risk aspects franchise and function risk committees.
as appropriate, including: the quality of risk portfolios, the Model Risk Management accuracy of the Basel Model Inputs and related probability of Model Risk Management performs independent model validation default loss given default classifications, the quality of risk for material models.
It works with individual businesses and management practices, policy compliance and adherence to risk functions to monitor adherence to model risk standards, ensuring appetite.
This can include testing the banks credit portfolios and that models are developed and implemented appropriately and market risk exposures to assist in early identification of emerging that their operational environment is fit for purpose.
risks, as well as undertaking targeted reviews to examine specific concerns raised either by these teams or by their stakeholders.
Model Risk Management performs reviews of relevant risk and pricing models in two instances: i for new models or The adequacy and effectiveness of selected key controls owned amendments to existing models and ii as part of its ongoing and operated by the Risk function are also tested with a programme to assess the performance of these models.
particular focus on credit risk and market risk controls.
The teams remit includes selected controls within the scope of Model Risk Management reviews may test and challenge the Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 as well as logic and conceptual soundness of the methodology, or the selected controls supporting risk data aggregation and reporting.
Reviews may also test whether Assurance is carried out on Anti-Money Laundering, Sanctions, or not all appropriate risks have been sufficiently captured as well and Anti-Bribery & Corruption processes and controls.
This helps as checking the accuracy and robustness of calculations.
Based inform whether or not the financial crime control environment is on the review and findings from Model Risk Management, RBSs adequate and effective and whether financial crime risk is model or risk committees consider whether a model can be appropriately identified, managed and mitigated.
Assurance of approved for use.
Models used for regulatory reporting may conduct policies is predominantly focused on the Risk, Conduct & additionally require regulatory approval before implementation.
Targeted work is also carried out to assist RBS in meeting its promises to customers as well as its regulatory requirements.
156 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited continued Stress testing is used widely across RBS.
Key areas are Model Risk Management reassesses the appropriateness of summarised in the diagram below: approved risk models on a periodic basis.
Each periodic review begins with an initial assessment.
Based on the initial Financial assessment, an internal model governance committee will decide performance Contingency assessment to re-ratify a model or to carry out additional work.
In the initial planning & management assessment, Model Risk Management assesses factors such as actions 4 a change in the size or composition of the portfolio, market Risk changes, the performance of or any amendments to the Mitigation Capital model and the status of any outstanding issues or scheduled adequacy Early activities carried over from previous reviews.
warning 1 indicators Model Risk Management also monitors the performance of RBSs 3 Stress testing Strategic portfolio of models to ensure that they appropriately capture Risk usage within Financial Identification & Capital RBS underlying business rationale.
Planning For more specific information relating to market risk models and Earnings pricing models, refer to page 218.
Tail-risk volatility assessment 2 Risk Stress testing: capital management Appetite Stress testing is a key risk management tool and a fundamental component of RBSs approach to capital management.
It is used Sector review Business & credit limit to quantify, evaluate and understand the potential impact of vulnerabilities setting analysis specified changes to risk factors on the financial strength of RBS, including its capital position.
Stress testing includes: Scenario testing, which examines the impact of a hypothetical future state to define changes in risk factors: Specific areas that involve capital management include: and 1 Strategic financial and capital planning: through assessing Sensitivity testing, which examines the impact of an the impact of sensitivities and scenarios on the capital plan incremental change to one or more risk factors.
The process for stress testing consists of four broad stages: 2 Risk appetite: through gaining a better understanding of the drivers of and the underlying risks associated with risk Identify RBS-specific vulnerabilities and risks.
Define Define and calibrate scenarios to examine risks 3 Risk identification: through a better understanding of the scenarios and vulnerabilities.
risks that could potentially impact RBSs financial strength Formal governance process to agree scenarios.
Translate scenarios into risk drivers.
Assess 4 Risk mitigation: through identifying actions that can be taken Assess impact to positions, income and costs.
impact to mitigate risks, or could be taken, in the event of adverse Impact assessment captures input from across changes to the business or economic environment.
mitigation is substantially supplemented through RBSs Aggregate impacts into overall results.
Results form part of risk management process.
results and Scenario results are used to inform RBSs Regular reverse stress testing is also carried out.
This examines assess business and capital plans.
circumstances that can lead to specific, defined outcomes such implications as business failure.
Reverse stress testing allows RBS to examine potential vulnerabilities in its business model more fully.
Scenario results are analysed by subject matter experts and appropriate management actions are Develop and then developed.
agree Scenario results and management actions are management reviewed and agreed by senior management actions through executive committees including Executive Risk Forum, Board Risk Committee and the Board.
157 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited continued Stress testing: liquidity Capital sufficiency: going concern forward-looking view Liquidity risk monitoring and contingency planning Going concern capital requirements are examined on a forwardIn implementing the liquidity risk management framework, a suite looking basis including as part of the annual budgeting process of tools is used to monitor, limit and stress test the risks on the by assessing the resilience of capital adequacy and leverage balance sheet.
Limit frameworks are in place to control the level ratios under hypothetical future states.
A range of future states of liquidity risk, asset and liability mismatches and funding are examined.
In particular, capital requirements are assessed: concentrations.
Based on a forecast of future business performance given expectations of economic and market conditions over the Liquidity risks are reviewed at significant legal entity and forecast period.
business levels daily, with performance reported to the Asset & Based on a forecast of future business performance under Liability Management Committee at least monthly.
Liquidity adverse economic and market conditions over the forecast Condition Indicators are monitored daily which ensures any buildperiod.
A range of scenarios of different severity may be up of stress is detected early and the response escalated examined.
Internal assessment of liquidity The examination of capital requirements under normal economic Under the liquidity risk management framework, RBS maintains and market conditions enables RBS to demonstrate how its the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP.
projected business performance allows it to meet all internal and This includes assessment of net stressed liquidity outflows.
RBS regulatory capital requirements as they arise over the plan considers a range of extreme but plausible stress scenarios on its horizon.
For example, RBS will assess its ability to issue lossliquidity position over various time horizons, as outlined below.
absorbing debt instruments in sufficient quantity to meet regulatory timelines.
The cost of issuance will be factored into Type Description business performance metrics.
Idiosyncratic The market perceives RBS to be suffering The examination of capital requirements under adverse economic scenario from a severe stress event, which results and market conditions is assessed through stress testing.
in an immediate assumption of increased The results of stress tests are not only used widely across RBS credit risk or concerns over solvency.
but also by the regulators to set specific capital buffers.
RBS Market-wide A market stress event affecting all takes part in a number of stress tests run by regulatory scenario participants in a market through authorities to test industry-wide vulnerabilities under crystallising contagion, counterparty failure and other global and domestic systemic risks.
In 2017, RBS took part in the market risks.
RBS is affected under this Bank of England stress test.
Details of the stress test are set out scenario but no more severely than any on page 160. other participants with equivalent Internal assessment of capital adequacy exposure.
An internal assessment of material risks is carried out annually to Combined This scenario models the combined enable an evaluation of the amount, type and distribution of scenario impact of an idiosyncratic and market capital required to cover these risks.
This is referred to as the stress occurring at once.
The combined Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
The scenario reflects the contingency that a ICAAP consists of a point-in-time assessment of RBSs severe name-specific event occurs at exposures and risks at the end of the financial year together with RBS in conjunction with a broader market a forward-looking stress capital assessment.
The ICAAP is stress, causing wider damage to the approved by the Board and submitted to the PRA.
market and financial sector and severely The ICAAP is used to form a view of capital adequacy separately affecting funding markets and assets.
to the minimum regulatory requirements.
The ICAAP is used by the PRA to make an assessment of RBS-specific capital RBS uses the most severe combination of these to set the requirements through the Pillar 2 framework.
The results of this enable RBS to set its internal liquidity risk appetite, which complements the Capital allocation regulatory liquidity coverage ratio requirement.
RBS has mechanisms to allocate capital across its legal entities and businesses which aim to optimise the utilisation of capital resources taking into account applicable regulatory requirements, strategic and business objectives and risk appetite.
The framework for allocating capital is approved by the Asset & Liability Management Committee.
Governance Capital management is subject to substantial review and governance.
Formal approval of capital management policies is either by the Asset & Liability Management Committee or by the Board on the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee.
The Board approves the capital plans, including those for key legal entities and businesses as well as the results of the stress tests relating to those capital plans.
158 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited continued Non-traded market risk exposures are capitalised through the Stress testing: recovery and resolution planning ICAAP.
The process covers the following risk types: gap risk, The RBS Group maintains a recovery plan that sets out credible basis risk, credit spread risk, pipeline risk, structural foreign recovery options that could be implemented in the event of a exchange risk, prepayment risk and accounting volatility risk.
The severe stress to restore its business to a stable and sustainable ICAAP is completed with a combination of value and earnings condition, focusing on addressing the capital and liquidity position measures.
The total non-traded market risk capital requirement is of the RBS Group and its constituent legal entities.
determined by adding the different charges for each sub risk type.
The ICAAP methodology captures at least ten years of The recovery plan sets out a range of triggers that activate the historical volatility, produced with 99% confidence level.
implementation of the recovery plan and sets out the operational Methodologies are reviewed by RBS Model Risk and the results plan for implementation of appropriate recovery options.
are approved by the Capital Management & Stress Testing Committee.
The recovery plan is a key component of risk management Traded market risk including the framework for managing capital.
RBS undertakes daily market risk stress testing to identify The recovery plan is prepared and updated annually and vulnerabilities and potential losses in excess of, or not captured approved by the Board.
Following Board approval it is also in, value-at-risk.
The calculated stresses measure the impact of submitted to the PRA each year.
The recovery plan is assessed changes in risk factors on the fair values of the trading and for appropriateness on an ongoing basis, and is maintained in available-for-sale portfolios.
RBS conducts historical, macroeconomic and vulnerability-based Two significant legal entities, RBS Securities Inc. and The Royal stress testing.
Historical stress testing is a measure that is used Bank of Scotland International Limited, maintained separate for internal management.
Using the historical simulation recovery plans to address specific risks.
These plans were framework employed for value-at-risk, the current portfolio is aligned to the 2017 RBS recovery plan to ensure they operated stressed using historical data since 1 January 2005.
This consistently in the event of a stress scenario.
methodology simulates the impact of the 99.9 percentile loss that would be incurred by historical risk factor movements over the Resolution would be implemented if the RBS Group was period, assuming variable holding periods specific to the risk assessed by the UK authorities to have failed and the appropriate factors and the businesses.
regulator placed the RBS Group into resolution.
The process of Historical stress tests form part of the market risk limit framework resolution is owned and implemented by the Bank of England as and their results are reported daily to senior management.
Macroeconomic stress tests are carried out periodically as part of the bank-wide, cross-risk capital planning process.
The scenario The RBS Group is working with UK and global regulators to narratives are translated into risk factor shocks using historical ensure that it is compliant with the principles of resolution events and insights by economists, risk managers and the first planning.
This includes, but is not limited to, establishing line.
appropriate loss-absorbing capacity and ability to maintain operational continuity in resolution, across all of RBS Groups Market risk stress results are combined with those for other risks main legal entities, including NatWest Bank Plc.
Reflecting the into the capital plan presented to the Board.
The cross-risk degree of change required to ensure RBS Group is resolvable, a capital planning process is conducted once a year, with a multi-year programme in place to develop resolution capability planning horizon of five years.
The scenario narratives cover both and meet regulatory requirements.
regulatory scenarios and macroeconomic scenarios identified by RBS.
Stress testing: market risk Vulnerability-based stress testing begins with the analysis of a Non-traded market risk portfolio and expresses its key vulnerabilities in terms of Non-traded exposures are reported to the PRA on a quarterly plausible, vulnerability scenarios under which the portfolio would basis as part of the Stress Testing Data Framework.
The return suffer material losses.
These scenarios can be historical, provides the regulator with an overview of RBSs banking book macroeconomic or forward-looking hypothetical.
 rate exposure, providing detailed product information based stress testing is used for internal management information analysed by interest rate driver and other characteristics and is not subject to limits.
However, the results for relevant including accounting classification, currency and, counterparty scenarios are reported to senior management.
Scenario analysis based on hypothetical adverse scenarios is performed on non-traded exposures as part of the industry-wide Bank of England and European Banking Authority stress exercises.
In addition, RBS produces its own internal scenario analysis as part of the financial planning cycles.
159 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management framework unaudited continued Regulatory stress testing In 2017, the Group participated in a regulatory stress test conducted by the Bank of England.
The scenario is hypothetical in nature and does not represent a forecast of the Groups future business or profitability.
The results of the regulatory stress tests are carefully assessed by the Group and form part of the wider risk management of the Group.
Bank of England stress test Designed to assess the resilience of major UK banks to tail risk events.
The severity of the test is related to policymakers assessments of risk levels across markets and regions.
Scenario The 2017 stress test examined the impact over five years of deep simultaneous recessions in the UK and global economies, large falls in asset prices and a separate stress of misconduct costs.
The economic scenario in the test is more severe than the global financial crisis.
Under the 2017 Bank of England stress test, CET1 ratio reached a low point of 6.4%, below the hurdle rate of 6.7%.
Post the impact of management actions and the conversion of AT1 capital, the Groups low point CET1 ratio increased from 6.4% to 7.0%, meeting the hurdle rate but remained below the Systemic Reference Point of 7.4%.
Tier 1 leverage ratio was projected to be 3.7% under stress, above the 3.25% leverage hurdle rate.
Post the impact of management actions and conversion of AT1 capital, the Tier 1 leverage ratio would have been 4.0%.
Results The stress was based on an end of 2016 balance sheet starting position.
Since then, RBS has taken a number of actions to improve its capital position stress resilience, including the on-going run-down of Capital Resolution RWAs, the continued reduction in certain credit portfolios and the resolution of various litigation cases and regulatory investigations.
In light of the steps that RBS has already taken to strengthen its capital position during 2017, the regulator did not require RBS to submit a revised capital plan.
The 2017 Bank of England stress test results demonstrate that good progress has been made in transforming the What balance sheet to being safe and sustainable.
does this The reduction in the CET1 ratio from the start point to the minimum stressed ratio before the impact of 'strategic' mean?
management actions or AT1 conversion has improved from 1,000 basis points last year to 700 basis points this year pre-strategic management actions.
160 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities Definitions unaudited MREL Capital consists of reserves and instruments issued that are In addition to capital, other specific loss absorbing instruments available that have a degree of permanency and are capable of including senior notes issued by the Group may be used to absorbing losses.
A number of strict conditions set by regulators cover certain gone concern capital requirements which, in the must be satisfied to be eligible to count as capital.
Gone concern refers to the situation in which resources must be available to enable an orderly Capital adequacy risk is the risk that there is or will be insufficient resolution, in the event that the Bank of England BoE deems capital and other loss absorbing debt instruments to operate that the Group has failed.
effectively including meeting minimum regulatory requirements, operating within Board approved risk appetite and supporting its Liquidity RBS maintains a prudent approach to the definition of liquidity strategic goals.
Liquidity resources are divided into primary and secondary liquidity as follows: Liquidity consists of assets that can be readily converted to cash within a short timeframe at a reliable value.
Liquidity risk is the Primary liquid assets include cash and balances at central risk of being unable to meet financial obligations as and when banks, treasury bills and other high quality government and they fall due.
Secondary liquid assets are eligible as collateral for local Funding consists of on-balance sheet liabilities that are used to central bank liquidity facilities.
These assets include ownprovide cash to finance assets.
Funding risk is the risk of not issued securitisations or whole loans that are retained on maintaining a diversified, stable and cost-effective funding base.
balance sheet and pre-positioned with a central bank so that they may be converted into additional sources of liquidity at Liquidity and funding risks arise in a number of ways, including very short notice.
through the maturity transformation role that banks perform.
The risks are dependent on factors such as: Funding RBSs primary funding sources are as follows: Maturity profile: Type Description Composition of sources and uses of funding: Licensed deposit-taking entities The quality and size of the liquidity portfolio: Customer deposits operating as PBB, CPB and RBSI Wholesale market conditions: and franchises.
Short-term less than 1 year unsecured Wholesale markets money markets and secured repo Sources unaudited market funding.
Capital Issuance of long-term more than 1 The determination of what instruments and financial resources Term debt year unsecured and secured debt are eligible to be counted as capital is laid down by applicable securities.
Capital is categorised under two tiers Tier 1 and Tier 2 according to the ability to absorb losses, degree of The use of such facilities can be both part of a wider strategic objective to permanency and the ranking of absorbing losses on either a Central bank support initiatives to help stimulate going or gone concern basis.
There are three broad categories of funding facilities economic growth or as part of the capital across these two tiers: broader liquidity management and funding strategy.
CET1 capital must be perpetual and capable of unrestricted and immediate use to cover risks or losses as soon as these occur.
This includes ordinary shares For further details on capital constituents and the regulatory issued and retained earnings.
framework covering capital, liquidity and funding requirements, AT1 capital.
This is the second type of loss absorbing capital please refer to the RBS Pillar 3 Report 2017 on pages 4 and 8. and must be capable of absorbing losses on a going For MREL refer to page 161. concern basis.
These instruments are either written down or converted into CET1 capital when a pre-specified CET1 Key developments in 2017 unaudited ratio is reached.
RBS continued to strengthen and fide-risk its capital position: Tier 2 capital.
Tier 2 capital is the Groups supplementary CET1 ratio remains ahead of the 13% target and increased capital and provides loss absorption on a gone concern by 250 basis points in the year end to 15.9% 40 basis basis.
Tier 2 capital absorbs losses after Tier 1 capital.
It points in Q4 2017, despite absorbing significant litigation typically consists of subordinated debt securities with a and conduct costs, restructuring costs and disposal losses.
minimum maturity of five years.
IFRS 9 adoption on 1 January 2018 favourably impacts CET1 by 30 basis points.
RWAs reduced by 27.3 billion to 200.9 billion reflecting the rundown of NatWest Markets legacy assets and reductions across other businesses.
In addition, RBS was not required to submit a revised capital plan following the 2017 Bank of England BOE stress testing exercise.
161 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Capital plans are produced for the Group, its CRR leverage ratio increased to 5.3% 2016 5.1%.
UK key operating entities and its businesses over leverage ratio improved to 6.1% 2016 5.6% reflecting a five year planning horizon under expected higher central bank balances which are excluded from the and stress conditions.
Stressed capital plans UK framework.
Produce are produced to support internal stress During the year the BOE published indicative data on the capital testing through the ICAAP or for regulatory minimum amount of loss-absorbing resources for the larger plans purposes.
UK banks comprising MREL plus buffers.
RBS is expected Shorter term forecasts are developed to require loss-absorbing resources of 24.0% of RWAs by 1 frequently in response to actual performance, January 2020, rising to 27.8% by 1 January 2022.
Total loss changes in internal and external business absorbing capital, based on RBSs interpretation of the rules environment and to manage risks and and including the benefit of legacy securities, was 27.1% of opportunities.
Capital plans are developed to maintain The liquidity portfolio increased by 22 billion in 2017 to capital of sufficient quantity and quality to 186 billion, mainly within primary liquidity which is now support the Groups business and strategic 124 billion 2016 95 billion.
This build up in liquidity is plans over the planning horizon within driven by TFS participation, increased deposits in the Assess approved risk appetite, as determined via franchises and Treasury issuance, offset by funding capital stress testing, and minimum regulatory maturities and calls of securities.
The rise in primary liquidity resulted in higher liquidity Capital resources and capital requirements coverage ratio LCR and stressed outflow coverage SOC are assessed across a defined planning of 152% 2016 123% and 168% 2016 139% horizon.
The increase in LCR reflected preparations for Impact assessment captures input from the settlement of litigation, the rise in the minimum across the Group including from businesses.
regulatory requirement from 90% to 100% on 1 January Capital planning informs potential capital 2018 and preparations for ring-fencing.
actions including managing capital through The net stable funding ratio rose to 132% 2016 121%, buy backs, redemptions or through new above the minimum target of 100%.
The increase in NSFR issuance to external investors or via internal was primarily driven by increased available stable funding.
The regulatory agenda continues to rapidly evolve in the UK, Inform Decisions on capital actions will be Europe and internationally.
RBS manages its capital, capital influenced by strategic and regulatory liquidity and funding to meet both current and future actions requirements, the cost and prevailing market regulatory requirements whilst ensuring that we continue to conditions.
As part of capital planning, the Group will monitor its portfolio of external capital Capital management unaudited securities and assess the optimal blend and Capital management ensures that there is sufficient capital and most cost effective means of financing.
other loss absorbing instruments to operate effectively including meeting minimum regulatory requirements, operating within Capital planning is one of the tools that the Group uses to Board approved risk appetite, maintaining its credit rating and monitor and manage capital risk on a going and gone concern supporting its strategic goals.
basis, including the risk of excessive leverage.
Capital management is critical in supporting the businesses and is enacted through an end to end framework across businesses Liquidity and funding management follows a similar process to and the legal entities.
that outlined above for capital.
Capital planning is integrated into the Groups wider annual Liquidity portfolio management unaudited budgeting process and is assessed and updated at least monthly.
The size of the portfolio is determined by referencing RBSs Regular returns are submitted to the PRA which include a two liquidity risk appetite.
RBS retains a prudent approach to setting year rolling forward view.
Other elements of capital management, the composition of the liquidity portfolio, which is subject to including risk appetite and stress testing, are set out on pages internal policies and limits over quality of counterparty, maturity 154 and 157. mix and currency mix.
162 Business review Capital and risk management Treasury has commenced the transfer of the existing liquidity Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued RBS categorises its liquidity portfolio, including its locally portfolio from RBS plc into National Westminster Bank Plc where managed liquidity portfolios, into primary and secondary liquid the majority of the UK DoLSub liquidity portfolio will be held post assets.
The majority of the portfolio is centrally managed by RBS ring-fencing to ensure appropriate levels of liquidity are held in Treasury, for which the RBS Treasurer is responsible.
This both RBS plc and the UK DoLSub.
portfolio is held in the PRA regulated UK Domestic Liquidity Subgroup UK DoLSub comprising RBSs five licensed deposit The size of the liquidity portfolio to be held by the future NatWest taking UK banks: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National Markets plc should not be considered comparable to that held by Westminster Bank Plc, Ulster Bank Limited, Coutts & Co and the current RBS plc.
For further information, please refer to RBS Group ring-fencing Two of RBS's significant operating subsidiaries, RBS N. V. and on page 109.
Ulster Bank Ireland DAC, hold locally managed portfolios that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.
Funding risk management unaudited RBS manages funding risk through a comprehensive framework The liquidity value of the portfolio is determined by taking current which measures and monitors the funding risk on the balance market prices and applying a discount or haircut, to give a sheet.
liquidity value that represents the amount of cash that can be generated by the asset.
The asset and liability types broadly match.
Customer deposits provide more funding than customer loans utilise: repurchase Separate from the liquidity portfolio, RBS holds high quality agreements are largely covered by reverse repurchase assets to meet payment systems collateral requirements: these agreements: interbank lending and funding largely nets off and are managed by RBS Treasury.
derivative assets are broadly netted against derivative liabilities.
Ring-fencing implications As a result of the legal entity restructuring in response to the UK governments ring-fencing legislation, the current Royal Bank of Scotland plc expected to be renamed NatWest Markets plc at the time of the RFTS during the first half of 2018 will separately hold and manage its own liquidity portfolio outside of the ringfenced group.
It will cease to form part of the UK DoLSub at a point in time in the second half of 2018 subject to regulatory agreement.
RBS International will begin to hold its own liquidity portfolio and RBS N. V. and UBI DAC will continue to hold separate liquidity to meet local regulatory requirements.
163 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Minimum requirements unaudited Capital adequacy ratios The Group is subject to minimum requirements in relation to the amount of capital it must hold in relation to its RWAs.
The table below summarises the minimum ratios of capital to RWAs that the Group is expected to have to meet once CRR is fully implemented by 1 January 2019.
These ratios apply at the consolidated group level.
Different minimum capital requirements may apply to individual legal entities or sub-groups.
Minimum requirements Type CET1 Total Tier 1 Total capital System wide Pillar 1 minimum requirements 4.5% 6.0% 8.0% Capital conservation buffer 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 1 UK countercyclical capital buffer 1.0% 1.0% 1.0% 2 G-SIB buffer 1.0% 1.0% 1.0% 4 Bank specific Pillar 2A 2.1% 2.9% 3.8% 5 Total excluding PRA buffer 11.1% 13.4% 16.3% Notes: 1 The countercyclical capital buffer CCyB applied to UK designated assets is set by the Financial Policy Committee FPC.
The UK CCyB may be set between 0% and 2.5% and is linked to the state of the UK economy.
The Bank of Englands Financial Policy Committee FPC increased the UK CCyB from 0.0% to 0.5%, with effect from June 2018: subsequently in November 2017 the FPC announced a further increase to 1.0% effective November 2018.
The estimated own funds impact for the Group, based on the CCyB rate of 1.0% and 31 December 2017 exposures, was 1,343 million.
Foreign exposures may be subject to different CCyBs depending on the CCyB rate set in the jurisdiction of the foreign exposure.
2 Globally systemically important banks G-SIBs, as designated by the Financial Stability Board FSB, are subject to an additional capital buffer of between 1% and 3.5%.
Based on the most recent determination of the FSB, the Group is subject to an additional capital requirement of 1.0% 3 The Group will be subject to a systemic risk buffer SRB of between 0% and 3%.
The SRB will apply from 1 January 2019 and will apply at the ring-fenced bank sub-group level rather than at the consolidated group level.
The SRB may require the Group to hold a minimum amount of capital at the consolidated group level beyond the levels set out in the table above.
4 From 1 January 2015, RBS has been required to meet at least 56% of its Pillar 2A capital requirement with CET1 capital and with balance with Additional Tier 1 and or Tier 2 capital.
Additional capital requirements under Pillar 2A may be specified by the PRA as a ratio or as an absolute value.
The table sets out an implied ratio to cover the full value of Pillar 2A requirements.
The PRA has recently determined that the Pillar 2A capital requirement for 2018 remains unchanged.
5 The Group may be subject to a PRA buffer requirement as set by the PRA.
The PRA buffer consists of two components: - A risk management and governance buffer that is set as a scalar of the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements.
The scalar could range between 10% and 40%.
- A buffer relating to the results of the BoE concurrent stress testing results.
The PRA requires that the level of this buffer is not publicly disclosed.
6 The capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical capital buffer, the G-SIB buffer and systemic risk buffer where applicable make up the combined buffer.
If the Group fails to meet the combined buffer requirement, it is subject to restrictions on distributions on CET1 instruments, discretionary coupons on AT1 instruments and on payment of variable remuneration or discretionary pension benefits.
These restrictions are calculated by reference to the Groups Maximum Distributable Amount MDA.
The MDA trigger is below the PRA buffer and MDA restrictions are not automatically triggered if the Group fails to meet its PRA buffer.
The MDA is calculated as the amount of interim or year-end profits not yet incorporated into CET1 capital multiplied by a factor ranging from 0 to 0.6 depending on the size of the CET1 shortfall against the combined buffer.
Leverage ratios The table below summarises the minimum ratios of capital to leverage exposure under the PRA UK leverage framework that the Group must meet.
In November 2016, the European Commission published a package of legislative proposals CRR 2 for the adoption of a legally binding 3% of Tier 1 capital minimum leverage ratio with consideration of a leverage buffer ratio for G-SIBs once a final international agreement had been reached.
Different minimum requirements may apply to individual legal entities or sub-groups.
Type CET1 Total Tier 1 Minimum ratio 2.4375% 3.25% UK countercyclical leverage ratio buffer 0.00% 0.00% Additional leverage ratio buffer 0.35% 0.35% Total 2.7875% 3.60% Notes: 1 The countercyclical leverage ratio buffer is set at 35% of the Groups CCyB.
As noted above this buffer may be set between 0% and 2.5% and the Financial Policy Committee FPC increased the rate from 0.0% to 0.5% effective June 2018: subsequently in November 2017 the FPC announced a further increase to 1% effective November 2018.
The applicable ratio for foreign exposures may be different.
On 3 October 2017 the PRA, via revised policy statement PS21 17, increased the Tier 1 leverage ratio requirement for UK banks by 25 basis points to 3.25% CET1 requirement of 2.4375%.
The PRA minimum leverage ratio requirement is supplemented with a G-SIB additional leverage ratio buffer, currently 0.175% under transitional arrangements 31 December 2016 0.13125% increasing to 0.35% at the end point, and countercyclical capital buffer of 0.0%.
Liquidity and funding ratios The table below summarises the minimum requirements for key liquidity and funding metrics, under the relevant legislative framework.
Type From 1 January 2017 From 1 January 2018 1 Liquidity coverage ratio LCR 90% 100% 2 Net stable funding ratio NSFR N A 100% Notes: 1 On 1 October 2015 the LCR became the PRAs primary regulatory liquidity standard.
It is a Pillar 1 metric to which the PRA apply Pillar 2 add-ons.
The minimum ratio above excludes Pillar 2 add-ons.
2 BCBS issued its final recommendations for the implementation of the net stable funding ratio in October 2014, proposing an implementation date of 1 January 2018 by which time banks are expected to meet and maintain a ratio of 100%.
In November 2016, the European Commission EC included a net stable funding ratio of 100% as part of the CRR 2 package of legislative proposals.
The timing of a binding NSFR coming into force in the European Union and United Kingdom remains subject to uncertainty.
In the meantime, RBS uses the definitions from the BCBS guidelines, and its own interpretations, to calculate the NSFR.
RBSs ratio may not be comparable with those of other financial institutions.
164 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Measurement Capital and leverage: Key metrics unaudited Capital, RWAs and capital adequacy ratios, on the basis of end-point Capital Requirements Regulation CRR and transitional rules, calculated in accordance with PRA definitions, are set out below.
All regulatory adjustments and deductions to CET1 have been applied in full for both bases with the exception of unrealised gains on available-for-sale securities which has been included from 2015 under the PRA transitional basis.
2 Based on 3 month average of month end leverage exposure and Tier 1 Capital.
Measures in relation to end-point CRR basis, including RWAs, are based on the current interpretation, expectations, and understanding, of the CRR requirements, as well as further regulatory clarity and implementation guidance from the UK and EU authorities end-point CRR basis.
Capital base: Own funds are based on shareholders equity.
The adjustment arising from the application of the prudent valuation requirements to all assets measured at fair value, has been included in full.
Additional valuation adjustments relating to unearned credit spreads on exposures under the advanced internal ratings approach has been included in the determination of the expected loss amount deducted from CET1.
Where the deductions from AT1 capital exceed AT1 capital, the excess is deducted from CET1 capital.
Based on our current interpretations of the Commission Delegated Regulation issued in December 2013 on credit risk adjustments, RBSs standardised latent provision has been reclassified to specific provision and is not included in Tier 2 capital.
RWAs: Current securitisation positions are shown as risk-weighted at 1,250%.
RWA uplifts include the impact of credit valuation adjustments and asset valuation correlation on large financial sector entities.
RWAs reflect implementation of the full internal model method suite, and include methodology changes that took effect immediately on CRR implementation.
Counterparties which meet the eligibility criteria under CRR are exempt from the credit valuation adjustments volatility charges Liquidity key metrics unaudited The table below sets out the key liquidity and related metrics monitored by RBS.
2017 2016 Liquidity portfolio 186bn 164bn Liquidity coverage ratio 1 152% 123% Stressed outflow coverage 2 168% 139% Net stable funding ratio 3 132% 121% Loan:deposit ratio 88% 91% Notes: 1 On 1 October 2015 the LCR became the PRAs primary regulatory liquidity standard.
The published LCR excludes Pillar 2 add-ons.
RBS calculates the LCR using its own interpretations of the EU LCR Delegated Act, which may change over time and may not be fully comparable with those of other financial institutions.
2 RBS's stressed outflow coverage SOC is measured by reference to the liquidity portfolio as a percentage of stressed contractual and behavioural outflows over three months under the worst of three severe stress scenarios of a market-wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both in RBSs ILAAP.
This assessment is performed in accordance with PRA guidance.
3 BCBS issued its final recommendations for the implementation of the net stable funding ratio in October 2014, proposing an implementation date of 1 January 2018 by which time banks are expected to meet and maintain a ratio of 100%.
165 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Capital and leverage: Capital resources 2017 2016 PRA PRA End-point transitional End-point transitional CRR basis 1 basis 1 CRR basis 1 basis 1 m m m m Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests Shareholders equity 48,330 48,330 48,609 48,609 Preference shares - equity 2,565 2,565 2,565 2,565 Other equity instruments 4,058 4,058 4,582 4,582 41,707 41,707 41,462 41,462 Regulatory adjustments and deductions Own credit 90 90 304 304 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment 287 287 208 208 Cash flow hedging reserve 227 227 1,030 1,030 Deferred tax assets 849 849 906 906 Prudential valuation adjustments 496 496 532 532 Goodwill and other intangible assets 6,543 6,543 6,480 6,480 Expected losses less impairments 1,286 1,286 1,371 1,371 Other regulatory adjustments 28 28 8 8 9,750 9,750 10,839 10,839 CET1 capital 31,957 31,957 30,623 30,623 Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital Eligible AT1 4,041 4,041 4,041 4,041 Qualifying instruments and related share premium subject to phase out 3,416 5,416 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 140 339 AT1 capital 4,041 7,597 4,041 9,796 Tier 1 capital 35,998 39,554 34,664 40,419 Qualifying Tier 2 capital Qualifying instruments and related share premium 6,396 6,501 6,893 7,066 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 369 1,876 2,268 4,818 Tier 2 capital 6,765 8,377 9,161 11,884 Total regulatory capital 42,763 47,931 43,825 52,303 Note: 1 The Groups Tier 1 grandfathering cap is set at 4.8 billion for 2017 2016 - 5.8 billion.
The table below analyses the movement in end-point CRR CET1, AT1 and Tier 2 capital for the year.
CET1 AT1 Tier 2 Total m m m m At 1 January 2017 30,623 4,041 9,161 43,825 Profit for the year 752 752 Own credit 214 214 Share capital and reserve movements in respect of employee share schemes 139 139 Ordinary shares issued 300 300 Foreign exchange reserve 82 82 Available-for-sale reserves 17 17 Goodwill and intangibles deduction 63 63 Deferred tax assets 57 57 Prudential valuation adjustments 36 36 Expected loss over impairment provisions 85 85 Capital instruments issued Net dated subordinated debt grandfathered instruments 1,968 1,968 Foreign exchange movements 428 428 Other movements 285 285 At 31 December 2017 31,957 4,041 6,765 42,763 166 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Leverage exposure unaudited The leverage exposure is based on the CRR Delegated Act.
End-point CRR basis 2017 2016 Leverage bn bn Derivatives 160.8 247.0 Loans and advances 339.4 340.3 Reverse repos 40.7 41.8 Other assets 197.2 169.6 Total assets 738.1 798.7 Derivatives - netting 161.7 241.7 - potential future exposures 49.4 65.3 Securities financing transactions gross up 2.3 2.3 Undrawn commitments analysis below 53.1 58.6 Regulatory deductions and other adjustments 2.1 0.1 Leverage exposure 679.1 683.3 Note: 1 The UK leverage ratio excludes central bank claims from the leverage exposure where deposits held are denominated in the same currency and of contractual maturity that is equal or longer than that of the central bank claims.
Weighted undrawn commitments unaudited The table below provides a breakdown of weighted undrawn commitments.
2017 2016 bn bn Unconditionally cancellable credit cards 2.1 2.4 Other Unconditionally cancellable items 4.7 7.7 Unconditionally cancellable items 1 6.8 10.1 Undrawn commitments 1 year which may not be cancelled 1.8 1.8 Other off-balance sheet items with 20% credit conversion factor CCF 0.6 0.9 Items with a 20% CCF 2.4 2.7 Revolving credit risk facilities 27.0 27.2 Term loans 3.6 3.1 Mortgages 0.1 Other undrawn commitments 1 year which may not be cancelled & off-balance sheet 2.1 3.3 Items with a 50% CCF 32.7 33.7 Items with a 100% CCF 11.2 12.1 Total 53.1 58.6 Note: 1 Based on a 10% CCF.
167 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Loss absorbing capital unaudited The following table illustrates the components of estimated loss absorbing capital LAC in RBSG plc and operating subsidiaries and includes external issuances only.
The table is prepared on a transitional basis, including the benefit of regulatory capital instruments issued from operating companies, to the extent they meet MREL criteria.
For further details regarding regulatory requirements in relation to MREL, refer to page 161.
The roll-off profile relating to senior debt and subordinated debt instruments is set out on the next page.
2 Regulatory capital instruments issued from operating companies are included in the transitional LAC calculation, to the extent they meet the MREL criteria.
3 LAC value reflects RBSs interpretation of the Bank of Englands policy statement on the minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities MREL, published in November 2016.
MREL policy and requirements remain subject to further potential development, as such RBS estimated position remains subject to potential change.
Liabilities excluded from LAC include instruments with less than one year remaining to maturity, structured debt, operating company senior debt, and other instruments that do not meet the MREL criteria.
Includes Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities prior to incentive to redeem.
4 Corresponding shareholders equity was 48.3 billion 2016 - 48.6 billion.
5 Regulatory amounts reported for AT1, Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments are before grandfathering restrictions imposed by CRR.
168 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Roll-off profile unaudited The following table illustrates the roll-off profile and weighted average spreads of RBSs major wholesale funding programmes.
2 Based on first call date of instrument, however this does not indicate RBSs strategy on capital and funding management.
The table above does not include debt accounted Tier 1 instruments although those instruments form part of the total subordinated debt balance.
3 The weighted average spread reflects the average net funding cost to RBS and is calculated on an indicative basis.
4 The roll-off table is based on sterling-equivalent balance sheet values.
Risk-weighted assets unaudited The table below analyses the movement in credit risk RWAs on the end-point CRR basis during the year, by key drivers.
Credit risk RWAs Non-counterparty Counterparty Market Operational Total bn bn bn At January 2017 162.2 22.9 17.4 25.7 228.2 Foreign exchange movement 0.6 0.6 1.2 Business movements 10.2 7.0 0.6 1.9 19.7 Risk parameter changes 1 2.4 0.1 2.3 Methodology changes 4.3 4.3 Model updates 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2017 144.7 15.4 17.0 23.8 200.9 Note: 1 PD model changes relating to counterparty risks are included with risk parameter changes in line with EBA Pillar 3 Guidelines issued in December 2016.
169 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued RWAs by segment unaudited The chart below illustrates the concentration of risk-weighted assets by segment.
The table below analyses the movement in end-point CRR RWAs by segment during the year.
Group 100% Group % Credit Risk 79.7 Market Risk 8.5 OperationalRisk 11.8 UK PBB Ulster Bank RoI Commercial Banking Private Banking 21.4% 9.0% 35.7% 4.5% UK PBB % % %% 16.8 4.0 Credit Risk Credit Risk 8.6 Credit Risk 32.6 Credit Risk - Market Risk - Market Risk Market Risk-- - Market Risk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk 4.6 0.4 3.2 0.5 RBS International Natwest Capital Resolution Central items & other Williams & Glyn 4.2% Markets 2.5% 15.1% 0.5% 26.4% % % % Credit Risk 2.2 Credit Risk 15.7 Credit Risk Market Risk - Market Risk 8.1 Market Risk 0.4 OperationalRisk 0.3 OperationalRisk 2.6 OperationalRisk 0.1 Ulster Central Bank Commercial Private NatWest items UK PBB RoI Banking Banking RBSI Markets & other Total Total RWAs bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn At January 1 2017 42.3 18.1 78.5 8.6 9.5 69.7 1.5 228.2 Foreign exchange movement 0.5 0.4 1.3 1.2 Business movements 0.6 3.9 0.5 16.4 0.5 19.7 Risk parameter changes 1 0.1 0.6 2.4 0.6 2.3 Methodology changes 4.4 0.1 4.3 Model updates 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2017 43.0 18.0 71.8 9.1 5.1 52.9 1.0 200.9 Credit risk - non-counterparty 33.7 16.9 65.4 8.1 4.4 16.1 0.1 144.7 - counterparty 0.1 15.3 15.4 Market risk 0.1 16.2 0.7 17.0 Operational risk 9.3 0.9 6.4 1.0 0.7 5.3 0.2 23.8 Total RWAs 43.0 18.0 71.8 9.1 5.1 52.9 1.0 200.9 Re-presented to reflect segment reorganisation.
Notes: 1 Risk parameter changes relate to changes in credit quality metrics of customers and counterparties such as probability of default PD and loss given default LGD as well as IRB model changes relating to counterparty credit risk in line with EBA Pillar 3 Guidelines.
Key points unaudited RWAs decreased by 27.3 billion during the year with There has been a reduction in net lending in Commercial reductions across all risk types but primarily in nonBanking as a result of growth in targeted segments being counterparty credit risk 17.5 billion driven by reduced more than offset by active management of the lending asset size and limit reductions in both NatWest Markets book.
During the year RBSI received regulatory approval to The decrease in NatWest Markets primarily reflects adopt the advanced internal ratings based approach on reductions in the legacy business as it moved towards the wholesale corporate book, which led to an RWA closure and lower counterparty credit risk resulting from reduction of 4.4 billion.
In both UK PBB and Private Banking there has been growth in mortgage lending which has increased RWAs.
Risk metric improvements in Ulster Bank RoI have been offset by foreign currency movements.
170 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Liquidity portfolio The table below shows the liquidity portfolio by product, liquidity value and carrying value.
Liquidity value is lower than carrying value as it is stated after discounts or haircuts applied to instruments by the Bank of England and other central banks.
In addition, certain of RBSs significant operating subsidiaries, RBS N. V. and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC, hold managed portfolios that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.
2 Comprises assets eligible for discounting at the Bank of England and other central banks.
The table below shows the liquidity value of the liquidity portfolio by currency.
GBP USD EUR Other Total Total liquidity portfolio m m m m m 2017 138,985 11,491 34,442 1,471 186,389 2016 128,614 9,582 24,833 897 163,926 171 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Funding sources The table below shows the carrying values of the principal funding sources based on contractual maturity.
2 Cash collateral includes 9,113 million 2016 - 10,002 million from financial institutions.
Key points Total wholesale funding increased by 2.8 billion in the During 2017, RBS issued new debt securities of 12.2 year to 82.8 billion, driven by increased TFS billion including: participation of 14.0 billion in 2017, as well as issuance o 3.6 billion of MREL-eligible senior debt by RBSG activity, offset by calls and maturities of subordinated debt plc, bring the total issuance in 2016 and 2017 to and debt securities in issue.
Short-term wholesale 7.8 billion: funding, excluding derivative collateral, increased by 3.9 o 2.4 billion of covered bonds by RBS plc, the first billion during 2017 to 17.8 billion driven largely by such issuance for RBS since 2012: and issuance activity and new bank deposits.
o 1.1 billion of senior unsecured notes issued by Repos at 31 December 2017 increased by 6.1 billion to RBS plc to support the future standalone 38.4 billion driven largely by strong demand in the operations of NatWest Markets plc.
market for high quality securities.
o Other issuance of 5.1 billion, including MTNs, Total reverse repos at 31 December 2017 were 1.1 commercial paper and CDs, and securitisations.
billion lower at 40.7 billion 2016 - 41.8 billion.
Fair In 2017, subordinated debt securities of 5.7 billion and value of securities received as collateral for reverse repos senior unsecured debt securities of 9.0 billion were was 40.7 billion 2016 - 41.8 billion, of which 30.6 redeemed or matured through the year.
billion 2016 - 30.5 billion had been rehypothecated for RBSs own transactions, in line with normal market practice.
172 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Loan:deposit ratios and funding surplus gap The table below shows loans and advances to customers, customer deposits, loan:deposit ratios LDR and funding surplus gap.
Notes: 1 Excludes reverse repo agreements and net of impairment provisions.
3 Calculated as customer deposits less loans and advances to customers.
Key points Underlying loan growth in UK PBB, with smaller increases The loan:deposit ratio was 88%, down from 91% at the in Ulster Bank RoI and Private Banking, was offset by end of 2016 driven by deposit growth, primarily in UK active management of the lending book in Commercial PBB and RBS International.
Banking and reductions in NatWest Markets.
The table below shows RBS's principal funding sources.
173 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Notes issued - residual maturity profile by note type The table below shows RBS's debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities by residual contractual maturity.
Debt securities in issue Commercial Covered Subordinated Total notes Total notes paper and CDs MTNs bonds Securitisations Total liabilities in issue in issue 2017 m m m m m m m % Less than 1 year 4,637 2,316 987 7,940 2,383 10,328 24 1-3 years 6,581 3,146 9,727 208 10,052 23 3-5 years 4,639 4,639 2,329 6,931 16 More than 5 years 5,682 2,175 396 8,253 7,802 15,970 37 Total including disposal groups 4,637 19,218 6,308 396 30,559 12,722 43,281 100 2016 Less than 1 year 3,205 3,388 96 6,689 1,062 7,751 17 1-3 years 3 4,937 871 5,811 2,814 8,625 18 3-5 years 3,323 1,883 5,206 483 5,689 12 More than 5 years 6,973 1,085 1,481 9,539 15,060 24,599 53 Total 3,208 18,621 3,935 1,481 27,245 19,419 46,664 100 Behavioural analysis unaudited In its analysis to assess and manage asset and liability The contractual maturity of balance sheet assets and liabilities maturity gaps, RBS determines the expected customer reflects the maturity transformation role banks perform, lending behaviour through qualitative and quantitative techniques.
long-term but mainly obtaining funding through short-term These incorporate observed customer behaviours over long liabilities such as customer deposits.
In practice, the periods of time.
This analysis is subject to governance through behavioural profiles of many liabilities show greater stability RBS ALCo Technical committee down to a segment level.
and longer maturity than the contractual maturity.
This is particularly true of many types of retail and corporate deposits The net behavioural funding surplus gap and contractual which, despite being repayable on demand or at short notice, maturity analysis is set out below.
have demonstrated very stable characteristics even in periods of acute stress.
Key points unaudited The net funding surplus has increased by 13 billion The net funding surplus in 2017 is concentrated in the during 2017 to 44 billion, largely driven by deposit longer-dated buckets, reflecting the stable characteristics growth mainly in UK PBB and RBSI International.
of customer deposits and lending that is behaviourally NatWest Markets lending reduction exceeded deposit shorter dated.
reduction, resulting in a lower funding gap in 2017.
Customer deposits and customer loans are broadly matched from a behavioural perspective.
174 Business review Capital and risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk continued Contractual maturity This table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity.
Held-for-trading HFT assets and liabilities have been excluded from the maturity analysis due to their short-term nature and are shown in total in the table below.
Hedging derivatives are included in the relevant maturity bands.
The typical covered bonds and securities repurchase agreements.
characteristics that support encumbrance are an ability to Pre-positioned with central banks as part of funding pledge those assets to another counterparty or entity through schemes and those encumbered under such schemes.
operation of law without necessarily requiring prior notification, Not currently encumbered.
In this category, RBS has in homogeneity, predictable and measurable cash flows, and a place an enablement programme which seeks to identify consistent and uniform underwriting and collection process.
assets capable of being encumbered and to identify the Retail assets including residential mortgages, credit card actions to facilitate such encumbrance whilst not affecting receivables and personal loans display many of these customer relationships or servicing.
Balance sheet encumbrance Encumbered as a result of transactions with Pre-positioned Unencumbered assets not pre-positioned counterparties other than central banks & encumbered with central banks Covered assets held bonds & Repos & at central Readily Other Cannot securitisations Derivatives similar 2 Total 3 banks 4 available available be used Total Total 2017 1 bn bn bn bn bn 5 bn 6 bn 7 bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 5.3 5.3 93.0 93.0 98.3 Loans and advances - banks 0.7 6.9 0.7 8.3 7.5 0.3 0.2 8.0 16.3 - residential mortgages - UK 8.9 8.9 105.5 22.1 10.8 32.9 147.3 - Irish 4.1 4.1 3.0 7.4 0.1 7.5 14.6 - credit cards 3.9 0.3 4.2 4.2 - personal loans 6.7 2.8 9.5 9.5 - other 14.7 14.7 4.6 4.4 100.9 23.0 128.3 147.6 Reverse repos 40.7 40.7 40.7 Debt securities 1.4 40.8 42.2 34.9 0.1 1.7 36.7 78.9 Equity shares 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.5 Settlement balances 2.5 2.5 2.5 Derivatives 160.8 160.8 160.8 Intangible assets 6.5 6.5 6.5 PP&E 3.2 1.6 4.8 4.8 Deferred tax 1.7 1.7 1.7 Other assets 3.9 3.9 3.9 Total assets 13.7 23.0 46.9 83.6 113.1 180.0 118.6 242.8 541.4 738.1 2016 Total assets 18.8 26.5 40.2 85.5 105.5 153.4 123.4 330.9 607.7 798.7 Notes: 1 Covered bonds and securitisations include securitisations, conduits and covered bonds.
2 Repos and other secured deposits, cash, coin and nostro balance held with the Bank of England as collateral against deposits and notes in circulation are included here rather than within those positioned at the central bank as they are part of normal banking operations.
3 Total assets encumbered as a result of transactions with counterparties other than central banks are those that have been pledged to provide security and are therefore not available to secure funding or to meet other collateral needs.
4 Assets pre-positioned at the central banks include loans provided as security as part of funding schemes and those encumbered under such schemes.
5 Readily available for encumbrance: including assets that have been enabled for use with central banks but not pre-positioned: cash and high quality debt securities that form part of RBSs liquidity portfolio and unencumbered debt securities.
6 Other assets that are capable of being encumbered are those assets on the balance sheet that are available for funding and collateral purposes but are not readily realisable in their current form.
These assets include loans that could be prepositioned with central banks but have not been subject to internal and external documentation review and diligence work.
7 Cannot be used includes: a Derivatives, reverse repurchase agreements and trading related settlement balances.
b Non-financial assets such as intangibles, prepayments and deferred tax.
c Loans that cannot be pre-positioned with central banks based on criteria set by the central banks, including those relating to date of origination and level of documentation.
d Non-recourse invoice financing balances and certain shipping loans whose terms and structure prohibit their use as collateral.
8 In accordance with market practice, RBS employs securities recognised on the balance sheet, and securities received under reverse repo transactions as collateral for repos.
176 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis The following disclosures in this section are audited: For Wholesale the four formal frameworks used, and their basis Forbearance.
for classification, are detailed in the following table.
Portfolio overview by geographical area.
Framework Basis for classification LTV distribution for mortgage lending.
Size Other Commercial real estate LTV distribution.
Single name Net exposure or concentration loss given default Definition for a given Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a probability of customer or counterparty to meet its obligation to settle default 1 outstanding amounts.
Sector Exposure Risk based on economic capital Sources of credit risk unaudited and other The principal sources of credit risk for RBS are lending, offqualitative factors balance sheet products, derivatives and securities financing, and 1 Country Exposure debt securities.
RBS is also exposed to settlement risk through Product and asset Exposure Risk based on foreign exchange, trade finance and payments activities.
class net gross heightened risk dependent on type characteristics Credit risk management function unaudited of risk and limit Risk governance definition.
The credit risk management function is led by the Chief Credit Note: 1 Potential exposure as defined on the following page.
The functions activities include: Approving credit limits for customers.
The Personal credit risk framework sets limits that measure and Defining concentration risk and implementing the credit risk control the quality of both existing and new business for each control framework.
relevant franchise or business segment.
The actual performance Oversight of the first line of defence to ensure that credit risk of each portfolio is tracked relative to these limits and remains within the risk appetite set by the Board.
management action is taken where necessary.
The limits apply to Developing and monitoring compliance with credit risk a range of credit risk-related measures including expected loss at policies.
a portfolio level, expected loss in a given stress scenario, Conducting RBS-wide assessments of provision adequacy.
projected credit default rates and the LTV ratio of the Personal The CCO has overall responsibility for the credit risk function and mortgage portfolios.
chairs the Wholesale Credit Risk Committee as well as the Retail Credit Risk Committee.
These committees have authority for risk Risk identification and measurement unaudited appetite within the appetite set by the Board, strategy, Credit stewardship frameworks and policy as well as oversight of RBSs credit Risks are identified through relationship management and credit profile.
The RBS Provisions Committee has authority over stewardship of portfolios or customers.
Credit risk stewardship provisions adequacy and approves proposals from business takes place throughout the customer relationship, beginning with provisions committees in accordance with approval thresholds.
It includes the application of credit The RBS Provisions Committee is chaired either by the CCO or assessment standards, credit risk mitigation and collateral, the Head of Provisions & Restructuring Credit.
ensuring that credit documentation is complete and appropriate, Controls carrying out regular portfolio or customer reviews and problem Credit policy standards are in place for both the Wholesale and debt identification and management.
They are expressed as a set of mandatory controls.
Risk measurement RBS uses current exposure and potential exposure as its Risk appetite unaudited measures of credit risk exposure.
Unless otherwise stated, RBSs approach to lending is governed by comprehensive credit current exposure and potential exposure are reported: risk appetite frameworks.
The frameworks are closely monitored Net of collateral cash and gold collateral for all product and actions are taken to adapt lending criteria as appropriate.
types as well as financial collateral for derivative and Credit risk appetite aligns to the strategic risk appetite set by the securities financing products.
Board, which includes capital adequacy, earnings volatility, Net of provisions credit valuation adjustments for funding and liquidity, and stakeholder confidence.
The credit risk derivative and securities financing products: individual, appetite frameworks have been designed to reflect factors e. g. collective and latent provisions across all other product strategic and emerging risks that influence the ability to operate types.
Tools such as stress testing and economic capital are used to measure credit risk volatility and develop links Exposures backed by guarantees are allocated to the guarantor between the credit risk appetite frameworks and risk appetite rather than the direct obligor.
This does not affect the current or limits.
The frameworks are supported by a suite of policies and potential exposure amount, but does affect allocations to transaction acceptance standards that set out the risk parameters obligors, sectors, country and product and asset classes.
within which franchises must operate.
177 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued The following table summarises the differences between current exposure and potential exposure across product types: 1,2 Product Current exposure Potential exposure Lending Drawn balances Legally-committed limits Measured using scaled credit limit utilisation, Measured using the mark-to-market value after Derivatives and securities which takes into account mark-to-market the effect of enforceable netting agreements and financing movements, any collateral held and expected 3 net of legally enforceable financial collateral.
3 market movements over a specified horizon.
Contingent obligations Issued amount of the guarantee or letter of credit Legally-committed amount Leases Net present value plus residual value Banking book debt securities Purchase value less subsequent amortisation Trading book bonds Equity securities Not reported as credit risk Settlement risk Suretyships Intra-group credit exposures Notes: 1 Potential exposure includes all drawn exposure and all legally-committed undrawn exposure.
2 Potential exposure cannot be less than current exposure.
3 Current exposure and potential exposure for exchange-traded derivatives are defined as exposure at default.
Risk models unaudited The output of credit risk models is used in the credit approval The key sectors where RBS provides asset-backed lending are process as well as for ongoing assessment, monitoring and commercial real estate, shipping and residential mortgages.
reporting to inform risk appetite decisions.
These models are Valuation methodologies are detailed below.
Where the calculation method is on an individual counterparty or account level, the models used Commercial real estate valuations RBS has a panel of will be probability of default PD, loss given default LGD, or chartered surveying firms that cover the spectrum of geography exposure at default EAD.
The economic capital model is used and property sectors in which RBS takes collateral.
Suitable for credit risk appetite setting.
valuers for particular assets are contracted through a single service agreement to ensure consistency of quality and advice.
Asset quality Valuations are commissioned when an asset is taken as security: Credit grades are assigned at legal entity level for Wholesale a material increase in a facility is requested: or a default event is customers.
In the UK, an independent third-party All credit grades map to both an internal asset quality scale, used market indexation is applied to update external valuations once for external financial reporting, and a master grading scale for they are more than a year old.
Wholesale exposures, which is used for internal management reporting across portfolios.
Accordingly, measures of risk Shipping valuations Vessel valuations are obtained using exposure may be aggregated and reported at differing levels of several different independent sources.
Valuations are usually detail depending on stakeholder or business requirements.
undertaken on a desktop basis, assuming a willing buyer and Performing loans are defined as AQ1-AQ9 where the PD is less willing seller.
Most vessels are valued on a charter-free basis, but than 100% and non-performing loans as AQ10 where the PD is in certain circumstances the valuations take account of longer 100%.
Valuations are normally performed on a quarterly basis.
From time to time, particularly for Risk mitigation unaudited facilities showing increased signs of financial stress, a more Risk mitigation techniques, as set out in the appropriate credit formal valuation or specialist advice will be obtained.
policies, are used in the management of credit portfolios across RBS.
These techniques mitigate credit concentrations in relation Residential mortgages to an individual customer, a borrower group or a collection of RBS takes collateral in the form of residential property to mitigate related borrowers.
Where possible, customer credit balances are the credit risk arising from mortgages.
RBS values residential netted against obligations.
Mitigation tools can include structuring property during the loan underwriting process by either a security interest in a physical or financial asset, the use of appraising properties individually or valuing them collectively credit derivatives including credit default swaps, credit-linked debt using statistically valid models.
RBS updates residential property instruments and securitisation structures, and the use of values quarterly using the relevant residential property index guarantees and similar instruments for example, credit namely: insurance from related and third parties.
To mitigate credit risk arising from Personal mortgage lending, collateral is taken in the Region Index used form of residential property.
UK Hal[x quarterly regional house price index Northern UK House Price Index published by the Land Ireland Registry Republic Central Statistics Office residential property price of Ireland index 178 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Credit relationships are reviewed, and credit grades PD and Counterparty credit risk LGD re-approved, annually.
The review process assesses RBS mitigates counterparty credit risk arising from both borrower performance, including reconfirmation or adjustment of derivatives transactions and repurchase agreements through the risk parameter estimates: the adequacy of security: compliance use of market standard documentation, enabling netting, and with terms and conditions: and refinancing risk.
Personal customers are served through a lending approach that Amounts owed by RBS to a counterparty are netted against entails making a large number of small-value loans.
To ensure amounts the counterparty owes RBS, in accordance with relevant that these lending decisions are made consistently, RBS regulatory and internal policies.
This is only done if a netting analyses credit information, including the historical debt servicing agreement is in place.
behaviour of customers with respect to both RBS and their other lenders.
RBS then sets its lending rules accordingly, developing Risk assessment and monitoring unaudited different rules for different products.
Practices for credit stewardship including credit assessment, The process is then largely automated, with customers receiving approval and monitoring as well as the identification and a credit score that reflects a comparison of their credit profile with management of problem debts differ between the Wholesale the rule set.
However, for relatively high-value, complex personal and Personal portfolios.
loans, including some residential mortgage lending, specialist Wholesale customers including corporates, banks and other credit managers make the final lending decisions.
financial institutions are grouped by industry sectors and Underwriting standards are monitored on an ongoing basis to geography as well as by product asset class and are managed ensure they remain adequate in the current market environment on an individual basis.
and are not weakened to sustain growth.
A credit assessment is carried out before credit facilities are A key aspect of credit risk stewardship is ensuring that, when made available to customers.
The assessment process is signs of customer stress are identified, appropriate debt dependent on the complexity of the transaction.
For lower risk transactions below specific thresholds, credit Problem debt management decisions can be approved through self-sanctioning within the Wholesale unaudited business.
This is facilitated through an auto-decisioning system, Early problem identification which utilises scorecards, strategies and policy rules to provide a Each segment has defined early warning indicators to identify recommended credit decision.
Such credit decisions must be customers experiencing financial difficulty, and to increase within the approval authority of the relevant business sanctioner.
Early warning indicators may be internal, such as a customers bank account activity, or external, such as For all other transactions credit is only granted to customers a publicly-listed customers share price.
If early warning following joint approval by an approver from the business and the indicators show a customer is experiencing potential or actual credit risk function.
Credit risk management is organised in terms difficulty, or if relationship managers or credit officers identify of the complexity of the assessment rather than aligned to other signs of financial difficulty they may decide to classify the franchises.
The joint business and credit approvers act within a customer within the Risk of Credit Loss framework.
delegated approval authority under the Wholesale Credit Authorities Framework approved by the Executive Risk Forum.
Risk of Credit Loss framework The level of delegated authority held by approvers is dependent The framework focuses on Wholesale customers whose credit on their experience and expertise.
Only a small number of senior profiles have deteriorated since origination.
Expert judgement is executives hold the highest authority provided under the applied by experienced credit risk officers to classify cases into Wholesale Credit Authorities Framework.
Both business and categories that reflect progressively deteriorating credit risk to the credit approvers are accountable for the quality of each decision bank.
There are two classifications which apply to non-defaulted taken but the credit risk approver holds ultimate sanctioning customers within the framework Heightened Monitoring and authority.
The framework also applies to those Transaction Acceptance Standards provide detailed transactional customers that have met the banks default criteria AQ10 lending and risk acceptance metrics and structuring guidance.
Transaction Acceptance Standards are one of the tools used to manage risk appetite at the customer transaction level and are Heightened Monitoring customers are performing customers who supplementary to the Credit Policy.
have met certain characteristics, which have led to material credit deterioration.
Collectively, characteristics reflect circumstances Where the customer is part of a group, the credit assessment that may affect the customers ability to meet repayment considers aggregated credit risk limits for the customer group as obligations.
Characteristics include trading issues, covenant well as the nature of the relationship with the broader group for breaches, material PD downgrades and past due facilities.
example parental support and its impact on credit risk.
179 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued The purpose of Restructuring is to protect the banks capital.
Sector specific characteristics also exist.
Heightened Monitoring Where practicable, Restructuring does this by working with customers require pre-emptive actions outside the customers corporate and commercial customers to support their turnaround normal trading patterns to return or maintain their facilities within and recovery strategies and enable them to return to mainstream the banks current risk appetite prior to maturity.
Restructuring will always aim to recover capital in a fair and efficient manner.
Risk of Credit Loss customers are performing customers who have met the criteria for Heightened Monitoring and also pose a Specialists in Restructuring work with customers experiencing risk of credit loss to the bank in the next 12 months, should financial difficulties and showing signs of financial stress.
mitigating action not be taken or not be successful.
Throughout Restructurings involvement the mainstream relationship manager will remain an integral part of the customer Once classified as either Heightened Monitoring or Risk of Credit relationship, unless an exit strategy is deemed appropriate.
The Loss, a number of mandatory actions are taken in accordance objective is to find a mutually acceptable solution, including with policies.
This includes a review of the customers credit restructuring of existing facilities, repayment or refinancing.
grade, facility and security documentation and the valuation of security.
Depending on the severity of the financial difficulty and Where a solvent outcome is not possible, insolvency may be the size of the exposure, the customer relationship strategy is considered as a last resort.
However, helping the customer return reassessed by credit officers, by specialist credit risk or to financial health and restoring a normal banking relationship is relationship management units in the relevant business or by always the preferred outcome.
Personal unaudited Agreed customer management strategies are regularly monitored Personal customers experiencing financial difficulty are managed by both the business and credit teams.
The largest Risk of Credit by the Collections function.
If the Collections function is unable to Loss exposures in RBS and in each business are regularly provide appropriate support after discussing suitable options with reviewed by a Risk of Credit Loss Committee.
The committee the customer, management of that customer moves into members are experienced credit, business and Restructuring Recoveries.
If at any point in the Collections and Recoveries specialists.
The purpose of the committee is to review and process, the customer is identified as being potentially challenge the strategies undertaken for those customers who vulnerable, the customer will be separated from the regular pose the largest risk of credit loss to the bank.
strategy and supported by a specialist team to ensure the customer receives appropriate support for their circumstances.
Appropriate corrective action is taken when circumstances emerge that may affect the customers ability to service its debt Collections see Heightened Monitoring characteristics.
Corrective actions The Collections function takes over management of a customer may include granting a customer various types of concessions.
when the customer exceeds an agreed limit or misses a regular Any decision to approve a concession will be a function of monthly payment.
Once in Collections the customer will be specific country and sector appetite, the credit quality of the supported by skilled debt management staff who will endeavour customer, the market environment and the loan structure and to provide the customer with solutions based on current security.
All customers granted forbearance are classified circumstances and, where appropriate, any known future Heightened Monitoring as a minimum.
changes to their financial position.
Solutions include short-term account restructuring, refinance loans and forbearance which can Other potential outcomes of the relationship review are to: take include interest suspension and breathing space.
In the event the customer off the Risk of Credit Loss framework: offer that an affordable sustainable agreement with a customer cannot additional lending and continue monitoring: transfer the be reached, the debt will transition into Recoveries.
relationship to Restructuring if appropriate: or exit the relationship altogether.
In the Republic of Ireland, the relationship may pass to a specialist support team prior to any transfer to recoveries, The Risk of Credit Loss framework does not apply to problem depending on the outcome of customer financial assessment.
debt management for Business Banking customers in UK PBB.
Recoveries These customers are, where necessary, managed by specialised The Recoveries function will issue a notice of intention to default problem debt management teams, depending on the size of to the customer and, subsequently, a formal demand, while also exposure or the Business Banking recoveries team where a loan registering the account with the credit reference agencies where has been impaired.
Following this, the customers debt may then be placed with a third-party debt collection agency, or alternatively a Restructuring solicitor, in order to agree an affordable repayment plan with the For the Wholesale problem debt portfolio, customer relationships customer.
are managed by the Restructuring team this excludes customers managed by PBB.
180 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued For Personal portfolios, forborne loans are separated into a Forbearance distinct population and reported on a regular basis until they exit Forbearance across RBS takes place when a concession is the forborne population.
made on the contractual terms of a loan debt in response to a Provisioning for Wholesale forbearance customers financial difficulties.
Concessions granted where there Provisions for forborne loans are assessed in accordance with is no evidence of financial difficulty, or where any changes to normal provisioning policies refer to impairment loss provision terms and conditions are within current risk appetite, or reflect methodology.
The customers financial position and prospects as improving credit market conditions for the customer, are not well as the likely effect of the forbearance, including any considered forbearance.
concessions granted, and revised PD or LGD gradings, are considered in order to establish whether an impairment provision The aim of forbearance is to support and restore the customer to is required.
financial health while minimising risk.
To ensure that forbearance Wholesale loans granted forbearance are individually assessed is appropriate for the needs and financial profile of the customer, in most cases and are not therefore segregated into a separate RBS applies minimum standards when assessing, recording, risk pool.
Forbearance may result in the value of the outstanding debt Loans debt may be forborne more than once, generally where a exceeding the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
temporary concession has been granted and circumstances This may result in the recognition of an impairment loss or a warrant another temporary or permanent revision of the loans write-off.
In the case of non-performing forborne loans, the loan impairment provision assessment almost invariably takes place In the Personal portfolio, loans are considered forborne until they prior to forbearance being granted.
The amount of the loan meet the exit criteria set out by the European Banking Authority.
impairment provision may change once the terms of the These include being classified as performing for two years since forbearance are known, resulting in an additional provision the last forbearance event, making regular repayments and the charge or a release of the provision in the period the forbearance debtor being less than 30 days past due.
Exit criteria are not is granted.
currently applied for Wholesale portfolios.
For performing loans, credit metrics are an integral part of the Types of forbearance latent provision methodology, and an extended emergence The type of forbearance offered is tailored to the customers period for forborne loans is applied.
The transfer of wholesale loans from impaired to performing In the Wholesale portfolio, forbearance may involve covenant status follows assessment by relationship managers and credit.
waivers, amendment to margin, payment concessions and loan When no further losses are anticipated and the customer is rescheduling including extensions in contractual maturity, expected to meet the loans revised terms, any provision is capitalisation of arrears, and debt forgiveness or debt for equity written off or released and the balance of the loan returned to swap.
This course of action is not dependent on a In the Personal portfolio forbearance may involve payment specified time period and follows the credit risk managers concessions and loan rescheduling including extensions in assessment.
contractual maturity, capitalisation of arrears and, in the Republic of Ireland only, temporary interest-only conversions.
Provisioning for personal forbearance Forbearance is granted principally to customers with mortgages The methodology used for provisioning in respect of Personal and less frequently to customers with unsecured loans.
This forborne loans will differ depending on whether the loans are includes instances where forbearance may be taken for performing or non-performing and which business is managing customers with highly flexible mortgages.
them due to local market conditions.
Monitoring of forbearance Granting forbearance will only change the arrears status of the In the Wholesale portfolio, all customers are assigned a PD and loan in specific circumstances, which can include capitalisation of related facilities an LGD.
These are re-assessed prior to finalising principal and interest in arrears, where the loan may be returned any forbearance arrangement in light of the loans amended to the performing book if the customer has demonstrated an terms.
The ultimate outcome of a forbearance strategy is ability to meet regular payments and is deemed likely to continue unknown at the time of execution.
It is highly dependent on the to do so.
cooperation of the borrower and the continued existence of a viable business or repayment outcome.
Where forbearance is no The loan would remain in forbearance for the defined probation longer viable, RBS will consider other options such as the period and be subject to performance criteria including making enforcement of security, insolvency proceedings or both, albeit regular repayments and be less than 30 days past due.
these are options of last resort.
Additionally for some forbearance types a loan may be transferred to the performing book if a customer makes payments that reduce loan arrears below 90 days Ulster Bank RoI and UK PBB collections function.
181 Business review Capital and risk management For the latent calculation, an extended emergence period is Sensitivity of impairments to assumptions applied to account for the impact of forbearance within the Key assumptions relating to impairment levels are economic portfolio.
Additionally for portfolios with material forbearance, conditions, the interest rate environment, the ease and timing of forborne loans form a separate risk pool and use a different PD enforcing loan agreements in varying legal jurisdictions and the model.
The separate risk pool applies for the duration of the level of customer co-operation.
forbearance arrangement and with exit from forbearance In addition, for secured lending, key assumptions relate to the segmentation dependent on meeting applicable probationary valuation of the security and collateral held, as well as the timing periods and performance criteria: and cost of asset disposals based on underlying market depth UK PBB excluding NI : The separate risk pool comprises all and liquidity.
Assessments are made by relationship managers forborne loans.
The provisioning calculation uses the higher on a case-by-case basis for  provisions and of the observed default rates or PD.
are validated by credit teams.
Impairments less than 1 million Ulster Bank RoI: forborne and previously forborne are approved by credit officers under their delegated authority.
mortgages form separate risk pools.
The PD model used is For individual impairments greater than 1 million, oversight is calibrated separately for forborne loans, using information provided by the RBS Provisions Committee.
on the historic performance of loans subject to similar arrangements.
Available-for-sale portfolios Available-for-sale portfolios are also regularly reviewed for For non-performing loans, there is no difference in treatment with evidence of impairment, including: default or delinquency in the exception of Ulster Bank RoI, where forborne loans which interest or principal payments: significant financial difficulty of the result in an economic loss to the group form a separate risk pool issuer or obligor: and increased likelihood that the issuer will and are subjected to specific provisioning treatments.
enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
Impairment, provisioning and write-offs Determining whether evidence of impairment exists requires the In the overall assessment of credit risk, impairment, provisioning exercise of management judgement.
It should be noted that the and write-offs are used as key indicators of credit quality.
following factors are not, of themselves, evidence of impairment, but may be evidence of impairment when considered with other Impairment factors: A financial asset is impaired if there is objective evidence that the Disappearance of an active market because an entitys amount, or timing, of future cash flows has been adversely financial instruments are no longer publicly traded.
Refer to accounting policies on pages 255 and 256 for A downgrade of an entitys credit rating.
details of the quantification of impairment losses.
A decline in the fair value of a financial asset below its cost or amortised cost.
Days-past-due measures are typically used to identify evidence of impairment.
In both the Wholesale and Personal portfolios, a Write-offs period of 90 days past due is used.
In sovereign portfolios, the Impaired loans and receivables are written-off when there is no period used is 180 days past due.
Indicators of impairment longer any realistic prospect of recovery of part, or the entire include the borrowers financial condition: a forbearance event: a loan.
For loans that are individually assessed for impairment, the loan restructuring: the probability of bankruptcy: or evidence of timing of write-off is determined on a case-by-case basis.
loans are reviewed regularly and write-offs may be prompted by bankruptcy, insolvency, forbearance and similar events.
For Provisioning details of the typical time frames, from initial impairment to write The amount of an impairment loss is measured as the difference off, for collectively assessed portfolios refer to the accounting between the asset carrying amount and the present value of the policies section on pages 255 and 256. estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The current net realisable value of Amounts recovered after a loan has been written-off are credited the collateral will be taken into account in determining the need to the loan impairment charge for the period in which they are for a provision.
This includes cash flows from foreclosure less received.
costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
Impairment provisions are not recognised where amounts due are expected to be settled in full on the realisation of collateral.
RBS uses one of the following three methods to quantify the provision required: individual, where the quantification method is on a case-by-case assessment of future cash flows: collective, a quantitative review of the relevant portfolio: and latent, where PD, LGD, drawn balance and emergence period are considered in the calculation.
182 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Portfolio summaries The table below summarises current and potential exposure, by sector and asset quality.
The table is unaudited except for forbearance, which is audited.
2 Includes exposure to central governments, central banks and sub-sovereigns such as local authorities.
3 Excludes Private Banking, Lombard and Invoice Finance exposures which are not material in context of the Risk of Credit Loss portfolio.
5 Wholesale forbearance stock represents loans that have been subject to a forbearance event in the two years up to the reporting date.
Personal forbearance is aligned to European Banking Authority requirements.
183 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Key points unaudited Measured against RBSs asset quality scale, as at 31 Exposure classified as Risk of Credit Loss decreased December 2017, 72% of total current exposure was rated over 2017.
This decrease was driven by the Shipping in the AQ1-AQ4 bands, equating to an indicative sector as a result of the reclassification of customers to investment grade rating of BBBor above 2016 70%.
Heightened Monitoring and portfolio disposals refer to Across the Personal lending exposure, 67% was in the page 190 for further information.
The Wholesale forbearance decreased significantly over loan-to-value LTV ratio of the mortgage portfolio was 2017.
This was driven by lower levels of new forbearance 57% 2016 58%.
in the Commercial Real Estate and Shipping sectors.
The increase in current exposure in the Personal portfolio Additionally a number of Shipping facilities which were mainly resulted from growth in UK mortgage lending and previously forborne were exited during 2017.
Refer to was within risk appetite.
For further information, refer to page 190 for further information.
Loans totalling 1.4 billion were granted approval for The UK unsecured lending portfolio remained broadly forbearance in 2017 but had not yet reached legal stable in size.
The increase in current exposure across the Wholesale These exposures are referred to as in process and are portfolio reflected increases in the Sovereign sector not included in the tables on the previous page.
71% resulting from liquidity management activities.
This was 1.0 billion of these in process exposures related to offset by decreases in the Banks and other FIs portfolio, non-performing customers and 29% 0.4 billion related which reflected receipt of higher collateral against traded to performing loans.
The principal types of arrangements products and by decreases in Transport particularly offered were payment concessions and loan Shipping in line with the exit strategy for this sector.
Credit quality, measured against RBSs asset quality 1.1 billion of wholesale forbearance related to payment scales marginally improved across the Wholesale and concessions and 0.5 billion to non-payment Personal portfolios, reflecting resilient market conditions concessions.
Previously reported forbearance types are during the period.
classified as non-payment covenant concessions, The level of Wholesale and Personal provisions release of security and payment payment concessions decreased.
This reflected progress in reducing defaulted and loan rescheduling, forgiveness of all or part of the facilities.
The Personal portfolio also benefited from outstanding debt, variation in margin, standstill house price improvements.
Portfolio overview geography The table below summarises both current and potential exposure, by geographic region.
2 Includes exposures to central governments, central banks and sub-sovereigns such as local authorities.
3 RoW: Rest of world, which also includes supranationals such as the World Bank and exposure relating to ocean-going vessels which cannot be meaningfully assigned to specific countries from a country risk perspective.
Key points unaudited The growth in the portfolio is mainly driven by an increase in Exposure to the US and RoW decreased as RBS continued UK exposures, which is in line with strategy and within risk to focus on its core markets.
The movement includes RBS appetite.
exiting from the Shipping sector.
Sovereign exposure in the UK and Western Europe predominantly Germany increased and reflects liquidity management transactions.
Notes: 1 Excludes loans guaranteed by a company and commercial real estate lending to personal customers.
2 Weighted by current exposure gross of provisions.
Key points unaudited 43% of mortgage lending was in London and the South East The overall credit risk profile of the Personal portfolio, and 2016 44%.
New business in this region reduced as a its performance against credit risk appetite, remained stable result of lower demand for both buy-to-let and ownerduring 2017. occupied properties.
Average weighted loan-to-value for this The increase in Personal portfolio lending was primarily region was 51% 2016 55%.
driven by growth in mortgages: mainly in UK PBB.
Total provision and forbearance against mortgages New mortgage lending was broadly inline with the levels continued to decrease.
This reflected the relatively lowseen in 2016.
The portfolio was closely monitored against interest-rate environment in the UK and house price growth an agreed set of risk appetite parameters, which included as well as a focus on the ability of customers to repay in a loan-to-value, loan-to-income, buy-to-let, new-build sustainable manner over the term of the facility.
This ensured that the Unsecured lending balances remained broadly stable portfolio remained appropriate for market conditions.
despite an upward trend in the wider UK market.
Growth in Underwriting standards were maintained during the period.
the unsecured loan portfolio was offset by declines in the Most of the mortgage growth was in the owner-occupied cards and overdrafts portfolios.
The reduction in the cards portfolio.
In line with market trends, new mortgages in the portfolio reflected RBSs decision to abstain from the 0% buy-to-let portfolio decreased as tax and regulatory changes credit card balance transfer market.
in the UK affected borrower activity.
The total provision for unsecured lending reduced, reflecting The mortgage portfolio loan-to-value ratio remained largely the exit from defaulted debt.
The improvement in Ulster Bank RoI reflected house price recovery.
Overall the proportion of mortgages by value on interestonly and mixed terms capital and interest only reduced, reflecting a move to repayment mortgages and repayment of legacy mortgages.
There was a marginal increase in interest only mortgages in Private Banking which reflected increased lending to high net worth individuals.
185 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Overview of new mortgage lending on a current exposure basis as at drawdown unaudited Ulster Private RBS UK PBB Bank RoI Banking International Total 2017 m m m m m Gross new mortgage lending 1 30,314 890 2,243 481 33,928 Of which: Interest only variable rate 335 6 902 39 1,282 Interest only fixed rate 1,835 1 874 48 2,758 Mixed capital and interest only 893 893 Owner occupied 28,504 875 1,904 319 31,602 Average LTV by weighted value 70% 75% 63% 70% 70% Buy-to-let 1,810 15 339 162 2,326 Average LTV by weighted value 62% 57% 56% 62% 61% 2016 Gross new mortgage lending 1 31,183 893 3,291 470 35,837 Of which: Interest only variable rate 1,033 1,766 37 2,836 Interest only fixed rate 2,889 917 32 3,838 Mixed capital and interest only 801 3 804 Owner occupied 26,919 876 2,819 300 30,914 Average LTV by weighted value 71% 74% 55% 69% 70% Buy-to-let 4,264 17 472 170 4,923 Average LTV by weighted value 62% 59% 54% 62% 61% Re-presented to reflect the segmental reorganisation.
Note: 1 For 2016, Private Banking includes additional lending of 1.5 billion.
Following a change in methodology, this additional lending is excluded from 2017 data.
Personal portfolio forbearance on a current exposure basis Ulster Private RBS UK PBB Bank RoI Banking International Total 2017 m m m m m Forbearance flow 432 181 31 5 649 Forbearance stock 1,332 3,101 7 21 4,461 Forbearance stock: arrears Current 822 1,536 6 12 2,376 1-3 months in arrears 293 387 2 682 3 months in arrears 217 1,178 1 7 1,403 Provisions against forbearance stock 51 792 4 847 Forbearance type: 1 Long-term arrangement 2 746 1,048 6 18 1,818 Short-term arrangement 3 875 2,053 1 3 2,932 2016 Forbearance flow 459 316 49 10 834 Forbearance stock 1,467 3,709 65 43 5,284 Forbearance stock: arrears Current 897 2,077 65 29 3,068 1-3 months in arrears 327 473 2 802 3 months in arrears 243 1,159 12 1,414 Provisions against forbearance stock 59 790 1 850 Forbearance type: 1 Long-term arrangement 2 812 1,249 63 37 2,161 Short-term arrangement 3 970 2,460 2 6 3,438 Re-presented to reflect the segmental reorganisation.
Notes: 1 Can include multiple arrangements.
2 Capitalisation term extensions, economic concessions.
3 Payment concessions, amortising payments of outstanding balances, payment holidays and temporary interest arrangements.
Note: 1 LTV is calculated on a current exposure basis, gross of provisions.
The sector is reviewed regularly at senior executive committees.
Reviews include portfolio credit quality, capital consumption and control frameworks.
188 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Key points unaudited Much of this capital was targeted at the London office The majority of the CRE exposure is managed by market, helping to support values despite the ongoing risks Commercial & Private Banking.
The reduction in exposure associated with exiting the European Union.
The industrial over the period is the result of the successful market was the standout performer, supported by growing implementation of distribution and capital market activity, in demand for logistics capacity.
At the other end of the scale, line with business strategy.
the retail sector continued to feel the effect of online sales The commercial real estate market performed far better in growth, with secondary shopping centres particularly at risk 2017 than had been expected by most at the start of the from falling tenant demand.
Investment activity was 20% up on 2016 and just 10% As a result of wider ongoing economic uncertainty, tightened short of the record level reached in 2015.
A notable factor underwriting standards were maintained, with further was the influx of capital from China, estimated at over 10 tightening of appetite in certain asset classes and subbillion, equating for approximately 15% of the total market.
The core strategy for CRE in the Republic of Ireland is in line with the wider Ulster Bank RoI strategy to support the Irish economy with some controlled growth of the balance sheet over the upcoming years, within risk appetite.
Commercial Banking UK investment portfolio by UK region on a current exposure basis unaudited 2017 2016 UK region m % m % Greater London 3,535 27 3,816 27 Multiple locations 1 2,753 22 2,976 22 South East 1,512 12 1,650 12 Midlands 1,520 12 1,767 13 North 1,465 12 1,635 12 Scotland 960 8 1,006 7 Rest of UK 829 7 915 7 Note: 1 Lending secured against property portfolios with multiple assets across the UK.
2 Relates predominantly to business banking, rate risk management products and unsecured corporate lending.
3 Relates to the development of commercial and residential properties.
LTV is not a meaningful measure for this type of lending activity.
189 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued CRE asset quality on a current exposure basis unaudited 2017 2016 m m AQ1-AQ4 7,609 7,671 AQ5-AQ8 15,960 16,638 AQ9 90 108 AQ10 1,196 1,337 Total 24,855 25,754 Forbearance flow 302 524 Risk of Credit Loss 108 50 Provision including latent 334 544 Shipping on a current exposure basis unaudited Exposure to the shipping sector is summarised below.
2017 2016 m m AQ1-AQ4 1,159 1,504 AQ5-AQ8 869 2,158 AQ9 24 AQ10 483 867 Total 2,511 4,553 Forbearance flow 723 Risk of Credit Loss 23 362 Provision 168 394 Key points unaudited Continued progress in managing down the defaulted The majority of the Shipping portfolio relates to loans or portfolio resulted in lower AQ10 exposure, with very few new finance leases secured by ocean-going vessels.
The transfers into the category during 2017. remaining exposure relates principally to Ports, Shipbuilding The weakness in the dry bulk and container shipping and Inland Water Transport sub sectors.
In line with RBSs markets generated a high level of forbearance activity in exit strategy for this portfolio the reduction in exposure 2016.
However, a recovery in those markets particularly in during 2017 was largely driven by asset sales and debt dry bulk during 2017 limited the flow into forbearance.
repayment on the ship finance product: with other exposure Fewer forbearance concessions were granted and these remaining largely stable.
The market recovery as well The key component of the AQ1-AQ4 exposure banding is a as clients, in general, continuing to support their shipping portfolio of long-dated finance leases, financing ships to investments in terms of maintaining debt service and investment-grade oil majors and shipping companies.
security cover covenants allowed RBS to remove a The most significant movement in exposure during 2017 number of transactions from risk of loss status during the was in the AQ5-AQ8 banding where the bulk of the ship year.
The reduction in exposure was mainly as a result of asset disposals resulting from the exit strategy.
190 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Balance sheet to current exposure bridge unaudited The table below provides a bridge between the balance sheet and the related components of current exposure CE.
Within Netting Methodology Not within the Balance the scope of Disposal and differences and scope of sheet market risk 1 groups 2 collateral 3 reclassifications 4 CE 5 CE 2017 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 98.3 3.4 94.9 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 6 40.7 34.2 4.4 2.2 Loans and advances 339.4 0.3 21.6 9.0 3.9 304.6 Debt securities 78.9 27.4 0.2 51.6 Equity shares 0.5 0.5 Settlement balances 2.5 2.5 Derivatives 160.8 149.5 11.3 Other assets 7 16.8 15.5 1.3 Total assets 738.0 27.7 205.3 8.9 30.2 465.9 Contingent obligations 9.9 475.8 2016 Cash and balances at central banks 74.3 0.6 4.2 69.5 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 6 41.8 39.4 2.4 Loans and advances 340.3 0.2 24.4 8.4 1.7 305.6 Debt securities 72.5 24.4 0.4 48.5 Equity shares 0.7 0.2 0.5 0.0 Settlement balances 5.5 5.5 Derivatives 247.2 226.8 1.4 19.0 Other assets 7 16.8 15.5 1.3 Total assets 799.1 24.8 290.6 10.5 26.9 446.3 Contingent obligations 11.3 457.6 Notes: 1 The exposures in regulatory trading book businesses are subject to market risk and are hence excluded from current exposure.
2 Amounts reclassified to balance sheet lines.
3 Primarily includes: - Reverse repos: reflects netting of collateral and cash legs.
- Loans and advances: cash collateral pledged with counterparties in relation to net derivative liability positions.
- Derivatives: impact of master netting arrangements.
4 Primarily includes cash management pooling arrangements not allowed under IFRS for loans and advances.
- Settlement balances: exposure not included in current exposure measure 5 Primarily includes cash in ATMs and branches: Other assets see note below : and Settlement balances not within the scope of current exposure.
6 Balance sheet position shows reverse repurchase and stock borrowing position: current exposure position shows net reverse repurchase stock borrowing and repurchase stock lending position.
7 Balance sheet position includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, deferred tax, prepayments and accrued income and assets of disposal groups.
191 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis Current and Potential Exposures presented in Credit risk: management basis are used by Group Credit Risk Management for risk management and monitoring.
However, they exclude certain exposures, primarily trading securities and take account of legal netting agreements that provide a right of legal set-off but do not meet the offset criteria in IFRS.
The tables that follow are therefore provided to supplement the disclosures in the Credit risk: management basis section, to reconcile to the balance sheet.
The tables in this section include balances relating to disposal groups, reflecting the total credit risk and losses faced by RBS.
All the disclosures in this section are audited.
Financial assets Exposure summary and credit mitigation The following table analyses financial asset exposures, both gross and net of offset arrangements, as well as credit mitigation and enhancement.
During 2016 and 2017, changes in the legal contracts with LCH and CME led to many derivatives cleared through that counterparty being settled to market each day rather than being collateralised as previously.
This led to the derecognition of the associated assets and liabilities.
2 The carrying value on the balance sheet represents the exposure to credit risk by class of financial instrument.
3 The amount by which credit risk exposure is reduced through arrangements, such as master netting agreements and cash management pooling, which give RBS a legal right to set off the financial asset against a financial liability due to the same counterparty.
4 RBS holds collateral in respect of individual loans and advances to banks and customers.
This collateral includes mortgages over property both personal and commercial : charges over business assets such as plant, inventories and trade debtors: and guarantees of lending from parties other than the borrower.
RBS obtains collateral in the form of securities in reverse repurchase agreements.
Cash and securities are received as collateral in respect of derivative transactions.
5 Includes cash collateral pledged by counterparties based on daily mark-to-market movements of net derivative positions with the counterparty.
6 Represent the fair value of securities received from counterparties, mainly relating to reverse repo transactions as part of netting arrangements.
7 Property valuations are capped at the loan value and reflect the application of haircuts in line with regulatory rules to indexed valuations.
Commercial collateral includes ships and plant and equipment collateral.
8 Comprises credit derivatives bought protection and guarantees against exposures.
Key points Net exposure increased by 9.9 billion reflecting higher The majority of the 237.8 billion net exposure cash placements with UK and Eurozone central banks comprises cash and balances at central banks, and higher debt securities unsecured commercial and personal bank lending and sovereign debt securities.
192 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Sector concentration The following table analyses financial assets by industry sector.
193 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Asset quality Internal asset Probability of Indicative The asset quality analysis presented below is based on internal quality band default range S&P rating asset quality ratings which have ranges for the probability of AQ1 0% - 0.034% AAA to AA default.
Customers are assigned credit grades, based on various AQ2 0.034% - 0.048% AA to AAcredit grading models that reflect the key drivers of default for the AQ3 0.048% - 0.095% A to A customer type.
All credit grades across RBS map to both an AQ4 0.095% - 0.381% BBB to BBBasset quality scale, used for external financial reporting, and a AQ5 0.381% - 1.076% BB to BB master grading scale for wholesale exposures used for internal AQ6 1.076% - 2.153% BBto B management reporting across portfolios.
Debt securities are AQ7 2.153% - 6.089% B to B analysed by external ratings and are therefore excluded from the AQ8 6.089% - 17.222% Bto CCC following table and are set out on pages 201 to 202.
AQ9 17.222% - 100% CCC to C AQ10 100% D The table that follows details the relationship between internal asset quality AQ bands and external ratings published by The mapping to the S&P ratings is used by RBS as one of Standard & Poors S&P, for illustrative purposes only.
This several benchmarks for its wholesale portfolios, depending on relationship is established by observing S&Ps default study customer type and the purpose of the benchmark.
The mapping statistics, notably the one year default rates for each S&P rating is based on all issuer types rated by S&P.
It should therefore be grade.
A degree of judgement is required to relate the probability considered illustrative and does not, for instance, indicate that of default ranges associated with the master grading scale to exposures reported against S&P ratings either have been or these default rates given that, for example, the S&P published would be assigned those ratings if assessed by S&P.
In addition, default rates do not increase uniformly by grade and the historical the relationship is not relevant for retail portfolios, smaller default rate is nil for the highest rating categories.
corporate exposures or specialist corporate segments given that S&P does not typically assign ratings to such entities.
Impairment AQ1-AQ4 AQ5-AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 Past due Impaired provision Total 2017 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 98.3 98.3 Banks - Reverse repos 12.1 1.9 14.0 - Derivative cash collateral 6.7 0.2 6.9 - Bank loans 8.9 0.5 9.4 - Total 27.7 2.6 30.3 Customers - Reverse repos 26.0 0.7 26.7 - Derivative cash collateral 14.5 0.2 14.7 - Customer loans 186.3 108.7 2.8 0.7 6.4 7.4 3.8 308.5 - Total 226.8 109.6 2.8 0.7 6.4 7.4 3.8 349.9 Settlement balances and other financial assets 2.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.5 Derivatives 153.4 7.4 160.8 Undrawn commitments 78.7 45.6 0.1 0.5 124.9 Contingent liabilities 8.8 2.2 0.1 11.1 Total 595.9 167.5 3.0 1.4 6.4 7.4 3.8 777.8 Total % 76.6% 21.5% 0.4% 0.2% 0.8% 1.0% 0.5% 100.0% 194 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Impairment AQ1-AQ4 AQ5-AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 Past due Impaired provision Total 2016 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 74.3 74.3 Banks - Reverse repos 11.1 1.4 0.4 12.9 - Derivative cash collateral 6.5 0.2 6.7 - Bank loans 10.0 0.4 0.1 10.5 - Total 27.6 2.0 0.5 30.1 Customers - Reverse repos 28.3 0.6 28.9 - Derivative cash collateral 16.8 0.2 17.0 - Customer loans 180.6 109.2 4.2 1.0 6.6 8.9 4.5 306.0 - Total 225.7 110.0 4.2 1.0 6.6 8.9 4.5 351.9 Settlement balances and other financial assets 5.1 0.3 0.1 5.5 Derivatives 234.2 12.8 247.0 Undrawn commitments 88.6 49.3 0.1 0.6 138.6 Contingent liabilities 9.2 2.7 0.1 12.0 Total 664.7 177.1 4.8 1.8 6.6 8.9 4.5 859.4 Total % 77.3% 20.7% 0.6% 0.2% 0.7% 1.0% 0.5% 100.0% 195 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Loans, REIL and impairment provisions Risk elements in lending REIL comprises impaired loans and accruing loans past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest.
Impaired loans are all loans including loans subject to forbearance for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in impaired loans.
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more comprise loans past due 90 days where no impairment loss is expected.
Loans and related credit metrics The tables below analyse gross loans and advances excluding reverse repos and related credit metrics by reportable segment.
Key points REIL were 2.7% of gross lending, down from 3.1% in UK PBB: mortgage growth of 8.8 billion was the principal 2016.
This reflected the relatively low-interest-rate driver of the gross lending increase in 2017.
Impairment environment in the UK and house price growth for personal losses and write-offs were higher as debt flow into default lending, along with disposal activity of legacy assets within continues to increase, particularly for loans arising from NatWest Markets.
business written between Q4 2015 and mid 2016.
Provisions coverage of REIL was stable at 43%, but within Commercial Banking: customer lending decreased by 2.7 that write offs, repayments and disposals in REIL were 1.2 billion as a result of active capital management offset by billion and 2.7 billion compared with 3.7 billion and 3.3 growth in targeted segments.
The increase in impairment billion a year ago.
loss was largely driven by a small number of single name Total provision fell by 0.6 billion to 3.8 billion principally in impairments, principally in the second half of 2017. legacy NatWest Markets.
Commercial Banking provisions Private Banking: lending growth of 1.3 billion primarily on increased by 236 million in Q4 2017 reflecting transfer of mortgages.
NatWest Markets: customer lending decreased by 8.0 Amounts written off were significantly lower at 1.2 billion billion primarily due to disposal activity.
compared to 3.7 billion in 2016, primarily in commercial Central items & other: Short term bank placings declined real estate which had 1.3 billion lower write offs in 2017, 0.8 billion.
principally in Ulster Bank RoI.
196 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Impairment charge and provisions The tables below analyse the categories of loan impairment losses releases and provisions by reportable segment.
197 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Sector and geographical concentration The tables below analyse gross loans and advances to banks and customers excluding reverse repos and related credit metrics by sector and geography based on the location of lending office.
Ulster Bank RoI contributes a significant proportion of the European loan exposure.
199 Business review Capital and risk management Past due analysis The table below shows loans and advances to customers that were past due at the balance sheet date but are not considered impaired.
2017 2016 m m Past due 1-29 days 3,535 3,852 Past due 30-59 days 902 753 Past due 60-89 days 456 512 Past due 90 days or more 1,481 1,445 Total 6,374 6,562 Past due analysis by sector Personal 3,731 3,577 Property and construction 667 1,020 Financial institution 24 94 Other corporate 1,952 1,871 Total 6,374 6,562 Risk elements in lending The table below analyses REIL between UK and overseas, based on the location of the lending office.
2017 2016 Impaired loans Accruing past due Impaired loans Accruing past due m m m m - UK 4,450 1,087 5,557 1,122 - overseas 2,973 394 3,308 323 Total 7,423 1,481 8,865 1,445 Notes: 1 REIL are stated without giving effect to any security held that could reduce the eventual loss should it occur or to any provisions marked.
2 For details on impairment methodology refer to Credit risk on page 182 and Accounting policy 15 Impairment of financial assets on pages 255 and 256.
Risk elements in lending The tables below analyse REIL by segment.
2017 2016 Ulster Central UK Bank Commercial Private RBS NatWest items PBB RoI Banking Banking International Markets & other Total Total m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2,372 3,513 1,946 105 109 2,264 1 10,310 12,157 Inter segment transfers 1,384 1,384 Currency translation and other adjustments 123 5 86 1 43 1,013 Additions 1,227 550 1,590 28 62 98 14 3,569 5,306 Transfers between REIL and potential problem loans 152 10 2 7 8 129 166 Transfer to performing book 294 336 283 33 12 1 959 960 Repayments and disposals 606 444 1,116 32 41 468 13 2,720 3,345 Amounts written-off 572 124 335 4 6 167 2 1,210 3,695 At 31 December 1,975 3,282 3,196 95 103 253 8,904 10,310 Re-presented to reflect segmental reorganisation 200 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Provisions The tables below analyse provisions by segment.
2017 2016 Ulster Central UK Bank Commercial Private RBS NatWest items PBB RoI Banking Banking International Markets & other Total Total m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 1,537 1,200 845 31 38 803 1 4,455 7,139 Inter segment transfers 293 293 Currency translation and other adjustments 8 7 27 26 480 Repayments and disposals 5 5 Amounts written-off 572 124 335 4 6 167 2 1,210 3,697 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 117 12 16 1 10 156 109 Charges releases to income statement 235 60 362 6 3 137 1 530 537 Unwind of discount 37 25 12 1 1 10 86 113 At 31 December 1,280 1,131 1,162 32 35 174 3,814 4,455 Re-presented to reflect segmental reorganisation Securities and available-for-sale reserves Debt securities The table below analyses debt securities by issuer and IAS 39 classifications.
The other financial institutions category includes US government sponsored agencies and securitisation entities, the latter principally relating to asset-backed securities ABS.
Ratings are based on the lowest of Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
US government returns relative to central bank cash balances.
securities were down, both assets and short positions, compared with 2016 due to lower client demand towards the end of 2017.
202 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Asset-backed securities The table below summarises the ratings of asset-backed securities on the balance sheet.
Repayments made on the underlying mortgages are used to make payments to holders of the mortgage-backed securities MBS.
The risk of the MBS will vary primarily depending on the quality and geographic region in which the underlying mortgage assets are located and the credit enhancement of the securitisation structure.
Several tranches of notes are issued, each secured against the same portfolio of mortgages, but providing differing levels of seniority to match the risk appetite of investors.
The most junior or equity notes will suffer early capital and interest losses experienced by the referenced mortgage collateral, with each more senior note benefiting from the protection provided by the subordinated notes below.
Additional credit enhancements may be provided to the holder of senior MBS notes.
The main categories of mortgages that serve as collateral to RMBS held by RBS are set out below and described in the Glossary on page 414.
The US market has more established definitions of differing underlying mortgage quality and these are used as the basis for RBS's RMBS categorisation.
2 Comprises HFT 256 million 2016 - 282 million, AFS nil 2016 - 99 million and LAR nil 2016 - nil.
3 Comprises HFT 14 million 2016 - 25 million, AFS nil 2016 - nil and LAR 18 million 2016 - 48 million.
Equity shares The table below analyses holdings of equity shares for eurozone countries and other countries with balances of more than 50 million by country, issuer and IAS 39 classification.
The HFT positions are used mainly for economic hedging of debt issuances and equity derivatives.
The AFS balances are individually small holdings in unlisted companies, mainly acquired through debt for equity transactions in Restructuring.
HFT AFS DFV 1 Other financial Total Other financial Total AFS Banks institutions 2 Corporate HFT Banks institutions 2 Corporate AFS DFV Total reserves Countries m m m m m m m m m m 2017 Netherlands 39 84 123 123 2 Other 1 4 5 11 11 16 2 Total eurozone 1 4 5 50 84 134 139 4 UK 1 4 19 24 3 123 13 139 163 63 US 126 2 128 128 38 Other 17 3 20 20 3 Total 1 5 23 29 3 316 102 421 450 18 2016 Total 10 132 24 166 460 77 537 703 19 Notes: 1 Designated as at fair value through profit or loss balances are 134 million 2016 - 171 million, of which 47 million are other financial institutions 2016 - 142 million and 87 million are corporate 2016 - 29 million.
3 HFT short positions of 1 million 2016 - 3 million did not relate to non-periphery eurozone countries.
203 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Derivatives Summary and net uncollateralised exposures The table below analyses derivatives by type of contract.
The master netting agreements and collateral shown below do not result in a net presentation on the balance sheet under IFRS.
2 Transactions with securitisation vehicles and funds where collateral posting is contingent on RBSs external rating.
3 Predominantly large corporate with whom RBS may have netting arrangements in place, but operational capability does not support collateral posting.
4 Sovereigns and supranational entities with one way collateral agreements in their favour.
5 The notional amount of interest rate derivatives include 7,400 billion 2016 - 9,724 billion in respect of contracts cleared through central clearing counterparties.
The associated derivatives assets and liabilities including variation margin reflect IFRS offset of 17 billion 2016 - 51 billion and 17 billion 2016 - 51 billion respectively.
Key points Net asset and liability exposures both decreased in line with Interest rate derivative fair values decreased, reflecting the the overall reduction in fair values.
The corporate sector upward shift in yields of US dollar, sterling and euro during reductions largely reflected disposal activity in legacy 2017, as well as trade compression and novations to NatWest Markets.
The other financial sector reduction was clearing houses.
partially due to timing of collateral posting.
The decrease in foreign exchange derivative fair values reflected US dollar depreciation against major currencies in 2017.
Derivative notionals decreased by 27%, mainly due to trade compression cycle participation, maturities and buyouts, as well as the effect of foreign exchange.
This was offset by new business.
204 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Valuation reserves When valuing financial instruments in the trading book, adjustments are made to mid-market valuations to cover bid-offer spread, liquidity and credit risk.
The following table shows credit valuation adjustments CVA and other valuation reserves.
CVA represents an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that a market participant would make to incorporate the risk inherent in derivative exposures.
For details of CVA methodology, refer to Note 9 on the consolidated accounts: Financial instruments - valuation.
2017 2016 m m Funding valuation adjustments FVA 440 936 Credit valuation adjustments CVA 346 618 Bid-offer reserves 285 334 Product and deal specific 1,033 643 Valuation reserves 2,104 2,531 The table below analyses CVA relating to counterparties by rating and sector.
2017 2016 m m Ratings AAA 4 4 AA to AA 11 22 A to AA- 34 52 BBBto A- 203 388 Non-investment grade and unrated 94 152 346 618 Counterparty Banks 8 22 Other financial institutions 31 70 Corporate 200 337 Government 107 189 346 618 Key points Credit spread tightening also contributed to the CVA Both FVA and CVA were lower due to trade novations and reduction.
The product and deal specific reserves increased primarily Reduced funding levels and an increase in the level of on a limited number of uncollateralised derivatives after the funding costs included within the discount rate applied to pricing impact of a significant novation in the second half of derivative cash flows also contributed to the FVA reduction.
2017 was incorporated into transactions of a similar nature.
Derivatives: settlement basis and central counterparties The table below analyses the derivative notional and fair value by trading and settlement method.
Notional Asset Liability Traded over the counter Traded on Not settled Traded on Traded Traded on Traded recognised Settled by central by central recognised over the recognised over the exchanges counterparties counterparties Total exchanges counter exchanges counter 2017 bn bn bn bn m m m m Interest rate 1,506 7,400 3,110 12,016 - 120,945 - 112,160 Exchange rate 4 3,421 3,425 - 39,211 - 41,681 Credit 38 38 - 531 - 558 Equity and commodity 3 3 - 156 1 106 Total 1,510 7,400 6,572 15,482 - 160,843 1 154,505 2016 Interest rate 1,501 9,724 5,400 16,625 170,524 158,485 Exchange rate 2 4,443 4,445 75,442 77,148 Credit 42 42 682 557 Equity and commodity 1 20 21 333 4 281 Total 1,504 9,724 9,905 21,133 246,981 4 236,471 205 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk Sources of risk unaudited RBS is exposed to non-traded market risk as a result of its The majority of RBSs non-traded market risk exposure arises banking activities and to traded market risk through its trading from retail and commercial banking activities from assets and activities.
It manages its non-traded and traded market risk liabilities that are not classified as held-for-trading.
Each type of market risk is discussed separately.
The non-traded market risk section begins below.
The Non-traded market risk is largely managed in line with the traded market risk section begins on page 214. following key categories: interest rate risk: credit spread risk: foreign exchange risk: equity risk: and accounting volatility risk.
Pension-related activities also give rise to market risk.
Refer to page 220 for more information on risk related to pensions.
Interest rate risk Non-traded interest rate risk NTIRR arises from the provision to Non-traded market risk customers of a range of banking products that have differing The following disclosures in this section are audited: interest rate characteristics.
When aggregated, these products Internal banking book VaR.
form portfolios of assets and liabilities with varying degrees of Foreign exchange risk.
sensitivity to changes in market interest rates.
these characteristics can give rise to volatility in net interest income as interest rates vary.
Definition Non-traded market risk is the risk to the value of assets or NTIRR comprises three primary risk factors: gap risk, basis risk liabilities outside the trading book, or the risk to income, that and option risk.
For more information, refer to page 207. arises from changes in market prices such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices, or from changes in Credit spread risk managed rates.
Credit spread risk arises from the potential adverse economic impact of a move in the spread between bond yields and swap Key developments in 2017 unaudited rates, where the bond portfolios are accounted at fair value During 2017, revised non-traded market risk appetite through equity.
metrics were approved by the Board and cascaded to the franchises.
Foreign exchange risk Political events during the year, notably elections in the UK, Non-traded foreign exchange risk exposures arise from two main France and the Netherlands, resulted in periods of market sources: volatility.
UK and European interest rates remained at low Structural foreign exchange risk arising from the capital levels, although the Bank of England and the US Federal deployed in foreign subsidiaries, branches and joint Reserve began raising interest rates.
These events did not arrangements and related currency funding where it differs affect non-traded market risk management strategy during from sterling.
Non-trading book foreign exchange risk arising from Non-traded market risk VaR peaked at 83.1 million in H1 customer transactions and profits and losses that are in a 2017, mainly driven by an increase in bonds held within currency other than the functional currency of the Treasurys liquidity portfolio, which was aimed at investing transacting operation.
surplus cash, rather than meeting increased liquidity requirements.
The appreciation of foreign currency bonds Equity risk within this portfolio, primarily US and German sovereign Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in income and debt, also contributed.
The target allocation between cash reserves arising from changes in the values of equity positions.
and bonds, which is determined by the cash requirement of Equity exposures may arise through strategic acquisitions, the liquid asset buffer, was reached in H1 2017 and venture capital investments and certain restructuring remained largely unchanged during H2 2017. arrangements.
Positive sensitivity to higher interest rates increased by 275 Accounting volatility risk million year on year in a 100-basis-point upward rate shift, Accounting volatility risk arises when an exposure is accounted partly due to higher deposit volumes and changes in for at amortised cost but economically hedged by a derivative assumptions relating to deposit margin retention in a higher that is accounted for at fair value.
Although this is not an rate environment.
Adverse sensitivity to lower rates also economic risk, the difference in accounting between the exposure increased, by 193 million in a 100-basis-point downward and the hedge creates volatility in the income statement.
shift, affected by the higher level of interest rates in the central forecast.
RBS continued to invest in structural hedges in 2017, with an average notional of 129 billion, managed directly by Treasury.
The disclosure now also shows the smaller structural hedging programmes in Private Banking, RBS International, UBI DAC and Ulster Bank Limited totalling an average of 20 billion in 2017.
206 Business review Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued Risk governance unaudited Risk assessment, monitoring and mitigation unaudited Responsibility for identifying, measuring, monitoring and Interest rate risk controlling the market risk arising from non-trading activities lies Non-traded interest rate risk NTIRR factors are grouped into the with the relevant business, with  oversight following categories: provided by the Non-Traded Market Risk function, which reports Gap risk which arises from the timing of rate changes in into the Director of Enterprise Wide Risk.
The extent of gap risk depends on whether changes to the term structure of Risk positions are reported monthly to the Executive Risk Forum interest rates occur consistently across the yield curve ERF and quarterly to the Board Risk Committee, as well as to parallel risk or differentially by period non-parallel risk.
the Asset and Liability Committee ALCo monthly in the case of Basis risk which captures the impact of relative changes in interest rate, credit spread and accounting volatility risks and interest rates for financial instruments that have similar quarterly in the case of foreign exchange and equity risks.
tenors but are priced using different interest rate indices, or on the same interest rate indices but with different tenors.
Market risk policy statements set out the governance and risk Option risk which arises from option derivative positions or management framework through effective identification, from optional elements embedded in assets, liabilities and or measurement, reporting, mitigation, monitoring and control.
off-balance sheet items, where RBS or its customer can alter the level and timing of their cash flows.
Option risk can Risk appetite unaudited be further characterised into automatic option risk and RBSs qualitative appetite is set out in the non-traded market risk behavioural option risk.
One example of behavioural option appetite statement.
This is the risk of loss arising from personal customers owning an option to draw down a loan Its quantitative appetite is expressed in terms of exposure limits.
typically a mortgage loan at a committed rate.
Changes in These limits comprise both Board risk measures which are interest rates can result in greater or fewer customers than approved by the RBS Board on the recommendation of the Board anticipated taking up the committed offer.
The risk depends Risk Committee and key risk measures which are approved by on customer behaviour as the option will not automatically the ALCo.
These limits are cascaded further down the organisation as Due to the long-term nature of many retail and commercial required, as approved by the Technical Executive Risk Forum in portfolios and their varied interest rate repricing characteristics the case of the Board risk measures and by the ALCo in the case and maturities, it is likely that net interest income will vary from of the key risk measures.
period to period, even if interest rates remain the same.
New business originated in any period will alter RBSs interest rate The limit framework at RBS level comprises value-at-risk VaR, sensitivity if the resulting portfolio differs from portfolios originated stressed value-at-risk SVaR, sensitivity and stress limits, and in prior periods, depending on the extent to which exposure has earnings-at-risk limits.
The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, In order to manage exposures within these limits, RBS business plans, portfolio composition and the market and aggregates its interest rate positions and hedges them externally economic environments.
using cash and derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps.
This task is primarily carried out by RBS Treasury, to which all To ensure approved limits are not breached and that RBS businesses except NatWest Markets transfer most of their remains within its risk appetite, triggers at RBS and lower levels NTIRR.
The main exposures and limit utilisations are reported to have been set such that if exposures exceed a specified level, the ALCo and the ERF monthly and to the Board Risk Committee action plans are developed by the front office, Market Risk and quarterly.
Credit spread risk For further information on risk appetite, refer to page 154.
The bond portfolios primarily comprise high-quality securities that are maintained as a liquidity buffer to ensure RBS can continue Risk controls and assurance unaudited to meet its obligations in the event that access to wholesale For information on risk controls and assurance, refer to page 156. funding markets is restricted.
Additionally other high-quality bond portfolios are held for collateral purposes and to support payment systems.
Credit spread risk is monitored daily through sensitivities and VaR measures.
The dealing authorities in place for the bond portfolios further mitigate the risk by imposing constraints by duration, asset class and credit rating.
Exposures and limit utilisations are reported to senior management on a daily basis as well as to the ERF monthly and the Board Risk Committee quarterly.
207 Business review Capital and risk management Equity risk Non-traded market risk continued Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in the income and Foreign exchange risk reserves arising from changes in equity valuations.
Any such risk The only material non-traded open currency positions are the is identified prior to any investments and then mitigated through a structural foreign exchange exposures arising from investments framework of controls.
in foreign subsidiaries, branches and associates and their related currency funding.
These exposures are assessed and managed Investments, acquisitions or disposals of a strategic nature are by RBS Treasury to predefined risk appetite levels under referred to RBSs Acquisitions and Disposals Committee ADCo.
delegated authority from the ALCo.
Treasury seeks to limit the Once approved by ADCo for execution, such transactions are potential volatility impact on RBSs Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 referred for approval to the Board, the Executive Committee, the ratio from exchange rate movements by maintaining a structural Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer or as otherwise open currency position.
Gains or losses arising from the required.
Decisions to acquire or hold equity positions in the nonretranslation of net investments in overseas operations are trading book that are not of a strategic nature, such as customer recognised in equity reserves and reduce the sensitivity of capital restructurings, are taken by authorised persons with delegated ratios to foreign exchange rate movements primarily arising from authority under the credit approval framework.
Sensitivity Accounting volatility risk is minimised where, for a given currency, the ratio of the Accounting volatility can be mitigated through hedge accounting.
structural open position to RWAs equals the CET1 ratio.
The profit and loss impact of the derivatives can be mitigated by marking the exposure to market.
However, volatility will remain in The sensitivity of this ratio to exchange rates is monitored cases where accounting rules mean that hedge accounting is not monthly and reported to the ALCo at least quarterly.
Accounting volatility is reported to the ALCo monthly exchange exposures arising from customer transactions are sold and capitalised as part of the Internal Capital Adequacy down by businesses on a regular basis in line with RBS policy.
Risk measurement The market risk exposures that arise as a result of RBSs retail and commercial banking activities are measured using a combination of value-based metrics VaR and sensitivities and earnings-based metrics, as explained in greater detail for each of the key non-traded risk exposure types disclosed in this section.
The following table presents 1-day internal banking book VaR at a 99% confidence level, analysed by type of risk.
The extent of the diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time.
The diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual risk types less the total portfolio VaR.
Key points On an average basis, total non-traded VaR increased during The increase in structural foreign exchange rate VaR 2017, chiefly due to the increase in bonds held within towards the end of the year reflected higher euroTreasurys liquidity portfolio, which was aimed at investing denominated investments in subsidiaries, which are surplus cash, whilst the duration and quality of the assets expected to decline following a dividend paid by UBI DAC in remained largely unchanged.
The increased investment in January 2018. bonds increased the valuation sensitivity to movements The year-on-year decline in sterling interest rate VaR, on between bond and swap rates as the bond portfolios are both a period-end and average basis, partly reflects the hedged with interest rate swaps.
impact of charges to equity recognised at year-end 2016 on On a period-end basis, total non-traded VaR decreased, RBSs structural hedge benchmark.
The charges to equity driven by credit spread VaR, which fell due to refinements in related mainly to increased provisions against prospective the source of the market data used for the VaR model.
The equity structural hedge was reduced in of the largest loss dates dropped out of the historical time 2016 and 2017.
For more information on structural hedging, series for VaR during Q3 2017, which also contributed to the refer to the following page.
208 Business review Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued After hedging the net interest rate exposure of the bank Structural hedging unaudited RBS has the benefit of a significant pool of stable, non and low externally, RBS Treasury allocates income to products or equity interest-bearing liabilities, principally comprising equity and in structural hedges by reference to the relevant interest rate money transmission accounts.
These balances are usually swap curve.
Over time, the hedging programme has built up a hedged, either by investing directly in longer-term fixed-rate portfolio of interest rate swaps that provide a basis for stable income attribution.
The programme aims to track a time series of assets or by the use of interest rate swaps, in order to provide a medium-term swap rates, but the yield will be affected by consistent and predictable revenue stream.
changes in product volumes and RBSs capital composition.
The table below presents the incremental income allocation above 3-month LIBOR, the average notional and the overall yield including 3-month LIBOR associated with the product and equity hedges managed by Treasury.
2017 2016 Incremental Average Overall Incremental Average Overall income notional yield income notional yield m bn % m bn % Equity structural hedging 628 28 2.48% 633 33 2.41% Product structural hedging 680 101 1.02% 635 90 1.20% Total 1,308 129 1.34% 1,268 123 1.47% The table below presents the incremental income associated with product structural hedges at segment level.
These relate to the main banking businesses except Private Banking, RBS International, UBI DAC and Ulster Bank Limited.
2017 2016 Net interest income - impact of product structural hedging unaudited m m UK Personal & Business Banking 440 390 Commercial Banking 235 235 Other 5 10 Total 680 635 Re-presented to reflect the segmental reorganisation.
Key points unaudited The increase in the average notional of the product hedge The overall yield including 3-month LIBOR fell compared to reflected growth in current account and deposit balances 31 December 2016, reflecting the lower volume of equity and increased hedging to reduce earnings sensitivity.
hedges, new product hedges and maturing hedges reinvested at lower market rates.
As at 31 December 2017, the 10-year and 5-year swap rates were 1.21% and 0.98%, respectively.
The market rate The fall in the average notional of the equity hedge reflects matching the amortising structure of the total structural the reduction in RBSs equity base.
In addition to the hedges presented in the table above, other parts of the Group also maintain structural hedges.
Hedges are transacted with Treasury and generally have an amortised five-year profile.
In aggregate, Private Banking, RBS International, UBI DAC and Ulster Bank Limited maintained structural hedges against Treasury relating to equity and products, with an average notional of 20 billion for 2017.
This resulted in 147 million incremental income allocation above 3-month LIBOR to the businesses in 2017, with an overall yield of 0.83%.
A significant proportion of the hedge is euro-denominated.
209 Business review Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued Interest rate risk unaudited NTIRR can be measured from either an economic value-based or It includes any mismatch between structural hedges and stable earnings-based perspective, or a combination of the two.
Valuenon and low interest-bearing liabilities such as equity and money based approaches measure the change in value of the balance transmission accounts as regards their interest rate repricing sheet assets and liabilities over a longer timeframe, including all behavioural profile.
Earnings-based approaches measure the potential short-term generally one-year impact on the income statement Sensitivity of net interest income unaudited of changes in interest rates.
Earnings sensitivity to rate movements is derived from a central forecast over a 12-month period.
A simplified scenario is shown RBS uses both approaches to quantify its interest rate risk: VaR based on the period-end balance sheet assuming that nonas its value-based approach and sensitivity of net interest income interest rate variables remain constant.
Market-implied forward NII as its earnings-based approach.
rates are used to generate a base-case earnings forecast, which is then subjected to interest rate shocks.
The variance between These two approaches provide different yet complementary the central forecast and the shock gives an indication of views of the impact of interest rate risk on the balance sheet at a underlying sensitivity to interest rate movements.
The scenarios employed in the NII sensitivity approach incorporate business assumptions and simulated The sensitivity of net interest income table below shows the modifications in customer behaviour as interest rates change.
In expected impact, over the next 12 months, to an immediate contrast, the VaR approach assumes static underlying positions upward or downward change of 25 and 100 basis points to all and therefore does not provide a dynamic measurement of interest rates.
All yield curves are expected to move in parallel interest rate risk.
In addition, while the NII sensitivity calculations with the exception that interest rates are assumed to floor at zero are measured to a 12-month horizon and thus provide a shorterper cent or, for euro rates, at the current negative rate.
term view of the risks on the balance sheet, the VaR approach can identify risks not captured in the sensitivity analysis, in The main driver of earnings sensitivity relates to interest rate particular the impact of duration and repricing risk on earnings pass-through assumptions on customer products.
also captures the impact of the reinvestment of maturing structural hedges at higher or lower rates than the base-case Value-at-risk unaudited earnings sensitivity and mismatches in the repricing dates of VaR is a statistical estimate of the potential change in the market loans and deposits.
value of a portfolio and, thus, the impact on the income statement over a specified time horizon at a given confidence However, reported sensitivities should not be considered level.
They do not capture potential management action in response to sudden changes in the RBSs standard VaR metrics - which assume a time horizon of interest rate environment.
Actions that could reduce the net one trading day and a confidence level of 99% - are based on interest income sensitivity and mitigate adverse impacts are interest rate repricing gaps at the reporting date.
Daily rate changes in pricing strategies on both customer loans and moves are modelled using observations over the last 500 deposits as well as hedging.
Management action may also be business days.
These incorporate customer products plus targeted at stabilising total income taking into account nonassociated funding and hedging transactions as well as noninterest income in addition to net interest income.
financial assets and liabilities such as property, plant and equipment, capital and reserves.
Behavioural assumptions are applied as appropriate.
The non-traded interest rate risk VaR metrics for RBSs retail and commercial banking activities are included within the banking book VaR table above.
The VaR captures the risk resulting from mismatches in the repricing dates of assets and liabilities.
210 Business review Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued Euro Sterling US dollar Other Total 2017 m m m m m 25 basis point shift in yield curves 13 151 14 178 25 basis point shift in yield curves 8 218 13 4 243 100 basis point shift in yield curves 53 664 58 775 100 basis point shift in yield curves 11 504 49 7 571 2016 25 basis point shift in yield curves 4 79 11 2 96 25 basis point shift in yield curves 1 222 11 2 236 100 basis point shift in yield curves 9 436 42 13 500 100 basis point shift in yield curves 2 337 30 9 378 Note: 1 In the 25 and 100 basis point downward shifts in yield curves, interest rates are floored at zero per cent, or at current negative rates.
The table above focused solely on the projected sensitivity of net interest income over the next 12 months.
In the case of multi-year forward projections, the negative impact of a downward change in rates or, conversely, the benefit of an immediate upward change in interest rates to current market rates would be greater.
This is because, over time a greater proportion of maturing structural hedges will be reinvested at prevailing rates which may be higher or lower.
Also, in the absence of dynamic assumptions relating to further management actions, the variance to the base-case income forecast arising from margin compression or expansion on managed rate products will continue to accrue.
The tables below show the net interest earnings sensitivity on a one-year, two-year and three-year forward-looking basis to a parallel upward or downward shift in interest rates of 25 basis points.
The projection is a simplified sensitivity in which the balance sheet is assumed to be constant, with no change in customer behaviour or margin management strategy as a result of changes to the rates on offer.
The benefit of structural hedges increases or decreases as greater volumes of maturing hedges are reinvested at higher or lower rates over the three-year period.
Change in net interest earnings 25 basis point upward shift in yield curves Year 1 Year 2 2 Year 3 2 2017 m m m Structural hedges 33 100 171 Managed margin 1 153 170 178 Other 8 Total 178 270 349 Change in net interest earnings 25 basis point downward shift in yield curves Year 1 Year 2 2 Year 3 2 2017 m m m Structural hedges 33 99 171 Managed margin 1 220 137 121 Other 10 Total 243 236 292 Notes: 1 Primarily current accounts and savings accounts.
2 The projections for Years 2 and 3 consider only the main drivers of earnings sensitivity, namely structural hedging and margin management.
Sensitivity to a 100 basis-point downward shift in yield Key points unaudited curves rose year on year, partly affected by the higher Earnings sensitivity to 25 and 100 basis-point upward level of future interest rates in the central forecast.
shifts in yield curves increased year on year, partly due to Interest rates fall further in a 100 basis-point downward higher deposit volumes.
Additionally, more benefit from shift in yield curves before they hit an assumed zero per higher rates was assumed to result from margin cent floor: as customer deposit rates are less affected by management in 2017 than in 2016. the scenario, profit margins compress.
211 Business review Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued Sensitivity of available-for-sale and cash flow hedging reserves to interest rate movements unaudited While the projected sensitivity of net interest income is favourable to an upward shift in the yield curve and adversely sensitive to a downward shift in the yield curve, the market valuation sensitivity of derivatives hedging retail and commercial structural interest rate exposures is adversely sensitive to an upward shift in the yield curve and favourable to a downward shift in the yield curve.
Many of the derivatives are documented in cash flow hedge accounting relationships because they reduce the sensitivity of expected future cash flows to unexpected changes in interest rates.
If the derivative hedges are maintained to maturity, the immediate impact on the portfolio value would lessen over time as derivative cash flows are settled amongst other potential factors.
The information shown below comprises simplified scenarios in which all rates across the yield curve have instantaneously shifted upwards or downwards by 25 basis points and 100 basis points and taxation effects have not been estimated.
In this analysis, interest rates have not been floored at zero.
Note that a movement in the AFS reserve would have an impact on CET1 capital but a movement in the cash flow hedge reserve would not be expected to do so.
Volatility in both reserves affects tangible net asset value.
Available-for-sale Cashflow hedge reserve reserve Total 2017 m m m 25 basis points 41 443 484 25 basis points 42 448 490 100 basis points 164 1,744 1,908 100 basis points 167 1,819 1,986 2016 25 basis points 36 417 453 25 basis points 35 422 457 100 basis points 150 1,641 1,791 100 basis points 135 1,714 1,849 Key point unaudited The sensitivity of the available-for-sale reserve and the cash flow hedge reserve to upward and downward shifts in yield curves remain relatively stable year on year.
The increase in sensitivity of the available-for-sale reserve reflected the increase in bonds held within Treasurys liquidity portfolios.
Foreign exchange risk The table below shows structural foreign currency exposures.
Net investments in Net Structural foreign Residual structural Net investments in Non-controlling foreign operations investment currency exposures Economic foreign currency foreign operations interests NCI excluding NCI 1 hedges pre-economic hedges hedges 2 exposures 2017 m m m m m m m US dollar 766 766 14 752 752 Euro 7,160 61 7,099 342 6,757 2,224 4,533 Other non-sterling 2,493 645 1,848 930 918 453 465 Total 10,419 706 9,713 1,286 8,427 3,429 4,998 2016 US dollar 595 595 28 623 623 Euro 6,085 4 6,089 582 5,507 2,289 3,218 Other non-sterling 3,366 761 2,605 1,491 1,114 625 489 Total 8,856 757 8,099 2,101 5,998 2,914 3,084 Notes: 1 Non-controlling interests NCI represents the structural foreign exchange exposure not attributable to owners equity.
2 Economic hedges mainly represent US dollar and euro preference shares in issue that are treated as equity under IFRS and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.
They provide an offset to structural foreign exchange exposures to the extent that there are net assets in overseas operations available.
212 Business review Capital and risk management Non-traded market risk continued Key points unaudited The increase in net investments in foreign operations mainly Changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect equity in reflected investment taken to support RBSs business in the proportion to structural foreign currency exposure.
Net investments in euro-denominated operations also example, a 5% strengthening or weakening in foreign increased in 2017.
However, a dividend paid by UBI DAC in currencies against sterling would respectively result in a January 2018 has reduced net investments in euro gain or loss of 0.4 billion in equity 2016 a 5% operations by approximately 1.3 billion.
strengthening or weakening in foreign currencies against The reduction in net investment hedges mainly reflected the sterling would respectively have resulted in a gain or loss of reduction in hedges of other non-sterling investments in 0.3 billion.
Hedges are reduced as a result of the reduction in net investments in other non-sterling foreign operations due to disposals, dividends or other capital repatriations.
Equity risk Equity positions are carried at fair value on the balance sheet based on available market prices where possible.
In the event that market prices are not available, fair value is based on appropriate valuation techniques or management estimates.
The table below shows the balance sheet carrying value of non-traded book equity positions.
2017 2016 m m Exchange-traded equity 41 33 Private equity 243 357 Other 136 146 420 536 The exposures may take the form of i equity shares listed on a recognised exchange, ii private equity shares defined as unlisted equity shares with no observable market parameters or iii other unlisted equity shares.
2017 2016 m m Net realised gains arising from disposals 82 295 Unrealised gains included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital 60 53 Note: 1 Includes gains or losses on available-for-sale instruments only.
Key point The reduction in equity shareholdings mainly reflected disposals of equity stakes in private equity and other equity investments.
Calculation of regulatory capital unaudited The total non-traded market risk capital requirement is Non-traded market risk exposures are capitalised through the determined by adding the different charges for each sub risk Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
The ICAAP methodology captures at least ten years of process covers the following risk types: gap risk, basis risk, credit historical volatility and is produced to a 99% confidence level.
spread risk, pipeline risk, structural foreign exchange risk, Methodologies are reviewed by Model Risk Management and prepayment risk and accounting volatility risk.
ICAAP is results are approved by the Capital Management and Stress performed using a combination of value-based and earningsTesting Committee.
213 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk Trading activities may also give rise to counterparty credit risk.
The following disclosures in this section are audited: For information on the management of this risk, refer to the Credit Internal VaR risk section on page 179.
Definition Risk governance unaudited Within trading books, traded market risk is the risk arising from Responsibility for identifying, measuring, monitoring and changes in fair value on positions, assets, liabilities or controlling the market risk arising from trading activities lies with commitments as a result of fluctuations in market prices.
the relevant trading business, with  oversight provided by the Traded Market Risk function.
Key developments in 2017 unaudited During H1 2017, revised traded market risk appetite metrics Traded market risk positions are reported monthly to the were approved by the Board and cascaded to the Executive Risk Forum ERF and quarterly to the Board Risk franchises.
In Q4 2017, the limits for NatWest Markets were Committee.
revised to accommodate trading book positions from the legacy portfolio which has now been re-integrated into Market risk policy statements set out the governance and risk NatWest Markets.
management framework through effective identification, Political events during the year, including elections in the measurement, reporting, mitigation, monitoring and control.
UK, France and the Netherlands, resulted in periods of market volatility.
European interest rates remained at Risk appetite unaudited historically low levels, although the Bank of England and US RBSs qualitative appetite for traded market risk is set out in the Federal Reserve began raising interest rates.
traded market risk appetite statement.
Traded VaR increased on an average basis compared to 2016, but remained within risk appetite.
This was partly Its quantitative appetite is expressed in terms of exposure limits because the level of risk was reduced in H1 2016 as a result in the form of Board risk measures approved by the RBS Board of concerns over the stability of the financial sector, leading on the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee and key to a lower average risk profile for that year.
The risk profile risk measures approved by the Technical Executive Risk subsequently returned to a more normalised level.
Refinements to the VaR methodology used for certain credit products also contributed to the increase.
These limits are cascaded further down the organisation as required, as approved by the Technical Executive Risk Forum.
Sources of risk unaudited The primary objective of RBSs trading activities is to provide a The limit framework at RBS level comprises value-at-risk VaR range of financing, risk management and investment services to and stressed value-at-risk SVaR.
More details on these are its customers including major corporations and financial provided on the following pages.
From a market risk perspective, the trading activities are focused on the following markets: rates: The limit framework at trading unit level also comprises additional currencies: securitised products: and traded credit.
metrics that are specific to the market risk exposures within its scope.
These additional metrics aim to control various risk RBS undertakes transactions in financial instruments including dimensions such as product type, exposure size, aged inventory, debt securities, loans, deposits and equities, as well as securities currency and tenor.
For each trading business, a document known as a dealing Following the reintegration of legacy portfolios, traded market risk authority compiles details of all applicable limits and trading now almost entirely resides in the NatWest Markets franchise.
The key categories of traded market risk are: Interest rate risk which is the risk that a positions fair The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, value will change due to a change in the absolute level of business plans, portfolio composition and the market and interest rates, in the spread between two rates, in the shape economic environments.
of the yield curve or in any other interest rate relationship.
Credit spread risk which is the risk that the value of a To ensure approved limits are not breached and that RBS position will change due to changes in the real or marketremains within its risk appetite, triggers at RBS and lower levels perceived ability of a borrower to pay related cash flows or have been set such that if exposures exceed a specified level, obligations.
action plans are developed by the front office and Traded Market Foreign currency price risk which is the risk that the fair Risk.
value of a position will change due to the change in foreign currency rates, including gold.
For further information on risk appetite, refer to page 154.
Equity price risk which is the risk that the fair value of a position will change due to the change in equity prices.
Commodity price risk which is the risk that the fair value of a position will change due to the change in commodity prices.
214 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued Risk measurement Risk controls and assurance unaudited RBS uses a comprehensive set of methodologies and techniques For information on risk controls and assurance, refer to page 156. to measure traded market risk, namely VaR, SVaR and the incremental risk charge.
Risks that are not adequately captured Risk identification and assessment unaudited by VaR or SVaR are captured by the Risks not in VaR RNIV Identification and assessment of traded market risk is achieved framework to ensure that RBS is adequately capitalised for through gathering, analysing, monitoring and reporting market market risk.
In addition, stress testing is used to identify any risk information at desk, business, franchise and RBS-wide vulnerabilities and potential losses in excess of VaR and SVaR.
Industry expertise, continued system developments and techniques such as stress testing are also used to enhance the The key inputs into these measurement methods are market data effectiveness of the identification and assessment of all material and risk factor sensitivities.
Sensitivities refer to the changes in market risks.
trade or portfolio value that result from small changes in market parameters that are subject to the market risk limit This is complemented by the New Product Approval process, in framework.
Revaluation ladders are used in place of sensitivities which the market risk team participates to assess and quantify to capture the impact of large moves in risk factors or the joint the market risk associated with all proposed new products.
impact of two risk factors.
Risk monitoring unaudited These methods have been designed to capture correlation Traded market risk exposures are monitored against limits and effects and allow RBS to form an aggregated view of its traded analysed daily by market risk reporting and control functions.
A market risk across risk types, markets and business lines while daily report that summarises market risk exposures against the also taking into account the characteristics of each risk type.
limits at RBS, franchise, business and desk levels is sent to senior management and market risk managers across the Value-at-risk unaudited function.
For internal risk management purposes, VaR assumes a time horizon of one trading day and a confidence level of 99%.
The Market Risk function also prepares daily risk reports that detail exposures against a more granular set of limits and The internal VaR model which captures all trading book triggers.
positions including those products approved by the regulator is based on a historical simulation, utilising market data from the Limit reporting is supplemented with regulatory capital and stress previous 500 days on an equally weighted basis.
testing information as well as ad hoc reporting.
The model also captures the potential impact of the following key A risk review of trading businesses is undertaken weekly with risk factors: interest rate risk: credit spread risk: foreign currency senior risk and front office staff.
This includes a review of profit price risk: equity price risk: and commodity price risk.
These are and loss drivers, notable position concentrations and other defined under Sources of risk.
When simulating potential movements in risk factors, a Businesses profit and loss performance is monitored combination of absolute, relative and rescaled returns is used, automatically through loss triggers which, if breached, require a depending on the risk factor.
remedial action plan to be agreed between the Market Risk The performance and adequacy of the VaR model are tested on function and the front office.
The loss triggers are set using both a regular basis through the following processes: a fall-from-peak approach and an absolute loss level.
Back-testing Internal and regulatory back-testing is conducted on a daily basis.
For information on internal In addition, as noted under Risk governance above, regular back-testing, refer to page 217. updates on traded market risk positions are provided to the ERF Ongoing model validation VaR model performance is and Board Risk Committee.
assessed both regularly and on an ad-hoc basis if market conditions or book constitution change significantly.
Model Risk Management review As part of the model lifecycle, all risk models including the VaR model are independently reviewed to ensure that the model is still fit for purpose given current market conditions and book constitution refer to page 156.
215 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued 1-Day 99% traded internal VaR unaudited 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total Trading VaR Interest Rate VaR Credit Spread VaR FX VaR Equity VaR Commodity VaR Traded VaR 1-day99% The table below analyses 1-day 99% internal VaR for RBSs trading portfolios, segregated by type of market risk exposure.
Key points On a period-end basis, total traded VaR was in the middle of Traded VaR fluctuated throughout 2017, reflecting political the range for the year.
developments, market events, customer flows and other macroeconomic factors.
On an average basis, total traded VaR increased in 2017 compared to 2016, but remained within risk appetite.
This was partly because the level of risk was reduced in H1 2016 as a result of concerns over the stability of the financial sector, leading to a lower average risk profile for that year.
The risk profile subsequently returned to a more normalised level.
Refinements applied to the VaR methodology used for certain credit products during 2017 also contributed to the increase.
216 m Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued VaR back-testing unaudited The main approach employed to assess the ongoing The Hypo P&L reflects the firms Actual P&L excluding any intraperformance of the VaR model is back-testing, which counts the day activities.
number of days when a loss exceeds the corresponding daily VaR estimate, measured at a 99% confidence level.
A portfolio is said to produce a back-testing exception when the Actual or Hypo P&L exceeds the VaR level on a given day.
Such Two types of profit and loss P&L are used in back-testing an event may be caused by a large market movement or may comparisons: Actual P&L and Hypothetical Hypo P&L.
highlight issues such as missing risk factors or inappropriate time series.
Any such issues identified are analysed and addressed The Actual P&L for a particular business day is the firms actual through taking appropriate remediation or development action.
P&L for that day in respect of the trading activities, including any Both Actual and Hypo back-testing exceptions are monitored.
intraday activities, adjusted by stripping out fees and commissions, brokerage, and additions to and releases from reserves that are not directly related to market risk.
The table below shows internal back-testing exceptions for a period of 250 days for 1-day 99% traded internal VaR vs. Actual and Hypo P&L for major NatWest Markets businesses.
Back-testing exceptions from 16 January 2017 Description Actual Hypo Rates Credit 2 2 Currencies 1 Securitised products 1 1 Key points unaudited The number of exceptions observed in 2017 for major Statistically RBS would expect to see back-testing businesses in NatWest Markets was broadly in line with this exceptions 1% of the time over the 250-day period.
217 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued For general information on the independent model validation Stressed VaR SVaR unaudited carried out by Model Risk Management, which applies also to As with VaR, the SVaR methodology produces estimates of the market risk models including VaR models, refer to page 156. potential change in the market value of a portfolio, over a Additional details relating to pricing and market risk models are specified time horizon, at a given confidence level.
VaR-based measure using historical data from a one-year period of stressed market conditions.
Pricing models Pricing models are developed by a dedicated front office The risk system simulates 99% VaR on the current portfolio for quantitative team, in conjunction with the trading desk.
They are each 250-day period from 2005 to the current VaR date, moving used for the valuation of positions for which prices are not directly forward one day at a time.
The SVaR is the worst VaR outcome observable and for the risk management of the portfolio.
Any pricing models that are used as the basis for valuing books This is in contrast with VaR, which is based on a rolling 500-day and records are subject to approval and oversight by asset-level historical data set.
A time horizon of ten trading days is assumed modelled product review committees.
These committees comprise representatives of the major The internal traded SVaR model captures all trading book stakeholders in the valuation process - trading, finance, market positions.
risk, model development and model review functions.
Model approval by such a committee requires review and approval by 10-day 99% trading internal SVaR unaudited these stakeholders, including independent model review by PeriodPeriodModel Risk Management.
end end 2017 2016 m m The review process includes the following steps: RBS 172 161 The committees prioritise models for review by Model Risk Management, considering the materiality of the risk booked Key point unaudited against the model and an assessment of the degree of Traded SVaR fluctuated throughout 2017, reflecting political model risk, that is the valuation uncertainty arising from the developments, market events, customer flows and other choice of modelling assumptions.
On a period-end basis, traded Model Risk Management quantifies the model risk, which SVaR in 2017 remained at a similar level to 2016. may include comparing front office model outputs with those of alternative models independently developed by Model Risks not in VaR RNIVs unaudited Risk Management.
The RNIV framework is used to identify and quantify market risks The sensitivities derived from the pricing models are that are inadequately captured by the internal VaR and SVaR validated.
The conclusions of the review are used to inform risk limits and by Finance to inform model reserves.
RNIV calculations form an integral part of ongoing model and data improvement efforts to capture all market risks in scope for Risk models model approval in VaR and SVaR.
All model changes are approved through model governance committees at franchise level.
Changes to existing models are Stress testing unaudited subject to Model Risk Management review and RBS follows For information on stress testing, refer to page 159. regulatory guidance for assessing the materiality of extensions and changes to the internal model approach for market risk.
Incremental risk charge IRC unaudited The IRC model quantifies the impact of rating migration and Model Risk Managements independent oversight provides default events on the market value of instruments with embedded additional assurance that RBS holds appropriate capital for the credit risk in particular, bonds and credit default swaps that are market risk to which it is exposed.
It further captures basis risk between different instruments, maturities and reference entities.
In addition to Model Risk Managements independent oversight, the model testing team monitors the model performance for Model validation unaudited market risk through back-testing, which is discussed in more RBS uses a variety of models to manage and measure market detail on page 217, and other processes.
These include pricing models used for valuation of positions and risk models for risk measurement and capital calculation purposes.
They are developed and signed off in NatWest Markets, with material models subject to independent review by Model Risk Management.
218 Business review Capital and risk management Traded market risk continued Linkage to balance sheet unaudited The table below analyses RBSs balance sheet by non-trading and trading business.
2017 2016 Non-trading Trading Non-trading Trading Total business 1 business 2 Total business 1 business 2 bn bn bn bn bn bn Primary risk factor Assets Cash and balances at central banks 98.3 98.3 74.3 74.2 0.1 Interest rate Net loans and advances to banks 16.3 9.3 7.0 17.3 10.4 6.9 Interest rate Net loans and advances to customers 323.2 307.9 15.3 323.0 304.9 18.1 Interest rate Reverse repos 40.7 4.5 36.2 41.8 4.1 37.7 Interest rate Debt securities 78.9 51.4 27.5 72.5 48.0 24.5 Interest rate, credit spreads Equity shares 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.7 0.5 0.2 Equities Derivatives 160.8 1.6 159.2 247.2 3.0 244.2 Interest rate, credit spreads Settlement balances 2.5 2.5 5.5 0.1 5.4 Settlement risk Other assets 16.9 16.9 16.4 16.4 Total assets 738.1 490.3 247.8 798.7 461.6 337.1 Liabilities Deposits by banks 39.5 27.0 12.5 33.3 12.6 20.7 Interest rate Customer deposits 367.0 355.2 11.8 353.9 340.7 13.2 Interest rate Repos 38.4 10.1 28.3 32.3 5.0 27.3 Interest rate Debt securities in issue 30.6 28.0 2.6 27.3 22.9 4.4 Interest rate Settlement balances 2.8 2.8 3.6 0.1 3.5 Settlement risk Short positions 28.5 28.5 22.1 22.1 Interest rate, credit spreads Derivatives 154.5 1.5 153.0 236.5 1.9 234.6 Interest rate, credit spreads Subordinated liabilities 12.7 12.7 19.4 19.4 Interest rate Other liabilities 15.0 15.0 20.9 20.9 Total liabilities 689.0 449.5 239.5 749.3 423.5 325.8 Notes: 1 Non-trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are not classified as trading book.
For these exposures, with the exception of pension-related activities, the main measurement methods are sensitivity analysis of net interest income, internal non-traded VaR and fair value calculations.
For more information refer to pages 206 to 213.
2 Trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are classified as trading book under regulatory rules.
For these exposures, the main methods used by RBS to measure market risk are detailed under traded market risk measurement on pages 214 to 219.
3 Foreign exchange risk affects all non-sterling denominated exposures on the balance sheet across trading and non-trading businesses, and therefore has not been listed in the above tables.
219 Business review Capital and risk management Pension risk management function Pension risk unaudited Definition Risk governance Pension obligation risk is the risk to RBS caused by its The Main scheme operates under a trust deed.
The corporate contractual or other liabilities to, or with respect to, a pension trustee, RBS Pension Trustee Limited, is a wholly owned scheme whether established for its employees or those of a subsidiary of National Westminster Bank Plc.
The trustee board related company or otherwise.
It is also the risk that RBS will comprises six directors selected by RBS and four directors make payments or other contributions to, or with respect to, a representing members.
The trustee is supported by RBS pension scheme because of a moral obligation or because RBS Investment Executive Ltd RIEL, which specialises in pension considers that it needs to do so for some other reason.
Sources of pension risk The Pension Committee, which is chaired by the RBS Chief RBS has exposure to pension risk through its defined benefit Financial Officer, acts as a sub-committee of the Executive schemes worldwide.
The five largest schemes, which represent Committee and formulates RBSs view of pension risk.
The around 98% of RBSs pension liabilities are: the Main Section of Pension Committee considers mechanisms that could potentially The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund the Main be used for managing risk within the funds as well as financial scheme, the AA Section of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group strategy.
The Pension Committee is a key component of RBSs Pension Fund, the Ulster Bank Pension Scheme, the Ulster Bank approach to managing pension risk and it reviews and monitors Pension Scheme Republic of Ireland, and the Royal Bank of risk management, asset strategy and financing issues on behalf Scotland International Pension Trust.
The Main scheme is the of RBS.
The Pension Committee also serves as a formal link principal source of pension risk.
Further detail on RBSs pension between RBS, RIEL and the trustee.
obligations can be found in Note 4 on the consolidated accounts.
For further information on Risk governance, refer to page 152.
Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term interest rates and inflation as well as with pensionable salaries, the Risk appetite longevity of scheme members and legislation.
Pension scheme Investment policy for the schemes is defined by the trustee with assets vary with changes in interest rates, inflation expectations, input from RIEL where appropriate and other specialist advisers credit spreads, exchange rates, and equity and property prices.
While the trustee is responsible for the RBS is exposed to the risk that the schemes assets, together management of the scheme assets, it consults with RBS on with future returns and additional future contributions, are material changes to the Main schemes risk appetite and insufficient to meet liabilities as they fall due.
circumstances, RBS could be obliged or might choose to make additional contributions to the schemes, or be required to hold RBS maintains an independent view of the risk inherent in additional capital to mitigate this risk.
pension funds, with an associated risk appetite, and has defined metrics against which risk is measured.
In addition to the scrutiny Prior to 6 April 1997, individuals who contracted out of the UK provided by the Pension Committee, RBS undertakes regular State Second Pension were entitled to a Guaranteed Minimum pension risk monitoring and reporting to the Board and the Board Pension GMP.
Men accrued GMP at different rates to women.
Risk Committee on the material pension schemes that RBS has The Government intends that GMP should be equalised but until an obligation to support.
the mechanism is defined, pension funds are uncertain of their obligations.
In the meantime, no allowance is made for GMP Risk controls equalisation in the IAS 19 defined benefit obligations and risk A pension risk management framework is in place to provide disclosures.
formal controls for pension risk reporting, modelling, governance and stress testing.
A pension risk policy which sits within the Key developments in 2017 RBS policy framework is also in place and is subject to A memorandum of understanding between Ulster Bank Ireland associated framework controls.
DAC and Ulster Bank Pension Trustees Limited was agreed.
A contribution of 200 million was paid to the pension scheme and Risk identification and measurement the investment strategy amended to include more hedging Pension risk reports are submitted to the Executive Risk Forum assets.
and the Board Risk Committee four times a year in the Risk & Conduct Management Quarterly Report.
This includes an Throughout 2017, various pension risk stress-testing initiatives assessment of the overall deficit or surplus position, estimated were undertaken, focused both on internally-defined scenarios capital requirements, and an assessment of the associated and on scenarios to meet integrated Bank of England stressassets and liabilities.
For more information on stress testing, refer to the following page.
220 Business review Capital and risk management Pension risk unaudited continued RBS also undertakes stress tests and scenario analyses on its Pension stress tests take the form of both stochastic and material defined benefit pension schemes each year as part of its deterministic stresses over time horizons ranging from risk measurement framework.
These stress tests are also used to instantaneous to seven years in duration.
They are designed to satisfy the requests of regulatory bodies such as the Bank of examine the behaviour of the pension schemes assets and England.
The stress testing framework includes pension risk liabilities under a range of financial and demographic shocks.
The capital calculations for the purposes of the Internal Capital results of the stress tests and their consequential impact on Adequacy Assessment Process as well as additional stress tests RBSs balance sheet, income statement and capital position are for a number of internal management purposes.
incorporated into the overall RBS-wide stress test results.
RBS Group plc is the parent of several entities that participate in the Main scheme, and which could be required to fund any deficit that arises.
The table below shows the sensitivity of the Main schemes assets and liabilities measured according to IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
It includes changes in interest rates and equity values at the year-end, taking account of the current asset allocation and hedging arrangements.
Increase in Increase in Increase in net pension value of value of assets assets liabilities obligations 2017 m m m Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 1,199 750 449 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 1,289 1,329 40 Fall in AA credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields or other credit spreads 7 2,055 2,048 Fall in equity values of 10% 1 909 909 2016 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 1,048 502 546 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 1,485 1,552 67 Fall in AA credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields or other credit spreads 9 2,074 2,065 Fall in equity values of 10% 1 905 905 Note: 1 Includes both quoted and private equity.
The chart below shows the pension liability cash flow profile, allowing for expected indexation of future payments.
The majority of expected cash flows 84% are anticipated within the next 40 years.
The profile will vary depending on the assumptions made regarding inflation expectations and mortality.
25% 2017 2016 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% 0-10 11-20 21-30 31-40 41-50 Over 50 221 Proportion of liability cash flows Business review Capital and risk management Pension risk unaudited continued The next triennial valuation will have an effective date of 31 Risk mitigation December 2018.
The expectation is that this will result in The trustee has taken measures to mitigate inflation and interest additional contributions being agreed with the trustee.
Under rate risks, both by investing in suitable financial assets and by current legislation, such agreement would need to be reached no entering into inflation and interest rate swaps.
The Main scheme later than 31 March 2020. also uses derivatives to manage the allocation of the portfolio to different asset classes and to manage risk within asset classes.
The aggregate contributions RBS commits to will therefore depend not only on the size of any deficit arising from the The assets of the Main scheme, which represented around 90% triennial valuation on assumptions that must be agreed with the of RBSs pension plan assets at 31 December 2017, are invested trustee, but also on the extent to which RBS needs to provide in a diversified portfolio.
This includes quoted and private equity, additional mitigation for any perceived weakening in the covenant government and corporate fixed interest and index-linked bonds, as a result of ring-fence restructuring.
The assumptions to be property and other alternative assets.
agreed with the trustee will include the discount rate the rate at which future cash flows are discounted to arrive at a present Future developments value of the total pension scheme liabilities as well as a range of The UK ring-fencing regime will require significant changes to the other assumptions such as recent changes to life expectancy structure of RBSs existing defined benefit pension schemes.
From 2026 it will not be possible for any of the entities inside the ring-fence or their wholly-owned subsidiaries to participate in The trustee estimates that, as at 30 June 2017, the Main scheme the same defined benefit pension scheme as entities outside the had a surplus of 1.7 billion on the technical provisions ring-fence.
assumptions agreed for the 31 December 2015 triennial valuation the methodology for deriving these assumptions is shown in RBS is developing a strategy to meet these requirements.
This Note 4 on the consolidated accounts.
A 25 basis point 0.25% will require the agreement of the pension scheme trustee.
RBSs reduction in the technical provisions discount rate reduces the intention is for the Main scheme to be supported by entities within surplus position by around 2.4 billion.
This could result in the pension scheme trustee concluding that the employer covenant the ability of participating This sensitivity to the discount rate assumption is greater than the employers to support the scheme has been weakened as a sensitivity of the IAS 19 obligation of 2.0 billion to a 25 basis result of the entities outside the ring-fence no longer participating point change in the discount rate, shown in Note 4 on the in the pension scheme, and as a result requesting additional consolidated accounts, as a result of two factors: contributions.
Discussions with respect to the above issues are The technical provisions liability is greater than the IAS 19 ongoing with the trustee.
obligation, meaning a proportionate change would have a larger absolute impact.
The last triennial valuation of the Main scheme had an effective Different assumptions are used for technical provisions for date of 31 December 2015.
This valuation was concluded with example longevity.
the acceleration of the nominal value of all committed contributions in respect of past service 4.2 billion, which was paid in the first quarter of 2016.
222 Business review Capital and risk management Conduct risk unaudited Definition Conduct risk is the risk that the behaviour of RBS and its staff RBS updated its policies to reflect changes required in towards customers, or in the markets in which it operates, leads relation to the 4th Money Laundering directive, which came to unfair or inappropriate customer outcomes resulting in into force in H1 2017 to combat terrorist and criminal reputational damage, financial loss or both.
The damage or loss financing.
may be the result of a failure to comply with or adequately plan The Criminal Finances Act 2017 came into force in H2 2017, for changes to relevant official sector policy, laws, regulations, or introducing a new corporate offence of failure to prevent the major industry standards, or of failing to meet the expectations of facilitation of tax evasion.
Policies and procedures in place customers or regulators.
to prevent such activity were reviewed and enhanced.
Conduct risk management function Sources of conduct risk The management of conduct risk is based on seven key Conduct risk exists across all stages of RBSs relationships with elements, ensuring that conduct risk exposures are understood its customers from the development of its business strategies, and managed in accordance with agreed risk appetite.
to post-sales processes and arises from a variety of activities.
These include product design, marketing and sales, complaint Product profitability and RBS can clearly demonstrate RBS can clearly demonstrate handling, staff training, and handling of confidential insider pricing structures are fair that its products and services that its business model is and transparent are designed to meet information.
Conduct risk also arises if RBS does not take consistent with its strategy customer needs, their level and serves its customers well effective action to prevent fraud, bribery and money laundering.
of complexity is appropriate Product while balancing the for the target market and Profitability commercial needs As set out in Note 31 on the consolidated accounts, RBS and they work in the way & Pricing they are expected to certain members of staff are party to legal proceedings and are Business Model & Strategy RBSs governance, subject to investigation and other regulatory action in the UK, the Product RBSs customers are policies and RBS has no appetite sold products and US and other jurisdictions.
Procedures for actions that result services appropriate Ensure that in inappropriate for their needs.
Any outcomes for its customers good customer information or advice or breach legal or regulatory and conduct Key developments in 2017 provided is suitable, requirements leading to outcomes are Customer Governance relevant and censure or financial Lifecycle Parts of the Conduct & Regulatory Affairs function were merged achieved.
RBS penalty communicated in a abides by all clear, fair way.
with the Risk function with effect from 1 January 2017. relevant laws Delivery of after-sales and regulations and Regulatory Affairs moved to Corporate Governance & Secretariat support meets Competency, Financial conflicts of interest customer Culture Crime while Remediation and Complaints moved to Services Chief are managed & Reward expectations Operating Office.
The change was designed to take advantage of synergies across the risk, conduct and regulatory agendas.
RBS colleagues are trained, managed RBS has robust systems and controls and rewarded to serve customers well and deliver good outcomes.
RBSs in place to prevent people act with integrity and understand RBS continued to remediate historical conduct issues, while also financial crime the impact of their decisions and focusing its customer-facing businesses and support functions behaviors on customer outcomes around the needs of its customers including the delivery of a number of regulatory change programmes.
Conduct and litigation Risk governance costs were 1.1 billion in 2017 compared with 5.9 billion in RBS defines appropriate standards of conduct and drives 2016. adherence to those standards through its framework for The remediation of PPI continued, with the FCA confirming managing conduct risk.
The Board and its senior committees August 2019 as the deadline for PPI mis-selling claims.
receive updates on conduct risk exposures and action plans The FCA is reviewing the business models of UK retail through regular reporting.
banks, building societies and credit unions, to understand how recent changes are affecting competition and conduct Key elements of the governance structure are set out below: in the sector.
The Risk, Conduct & Restructuring Executive Committee Following an enforcement notice from the Central Bank of considers emerging material risks and issues, and Ireland in respect of tracker mortgages, a significant implements Board and Executive Committee risk remediation programme was established.
Work progressed to meet the requirements of the revised The Financial Crime Risk Executive Committee Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation accountable to the Executive Risk Forum ensures that the MiFID II MiFIR in advance of their introduction in early customer-facing businesses and the Services function fulfil 2018. strategic objectives by identifying and managing their Work also progressed on the conduct-related aspects of the financial crime risks effectively.
Changes were implemented to support compliance with the Controls second Payment Services Directive in advance of its Under the policy framework, there are 18 conduct policies.
These introduction in early 2018. are designed to provide both high-level direction and stipulate RBS-wide requirements.
The policies provide the necessary clarity to staff on their conduct obligations and ensure RBS meets its regulatory obligations.
223 Business review Capital and risk management Conduct risk unaudited continued Risk assessments are used to identify material conduct risks and Risk monitoring and measurement inform key controls across all business areas.
The risk The Board and senior RBS committees receive updates on assessment process is designed to confirm risks are effectively conduct risk exposures and action plans through regular managed and prioritised.
The process also ensures controls are reporting.
The reporting is intended to be focused, forwardtested.
Scenario analysis is used to assess the impact of extreme but The most material conduct matters are reported to the plausible conduct risks including financial crime.
The scenarios appropriate committees, including the Board, the Group Audit assess the exposures that could significantly affect RBSs Committee and Board Risk Committee.
financial performance or reputation and are an important component in the operational risk framework and capital model.
An annual Money Laundering Reporting Officers Report is submitted to the Board and shared with the FCA.
This covers Risk appetite RBSs Anti-Money Laundering AML framework and the The conduct risk appetite framework was established in 2015 and operation and effectiveness of the systems and controls in place has been embedded across RBS.
to comply with AML laws and regulations.
In addition, it covers the systems and controls in place to prevent the financing of terrorism and to ensure compliance with sanctions.
The Group Audit Committee is provided with a whistleblowing RBS has no appetite for actions that result in inappropriate report twice a year.
The report comments on the operational outcomes for its customers or breach effectiveness of our whistleblowing framework, internally branded legal or regulatory requirements leading as Speak Up, and any trends emerging from completed to censure or financial penalty investigations.
It details cases by internal reporting categories Policy Standard Zero Tolerance based on the RBS definition of whistleblowing included in the Risk appetite statements articulate Speak Up policy.
the level of risk which functions and franchises must not Risk Appetite Statements exceed i. e. the RBSwide cascaded risk The Speak Up policy encompasses both the legislative definition appetite contained within the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 and the Businesses carried out selfregulatory definition within FCA and PRA regulations and assessments with Conduct Performance RCR providing Assessment guidance.
It extends these to include conduct or behaviour which oversight and challenge does not meet the expected standards documented in Our Code.
Qualitative and quantitative management Conduct Risk Each business in RBS has enhanced its use of management information Management Information linked to the risk appetite information by linking it to the relevant Conduct risk appetite pillars statements.
This is required to help ensure appropriate customer outcomes are delivered and that the management information is compliant with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions The conduct risk appetite framework and the Conduct principles for effective risk data aggregation and risk reporting.
Performance Assessment, which forms part of it, facilitate a consistent approach across RBS for assessing conduct risk.
Risk mitigation Information is communicated to each customer-facing business The conduct risk appetite statements, in line with RBS-wide risk and function about regulatory developments and discussions with appetite, articulate the levels of risk which franchises and regulators.
This helps identify and execute any required changes functions must not exceed.
Where businesses are operating to strategy or to business models.
outside conduct appetite, the problems are addressed through agreed risk mitigation plans.
Early identification and effective management of changes in legislation and regulation are critical to the successful mitigation The Conduct Performance Assessment was run in Q1 and Q3 of conduct risk.
The effects of all changes are managed to ensure 2017, reporting on risk exposures and the operating effectiveness timely compliance readiness.
Changes assessed as having a of controls across the businesses.
During Q4 2017, the Conduct high or medium-high impact are managed closely.
Performance Assessment was discontinued, in advance of the roll-out of a new approach in early 2018, providing a real-time Mandatory learning, across RBS, helps to ensure colleagues quantitative view, supported by qualitative assessment.
have the information necessary to carry out their duties in a way that complies with expected standards.
224 pillars Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk unaudited Definition The external fraud threat remained high with data used by Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or organised crime gangs to deceive customers through social failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events.
engineering, and the continued evolution of financial malware.
In It arises from day-to-day operations and is relevant to every 2017, there was an increase in fraud perpetrated by scams.
RBS aspect of the business.
has a bank-wide response plan to address the increased threat, which focuses on profiling capabilities and educating customers Operational risk may directly affect customers, lead to financial about fraud protection as well as continued work to drive and loss or damage RBSs reputation for example, cyber attacks, a support industry best practice.
This aligned with fraud prevention major IT systems failure or fraudulent activity.
There can also be programmes across RBS, with the objective of mitigating the a link between operational risk failures and conduct risk issues.
effects of external fraud on customers and RBS itself.
The plan was successfully implemented and key strategic initiatives Sources of operational risk enhanced RBSs fraud prevention and detection capabilities, Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage operations, enabling it to limit the effects of fraudulent activity on its systems, transactions and assets appropriately.
This can take the customers.
As a result, RBS recorded a year-on-year decrease in form of human error, an inability to deliver change adequately or the number of its customers falling victim to fraud in 2017. on time, the non-availability of technology services, or the loss of customer data.
Fraud and theft are sources of operational risk, as RBS continued to support an industry-led education initiative is the impact of natural and man-made disasters.
It can also arise Take Five to Stop Fraud which offers advice to help the public from a failure to account for changes in law or regulations or to protect themselves from preventable financial fraud.
The initiative take appropriate measures to protect assets.
is led by Financial Fraud Action UK Ltd and is being delivered in conjunction with the Home Office, law enforcement and other Key developments in 2017 banks.
RBS continued to work to embed its enhanced operational risk framework, improving links between risk appetite and risk The information and cyber security risk facing RBS continued to exposure and building a more robust control environment.
change in line with the constantly evolving threats.
Internal security improvement programmes progressed across RBS, The year also saw a continued focus on the risks arising from the developing new and strengthening existing controls in order to execution of major projects, including: the Transformation protect the Group and its customers.
RBS continuously portfolio: the restructuring of NatWest Markets: preparations for developed and used proactive threat management and the implementation of the corporate structural reform agenda intelligence processes to understand, manage and mitigate for example the Independent Commission on Bankings ringcredible threats.
fencing proposals, recovery and resolution planning, as well as Brexit: the planned activities to meet the European Commission RBS decommissioned a number of internet-facing websites to state aid obligations: and, the effect on RBSs control reduce the attack surface visible to hackers and fraudsters.
environment due to cost reduction measures.
These projects are Improvements were also made to prevent data leakage, secure essential in order for RBS to achieve its strategic objectives.
externally bound email, as well as enhance malware defences Risk, Conduct & Restructuring ensured the associated risks to and management of user access to key systems.
Internal training these projects were assessed and understood with mitigating programmes continued to ensure all employees are fully aware of activity in place wherever possible.
the threats facing RBS and remain vigilant to unauthorised attempts by internal or external parties to access systems and There was also a strong focus on RBSs risk and control data.
Following on from work carried out in 2016, the aim of this consistent, bank-wide methodology was to Operational risk management function enhance understanding of the risk profile for the most critical Risk governance products and services.
In 2017, coverage was significantly A strong operational risk management function is vital to support extended across RBS, with outputs used to inform Group-wide RBSs ambitions to serve its customers better.
management of operational risk against a defined appetite directly supports the strategic risk objective of improving stakeholder confidence and is vital for stability and reputational integrity.
The operational risk function, which is the second line of defence, is tasked with delivering a robust operational risk management framework and culture across RBS.
The Director of Operational Risk reports to the Chief Risk Officer.
225 Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk unaudited continued Risk controls Operational risk is responsible for the design, development, The Control Environment Certification CEC process is a half delivery and continuous improvement of the operational risk yearly self-assessment by the CEOs of RBSs customer-facing management framework.
The Operational Risk Policy is franchises and business units, as well as the heads of the incorporated into the RBS Policy Framework and provides Groups support and control functions.
It gives an assessment on direction for the consistent identification, assessment, the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control management, monitoring and reporting of operational risk.
environment in a consistent and comparable manner, highlighting Through a network of oversight teams, the function seeks to areas where targeted effort is needed to meet the standards ensure the integrity of the framework, and manages overall required in order to create a safer and more secure bank for operational risk profile against risk appetite.
It covers material risks and the key controls that underpin them, including financial, operational and compliance The Operational Risk Executive Committee OREC, which is a controls, as well as supporting risk management frameworks.
sub-committee of the Executive Risk Forum ERF, acts on all operational risk matters.
ORECs duties include reviewing The CEC outcomes, including forward-looking assessments for operational risk exposure against risk appetite: identifying and the next two half-yearly cycles and the progress made to improve assessing both current and emerging material operational risks: the control environment, are reported to the Board, the Group reviewing and monitoring the operational risk profile: and Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
They are also reviewing and approving material operational risk policy shared with external auditors.
The CEC process helps to ensure compliance with the RBS Risk appetite Policy Framework, Sarbanes-Oxley 404 requirements concerning The operational risk appetite framework supports effective internal control over financial reporting as referenced in the management of key operational risks.
It expresses the level and Compliance report on page 106, and certain requirements of the types of operational risk RBS is willing to accept in order to UK Corporate Governance Code.
achieve its strategic objectives and business plans.
Risk identification and measurement Across all business areas, risk and control assessments are used RBSs operational risk appetite is expressed through a set to identify and assess material operational and conduct risks and of qualitative risk appetite statements and quantitative measures key controls.
To support identification of risk concentrations, all which are defined at an aggregate, RBS-wide and individual risks and controls are mapped to the risk directory.
Appetite covers RBSs most material operational assessments are refreshed at least annually to ensure they risks, defined by a materiality assessment, which in turn remain relevant and capture any emerging risks.
considers past, current and future risk exposures.
Appetite exposures for all material risks are regularly reported to business The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively risk committees, the OREC, ERF and Board Risk Committee.
managed and prioritised in line with the stated risk appetite.
Controls are tested at the appropriate frequency to verify that The aggregation of operational risk appetite allows RBS to they remain fit-for-purpose and operate effectively.
monitor and report on its material risk exposures against predetermined limits.
This drives management intervention and During 2017, work continued to increase the coverage of the action at defined points, such as the breach of an early warning enhanced end-to-end risk and control assessment methodology.
This approach, which strengthens understanding of the risk profile of key products and services, is used to identify and Above these sit an RBS-level operational risk appetite statement quantify the most material operational risks.
Subject matter which encompasses the full range of operational risks.
This experts and key stakeholders are engaged from across RBS to drives the strategic risk measurement of stakeholder confidence underpin management action in line with RBSs financial and and is reviewed annually by the ERF.
The statement is supported non-financial appetite statement.
The results of the risk and by three simple measures: i the relationship between control assessments support RBSs on-going journey to build on, operational risk losses and RBSs gross income: ii metrics and enhance, its control environment.
covering control environment performance: and iii the requirement for the material RBS-wide operational risks to be Monitoring and reporting are part of RBSs operational risk managed within risk appetite.
management processes, which aim to ensure that risks are identified, considered by senior executives, and managed effectively.
The most material operational risks and their position relevant to risk appetite are regularly reviewed at the OREC, along with any emerging risks and the actions taken to mitigate them.
These are also reported to the Board Risk Committee and the ERF.
Exposures specific to each business are communicated through regular risk and control reports discussed at business risk committees.
226 Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk unaudited continued Loss data is used for regulatory and industry reporting and is RBS uses the standardised approach to calculate its operational included in capital modelling when calculating economic capital risk capital requirement.
This is based on multiplying three years for operational risk.
average historical gross income by coefficients set by the regulator based on type of income.
The most serious events are escalated in a simple, standardised process to all senior management, by way of a Group Notifiable As part of the wider Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Event Process.
Process an operational risk economic capital model is used as a All losses and recoveries associated with an operational risk key capital benchmark.
The model uses loss data and scenario event are reported against their financial accounting date.
A analysis inputs from the operational risk framework, plus external single event can result in multiple losses or recoveries that may loss data and certain other factors to provide a risk-sensitive view take time to crystallise.
Losses and recoveries with a financial of RBSs operational risk capital requirement.
accounting date in 2017 may relate to events that occurred, or were identified in, prior years.
Scenario analysis is used to assess how extreme but plausible operational risks will affect RBS.
It provides a forward-looking Percentage and value of events basis for evaluating and managing operational risk exposures.
At 31 December 2017, events aligned to the clients, products and business practices event category accounted for 84% of Refer to the Capital, liquidity and funding risk section for RBSs operational risk losses compared to 98% in 2016.
The operational risk capital requirement figures.
reduction reflects that the level of losses attributable to conductEvent and loss data management related events has significantly reduced compared to prior years.
The operational risk event and loss data management process The reduction in conduct-related events also explains the ensures RBS captures and records operational risk loss events increase in the proportion of events in the execution, delivery that meet defined criteria.
Value of events Volume of events 1 m Proportion Proportion 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Fraud 49 48 6% 1% 83% 78% Clients, products and business practices 2 614 5,411 84% 98% 7% 11% Execution, delivery and process management 65 40 9% 1% 7% 8% Employment practices and workplace safety 4 5 1% 3% 3% Technology and infrastructure failures 1 732 5,505 100% 100% 100% 100% Notes: 1 The calculation in the above table is based on the volume and value of events where the associated loss is more than or equal to 10,000.
2 2016 has been restated from 6,282 million as a loss captured in 2016 has now been determined as a non-qualifying operational risk event.
Risk mitigation Risks are mitigated through the application of key preventative and detective controls.
This is an integral step in the risk assessment methodology, which determines residual risk exposure.
Control owners are accountable for the design, execution, performance and maintenance of key controls.
These key controls are regularly assessed for adequacy and tested for effectiveness.
The control testing results are monitored and, where a material change in performance is identified, it results in a re-evaluation of the associated risk.
RBS purchases insurance to provide the business with financial protection against specific losses and to comply with statutory or contractual requirements.
227 Business review Capital and risk management Business risk unaudited Business risk is reported, assessed and challenged at every Definition governance level within the organisation.
Each franchise Business risk is the risk that RBS makes inappropriate business monitors its financial performance relative to plans and reports or strategic choices or that RBS is not able to execute its chosen this on a regular basis to the finance directors of each franchise.
strategy in line with its budget.
Risk mitigation Sources of risk RBS operates a monthly rolling forecasting process to identify Business risk arises as a result of RBSs exposure to the macroprojected changes in, or risks to, key financial metrics, and environment, to the competitive environment, and to ensures appropriate actions are taken.
In addition, internal factors such as Reputational risk unaudited volatility in sales volumes, and input costs, and other operational Definition risks such as RBSs ability to assess the business operating Reputational risk is the risk to RBSs public image from a failure environment, or to execute its chosen strategy, contribute to to meet stakeholders expectations in relation to performance, business risk.
Stakeholders include customers, Key developments in 2017 investors, employees, suppliers, government, regulators, special RBS continued to reduce its business risk profile by implementing interest and consumer groups, media and the general public.
its strategic plan to shift the business mix towards the UK and Sources of risk retail and commercial banking segments, with higher risk Reputational risk can arise from the conduct of employees: activities in NatWest Markets curtailed.
activities of customers and the sectors and countries in which RBS also continued with its simplification and cost reduction they operate: provision of products and transactions: as well as programmes during 2017. operations and infrastructure.
As negotiations on the prospective withdrawal of the UK from the Governance European Union have progressed, RBS has been closely Reputational risk has Board-level oversight reinforced by a monitoring and assessing the operating environment and its Reputational Risk Policy.
The Board Risk Committee and effect on business risk.
Sustainable Banking Committee are responsible for overseeing how RBS manages its reputation.
The Boards oversight of In July 2017, RBS reached a settlement with the Federal Housing reputational issues is supported by the senior RBS-wide Finance Agency, paying US$5.5 billion to resolve claims in Reputational Risk Forum RRF which opines on cases and relation to the issuance and underwriting of residential mortgageissues that represent a material reputational risk to the whole backed securities in the US.
This was an important step forward organisation.
The RRF, which has delegated authority from the in resolving one of the most significant legacy matters facing Executive Risk Forum ERF, also acts as a central forum to RBS.
review sector or theme-specific reputational risk acceptance positions, including environmental, social and ethical risk In September 2017, RBS received final approval from the positions, for example, in the Defence and Gambling sectors.
European Commission for its alternative remedies package, designed to promote competition for banking services to the SME Risk appetite marketplace.
This approval allows RBS to resolve its final State RBS manages and articulates its appetite for reputational risk Aid divestment obligation and brings clarity for customers and through the implementation of a qualitative reputational risk staff.
appetite statement and a committee-based governance framework.
This has improved the identification, assessment and Governance management of customers, transactions, products and issues The Board has ultimate responsibility for business risk and for that present a material reputational risk, resulting in a greater approving strategic plans, initiatives and changes to strategic awareness and focus on the importance of this risk.
RBS has seen a rise in the number of cases being referred to RBSs strategic planning process is managed by Strategy and franchise and group-wide reputational risk fora as a result of Corporate Development.
The Risk and Finance functions are key increased awareness of the framework as well as training on contributors to strategic planning.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of business risk Risk mitigation lies primarily with the franchises, with oversight by the Finance Reputational risk is mitigated through the policy and governance function.
The franchises are responsible for delivery of their framework, with ongoing staff training to ensure early business plans and the management of such factors as pricing, identification, assessment and escalation of material issues.
sales volumes, marketing expenditure and other factors that can Lessons learned from committee meetings have also improved introduce volatility into earnings.
the way cases and issues are debated and decisions made.
Risk identification The most material threats to RBSs reputation continued to Business risk is identified and managed at the product and originate from historical and more recent conduct issues.
Estimated revenue, costs and capital are key result, RBS has been the subject of investigations and reviews by considerations in the design of any new product or in any new a number of its regulators, some of which have resulted in fines investment decision.
Refer to the Litigation, investigations and reviews section of Note 31 on the consolidated accounts on page 313.
