com Annual report 2017 Beazley 55 Risk management Managing risk in an evolving business environment Andrew Pryde Chief risk officer The aggregation potential of multiple Realistic disaster scenarios are also Preparing for and responding claims arising from a cyber event is used to monitor the potential impact tocatastrophes managed using a similar process.
of a specialty lines catastrophe for Beazley is exposed to three key However, given that there have been example the impact that a recession insurance risks where one event can very few cyber events that have led to might have on the various professional lead to multiple claims.
These are, in a notable aggregation of claims, the indemnity risks underwritten.
This order of potential impact to Beazley, 1 monitoring is based on a suite of approach was tested and validated a specialty lines catastrophe, 2 a realistic disaster scenarios which is following the 2008 global financial crisis natural catastrophe and 3 a cyber how the monitoring of natural and, whilst there has been less reserve catastrophe.
The natural catastrophes catastrophes started.
We have been release than usual from the underwriting of hurricanes, earthquakes and wildfires undertaking a cyber risk review for the years immediately following the crisis, which occurred in the second half past four years, which has charted the they remained profitable.
of 2017 demonstrate why careful evolution of the modelling approach aggregate management is important and has evidenced improvements in The purpose of performing this to avoid undue surprises.
This starts sophistication each year.
This year, modelling and monitoring is to ensure with the board setting risk appetite Beazley has added new coverages to that in the event of a catastrophe which is managed to throughout the the cyber product to meet the needs occurring, such as those in the second year as risks are underwritten.
As a result, we have half of 2017, claims can be paid monitoring is performed using introduced a new realistic disaster promptly to our policyholders in their catastrophe modelling tools which help scenario to monitor this additional time of greatest need and a return can to manage the aggregation of exposure exposure.
We have also added a new still be provided to the investors who in different geographical areas.
The realistic disaster scenario to monitor the support Beazleys ongoing business.
same catastrophe modelling tools are increasing trend of ransomware attacks.
used to assist the underwriting teams We have supplemented the knowledge 2017 in review with pricing the risk and to establish the of Beazleys internal cyber experts with This year has included organisational amount of capital that must be held to advice and analysis from external changes which have impacted the support the underwriting given the risk experts working in the cyber field to risk and control environment.
Therefore, when natural ensure that we have sight of emerging we received approval of Beazley catastrophes occur, it is important to technical trends.
Finally, we continue to Insurance dacs licence from the test the models, particularly the methods monitor and support the development of Central Bank of Ireland to underwrite and assumptions used, to ensure that third party catastrophe modelling tools insurance business in Europe in addition they are still fit for purpose.
This validation as more analysis is being performed in to the reinsurance of syndicate 2623 exercise has been completed and has this risk area.
We expect, over time, that and syndicate 3623.
Secondly, Beazley confirmed that the catastrophe modelling the modelling of cyber risks will be able purchased a managing general agent, tools remain reasonable in light of the to mirror the sophistication of the Creechurch Underwriters, which is now events observed without the need for modelling of natural catastrophe risks.
called Beazley Canada Limited, in order an immediate off cycle adjustment, to provide more of Beazleys products and they remain a useful aid to the to our clients in Canada.
com Risk management continued We have been involved throughout these We worked with the board to produce 2017 was the second year of operating processes which, in each case, started Beazleys contingency plan for the UKs within the new Solvency II regime, with with the production of an Own Risk and exit from the European Union Brexit, our internal model approved by the Solvency Assessment ORSA report setting out a central plan and testing it Central Bank of Ireland.
There have been which informed the board of the risk and against a range of potential outcomes.
no major changes to the model during capital considerations and subsequently The main risk is the ability to offer the year and the output of the model has involved updating the risk register, insurance to European clients following continues to be used extensively to controls and governance to reflect the Brexit and, for context, around 4% of support business decisions.
This year new risk profile.
This has included Beazleys current European business we changed the external consulting firm ensuring that the new underwriting is within scope.
The central plan is to who support the independent validation and claims processes meet Beazleys be able to offer policies, at the clients process.
The feedback of this review group-wide consistent underwriting choice, either through Beazleys related mainly to capturing efficiencies and claims standards.
insurance company in Dublin or through rather than any recommendations to the subsidiary that Lloyds is in the change the approach or assumptions.
Beazley has also established a new process of establishing in Brussels.
In particular, the feedback was special purpose syndicate, syndicate A Brexit working group, led by the chief particularly complimentary about the 5623.
We have supported the risk officer, was established to oversee quality of the documentation a key establishment of this syndicate including Beazleys response to Brexit and this Solvency II standard which helped the setting the processes and controls working group will remain in place until third party consultancy understand how appropriate for the portfolio nature of the conclusion of the Brexit process.
the model operates and how it reflects the underwriting, which is different to the risks within the group.
The capital the majority of underwriting performed We facilitated a discussion of emerging modelling team continue to operate at Beazley.
and strategic risks at the board strategy a programme of regular and tailored day in May.
The discussions focused director briefings to ensure that the We have also started a risk review of our on five topics, namely: developments internal model is understood and US operations.
Whilst there were already in the US which is our largest market, provide an opportunity for directors to two risk managers based full time in developments of broker facilities as a suggest enhancements to the internal the US, the chief risk officer is spending method of placement, preparing for the model.
nine months, spanning 2017 and 2018, office of the future, insuring uninsured in the US in order to provide assurance risks, and developments at Lloyds.
The The latest chief risk officer report to to the board that the US operations analysis performed by board members the board has confirmed that the control are working appropriately following and members of the executive committee environment has not identified any the recent growth we now have over provided an opportunity to test how significant failings or weaknesses in 500 staff, or around 40% of the total Beazleys strategy may have to evolve key processes and that Beazley is workforce, based in the US and that if these risks were to crystallise.
operating within risk appetite as at we are ready for the continued growth 31 December 2017. planned over the next few years.
Against the backdrop of increased scrutiny of remuneration arrangements by shareholders and regulators, the risk management report to the remuneration committee is now in its seventh year.
The analysis performed has confirmed that the design of remuneration at Beazley is driving appropriate risk behaviour.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 57 Clear roles, responsibilities and Risk management philosophy accountabilities are in place for the Business risk management Risk management Internal audit Beazleys risk management philosophy management of risks and controls, and is to balance the risks the business Risk ownership Risk oversight Risk assurance all employees are aware of the role they takes on with the associated cost Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently tests control design play in all aspects of the risk management of controlling these risks, whilst also Assesses risk Are controls operating effectively?
Independently tests control operation process, from identifying sources of risk operating within the risk appetite Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Reports to committees and board to their part in the control environment.
Monitors risk Reports to committees and board agreed by the board.
In addition, our Records status The impact of each risk is recorded risk management processes are Remediates when required in the risk register on a 1:10 likelihood designed to continuously monitor our of that risk manifesting in the next risk profile against risk appetite and 12 months.
A risk owner has been to exploit opportunities as they arise.
assigned responsibility for each risk, Business risk management Risk management Internal audit and it is the responsibility of that Risk management strategy Risk ownership Risk oversight Risk assurance individual to periodically assess the The Beazley plc board has delegated Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently tests control design impact of the risk and to ensure executive oversight of the risk Assesses risk Are controls operating effectively?
Independently tests control operation appropriate risk mitigation procedures management department to the Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Reports to committees and board are in place.
External factors facing Monitors risk Reports to committees and board executive committee, which in turn has the business and the internal controls Records status delegated immediate oversight to the in place a Rre em r eo diu attein s w elh y re en ra eqs us ire ed ssed and risk and regulatory committee.
The changes are made when necessary.
Beazley plc board has also delegated On an annual basis, the board agrees oversight of the risk management the risk appetite for each risk event and framework to the audit and risk Business risk management Risk management Internal audit this is documented in the risk management committee and the primary regulated Risk ownership Risk oversight Risk assurance framework document.
The residual subsidiary boards have each established financial impact is managed in a number Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently tests control design a board risk committee.
Assesses risk of way s A, in re c co lu ntr do ing ls o:perating effectively?
Independently tests control operation Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Reports to committees and board mitigating the impact of the risk Monitors risk Reports to committees and board through the application of controls: Records status transferring or sharing risk through Remediates when required outsourcing and purchasing insurance and reinsurance: and tolerating risk in line with the risk appetite.
com Risk management continued Risk appetite Risk assessment Stress and scenario framework Risk profiles Strategic and emerging risk annual biannual annual ad hoc annual Control assessment Risk register monthly Key risk indicators Control performance Internal model quarterly aggregation monthly Committees Risk incidents Consolidated assurance reporting report 1st line: Underwriting, Investment, Operations, Executive committees 2nd line: Risk and regulatory, Risk committees 3rd line: Audit committees Boards In addition, the following risk management The above diagram illustrates the Risk management framework principles have been adopted: components of the risk management Beazley has adopted the three lines of risk management is a part of the framework.
defence framework: namely business wider governance environment: risk management, the risk management techniques employed are fit for In summary, the board identifies risk, function and the internal audit function.
purpose and proportionate to the assesses risk and sets risk appetite.
Within business risk management, business: The business then implements a control there are two defined risk and control risk management is a core capability environment which describes how the roles: risk owner and control reporter.
for all employees: business should operate to stay within Each risk event is owned by the risk risk management is embedded in risk appetite.
Risk management then owner who is a senior member of staff.
day-to-day activities: reports to the board on how well Risk owners, supported by the risk there is a culture of risk awareness, the business is operating using a management team, formally perform in which risks are identified, assessed consolidated assurance report.
For a risk assessment twice a year, including and managed: each risk, the consolidated assurance an assessment of heightened and risk management processes are report brings together a view of how emerging risks.
robust and supported by verifiable successfully the business is managing management information: and risk, qualitative commentary from the The risk management framework risk management information and assurance functions and whether there comprises a number of risk management reporting is timely, clear, accurate have been any events that we can components, which when added and appropriately escalated.
Finally, the together describe how risk is managed framework is continually evaluated and on a day to day basis.
The framework where appropriate improved, through includes a risk register that captures the the consideration of stress and scenario risk universe 53 risk events grouped testing, themed reviews using risk into eight risk categories: insurance, profiles and an assessment of strategic market, credit, liquidity, operational, and emerging risks.
regulatory and legal, group and strategic, the risk appetite set by the Beazley plc board, and the control environment that is operated by the business to remain within the risk appetite.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 59 A suite of risk management reports are The chief risk officer provides a quarterly Viability statement provided to the boards and committees ORSA to the board summarising the The directors have completed a robust to assist senior management and board short term and longer term risks to the assessment of the viability of the group members to discharge their oversight group and the capital implications.
A period of and decision making responsibilities.
three future years has been selected The risk reports include the risk appetite The directors have concluded, based to be short enough to be reasonably statement, the consolidated assurance on this review, that there is a reasonable assessable but long enough to reflect report, risk profiles, stress and scenario expectation that the group will be able Beazleys risk profile of a portfolio of testing, reverse stress testing, an to continue in operation and meet its diversified short-tailed and mediumemerging and strategic report, a report liabilities as they fall due over the three tailed insurance liabilities.
This three to the remuneration committee and the year period of assessment.
year period also aligns with the length ORSA report.
of time over which business underwritten at Lloyds, being the majority of our The internal audit function considers insurance business, is managed.
The the risk management framework in the board has performed an annual risk development of its audit universe to assessment and the key risks to the determine its annual risk-based audit group in the future are summarised plan.
The plan is based on, among other on pages 60 and 61. inputs, the inherent and residual risk scores as captured in the risk register.
The risks and associated capital Finally, a feedback loop operates, with requirements have been brought recommendations from the internal together into a five year plan.
The main audit reviews being assessed by the assumption is that the current market business and the risk management conditions will prevail, over which the function for inclusion in the risk register outcomes of the boards strategic as appropriate.
In addition, the board has reviewed the sensitivity of key assumptions and has performed scenario testing to understand the impact on cashflows of the key risks of a major natural catastrophe and or a systemic mispricing of the mediumtailed liability classes.
com Risk management continued The risks to financial performance The board monitors and manages Non natural catastrophe risk: This Strategic risk risks grouped into eight categories, risk is similar to natural catastrophe Alongside these insurance risks, the which cover the universe of risk that risk except that multiple losses arise success of the group depends on the could affect Beazley.
There have from one event caused by mankind.
execution of an appropriate strategy.
been no new risk areas identified and Given Beazleys risk profile, examples The main strategic risks can be no major shifts in existing risks.
The include a coordinated cyber attack, summarised as follows: board considers the following two risk an act of terrorism, an act of war or a Strategic decisions: The groups categories to be the most significant.
This risk is monitored performance would be affected using exposure management in the event of making strategic Insurance risk techniques to ensure that the risk decisions that do not add value.
Given the nature of Beazleys and reward are appropriate and The group mitigates this risk business, the key risks that impact that the exposure is not overly through the combination of financial performance arise from concentrated in one area.
recommendations and challenge insurance activities.
The main from non-executive directors, Reserve risk: Beazley has a consistent insurance risks can be summarised debate at the executive committee reserving philosophy.
However, there in the following categories: and input from the strategy and is a risk that the reserves put aside Market cycle risk: The risk of performance group a group of for expected losses turn out to be systematic mispricing of the approximately 35 senior individuals insufficient.
This could be due to any medium tailed specialty lines from across different disciplines of the three drivers of risk described business which could arise due to at Beazley.
The group uses a range of a change in the US tort environment, techniques to mitigate this risk Environment: There is a risk that changes to the supply and demand including a detailed reserving process the chosen strategy cannot be of capital, and companies using which compares, claim by claim, executed because of the current incomplete data to make decisions.
estimates established by the claims environmental conditions within This risk would affect multiple team with a top down statistical which Beazley operates, thereby classes within the specialty lines view developed by the actuarial team.
delaying the timing of the strategy.
division across a number of A suite of metrics is also used to underwriting years.
The group uses Communication: Having the right ensure consistency each year.
a range of techniques to mitigate strategy and environment is of little this risk including sophisticated Single risk losses: Given the size of value if it is not communicated pricing tools, analysis of macro policy limits offered on each risk, it is internally so that the whole group trends, analysis of claim frequency unlikely that the poor performance of is heading in the same direction, and the expertise of our experienced one policy will have a material impact or if key external stakeholders are underwriters and claims managers.
on the groups financial performance.
not aware of Beazleys progress against its strategy.
Natural catastrophe risk: The risk of one or more large events Senior management performance: caused by nature affecting a There is a risk that senior number of policies and therefore management could be giving rise to multiple losses.
overstretched or could fail to Given Beazleys risk profile, such perform, which would have a an event could be a hurricane, detrimental impact on the groups major windstorm or earthquake.
The performance of This risk is monitored using the senior management team is exposure management techniques monitored by the chief executive to ensure that the risk and reward and talent management team are appropriate and that the and overseen by the nomination exposure is not overly concentrated committee.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 61 Reputation: Although reputational Other risks Anti-bribery and corruption risk risk is a consequential risk, i. e. it The remaining six risk categories The group also considered anti-bribery emerges upon the occurrence of monitored by the board are: and corruption risk across all risk another risk manifesting, it has Market asset risk: This is the risk categories.
We are committed to the potential to have a significant that the value of investments ensuring that all business is impact on an organisation.
Beazley could be adversely impacted by conducted in an ethical and honest expects its staff to act honourably movements in interest rates, manner, and that we are not involved by doing the right thing.
exchange rates, default rates or in any illicit activity defined under external market forces.
This risk the UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Flight: There is a risk that Beazley is monitored by the investment Corrupt Practices Act.
This risk could be unable to deliver its committee.
includes the risk of bribery and strategy due to the loss of key corruption we are exposed to and personnel.
Beazley has controls Operational risk: This risk is the manifests itself in the susceptibility in place to identify and monitor failure of people, processes to unethical or dishonest influences this risk, for example, through and systems or the impact of whereby illicit payments and or succession planning.
an external event on Beazleys inducements are either made or operations, and is monitored by Crisis management: This is the risk received.
Such activity has severe the operations committee.
An caused by the destabilising effect reputational, regulatory and legal example would be a cyber attack of the group having to deal with consequences, including fines and having a detrimental impact on a crisis and is mitigated by having penalties.
Considerations relevant to our operations.
this risk include the nature, size and Credit risk: Beazley has credit type of transactions, the jurisdiction Corporate transaction: There is risk to its reinsurers, brokers in which transactions occur, and the a risk that Beazley could undertake and coverholders of which the degree to which agents or third parties a corporate transaction which did reinsurance asset is the largest.
are used during such transactions.
not return the expected value to The underwriting committee Every employee and individual acting shareholders.
This risk is mitigated monitors this risk.
on Beazleys behalf is responsible for through the due diligence performed, maintaining our reputation.
We have the financial structure of transactions Regulatory and legal risk: This a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and the implementation activity.
is the risk that Beazley might fail and corruption and are committed to operate in line with the relevant to acting professionally, fairly and Under the environmental risk heading, regulatory framework in the territories with integrity in all aspects of our the board identifies and analyses where it does business.
In doing so, we aim to emerging and strategic risk on an eight risk categories, the board has recruit and retain high-calibre annual basis for discussion at the the lowest tolerance for this risk.
employees who carry out their board strategy day in May.
This risk is monitored by the risk responsibilities honestly, professionally and regulatory committee.
We maintain Liquidity risk: This is the risk that a number of policies designed to the group might not have sufficient prevent any risk of bribery and liquid funds following a catastrophic corruption, which are communicated event.
The investment committee to all employees and supplemented monitors this risk which, given with appropriate training.
the nature of the asset portfolio, is currently small.
Group risk: The structure of the Beazley group is not complex and so the main group risk is that one group entity might operate to the detriment of another group entity or entities.
This includes, for example, changes in tax legislation such as the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in late 2017 which affects which types of intra-group reinsurance it is efficient for Beazley to use.
The Beazley plc board monitors this risk through the reports it receives from each entity.
