60 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Principal risks The Group has established risk management practices that are to mitigate the risks described below cannot provide absolute embedded into the operations of the businesses, based on the assurance that a risk will not materialise and or adversely affect Internal Control-Integrated Framework 2013 by the Committee our business or financial performance.
Our risk management ofSponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission and internal control processes are described in the Corporate COSO.
The principal risks facing the business, which have been Governance section.
A description ofthe business and a assessed by the Audit Committees and Boards, are described discussion of factors affecting performance is set out in the below.
The Directors confirm this process is robust and includes Chief Executive Ofcers report and the Business Review.
consideration of risks, including long-term systemic risks and Treasury risks are further discussed in the Chief Financial risks arising from the impact the Group has on external parties, Ofcers reportand in note 19 to the consolidated financial that could threaten the Groups business models, future statements.
Ourapproach to managing environmental and other performance, solvency or liquidity.
It is not possible to identify non-financial risks is set out in the Business Review and the every risk that could affect our businesses, and the actions taken separate Corporate Responsibility Report.
EXTERNAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Economy Demand for our products and services may be adversely Our businesses are focused on professional markets andmarket impacted by factors beyond our control, such as the which have generally been more resilient in periods of conditions economic environment in the United States, Europe and economic downturn.
We deliver information solutions, other major economies, political uncertainties including many on a subscription basis, which are important to the potential consequences of the United Kingdoms our customers effectiveness and efficiency.
We have withdrawal from the European Union under Article 50 of extended our position in long-term global growth the Treaty of Lisbon, acts of war, terrorism and civil unrest markets through organic new launches supported by the as well as levels of government and private funding provided selective acquisition of content and data sets.
We continue to academic and research institutions.
to dispose of businesses that no longer t our strategy.
We continuously monitor economic and political developments to assess their impact on our strategy which is designed to mitigate these risks.
Intellectual Our products and services include and utilise intellectual We actively engage in developing and promoting the property rights property.
We rely on trademark, copyright, patent and legalprotection of intellectual property rights.
Our other intellectual property laws to establish and protect subscription contracts with customers contain provisions our proprietary rights in this intellectual property.
There regarding the use of proprietary content.
Weare vigilant is a risk that our proprietary rights could be challenged, as to the use of our intellectual property and, as limited, invalidated or circumvented, which may impact appropriate, take legal action to challenge illegal content demand for and pricing of our products and services.
Copyright laws are subject to national legislative initiatives, as well as cross border initiatives such as those from the European Commission, and increased judicial scrutiny in several jurisdictions in which we operate.
This creates additional challenges for us in protecting our proprietary rights in content delivered through the internet and electronic platforms.
We seek as far as possible to have proprietary content.
Data resources A number of our businesses rely extensively upon content and data from external sources.
Data is obtained from Where content is supplied to us by third parties, we aim to have contracts which provide mutual commercial benefit.
public records, governmental authorities, customers and other information companies, including competitors.
We also maintain an active dialogue with regulatory Legal regulations, such as the European Unions General authorities on privacy and other data related issues, Data Protection Regulation GDPR, relating to internet and promote, with others, the responsible use of data.
communications, privacy and data protection, e-commerce, We have a global privacy programme in place, designed information governance and use of public records, are to comply with applicable privacy regulations including becoming more prevalent worldwide.
The disruption or GDPR, which applies from 25 May 2018. loss of data sources, either because of changes in the law or because data suppliers decide not to supply them, may impose limits on our collection and use of certain kinds of information about individuals and our ability to communicate such information effectively with our customers.
Paid Our scientific, Technical & Medical STM primary research We engage extensively with stakeholders in the STM subscriptions content, like that of most of our competitors, is sold largely community to better understand their needs and deliver on a paid subscription basis.
There is continued debate in value to them.
We are open to serving the STM community government, academic and library communities, which under any payment model that can sustainably provide are the principal customers for our STM content, regarding researchers with the critical information tools that they to what extent such content should be funded instead need.
We focus on the integrity and quality of research through fees charged to authors or authors funders through the editorial and peer review process: we invest and or made freely available in some form after a period in efficient editorial and distribution platforms and in following publication.
Some of these methods, if widely innovation in platforms and tools to make content and adopted, could adversely affect our STM revenue from data more accessible and actionable: and we ensure paid subscriptions.
vigilance on plagiarism and the long-term preservation of research findings.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial review Principal risks 61 STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Customer Our businesses are dependent on the continued acceptance We are focused on the needs and economics of our acceptance by our customers of our products and services and the value customers.
We leverage user centred design and ofproducts placed on them.
Failure to meet evolving customer needs development methods and customer analytics and invest could impact demand for our products and services and in new and enhanced technologies to provide content and consequently adversely affect our revenue or the long-term innovative solutions that help them achieve better returns from our investment in electronic product and outcomes and enhance productivity.
Competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and We gain insights into our markets, evolving customers the means of delivering our products and services, and the needs, the potential application of new technologies and products and services themselves, continue to change in business models, and the actions of competitors.
These response to rapid technological innovations, legislative and insights inform our market strategies and operational regulatory changes, the entrance of new competitors and priorities.
We continuously invest significant resources other factors.
Failure to anticipate and quickly adapt to these in our products and services, and the infrastructure to changes could impact the competitiveness of our products support them.
and services and consequently adversely affect our revenue.
Acquisitions We supplement our organic development with selected Acquisitions are made within the framework of our acquisitions.
If we are unable to generate the anticipated overall strategy, which emphasises organic development.
benets such as revenue growth and or cost savings We have a well formulated process for reviewing and associated with these acquisitions this could adversely affect executing acquisitions and for managing the postreturn on invested capital and financial condition, or lead to acquisition integration.
This process is underpinned with an impairment of goodwill.
clear strategic, financial and ethical criteria.
We closely monitor the integration and performance of acquisitions.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Technology Our businesses are dependent on electronic platforms and We have established procedures for the protection of our failure networks, primarily the internet, for delivery of our products technology assets.
These include the development of and services.
These could be adversely affected if our business continuity plans, including IT disaster recovery electronic delivery platforms or networks experience plans and back-up delivery systems, to reduce business a significant failure, interruption or security breach.
disruption in the event of a major technology failure.
Cyber security Our businesses maintain online databases and information, We have established data privacy and security including public records and other personal information.
programmes with the aim of ensuring that data is As part of maintaining this information and delivering protected and that we comply with relevant legislative, our products and services, we rely on and provide data to regulatory and contractual requirements.
third parties, including customers and service providers.
We have governance mechanisms in place to design These databases and information are a target for compromise and monitor common policies and standards across and face a risk of unauthorised access and use by our businesses.
We invest in appropriate administrative, technical and Our cyber security measures, and the measures used by physical controls which are applied across the enterprise our third-party service providers, may not detect or prevent in a risk based security programme which operates at the all attempts to compromise our systems, which may infrastructure, application and user levels.
These controls jeopardise the security of the data we maintain or may include, but are not limited to, infrastructure vulnerability disrupt our systems.
Failures of our cyber security measures management, application scanning and penetration could result in unauthorised access to our systems, testing, network segmentation, encryption and logging misappropriation of our or our users data, deletion or and monitoring.
Our administrative controls include modication of stored information or other interruption training and communication initiatives to establish to our business operations.
As techniques used to obtain awareness of risks at all levels of our businesses.
The unauthorised access to or to sabotage systems change RELX Group Privacy Principles include the requirement frequently, and may not be known until launched against for transparency, accountability and Privacy by Design.
us or our third-party service providers, we may be unable We have appropriate incident response plans to to anticipate or implement adequate measures to protect respond to threats and attacks, including internal against these attacks and our service providers and reporting channels and appropriate external advisors customers may likewise be unable to do so.
We maintain appropriate data privacy and information security policies and contractual Compromises of our or our third-party service providers systems, or failure to comply with applicable legislation requirements for our businesses and run programmes monitoring the application of our data privacy and or regulatory or contractual requirements could adversely affect our financial performance, damage our reputation information security policies by third-party service providers.
We use independent internal and third-party and expose us to risk of loss, fines and penalties, litigation and increased regulation.
auditors to regularly test, evaluate and help enhance our procedures and controls.
We have established procedures for incorporating the requirements of relevant laws and regulations into our overall security programme, including into our policies and procedures.
Our compliance with these is also regularly reviewed and tested.
62 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Supply chain Our organisational and operational structures depend on We select our vendors with care and establish contractual dependencies outsourced and offshored functions, including use of cloud service levels that we closely monitor, including through service providers.
Poor performance, failure or breach of key performance indicators and targeted supplier audits.
third parties to whom we have outsourced activities could We have developed business continuity plans to reduce adversely affect our business performance, reputation disruption in the event of a major failure by a vendor.
Talent The implementation and execution of our strategies and We have well-established management development business plans depend on our ability to recruit, motivate and talent review programmes.
We monitor capability and retain skilled employees and management.
We needs and remuneration schemes are tailored to attract compete globally and across business sectors for talented and motivate the best talent available at an appropriate management and skilled individuals, particularly those level of cost.
We actively seek feedback from employees, with technology and data analytics capabilities.
An inability which feeds into plans to enhance employee engagement to recruit, motivate or retain talent could adversely affect and motivation.
Our Diversity and Inclusion strategy our business performance.
Failure to recruit and develop aims to create a diverse workforce and an environment a diverse and inclusive workforce could adversely affect that respects individuals and their contribution and our reputation and business performance.
FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Pensions We operate a number of pension schemes around the We have professional management of our pension world, including local versions of the dened benefit type schemes and we focus on maintaining appropriate asset in the UK and the United States.
The assets and obligations allocation and plan designs.
We review our funding associated with those pension schemes are sensitive to requirements on a regular basis with the assistance of changes in the market values of the schemes investments independent actuaries and ensure that the funding plans and the market-related assumptions used to value scheme are appropriate.
We seek to manage pension liabilities liabilities.
Adverse changes to asset values, discount rates, by reviewing pension benets provided to staff as well longevity assumptions or ination could increase future as the structure of scheme arrangements.
pension costs and funding requirements.
Tax Our businesses operate globally and our profits are subject We maintain an open dialogue with tax authorities, and to taxation in many different jurisdictions and at differing are vigilant in ensuring that we comply with current tax tax rates.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and legislation.
We have clear and consistent tax policies Development OECD s reports on Base Erosion and profit and tax matters are dealt with by a professional tax Shifting suggest a range of new approaches that national function, supported by external advisers.
As outlined governments might adopt when taxing the activities of in the Chief Financial Ofcers report on page 59 we multinational enterprises.
The OECD continues to explore participate in consultations with tax authorities and options around the taxation of the digital economy.
The principles we adopt result of the OECDs work and other international initiatives, in our approach to tax matters can be found on our tax laws that currently apply to our businesses may be website at: www.
amended by the relevant authorities or interpreted differently by them, and these changes could adversely affect our reported results.
Treasury The RELX Group consolidated financial statements are Our approach to capital structure and funding is expressed in pounds sterling and are subject to movements described in the Chief Financial Ofcers report on in exchange rates on the translation of the financial pages 54 to 59.
The approach to the management information of businesses whose operational currencies oftreasury risks is described in note 19 to the are other than sterling.
The United States is our most consolidated financial statements.
important market and, accordingly, significant uctuations in the US dollar exchange rate could signicantly affect our reported results.
We also earn revenues and incur costs in a range of other currencies, including the euro and the yen, and significant uctuations in these exchange rates could also signicantly impact our reported results.
Macroeconomic, political and market conditions may adversely affect the availability and terms of short and long-term funding, volatility of interest rates, the credit quality of our counterparties, currency exchange rates and ination.
The majority of our outstanding debt instruments are, and any of our future debt instruments may be, publicly rated by independent rating agencies.
Our borrowing costs and access to capital may be adversely affected if the credit ratings assigned to our debt are downgraded.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial review Principal risks 63 REPUTATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Ethics As a world-leading provider of professional information Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is provided solutions to the STM, risk and business analytics, legal to every employee and is supported by training.
It and exhibitions markets we, our employees and major encompasses such topics as competing fairly, prohibiting suppliers are expected to adhere to high standards of corrupt business practice, promoting human rights and independence and ethical conduct, including those related fair employment practices and encouraging open and to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, promoting human rights principled behaviour.
We have well-established processes and principled business conduct.
A breach of generally for reporting and investigating instances of unethical accepted ethical business standards or applicable anticonduct.
Our major suppliers are required to adhere bribery and anti-corruption or competition statutes could to our Supplier Code of Conduct.
adversely affect our business performance, reputation and financial condition.
Environmental Our businesses have an impact on the environment, We are committed to reducing these environmental principally through the use of energy and water, waste impacts by limiting resource use and efficiently generation and, in our supply chain, through paper use and employing sustainable materials and technologies.
Failure to manage our We require our major suppliers and contractors environmental impact could adversely affect our reputation.
to meet the same objectives.
We seek to ensure that all our businesses are compliant with relevant environmental regulation.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 to 63, has been approved by the Board of RELX PLC.
By order of the Board Registered Ofce Henry Udow 13 Strand Company Secretary London 14 February 2018 WC2N 5JR 64 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017
