Strategic Report Risk overview We actively manage risk to protect and enable the business.
Managing risk HSBC has maintained a conservative It is articulated in our risk appetite analysis helps management understand and consistent approach to risk statement, which is approved by the the nature and extent of vulnerabilities to throughout its history, helping to ensure Board.
Key elements include: which the bank is exposed.
we protect customers funds, lend risks that we accept as part of doing We operate a comprehensive stress responsibly and support economies.
By business, such as credit risk and testing programme to help ensure the carefully aligning our risk appetite to our market risk: strength and resilience of HSBC, taking strategy, we aim to deliver sustainable part in regulators as well as our own risks that we incur as part of doing long-term shareholder returns.
In 2017, the results for HSBC business, such as operational risk, All employees are responsible for the as published by the Bank of England which are actively managed to remain management of risk, with the ultimate 'BoE' showed that our capital ratios, below an acceptable tolerance: and accountability residing with the Board.
after taking account of CRD IV risks for which we have zero tolerance, We have a strong risk culture, which restrictions and strategic management such as knowingly engaging in activities is embedded through clear and actions, exceeded the BoEs where foreseeable reputational risk has consistent communication and requirements.
This outcome reflected not been considered.
appropriate training for all employees.
our strong capital position, conservative Internal stress tests are an important A comprehensive risk management risk appetite and diversified geographical element in our risk management and framework is applied throughout and business mix.
It also reflected our capital management frameworks.
the Group, with governance and ongoing strategic actions, including the They include potential adverse corresponding risk management sale of operations in Brazil, ongoing macroeconomic, geopolitical and tools.
This framework is underpinned RWA reduction initiatives and continued operational risk events, and other by our risk culture and reinforced by sales from our US CML run-off portfolio.
potential events that are specific to HSBC.
Our risk management framework and risks The selection of scenarios reflects our top associated with our banking and insurance Our Global Risk function oversees the and emerging risks identification process manufacturing operations are described on framework and is led by the Group and our risk appetite.
Stress testing pages 66 and 78, respectively.
Chief Risk Officer, an executive Director.
It is independent from the Key risk appetite metrics global businesses, including our sales Component Measure Risk appetite 2017 and trading functions, to provide challenge, appropriate oversight and Returns Return on average ordinary shareholders equity 10.0% 5.9% balance in risk reward decisions.
Capital Common equity tier 1 ratio CRD IV end point basis 11.5% 14.5% HSBCs risk appetite defines our Loan Loan impairment charges as % of advances: RBWM 0.50% 0.37% desired forward-looking risk profile, impairment Loan impairment charges as % of advances: 0.45% 0.27% and informs the strategic and financial charges wholesale CMB, GB&M and GPB planning process.
Top and emerging risks Our top and emerging risks framework During 2017, we made three changes to in December 2017 of the AML DPA helps enable us to identify current and our top and emerging risks to reflect our relating to past anti-money laundering forward-looking risks so that we may assessment of their potential effect on and sanctions deficiencies.
take action to either prevent them HSBC.
The thematic issue Regulatory In addition, three thematic issues were materialising or limit their effect.
focus on conduct of business and renamed to better reflect the challenges financial crime was removed and Top risks are those that may have a facing the Group.
We use the new name Financial crime risk environment material impact on the financial in the table opposite, which summarises was added to further emphasise the results, reputation or business model our top and emerging risks.
heightened focus on, and robust of the Group in the year ahead.
Our current top and emerging risks are oversight, monitoring and active risk Emerging risks are those that have summarised on the next page and discussed management of, financial crime risks.
In in more detail on page 63. large unknown components and may addition, we removed the thematic issue form beyond a one-year horizon.
If Our approach to identifying and monitoring US DPA and Related Agreements and these risks occurred, they could have top and emerging risks is described on page 67.
Consent Orders following the expiration a material effect on HSBC.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 28 Risk overview Risk Trend Mitigants Externally driven Economic outlook and We actively monitor our wholesale credit and trading portfolios, including undertaking stress capital flows tests, to identify sectors and clients that may come under stress due to economic conditions in the eurozone, mainland China and in the UK as negotiations to exit from the EU continue.
Geopolitical risk We continually assess the impact of geopolitical events on our businesses and exposures, and take steps to mitigate them, where required, to help ensure we remain within our risk appetite.
We have also strengthened physical security at our premises where the risk of terrorism is heightened.
The credit cycle We continue to undertake detailed reviews of our portfolios and are proactively assessing customers and sectors likely to come under stress as a result of geopolitical or macroeconomic events, reducing limits where appropriate.
Cyber threat and We continue to strengthen our cyber control framework and implement initiatives to improve our unauthorised access resilience and cybersecurity capabilities, including threat detection and analysis, access control, to systems payment systems controls, data protection and backup and recovery.
Regulatory, technological and We proactively engage with regulators wherever possible to help ensure new regulatory sustainability developments requirements are effectively implemented, and work with them in relation to their investigations including conduct, with into historical activities.
We also engage with non-governmental organisations to help ensure adverse impact on business our policies address environmental concerns.
model and profitability Financial crime risk We continue to develop and enhance the Financial Crime Risk function and augment our risk environment management capabilities to further improve our financial crime detection and compliance capabilities.
We will continue to take steps to enhance our defences against financial crime across our operations globally to help ensure our Global Standards are sustainable over the long term.
Internally driven IT systems infrastructure We continue to monitor and improve service resilience across our technology infrastructure, and resilience enhancing our problem diagnosis resolution and change execution capabilities, reducing service disruption to our customers.
Impact of organisational We continue to focus on resourcing and employee development to meet regulatory changes change and regulatory as well as to maintain and enhance our leadership succession strength.
demands on employees Execution risk The Group Change Committee oversees the progress of the highest priority programmes, underpinning the implementation of our strategic actions to help ensure that we achieve a consistent on time, on budget and on quality delivery across these critical initiatives.
Risks arising from the receipt We have strengthened essential governance processes and relevant policies relating to how we of services from third parties identify, assess, mitigate and manage risks across the range of third parties with which we do business.
This includes control monitoring and assurance throughout the third-party lifecycle.
Enhanced model risk We have strengthened our model risk management framework by establishing an independent management expectations second line of defence Model Risk Management sub-function, and we continue to enhance our existing policy and standards in order to address evolving regulatory, external and internal requirements.
Data management We continue to improve our insights, consistency of data aggregation, reporting and decisions through ongoing enhancement of our data governance, data quality and architecture framework.
Risk heightened during 2017 Risk remained at the same level as 2016 Thematic risk renamed during 2017 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
