54 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT External uncertainties underline and other non-income producing assets.
the importance of the active risk Relevant Key Risk Indicators are considered management that is at the heart of our each month by the Investment Committee decision making.
We have managed our risk 2017 continued to present a challenging exposure by: backdrop of political and economic uncertainty, notably the elections in the UK Utilising options on land and Germany, and events in Catalonia.
whenever feasible: On the horizon we also anticipate the Maintaining a limited exposure to emergence of new technologies with the speculative development: potential to create substantial change in operations and business models across Planning for the combined impact of all sectors.
significant decisions land acquisitions, Through my role on the Group Risk infrastructure commitments and Committee, which coordinates the risk development commitments that management process, I have seen the Groups will be required by our pipeline of approach to managing these and other risks development opportunities.
We have actively monitored events arising During the course of 2017 we have from the Brexit referendum decision, maintained equilibrium in our risk position by particularly in the light of the finelystrengthening our balance sheet in order to balanced result of the UK General Election.
support our increasing operational leverage We maintain a Disruptive Brexit specific DURING THE through development.
risk register and the Executive Committee Financing our growth plans through considers our approach and response COURSE OF 2017 WE the Rights Issue and three rounds of bond regularly.
Although much depends financing activity, described on page 33, HAVE MAINTAINED on the nature and timing of transition enhanced the Groups resilience and arrangements, we have identified a number EQUILIBRIUM IN OUR reduced our risk profile.
Implementing the of contingency plans which we may initiate financing strategy achieved increased RISK POSITION.
liquidity, an extended debt maturity profile, SOUMEN DAS reduced funding costs, and simplified joint CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER venture operations.
The Groups capital investment strategy has pursued opportunities in the light of current market conditions described in more detail on pages 21 to 22 and our appetite for risk in particular our appetite for land OUR RISK APPETITE PROPERTY RISK these returns through development, but we seek both to ensure that the drag associated While our appetite for risk will vary over We recognise that, in seeking outperformance with holding development land does not time and during the course of the property from our portfolio, the Group must accept a outweigh the potential benefits and also to cycle, in general the Group maintains a balanced level of property risk with diversity mitigate the risks including letting and fairly low appetite for risk, appropriate to our in geographic locations and asset types and construction risks inherent in development.
strategic objectives of delivering a sustainable an appropriate mixture of stabilised income In line with our income focus, we have progressive dividend stream, supported by producing and opportunity assets in order a low appetite for risks to income from long-term growth in net asset value per share.
to provide opportunities for superior returns.
customers, and accordingly seek a diverse Our target portfolio should deliver occupier base with strong covenants and attractive, low risk income returns with strong avoid over-exposure to individual occupiers rental and capital growth when market in specialist properties.
conditions are positive and show relative resilience in a downturn.
We aim to enhance 55 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The most significant risks and mitigating The Group recognises that its ability to In order to robustly assess the principal risks controls are detailed in the Group Risk manage risk effectively throughout the facing the Group, the Board has taken a Register.
Risks are assessed in both organisation continues to be central to its number of measures.
The Board has formally unmitigated assuming that no controls are success.
Our approach to risk management reviewed the principal risks twice during the inplace and residual with mitigating controls aims to bring controllable risks within our year.
The Board has also completed its annual operating normally states.
This assessment appetite, and to enable our decision making review and approval of the Groups risk directly relates potential impact to risk to balance uncertainty against the objective of appetite, and has approved the Groups risk appetite so that it is clear whether each risk creating value for our shareholders.
The Audit Committee is comfortably within appetite, tolerable, receives a report twice a year on how the intolerable or below appetite.
We also formally OUR INTEGRATED AND ROBUST Group Risk Register has been compiled.
assess the velocity of the most significant risks APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT The Group adopts the three lines of defence to determine how quickly they might cause model of risk management: operational The Board has overall responsibility for an intolerable impact on us.
management, the individual risk manager and ensuring that risk is effectively managed A Key Risk Indicator KRI dashboard is risk owner provide the first line: the Executive across the Group.
The Audit Committee produced on a monthly basis to show actual Committee, other monitoring committees, monitors the effectiveness of the Groups risk and forecast performance against risk appetite and the risk management function overseen management process on behalf of the Board.
KRIs are considered in the Groups by the Group Risk Committee provide the Further information on compliance with Medium Term Plan.
second: and Internal Audit provide the third the risk management provisions of the UK Mitigations for each risk are documented line of defence.
Corporate Governance Code can be found and monitored in the Group Risk Register.
Risks are considered within each area of inthe Governance section on page 63.
The Register is used as a key input to the business to ensure that risk management The risk management process is determine priorities for the Groups internal is embedded within the Groups decisiondesigned to identify, evaluate and mitigate audit assurance programme.
Managements making processes and culture.
the significant risks that the Group faces.
annual assessment of control effectiveness is Accountabilities for the Groups risk The process aims to understand and mitigate, driven by the Groups Risk Register.
management are outlined in the diagram rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to onpage 56. achieve business objectives, and therefore We have put risk appetite at the heart of can only provide reasonable and not our risk management processes.
is integral both to our consideration of The Board recognises that it has strategy and to our medium-term planning limited control over many of the external process.
Risk appetite also defines specific risks it faces, such as the macro-economic tolerances and targets for key metrics and the environment, but it reviews the potential criteria for assessing the potential impact of impact of such risks on the business and risks and our mitigation of them.
actively considers them in its decision making.
The Board also monitors internal risks and ensures that appropriate controls are in place to manage them.
FINANCIAL RISK control is low, albeit acknowledging that our Our responsibilities to these stakeholders appetite for moderate leverage across the include compliance with all relevant laws: The Group maintains a low to moderate cycle amplifies the impact of asset valuation accurate and timely reporting of financial and appetite for financial risk in general, with movements on net asset value.
other regulatory information: safeguarding a very low appetite for risks to solvency the health and safety of employees, suppliers, and gearing covenant breaches.
CORPORATE RISK customers and other users of our assets: As an income-focused REIT we have a safeguarding the environment: compliance low appetite for risks to maintaining stable We have a very low appetite for risks to with codes of conduct and ethics: ensuring progression in earnings and dividends over our good reputation and risks to being business continuity: and making a positive the long term.
We are, however, prepared well-regarded by our investors, regulators, contribution to the communities in which to tolerate fluctuations in dividend cover employees, customers, business partners, we operate.
as a consequence of capital recycling activity.
suppliers, lenders and by the wider We also seek long-term growth in net communities and environments in which asset value per share.
Our appetite for risks we operate.
to net asset value from the factors within our 56 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS OUR FRAMEWORK FOR RISKGOVERNANCE AUDIT BOARD COMMITTEE Overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is effectively Monitors effectiveness of the Groups risk management managed across the Group.
process and internal control systems.
Determines the Groups risk appetite.
Conducts robust assessment of Groups risks.
First line of defence Second line Third line EXECUTIVE RISK OWNERS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE INTERNAL AUDIT Own risks in domain.
Oversees execution of risk management across Agrees internal audit programme considering Group the business.
Assign accountability for mitigating individual risks tosenior risk managers.
Formally considers risks, including emerging risks, Conducts internal audit programme and reports to four times per year.
Ensure that risks are identified, assessed and adequately controlled.
Review risks with the risk management function Delegates accountability for risk management and atleast twice per year.
monitors performance of risk controls.
Assigns Executive Risk Owners to each risk.
RISK MANAGERS MONITORING COMMITTEES Responsible for ensuring the risk is within appetite.
Regularly identify and monitor the significant risks and corresponding controls within their domains.
Drive design and implementation of controls.
Risk management function attends regularly.
Review and assess existing risks with risk management function at least twice per year.
GROUP RISK COMMITTEE Coordinates the risk management process on behalf of the Executive Committee.
Oversees the work of the Risk Management function, which in turn: Manages and reports on the risk register.
Assesses and documents risks and controls.
P rovides quality assurance and challenge to risk owners and managers.
57 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors have considered the Groups In our modelling none of the financial PRINCIPAL RISKS prospects, including reference to the Groups covenants were breached with gearing The principal risks have the potential to principal risks, to form the basis of our remaining comfortably below 160 per cent affect SEGROs business materially.
Risks are assessment of longer term viability.
The process and interest cover well above 1.25 times.
classified as principal based on their potential for conducting this assessment is summarised Reverse stress testing was undertaken over to intolerably exceed our appetite considering in the Audit Committees Report on page 79. the period under review and, in isolation, it both inherent and residual impact and cause The Directors confirm that they have a would take at least a 50 per cent fall in property material harm to the Group.
reasonable expectation that the Group will be values to breach gearing covenants: or a Some risks that may be unknown able to continue in operation and will have decrease in rental income of over 60 per cent or at present, as well as other risks that are adequate resources to meet its liabilities as an increase in interest rates to over 17 per cent currently regarded as immaterial and they fall due over the next five years.
to breach interest cover covenants assuming therefore not detailed here, could turn out to The five year assessment period is the 60per cent fixed rate debt is maintained.
be material in the future.
same time horizon as covered by the Groups In addition, we have undertaken a severe The current principal risks facing the annual rolling five year Medium Term Plan.
downside risk scenario of an economic shock Group are summarised in the diagram below This is considered to be the optimum balance consistent with the financial crisis of 2007- and described across the following pages.
between our need to plan for the long term, 2009 at a point when the Group with its The descriptions indicate the potential recognising that property investment is a longdevelopment programme.
Whilst this scenario areas of impact on the Groups strategy: the term business, and the progressively unreliable reduced the headroom on the financial time-horizon and probability of the risk: the nature of forecasting in later years, particularly covenants the Group would be able to principal activities that are in place to mitigate given the historically cyclical nature of the continue in operation.
and manage such risks: the committees that property industry.
The Directors confirm that The scenarios set out are hypothetical and provide second line of defence oversight: they have no reason to expect a step-change severe for the purpose of creating outcomes changes in the level of risk during the in the Groups viability immediately following which have the ability to threaten the viability course of 2017: whether the risk is within the five year period assessed.
We also note that, in the our appetite after the application of our In addition to the robust ongoing event of a severe threat to liquidity, various mitigations : and links to further relevant assessment and management of the risks options are available to the Group to maintain information in this report.
facing the Group, as already set out in this viability.
These options include reduction of Since 2016, four principal risks have section, the Group has stress tested its five any non-committed capital expenditure and been combined into the Financing Strategy year Medium Term Plan.
This stress test acquisitions, selling assets, or use of scrip.
has considered the risks that could either risk described below.
Development Execution The short development lead times for both individually, or in aggregate, threaten the has been added in the light of the scale urban and big box warehouse assets and viability of the Group.
The process for and nature of the Groups development the proven liquidity of these assets make conducting the Groups assessment is the programme.
The European economic this an effective measure in assisting our responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer environment risk previously reported has liquidity position.
and is overseen by the Audit Committee.
In particular the stress test has considered the potential impacts of: RESIDUAL RISK A systemic crisis, such as a major dislocation or failure of capital markets or a failure of the insurance market: 6 Disruptive Brexit An acute deterioration in occupier or property investment market conditions: Significant movements in interest rates and Market cycle 1 foreign exchange rates: 2 Portfolio strategy An inability to refinance maturing debt: and 5 Financing strategy A sustained interruption to the Groups Development plan execution 4 business continuity.
In stress testing we assessed the limits at 3 Investment plan execution which key financial ratios and covenants would be breached, causing a threat to 7 Operational delivery & compliance the Groups viability.
We then assessed the 9 Political & regulatory likelihood of that limit being reached as a result of the individual event or combination Health & safety 8 of events occurring, using a combination of historic data for example the acute property Within appetite Intolerable Below appetite valuation decline in 20072009 and forwardIMPACT looking probability analysis where available.
Low PROBABILITY High 58 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS PRINCIPAL RISKS 1.
INVESTMENT PLANEXECUTION The property market is cyclical and there The Groups Total Property and or is a continuous risk that the Group could Shareholder Returns could underperform in Decisions to buy, hold, sell or develop assets either misinterpret the market or fail to react absolute or relative terms as a result of an could be flawed due to uncertainty in analysis, appropriately to changing market conditions, inappropriate portfolio strategy.
This could quality of assumptions, poor due diligence which could result in capital being invested or result from: or unexpected changes in the economic or disposals taking place at the wrong price or operating environment.
Holding the wrong balance of prime or time in the cycle.
Our investment decisions could be secondary assets: This is a continuous risk with a insufficiently responsive to implement our moderate likelihood.
Holding the wrong amounts or types of strategy effectively.
land, leading to diluted returns and or This is a continuous risk with a MITIGATIONS constraints on development opportunities: moderate likelihood as changing investment and occupier market conditions require The Board, Executive Committee and Holding the wrong level of higher risk constant adaptation.
Investment Committee monitor the property opportunity assets or too many old or market cycle on a continual basis and adapt obsolete assets which dilute returns: and MITIGATIONS the Groups investment divestment strategy in Holding assets in the wrong geographical anticipation of changing market conditions.
Asset plans are prepared annually for all markets: missing opportunities in new Multiple, diverse investment and occupier estates to determine where to invest capital markets or lacking critical mass in market intelligence is regularly received in existing assets and to identify assets existing markets.
and considered both from internal on for disposal.
the ground sources and from independent This is a continuous risk with a Locally-based property investment external sources.
and operational teams provide market Upside and downside scenarios are intelligence and networking to source incorporated into Investment Committee MITIGATIONS attractive opportunities.
papers to assess the impact of differing Policies are in place to govern evaluation, The Groups portfolio strategy is subject to market conditions.
due diligence, approval, execution and regular review by the Board to consider subsequent review of investment activity.
the desired shape of the portfolio in order The Investment Committee meets to meet the Groups overall objectives and frequently to review investment and disposal to determine our response to changing proposals and to consider appropriate opportunities and market conditions.
The Groups Disciplined Capital Allocation Investment hurdle rates are regularly is informed by comprehensive asset plans and reappraised taking into account estimates of independent external assessments of market our weighted average cost of capital.
Major capital investment and disposal Regular portfolio analysis ensures the decisions are subject to Board approval.
portfolio is correctly positioned in terms of location and asset type, and retains the right balance of core and opportunity assets.
The annual asset planning exercise provides a bottom-up assessment of the performance and potential for all assets to identify underperforming assets that are consideredfor sale.
IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY CHANGE IN2017 CHANGE IN2017 CHANGE IN2017 RESIDUAL RISK RESIDUAL RISK RESIDUAL RISK WITHIN APPETITE?
OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE: INVESTMENT COMMITTEE FURTHER INFORMATION: THE MARKET OUTLOOK FURTHER INFORMATION: THE MARKET OUTLOOK ISDETAILED IN THE CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT ISDETAILED IN THE CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT FURTHER INFORMATION: THE MARKET OUTLOOK ON PAGES 10-12.
ISDETAILED IN THE CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT ON PAGES 10-12.
59 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DISCIPLINED CAPITAL ALLOCATION OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE EFFICIENT CAPITAL AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE INCREASED RISK SIMILAR RISK DECREASED RISK 4.
DISRUPTIVE BREXIT EXECUTION The Group could suffer an acute liquidity The uncertainty associated with the or solvency crisis, financial loss or financial UKs decision to exit the EU may impact The Group has an extensive current distress as a result of a failure in the design investment, capital, financial including foreign programme and future pipeline of orexecution of its financing strategy.
exchange and occupier markets in the UK developments.
The Group could suffer Such an event may be caused by: a during the transition period as the terms of significant financial losses from: failure to obtain debt funding e. g due to exit and future relationships are negotiated, Cost over-runs on larger, more market disruption or rating downgrade : and in the longer term.
having an inappropriate debt structure In the long term, exit from the EU could including leverage level, debt maturity, reduce levels of investor and occupier Increased competition and or construction interest rate or currency exposure : poor demand as a result of reduced trade and or costs from labour market changes forecasting: default on loan agreements the relocation of corporations and financial or weakened supply competition as a result of a breach of financial or other institutions away from the UK.
leading to reduced or uneconomic covenants: or counterparty default.
The likelihood of severe adverse impact development yields.
This is short and long-term risk with a on the Group is judged to be low.
Above-appetite exposure to nonvery low likelihood.
income producing land, infrastructure MITIGATIONS and speculatively developed buildings MITIGATIONS A Brexit-specific risk register is maintained arising from a sharp deterioration in The Groups financing strategy is aligned with and we continue to monitor a range of occupier demand.
our long-term business strategy, the Medium indicators across occupational, investment This is a medium-term risk with a Term Plan and our risk appetite.
The Treasury and capital markets.
We have not observed moderate likelihood.
policy defines key policy parameters and significant adverse factors to date.
controls to support execution of the strategy.
Structural drivers of demand appear to MITIGATIONS The Group regularly reviews its changing have continued to outweigh any Brexitfinancing requirements in the light of related uncertainties.
Our appetite for exposure to nonopportunities and market conditions.
Nevertheless, in the light of increased income producing assets including land, As well as the Rights Issue, 2017 saw uncertainty, the Group has continued to infrastructure and speculative developments extensive financing and re-financing activity adopt a cautious approach to land acquisition is monitored closely.
with a US private placement, a bond buyback and speculative development.
We retain a high level of optionality in and issue, a SELP bond issue, and increased The Groups high quality portfolio of our future development programme including revolving debt facilities.
These actions have prime industrial assets is diverse in terms of at the point of land acquisition, commitment strengthened the balance sheet, lowered the geography and 32 per cent of gross asset to infrastructure and commitment to building.
average cost of debt, increased debt maturity, value at share is in Continental Europe and The development programme remains and demonstrated the ability to access debt sector exposure.
The Groups existing strategy for resilience The risk of cost-overruns is mitigated by through the market cycle also provides our experienced development teams and the mitigations.
As well as the underlying quality use of trusted advisors and contractors.
and diversity of the portfolio, these include Our short development lead-times substantial covenant headroom, access to enable a quick response to changing diverse sources of funding, and FX and market conditions.
In addition, our short development lead-times enable a quick response to changing market conditions.
IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY CHANGE IN2017 CHANGE IN2017 CHANGE IN2017 THIS RISK HAS INCREASED AS THIS RISK HAS REDUCED AS A RESULT THE INCREASED RATING IS A REFLECTION A RESULT OF OUR INCREASED OF THE EQUITY AND DEBT FUNDING OF CONTINUING UNCERTAINTY AS DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE.
RESIDUAL RISK RESIDUAL RISK RESIDUAL RISK WITHIN APPETITE?
OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OPERATIONS COMMITTEE FURTHER INFORMATION: THE GROUPS RESPONSE TO THIS RISK IS DESCRIBED ON PAGE 54.
60 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS DISCIPLINED CAPITAL ALLOCATION OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE EFFICIENT CAPITAL AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CORPORATE STRUCTURE INCREASED RISK CONTINUED SIMILAR RISK DECREASED RISK 7.
POLITICAL AND AND COMPLIANCE REGULATORY Health and safety management processes could fail, leading to a loss of life, litigation, The Groups ability to protect its reputation, The Group could fail to anticipate significant fines and serious reputational damage to revenues and shareholder value could be political, legal, tax or regulatory changes, the Group.
damaged by operational failures such as: leading to a significant un-forecasted financial This is a continuous risk with a low environmental damage: failing to attract, or reputational impact.
likelihood of causing significant harm to the retain and motivate key staff: a breach of antiIn general, regulatory matters present Group.
Nevertheless, we note that this risk bribery and corruption or other legislation: mediumto long-term risks with a low is somewhat increased by the scale of the major customer default: supply chain failure: likelihood of causing significant harm to Groups development activity.
the structural failure of one of our assets: the Group.
a major high-profile incident involving one Political risks could impact business MITIGATIONS of our assets: a cyber-security breach: or confidence and conditions in the short and failure to respond to the consequences of longer terms.
The Group manages an active health climate change.
and safety management system, with a Compliance failures, such as breaches MITIGATIONS particular focus on managing the quality and of joint venture shareholders agreements, compliance to good health and safety practice Emerging risks in this category are reviewed loan agreements or tax legislation could of construction and maintenance contractors.
regularly by the Executive Committee.
also damage reputation, revenue and A published Health and Safety policy is Corporate heads of function consult shareholder value.
backed up by independent site inspections of with external advisers, attend industry and This is a continuous risk with a low both existing assets as well as development specialist briefings, and sit on key industry likelihood of causing significant harm to projects against SEGROs Health & Safety bodies such as EPRA and BPF.
A number of potential risks were A new online Health and Safety system, identified, assessed and managed during the MITIGATIONS named Safety Matters, has been launched course of the year.
None were individually to enhance tracking, trend analysis, and The Group maintains a strong focus on considered to be material enough to be compliance monitoring against agreed Operational Excellence.
The Executive, classified as principal risks.
Operations, and Business Information Systems Committees regularly monitor the range of risks to property management, construction, compliance, business continuity, organisational effectiveness, customer management and cyber security.
The Groups tax compliance is managed by an experienced internal tax team.
REIT and SIIC tax regime compliance is demonstrated at least bi-annually.
Compliance with joint venture shareholder agreements is managed by experienced property operations, finance and legal staff.
The SELP JV additionally has comprehensive governance and compliance arrangements in place, including dedicated management, operating manuals, and specialist third-party compliance support.
IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY IMPACT ON STRATEGY CHANGE IN2017 CHANGE IN2017 CHANGE IN2017 THIS RISK HAS INCREASED AS A RESULT OF THE POLITICAL EVENTS NOTED ABOVE.
OVERSEEN BY: OPERATIONS COMMITTEE: OVERSEEN BY: OPERATIONS COMMITTEE: OVERSEEN BY: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BUSINESSINFORMATION SYSTEMS COMMITTEE: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FURTHER INFORMATION: HEALTH AND SAFETY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN IS DISCUSSED ON PAGE 45.
6 61 1 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS 70 75 Where we describe the role of the Where we set out the work of the Board, its work during the year and Nomination Committee to ensure the role of the Directors.
that we have the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
ACCOUNTABILITY RELATIONS WITH 77 82 SHAREHOLDERS AND Where we describe the work of OTHER STAKEHOLDERS the Audit Committee in ensuring that the financial integrity of the Where we illustrate how we Company is maintained.
communicate with our shareholders and other stakeholders to ensure a good dialogue is taking place.
REMUNERATION 84 Where we detail the work of the Remuneration Committee and show how the Remuneration Policy has been applied throughout the year.
