Our operating environment Risk overview Effective risk management is at the heart of the successful development and execution of the RBS strategy An emphasis on strong risk on building clarity, and developing and other banking services.
During management has a key role in capability.
Work to standardise risk 2017, oversight of the implementation positioning RBS to prepare for, and culture assessment and reporting has programme was executed in parallel respond to, developments in the wider enabled progress to be measured across with a strategic assessment of the competitive, economic and regulatory RBS as well as at an individual franchise threats and opportunities in the midenvironment.
Risk appetite is set in line and function level.
In turn, this informed to long-term.
Robust analysis and with overall strategy and approved by the risk culture element of performance oversight will continue as the the Board.
Current and emerging risks, reviews for RBSs Executive Committee.
that could materially affect the delivery Throughout 2017, work continued Innovation of the strategy, are identified and to consolidate enhancements to RBS continues to embrace innovation managed through the risk management the operational risk management in the field of financial technology.
The framework plays a From the roll-out of the award-winning key role in helping RBS maintain a NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland Progress in 2017 safe and secure environment for its mobile app in 2011 to the launch, in 2017, RBS continued to make progress against customers and is central to the overall of the NatWest Invest online investment its strategic objectives by reducing risk risk management strategy.
There was advice service, developments with and strengthening both the balance an ongoing focus on risk and control the potential to improve the banking sheet and the capital position.
assessment, particularly relating to experience are an integral element the most material products, processes of the customer service proposition.
There was a strong focus during 2017 and services.
Significant progress Strong risk oversight has kept the on developing an enhanced operating was made in strengthening the fraud security agenda at the forefront of these model for the risk management defence framework and reducing fraud developments.
This work aims to ensure the losses as a result of the successful RBS continued to focus on innovation function continues to meet the needs implementation of various tactical and while emphasising the importance of of our evolving business as well as the strategic solutions.
The emphasis on safety and protection for customers.
structural requirements of the UKs understanding and managing the risks Financial Crime ring-fencing legislation.
relating to RBSs transformation agenda Financial Crime was a key area of remained a key theme during the year.
The merger of parts of the former focus during 2017.
The function Conduct & Regulatory Affairs function Cyber Security continues to monitor the external with RBSs Risk function took effect on In an increasingly digital landscape environment and developments that 1 January 2017.
This integration was across the industry, cyber security could affect or change RBSs exposure designed to take advantage of synergies continued to be a priority issue in to financial crime risk.
In particular between the two functions.
RBS has a multi-layered defence there was a focus on the anti-moneycontinued through the year to optimise approach and continues to invest in its laundering control environment, with these.
In addition, there continued to be defences as the external threat evolves.
additional enhancements to policies an emphasis on refining the risk appetite As part of this ongoing focus, a number and procedures to address the new framework throughout 2017.
As well of enhancements were made during the regulatory requirements of the Fourth as consolidating the progress made in year ranging from improved protection Money Laundering Directive.
There previous years, further advances were of IT systems to mandatory awareness was also a strong emphasis on the made to enhance the framework in line training for all employees.
RBS has implementation of proportionate and with RBSs structural reform.
Significant continued to participate in industryrisk-focused customer due diligence emphasis was placed on reviewing the wide initiatives to monitor and anticipate standards with an increased focus current measures, along with associated developments, identify vulnerabilities on the management of higher-risk limits and triggers, for each of our and share best practice.
While progress material risks and further embedding ongoing vigilance will be essential as the was made during the year, more work the reporting of risk profile compared to threat continues to evolve.
is required and RBS continues on its risk appetite across RBS.
journey of improvement in respect Open Banking of these controls.
Enhancements Risk culture continued to be at the RBS welcomes the Competition & to sanctions screening were also forefront of our activity as RBS moves Markets Authority initiative to provide introduced.
towards its aim of making risk simply consumers with more choice and more part of the way colleagues work and control over their money and financial Anti-Bribery & Corruption ABC think.
In support of this, during 2017 information by making it easier to RBS is committed to ensuring it acts the RBS-wide action plan focused compare the details of current accounts responsibly and ethically, both when 45 Our operating environment pursuing its own business opportunities business and mitigation activities in against RBS relating to those securities and when awarding business.
the core business, together with active was withdrawn.
Further details on these Consequently it has embedded management of the lending book in issues can be found in the Litigation, appropriate policies, mandatory Commercial Banking.
procedures and controls to ensure Common Equity Tier 1 ratio its employees, and any other party Climate risk The CET1 ratio increased by 250 basis it does business with, understand While no climate-related risks have points to 15.9% in 2017.
This was well these obligations and abide by them, been identified that would have a above the 13% target and reflected whenever they act for, or on behalf of, major impact on RBSs strategy over the profit in the year and the RWA RBS.
The requirements of RBSs ABC a five-year horizon, RBS manages reductions in NatWest Markets and Policy apply to all RBS employees and and monitors a number of associated Commercial Banking.
non-employees, in every part of the threats.
These include physical impacts, business.
All employees are required such as flooding, as well as the impact Leverage ratios to complete ABC training on an annual of climate-related regulation, though The leverage ratio increased by 20 basis basis, with targeted training appropriate exposure to the sectors most vulnerable points to 5.3% during 2017 reflecting the for certain roles.
to climate risks, or climate-related increase in the CET1 position.
The Bank regulation, has significantly reduced of England leverage ratio increased by RBS considers ABC risk in its business for example RBS exposure to the power 50 basis points as a result of increased processes where there could be a risk and oil & gas sectors has fallen to 1.2% central bank reserves which are of offering an improper advantage of total lending exposures in 2017. excluded from the leverage exposure or being perceived to do so.
This RBS supports the work of the Financial measure.
includes, but is not limited to, corporate Stability Boards Task Force on Climatedonations, charitable sponsorships, Related Financial Disclosures TCFD.
Stress testing political activities and commercial Adoption of the TCFD recommendations Under the hypothetical adverse sponsorships.
is an important step forward in pricing scenario in the Bank of England 2017 climate-related risks and opportunities stress test, RBSs low-point CET1 To mitigate against bribery and as the transition to a low-carbon ratio was below the CET1 ratio hurdle corruption risks, RBSs ABC policy and economy under the terms of the Paris rate and the systemic reference supporting mandatory procedures Climate Agreement progresses.
Calculated after the impact of require employees to assess bribery management actions, RBSs CET1 ratio and corruption risk, and conduct was above the minimum requirement.
the appropriate level of ABC due Top and emerging risks The Tier 1 leverage ratio remained diligence on business activities.
Where above the minimum requirement appropriate, there is a requirement RBS employs a continuous process throughout the test.
for ABC contract clauses in written for identifying and managing its agreements.
In adopting this approach, top and emerging risks.
These are As a result of the steps RBS had already RBS aims to protect the interests defined as scenarios that could have taken to strengthen its capital position, of its customers, shareholders and a significant negative impact on a revised capital plan was not required employees.
of scenarios attracted particular Reputational Risk attention in 2017.
The factors discussed Liquidity and funding Reputational risk issues can develop below and elsewhere in this report RBS maintained a robust liquidity and from either strategic choices or should not be regarded as a complete funding risk profile in 2017.
Its loan-toconduct issues and may even arise and comprehensive statement of all deposit ratio was 88% at 31 December from customer activity.
RBS continues potential risks and uncertainties 2017, compared with 91% in 2016.
The to remain alert to the reputational risk facing RBS.
latest Internal Liquidity Adequacy it is exposed to both in its day-toAssessment Process ILAAP showed day business and as a result of legacy Refer to the Risk Factors section on that RBS is in a strong position to issues.
During 2017, further work was pages 372 to 402. withstand liquidity stress scenarios.
It done to enhance the reputational risk suggested that RBSs liquidity portfolio framework and embed it across all Macro-economic and was large enough to cover more than business lines.
This work will continue political risks 168% of the expected outflows in the in 2018 as RBS continues to evolve its RBS remains vulnerable to changes worst of three severe scenarios.
risk management practice to meet the and uncertainty in the external challenges of the changing external Litigation and conduct economic and political environment, environment.
Litigation and conduct costs of 1,285 which have intensified in the past year.
million included a 664 million provision Stress testing and scenario planning Key Metrics in relation to various investigations is used extensively to inform strategic and litigation matters relating to RBSs planning and risk mitigation relating Risk-weighted assets RWAs issuance and underwriting of residential to a range of macroeconomic and RWAs reduced by 27 billion 12%, mortgage-backed securities RMBS political risks.
Scenarios identified as ending the year at 201 billion from and additional PPI provision of 175 having a potentially material negative 228 billion in 2016.
In July 2017 RBS reached a impact on RBS include: the impact of was driven by NatWest Markets, settlement with the Federal Housing the UKs exit from the EU: a second where RWAs fell by 16.8 billion due Finance Agency FHFA, as a result of Scottish independence referendum: to the continued run-off of the legacy which the FHFAs outstanding litigation a UK recession including significant 46 Our operating environment falls in house prices: global financial sanctions, mis-selling including requirements implemented as a result market volatility linked to advanced mis-selling of payment protection of the Independent Commission on economy interest rate increases or insurance products.
Settlements may Banking and the implementation of decreases: a protracted period of low result in additional financial penalties, obligations under the policy framework interest rates in the UK: vulnerabilities in non-monetary penalties or other for resolution including Operational emerging market economies resulting consequences, which may be material.
These in contagion in RBSs core markets: a support the delivery of a robust control More detail on these issues can be found eurozone crisis: and major geopolitical environment and the embedding of in the Litigation, Investigations and instability.
a strong and pervasive customerReviews and Risk Factors sections of centred organisational and risk culture, Risks related to the competitive the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
which are essential to meet RBSs environment To prevent future conduct from resulting strategic objectives.
These projects RBSs target markets are highly in similar impacts, RBS continues to cover organisation structure, business competitive, which poses challenges embed a strong and comprehensive risk strategy, information technology in terms of achieving some strategic and compliance culture.
systems, operational processes and objectives.
Moreover, changes in product offerings.
RBS continues to Failure of information technology technology, customer behaviour and work to implement change in line with its systems business models in these markets project plans while assessing the risks RBSs information technology systems have accelerated.
RBS monitors to implementation and is taking steps to are complex.
As such, recovering from the competitive environment and mitigate those risks where possible.
To mitigate these associated regulatory technological risks, a major investment programme strategy development and makes Risks to income, costs and business has significantly improved the resilience adjustments as appropriate.
models arising from regulatory of the systems and further progress is requirements Impact of cyber attacks expected.
System sustainability has RBS is exposed to the risk of further Cyber attacks are increasing in improved as we continue to simplify increases in regulatory capital frequency and severity across the and modernise our infrastructure and requirements as well as risks related industry.
RBS has participated in applications.
to new regulations that could affect its industry-wide cyber attack simulations business models.
An increase in obligations to support in order to help test and develop defence pension schemes planning.
To mitigate the risks, a RBS considers and incorporates the The value of pension scheme assets number of control enhancements have implications of proposed or potential may not be adequate to fund pension been delivered as part of a bank-wide regulatory activities in its strategic and scheme liabilities.
The actuarial deficit in security programme.
This has improved financial plans.
the RBS pension schemes may therefore the protection of IT systems and data increase, requiring RBS to increase its for both employees and customers.
Inability to recruit or retain current and future cash contributions.
Further enhancements are underway suitable staff An acceleration of certain previouslyand planned to ensure RBS continues There is a risk that RBS lacks sufficient committed pension contributions to maintain an effective control capability or capacity at a senior level was made in Q1 2016 to reduce this environment as the cyber threats evolve.
to deliver or to adapt to change.
Depending on the economic and RBS monitors people risk closely and Regulatory and legal risks monetary conditions and longevity of has plans in place to support retention Future litigation and conduct charges scheme members prevailing at that of key roles, with wider programmes could be substantial.
RBS is involved in time, the actuarial deficit may increase supporting engagement and training a number of litigation and investigations at subsequent valuations and is also for all employees.
matters, including: ongoing class action expected to be affected by ring-fencing.
litigation, securitisation and mortgagebacked securities related litigation, Operational and execution risks investigations into foreign exchange Increased losses may arise from a trading and rate-setting activities, failure to execute major projects continuing LIBOR-related litigation and successfully.
These currently include the investigations, and investigations into transformation plan, the restructuring the treatment of small and mediumof NatWest Markets, compliance sized business customers in financial with structural reform requirements difficulty, anti-money laundering, including the statutory ring-fencing 47
