Top and emerging risks Risk Our approach to identifying and monitoring top and emerging Page risks is described on page 69.
During 2017, there have been a Our conservative risk appetite 63 number of developments in our top and emerging risks analysis to Top and emerging risks 63 reflect our assessment of the issues facing HSBC.
Our current top Externally driven 63 and emerging risks are as follows.
Internally driven 65 Areas of special interest 66 Externally driven Process of UK withdrawal from the European Union 66 Economic outlook and capital flows Risk management 66 Although global economic activity strengthened in 2017, growth Our risk management framework 66 was weak in many countries and headwinds remain in both Our material banking and insurance risks 70 developed and emerging economies.
Global central banks have Credit risk management 72 initiated a gradual tightening of monetary policy that will likely Liquidity and funding risk management 73 continue into 2018.
Sharper than expected interest rate rises, or Market risk management 74 economic and or geopolitical shocks, could lead to an increase in Operational risk management 77 capital flows volatility, especially for emerging markets, potentially Regulatory compliance risk management 77 impacting economic growth.
Financial crime risk management 78 Insurance manufacturing operations risk management 78 Protectionism is on the rise in many parts of the world, driven Other material risks byboth populist sentiment and structural challenges facing developed economies.
This rise could contribute to weaker global Reputational risk management 79 trade, potentially affecting HSBCs traditional lines of business.
Sustainability risk management 80 Pension risk management 80 The ongoing uncertainty regarding the terms of the UKs exit from Key developments and risk profile in 2017 81 the EU, the UKs future relationship with the EU, and its trading Key developments in 2017 81 relationship with the rest of the world, may lead to market Credit risk profile 81 volatility, which could affect both the Group and its customers.
Liquidity and funding risk profile 101 The level of indebtedness in mainland China remains high.
Any Market risk profile 105 policy action to restrain credit growth could have wider Operational risk profile 111 ramifications for regional and global economic growth, trade Insurance manufacturing operations risk profile 112 andcapital flows.
Increased tensions in the Middle East may have significant regional economic and political consequences which could impact Our conservative risk appetite the Groups operations within the region.
Throughout its history, HSBC has maintained an evolving Oil prices have staged a partial recovery since mid-2017, returning conservative risk profile.
This is central to our business and to levels last seen in late 2014.
exporters and oil services companies are still under financial The following principles guide the Groups overarching risk strain, which could negatively affect their investment budgets and appetite and determine how its businesses and risks are managed.
thus business prospects for HSBC.
Enterprise-wide application Mitigating actions Our risk appetite encapsulates consideration of financial and We actively assess the impact of economic developments non-financial risks and is expressed in both quantitative and inkey markets on specific customer segments and portfolios qualitative terms.
and take appropriate mitigating actions.
These actions include revising risk appetite and or limits, as circumstances evolve.
It is applied at the global business level, at the regional level, and to material operating entities.
We use internal stress testing and scenario analysis, as wellas regulatory stress test programmes, to evaluate thepotential Financial position impact of macroeconomic shocks on our businesses and Strong capital position, defined by regulatory and internal portfolios.
Our approach to stress testing is described on capital ratios.
Liquidity and funding management for each operating entity, We have carried out detailed reviews and stress tests of our on a stand-alone basis.
wholesale credit and trading portfolios to determine those sectors and customers most vulnerable to the UKs exit from Operating model the EU, in order to proactively manage and mitigate this risk.
Returns generated in line with risk taken.
Geopolitical risk Sustainable and diversified earnings mix, delivering consistent Our operations and portfolios are exposed to risks associated with returns for shareholders.
political instability, civil unrest and military conflict, which could lead to disruption to our operations, physical risk to our staff and Business practice or physical damage to our assets.
In addition, rising protectionism Zero tolerance for knowingly engaging in any business, activity and the increasing trend of using trade and investment policies as or association where foreseeable reputational risk ordamage diplomatic tools may also adversely affect global trade flows.
has not been considered and or mitigated.
Geopolitical risk remained heightened throughout 2017.
While No appetite for deliberately or knowingly causing detriment to elections across the EU during 2017 have temporarily stemmed a consumers, or incurring a breach of the letter or spirit of populist tide, political uncertainty remains high in the UK as regulatory requirements.
negotiations progress towards an exit from the EU see Process of No appetite for inappropriate market conduct by a member of UK withdrawal from the European Union in Areas of special staff or by any Group business.
In addition, the threat of terrorism within the region remains high.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk In the Middle East, a number of countries severed diplomatic and Mitigating actions transport ties with Qatar, a leading exporter of liquefied natural We continue to strengthen and significantly invest in our ability gas and a significant global investor.
Further sanctions may be to prevent, detect and respond to the ever-increasing and imposed on Iran outside the guidelines laid out in the Joint sophisticated threat of cyber-attacks.
Specifically, we continue Comprehensive Plan of Action, which was decertified, rather than to enhance our capabilities to protect against increasingly dismantled, by the Trump administration.
The tensions between sophisticated malware, denial of service attacks and data Saudi Arabia, the US and Iran may remain.
leakage prevention, as well as enhancing our security event In Asia, tensions continue to rise between North Korea and the US detection and incident response processes.
as a result of North Korean progress in its missile and nuclear Cyber risk is a priority area for the Board and is regularly programmes.
The stronger Chinese enforcement of UN sanctions reported at Board level to ensure appropriate visibility, on North Korea may not halt further missile and nuclear tests.
Any governance and executive support for our ongoing escalation could have a significant impact on regional and global cybersecurity programme.
We participate in intelligence sharing with both law Mitigating actions enforcement and industry schemes to help improve our We continually monitor the geopolitical outlook, in particular in understanding of, and ability to respond to, the evolving threats faced by us and our peers.
countries where we have material exposures and or a physical presence.
We have also established dedicated forums Regulatory, technological and sustainability tomonitor geopolitical developments.
developments including conduct, with adverse impact We use internal stress tests and scenario analysis as well as on business model and profitability regulatory stress test programmes, to adjust limits and Financial service providers continue to face stringent regulatory exposures to reflect our risk appetite and mitigate risks as and supervisory requirements, particularly in the areas of capital appropriate.
Our internal credit risk ratings of sovereign and liquidity management, conduct of business, financial crime, counterparties take into account geopolitical developments that internal control frameworks, the use of models and the integrity of could potentially disrupt our portfolios and businesses.
The competitive landscape in which the Contingency planning for the UKs exit from the EU continues Group operates may be significantly altered by future regulatory and we are assessing the potential impact on our portfolios, changes and government intervention.
Regulatory changes, operations and staff.
including any resulting from the UKs exit from the EU, may affect the activities of the Group as a whole, or of some or all of its We have taken steps to enhance physical security in those principal subsidiaries.
geographical areas deemed to be at high risk from terrorism and military conflicts.
In September 2017, HSBC Holdings and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HNAH consented to a civil money penalty order The credit cycle with the US Federal Reserve Board FRB in connection with its The credit environment remains benign as evidenced by the investigation into HSBCs foreign exchange activities.
Under the continued fall in loan impairment charges during 2017.
However, terms of the order, HSBC Holdings and HNAH agreed to undertake there is a risk that the credit cycle could turn sharply as a result of certain remedial steps and to pay a civil money penalty to the FRB.
These could occur as a result of political events in the US, In January 2018, HSBC Holdings entered into a three-year deferred UK and EU, or sentiment towards mainland China deteriorating prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice DoJ amid concerns over increasing leverage in the financial system.
FX DPA, regarding fraudulent conduct in connection with two Additionally, a renewed downward trend in oil prices could particular transactions in 2010 and 2011.
This concluded the DoJs increase financial difficulties in the oil and gas sector.
investigation into HSBCs historical foreign exchange activities.
Under the terms of the FX DPA, HSBC has a number of ongoing Substantial amounts of external refinancing are due in emerging obligations, including continuing to cooperate with authorities markets in 2018.
Stress could appear in a wide array of credit andimplementing enhancements to its internal controls and segments and impairment allowances could increase if the credit procedures in its Global Markets business which will be the quality of our customers is affected by less favourable global subject of annual reports to the DoJ.
In addition, HSBC agreed to economic conditions in some markets.
pay a financial penalty and restitution.
Mitigating actions While we are actively engaging in opportunities, there is a risk that We closely monitor economic developments in key markets the rise of financial technology fintech could disrupt the andsectors and undertake scenario analysis.
This enables us traditional business model of financial institutions.
totake portfolio actions where necessary, including enhanced The financial sector has also been subject to an increasing number monitoring, amending our risk appetite and or reducing limits of campaigns promoting environmental objectives, including and exposures.
climate change related risks see page 27, as the sophistication We stress test portfolios of particular concern to identify of campaigns and research capabilities of non-governmental sensitivity to loss under a range of scenarios, with organisations NGOs develop.
management actions being taken to rebalance exposures and Mitigating actions manage risk appetite wherenecessary.
We are fully engaged with governments and regulators Reviews of key portfolios are undertaken regularly to help inthecountries in which we operate to help ensure that ensure that individual customer or portfolio risks are newrequirements are considered properly by regulatory understood and our ability to manage the level of facilities authorities and the financial sector and can be implemented offered through any downturn is appropriate.
Significant regulatory programmes, such as Global Cyber-threat and unauthorised access to systems Standards see page13 and the establishment of the UK ringfenced bank, are overseen by the Group Change Committee HSBC and other public and private organisations continue to bethe targets of increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks.
Ransomware and distributed denial of service attacks appear to be We hold regular meetings with UK authorities to discuss an increasingly dominant threat to the financial industry, which strategic contingency plans covering a wide range of scenarios may result in disruption to our operations and customer-facing relating to the UKs exit from the EU.
websites or loss of customer data.
We have invested significant resources and have taken, and will continue to take, a number of steps to improve our compliance systems and controls relating to global markets activities.
For 64 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 further details, see Regulatory compliance risk management Internally driven on page 77.
IT systems infrastructure and resilience The HSBC Digital Solutions team is actively pursuing HSBC continues to invest in the reliability and resilience of our IT opportunities in the fintech space and is deploying solutions systems and critical services.
We do so to help prevent disruption with a higher level of agility than our traditional model, helping to customer services, which could result in reputational and to enable us to be more competitive in this area.
We continue to work with NGOs to enhance our policies to Mitigating actions support sustainable finance.
Strategic initiatives are transforming how technology is Financialcrime risk environment developed, delivered and maintained, with a particular focus on Financial institutions remain under considerable regulatory providing high-quality, stable and secure services.
As part of scrutiny regarding their ability to prevent and detect financial this, we are concentrating on materially improving system crime.
Financial crime threats continue to evolve, often in tandem resilience and service continuity testing.
In addition, we have with geopolitical developments.
The financial crime risks related to enhanced the security of our development life cycle and the use of innovative fintech are not yet fully understood, while the improved our testing processes and tools.
changing sanctions regulatory landscape presents execution During 2017, we continued to monitor and upgrade our IT challenges.
systems, simplifying our service provision and replacing older Recent terrorist attacks in Europe and the US may increase law IT infrastructure and applications.
These enhancements led to a enforcement and or regulatory focus on bank controls to combat further improvement in service availability during the year for terrorist financing and timely reporting to authorities.
This focus our customers and employees.
may also lead to conflicts between data demands from law Impact of organisational change and regulatory enforcement and the data protections which HSBC is required to demands on employees enforce.
Our success in delivering the Groups strategic priorities, as well HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order as significant regulatory change programmes, depends in part on with the OCC in October 2010 and HSBC North America Holdings the retention ofkey members of our management team and wider entered into a consent cease and desist order with the FRB.
The ability to continue to attract, train, motivate Bank USA further entered into an enterprise-wide compliance and retain highly qualified professionals in an employment market consent order in 2012.
HSBC Holdings consented to a cease and where expertise is often mobile and in short supply is critical.
This desist order with the FRB in December 2012.
Together, these may depend on factors beyond our control, including economic, orders required improvements to establish an effective compliance market and regulatory conditions.
In addition, the impact of the risk management programme across HSBC, including risk UKs exit from the EU on our employees and the scale of the management related to the Bank Secrecy Act, AML and resultant organisational change is yet to be fully understood.
compliance with US sanctions laws.
Failure to comply with these orders by HSBC could place further restrictions on the operations Mitigating actions of HSBC entities, and therefore impact the achievement of our Risks related to organisational change are subject to close strategic objectives.
A range of actions are being developed HSBC Bank USA, as the primary US dollar correspondent bank for to address the risks associated with the Groups major change the Group, is subject to heightened financial crime risk arising initiatives, including recruitment, development and extensive from business conducted on behalf of clients as well as its non-US relocation support to existing employees in the UK ring-fenced HSBC affiliates.
If HSBC Bank USA fails to conduct adequate bank.
duediligence on clients, including its affiliates, or otherwise Through dedicated work streams, we continue to develop inappropriately processes US dollar payments on behalf of non-US succession plans using a broad array of talent-sourcing HSBC affiliates, it could be in breach of applicable US AML and channels for key management roles, which are reviewed on a sanctions laws and regulations and become subject to legal or regular basis.
regulatory enforcement actions by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and other US agencies.
Contingency planning to address the potential impacts of the UKs exit from the EU on our staff is underway with regular Mitigating actions updates provided to the UK authorities.
We continued to enhance our Financial Crime Risk function Execution risk which brings together all areas of financial crime risk management at HSBC see page 78.
In order to deliver our strategic objectives and meet mandatory regulatory requirements, it is important for HSBC to maintain a We strengthened governance processes during 2017 by strong focus on execution risk.
This requires robust management establishing formal financial crime risk governance committees ofsignificant resource-intensive and time-sensitive programmes.
at region, global business and country levels of the Risks arising from the magnitude and complexity of change may organisation.
This will help to ensure appropriate oversight and include regulatory censure, reputational damage or financial escalation of issues to the Financial Crime Risk Management losses.
Meeting of the Group Management Board.
Mitigating actions We are working to develop enhanced risk management capabilities through better use of sophisticated analytical The GCC, chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer, techniques.
oversees these key regulatory and strategic initiatives, managing interdependencies and providing direction and We are working to ensure that the reforms we have put in place support to help ensure their effective and timely delivery.
are both effective and sustainable over the long term.
Work in these areas will continue to be consistent with the terms of the In 2017, we continued to manage execution risks through orders by which we are bound and the strategic objectives of closely monitoring the punctual delivery of critical initiatives, the Group.
internal and external dependencies, and key risks, to allow better portfolio management across Group.
The GCC also monitors the ongoing completion of material deliverables across these programmes in order to address any resourcing challenges.
The GCC escalates any necessary issues to the Group Risk Management Meeting of the Group Management Board.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Risks arising from the receipt of services from Our data culture is strengthening with ownership and accountability attributed to our businesses and increased focus thirdparties on data as a Group asset.
We utilise third parties for the provision of a range of services, in We have deployed risk and finance data aggregation and common with other financial service providers.
Risks arising from advanced reporting capabilities to key markets in 2017.
We are the use of third-party service providers may be less transparent on track for completing actions for the remaining countries in and therefore more challenging to manage or influence.
It is scope by the end of 2018. critical that we ensure that we have appropriate risk management policies, processes and practices, including adequate control A dedicated programme of work has been mobilised to execute overthe selection, governance and oversight of third parties, the GDPR requirements in order to enhance our customers particularly for key processes and controls that could affect data protection and privacy.
Any deficiency in our management of risks arising from the use of third parties could affect our ability to meet strategic, regulatory or client expectations.
Areas of special interest Mitigating actions During 2017, we considered a number of areas because of the effect they may have on the Group.
While these areas have been In the fourth quarter, we commenced the deployment of our identified and considered as part of our top and emerging risks, delivery model in the first line of defence by establishing a we have placed particular focus on the UK withdrawal from the dedicated team and developing associated processes, controls EuropeanUnion in this section.
and technology for undertaking assessments of third-party service providers against key criteria throughout the third-party Process of UK withdrawal from the life cycle.
In addition, we started to roll out associated control EuropeanUnion monitoring, testing and assurance processes.
The UK is due to formally leave the EU in March 2019.
Before this We established a dedicated oversight forum in the second line can happen, the UK and the EU have to finalise the Article 50 of defence to monitor the embedding of policy requirements Withdrawal Agreement, which will then need to be approved by and performance against risk appetite.
Concluding negotiations on a Enhanced model risk management expectations comprehensive trade deal within this time frame could be challenging.
A period of transition is therefore possible but the We use models for a range of purposes in managing our business, scope and length of any such arrangement would need to be including regulatory capital calculations, stress testing, credit agreed between the UK and the EU.
Uncertainty therefore approvals, financial crime risk management and financial continues and with it the risk of significant market volatility.
Internal and external factors have had a significant impact on our approach to model risk management.
Moreover, Our objective in all scenarios is to continue to meet customers theadoption of more sophisticated modelling techniques and needs and minimise disruption.
This is likely to require technology across the industry could also lead to increased adjustments to our cross-border banking model, with impacted modelrisk.
business transferring from the UK to our existing subsidiary in France or other European subsidiaries, as appropriate.
Mitigating actions Given the tight time frame and the complexity of the negotiations, We have established a model risk management sub-function in we have put in place a robust contingency plan.
It is based on a the second line of defence to strengthen governance and scenario whereby the UK exits the EU in March 2019, without oversight of this risk type.
access to the single market or customs union, and without a We further strengthened our model risk management transitional arrangement.
When negotiation positions and framework throughout 2017 by establishing additional global timelines become clearer, we will update our contingency plan.
model oversight committees and implementing policies and standards in accordance with key regulatory requirements.
Risk management As we adopt new modelling technologies, we are updating our model risk management framework and governance standards This section describes the enterprise risk management framework, to help address any new risks arising.
and the significant policies and practices employed by HSBC in managing its material risks.
Data management Our risk management framework The Group uses a large number of systems and applications to support key business processes and operations.
As a result, we We use an enterprise risk management framework across the often need to reconcile multiple data sources, including customer organisation and across all risk types.
It is underpinned by our risk data sources, to reduce the risk of error.
HSBC, along with other culture and is reinforced by the HSBC Values and our Global organisations, also needs to meet external regulatory obligations Standards programme.
such as the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR which The framework fosters continuous monitoring of the risk requires implementation of data privacy and protection capabilities environment, and an integrated evaluation of risks and their across our customer data systems by May 2018. interactions.
It also ensures a consistent approach to monitoring, Mitigating actions managing and mitigating the risks we accept andincur in our activities.
We continue to improve data quality across a large number of systems globally.
Our data management and aggregation The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects of continues to strengthen and enhance the effectiveness of the framework, including governance and structure, our risk internal systems and processes.
We are implementing data management tools and our risk culture, which together help align controls for critical processes in the front-office systems to employee behaviour with our risk appetite.
improve our data capture at the point of entry.
We continue to proactively monitor customer and transaction data resolving any associated data issues.
We have also implemented data controls and enhanced reconciliation in order to improve the reliability of data used by our customers and staff.
66 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key components of our risk management framework HSBC Values and risk culture The Board approves the Groups risk appetite, plans and performance targets.
It sets the tone from the top and is advised by the Group Risk Committee, Non-executive risk governance the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, and the Conduct & Values Committee see page 127.
Risk governance Responsible for the enterprise-wide management of all risks, including key Executive risk governance policies and frameworks for the management of risk within the Group see pages 67 and 69.
Our three lines of defence model defines roles and responsibilities for risk Roles and Three lines of defence model management.
An independent Global Risk function helps ensure the responsibilities necessary balance in risk return decisions see page 68.
Risk appetite Enterprise-wide risk management tools Processes to identify assess, monitor, manage and report risks to ensure we Processes and tools remain within our risk appetite see pages 67 to 69.
Active risk management: identification assessment, monitoring, management and reporting Policies and procedures define the minimum requirements for the controls Policies and procedures required to manage our risks.
The operational risk management framework defines minimum standards and Control activities Internal controls processes for managing operational risks and internal controls see page 77.
Systems and or processes that support the identification, capture and Systems and infrastructure exchange of information to support risk management activities.
Systems and tools Our risk culture Governance and structure Risk culture refers to HSBCs norms, attitudes and behaviours The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effective related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management.
management of risk and approves HSBCs risk appetite.
It is advised on risk-related matters by the Group Risk Committee HSBC has long recognised the importance of a strong risk culture, GRC, the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee FSVC, the fostering of which is a key responsibility of senior executives.
and the Conduct & Values Committee CVC seepages 130, 131 Our risk culture is reinforced by the HSBC Values and our Global and 132 respectively.
It is instrumental in aligning the behaviours of individuals with our attitude to assuming and managing risk, Executive accountability for the ongoing monitoring, assessment which helps to ensure that our risk profile remains in line with our andmanagement of the risk environment and the effectiveness of risk appetite.
the risk management framework resides with the Group Chief Risk Officer.
He is supported by the Risk Management Meeting ofthe We use clear and consistent employee communication on risk Group Management Board RMM.
toconvey strategic messages and set the tone from senior management and the Board.
We also deploy mandatory training The management of financial crime risk resides with the Group on risk and compliance topics to embed skills and understanding Head of Financial Crime Risk.
He is supported by the Financial in order to strengthen our risk culture and reinforce the attitude to Crime Risk Management Meeting, as described under Financial risk in the behaviour expected of employees, as described in our crime risk management on page 78. risk policies.
Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated We operate a global whistleblowing platform, HSBC Confidential, tosenior managers with individual accountability for decision allowing staff to report matters of concern confidentially.
All employees have a role to play in risk management.
alsomaintain an external email address for concerns about These roles are defined using the three lines of defence model, accounting and internal financial controls or auditing matters which takes into account the Groups business and functional @hsbc.
The Group has a strict policy structures as described below.
prohibiting retaliation against those who raise their concerns.
We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help Allallegations of retaliation reported are escalated to senior ensure appropriate oversight and accountability of risk, which management.
For further details on whistleblowing, see page 23 facilitates reporting and escalation to the RMM.
This structure is and also our ESG reporting available on www.
com oursummarised in the following table.
approach measuring-our-impact and for details on the governance of our whistleblowing policy, see pages 127 and 132.
Our risk culture is also reinforced by our approach to remuneration.
Individual awards, including those for senior executives, are based on compliance with the HSBC Values and theachievement of financial and non-financial objectives, whichare aligned to our risk appetite and global strategy.
For further information on remuneration, see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 141.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Governance structure for the management of risk Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Risk Management Meeting Group Chief Risk Officer Supporting the Group Chief Risk Officer in exercising Board-delegated risk oftheGroup Management management authority Chief Legal Officer Board Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the enterprise risk Group Chief Executive management framework Group Finance Director Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing possible risk All other Group Managing Directors impacts and taking appropriate action Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and conduct Global Risk Management Group Chief Risk Officer Supporting the Group Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the Board Global Risk function, setting priorities and providing oversight Chief Risk Officers of HSBCs globalbusinesses and regions Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function Heads of Global Risk sub-functions Global business regional Global Business Regional Chief Supporting the Chief Risk Officer in exercising Board-delegated risk management risk management meetings RiskOfficer authority Global Business Regional Chief Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing the possible risk Executive impact and taking appropriate action Global Business Regional Chief Implementation of risk appetite and the enterprise risk management framework Financial Officer Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating actions Global Business Regional Heads Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls ofglobal functions The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 127.
Our responsibilities Risk appetite All employees are responsible for identifying and managing Our risk appetite encapsulates consideration of financial and nonriskwithin the scope of their role as part of the three lines of financial risks and is expressed in both quantitative and qualitative defence model.
Three lines of defence The Groups risk appetite defines its desired forward-looking risk To create a robust control environment to manage risks, we use an profile, and informs the strategic and financial planning process.
activity-based three lines of defence model.
This model delineates Furthermore, it is integrated with other key risk management management accountabilities and responsibilities forrisk tools, such as stress testing and our top and emerging risk management and the control environment.
reports, to help ensure consistency in risk management practices.
The model underpins our approach to risk management by The Group sets out the aggregated level and risk types it accepts clarifying responsibility, encouraging collaboration, and enabling in order to achieve its business objectives in a risk appetite efficient coordination of risk and control activities.
The RAS is reviewed on an ongoing basis, and of defence are summarised below: formally approved by the Board every six months onthe The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible recommendation of the GRC.
foridentifying, recording, reporting and managing them, The Groups actual performance is reported monthly against andensuring that the right controls and assessments are theapproved RAS to the RMM, enabling senior management inplace to mitigate them.
tomonitor the risk profile and guide business activity to balance The second line of defence sets the policy and guidelines risk and return.
This reporting allows risks to be promptly formanaging specific risk areas, provides advice and guidance identified and mitigated, and informs risk-adjusted remuneration in relation to the risk, and challenges the first lineof defence on to drive a strong risk culture.
Global businesses, regions and strategically important countries The third line of defence is our Internal Audit function, are required to have their own RASs, which are monitored to whichprovides independent and objective assurance of ensure they remain aligned with the Groups.
All RASs and theadequacy of the design and operational effectiveness ofthe business activities are guided and underpinned by qualitative Groups risk management framework and control governance principles see page 131.
Additionally, for key risk areas, process.
quantitative metrics are defined along with appetite and tolerance thresholds.
Global Risk function Risk map We have a Global Risk function, headed by the Group Chief Risk Officer, which is responsible for the Groups risk management The Group risk map provides a point-in-time view of the risk framework.
This responsibility includes establishing global policy, profiles of countries, regions and global businesses across HSBCs monitoring risk profiles, and forward-looking risk identification and risk taxonomy.
It assesses the potential for these risks to have a management.
Global Risk is made up of sub-functions covering all material impact on the Groups financial results, reputation and risks to our operations.
Global Risk forms part of the second line of the sustainability of its business.
Risk stewards assign current defence.
It is independent from the global businesses, including and projected risk ratings, supported by commentary.
Risks that sales and trading functions, to provide challenge, appropriate have an amber or red risk rating require monitoring and oversight and balance in risk return decisions.
mitigating action plans to be either in place or initiated to manage the risk down to acceptable levels.
Enterprise-wide risk management tools Descriptions of our material banking and insurance risks are set out The Group uses a range of tools to identify, monitor and manage onpage70.
The key enterprise-wide risk management tools are summarised below.
68 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Top and emerging risks In 2017, the results for HSBC as published by the BoE showed that our capital ratios, after taking account of CRD IV restrictions and We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forwardstrategic management actions, exceeded the BoEs requirements.
looking view of issues with the potential to threaten the execution of our strategy or operations over the medium to longterm.
This outcome reflected our strong capital position, conservative risk appetite and diversified geographical and business mix.
It also We proactively assess the internal and external risk environment, reflected our ongoing strategic actions, including the sale of as well as review the themes identified across our regions and operations in Brazil, ongoing RWA reduction initiatives and global businesses, for any risks that may require global escalation, continued sales from our US CML run-off portfolio.
updating our top and emerging risks as necessary.
The following table shows the results of the stress test for the past We define a top risk as a thematic issue that may form and three years, and reflects HSBCs resilience.
From a starting CET1 crystallise in between six months and one year, and that has ratio of 13.6% at the end of 2016, the BoEs 2017 stress test thepotential to materially affect the Groups financial results, results showed a projected minimum stressed CET1 ratio of 8.9% reputation or business model.
It may arise across any combination after the impact of strategic management actions.
of risk types, regions or global businesses.
The impact may be well understood by senior management and some mitigating actions Results of Bank of England stress tests for the past three years may already be in place.
Stress tests ofvarying granularity may also have been carried out to assess the impact.
2017 2016 2015 % % % An emerging risk is a thematic issue with large unknown CET1 ratio at scenario start point 13.6 11.9 10.9 components that may form and crystallise beyond a one-year time Minimum stressed CET1 ratio after horizon.
If it were to materialise, it could have a material effect on strategic management actions 8.9 9.1 7.7 the Groups long-term strategy, profitability and or reputation.
Fall in CET1 ratio 4.7 2.8 3.2 Existing mitigation plans are likely to be minimal, reflecting the uncertain nature of these risks at this stage.
Somehigh-level Source: Bank of England.
Data is presented in terms of the minimum CET1 ratio reached net of strategic analysis and or stress testing may have beencarried out to assess management actions as per the results published by the PRA.
Internal stress tests are an important element in our risk Our current top and emerging risks are discussed on page63.
management and capital management frameworks.
Our capital Stress testing plan is assessed through a range of stress scenarios which explore risks identified by management.
They include potential adverse HSBC operates a comprehensive stress testing programme that macroeconomic, geopolitical and operational risk events, and supports our risk management and capital planning.
It includes other potential events that are specific to HSBC.
The selection of execution of stress tests mandated by our regulators.
Our stress scenarios reflects our top and emerging risks identification testing is supported by dedicated teams and infrastructure, and is process and our risk appetite.
Stress testing analysis helps overseen at the most senior levels of the Group.
management understand the nature and extent of vulnerabilities to Our stress testing programme assesses our capital strength which the bank is exposed.
Using this information, management through a rigorous examination of our resilience to external decides whether risks can or should be mitigated through shocks.
It also helps us understand and mitigate risks and informs management actions or, if they were to crystallise, should be our decisions about capital levels.
As well as undertaking absorbed through capital.
This in turn informs decisions about regulatory-driven stress tests, we conduct our own internal stress preferred capital levels.
We conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group and, where Many of our regulators including the BoE, the FRB and the required, subsidiary entity level in order to understand which HKMA use stress testing as a prudential regulatory tool and the potential extreme conditions would make our business model nonGroup has focused significant governance and resources to meet viable.
Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses and their requirements.
vulnerabilities we might face, and helps inform early warning Bank of England stress test results for 2017 triggers, management actions and contingency plans designed to mitigate risks.
The BoEs Annual Cyclical Scenario ACS stress test in 2017 specified a global downturn with severe effects in the UK, In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each major US, Hong Kong and mainland China, which accounted for HSBC subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and eventapproximately two-thirds of HSBCs RWAs at the end of 2016.
We driven scenario analyses specific to its region.
They also estimated that the economic shock to global GDP in this scenario participate as required in the regulatory stress testing programmes was about as severe as in the global financial crisis of 2007 to of the jurisdictions in which they operate, such as the 2009, but with a greater impact on emerging markets: for Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Dodd-Frank Act example, the scenario featured a contraction of 1.2% of the Stress Test programmes in the US, and the stress tests of the Chinese economy in the first year.
Additionally, and in contrast to HKMA.
Global functions and businesses also perform bespoke 2016, the ACS featured a 32% depreciation of sterling in the first stress testing to inform their assessment of risks in potential year and a rise of UK base rates to 4%.
The assumed GDP growth scenarios.
rates are detailed in the following table.
The Group stress testing programme is overseen by the GRC and results are reported, where appropriate, to the RMM and GRC.
PRA assumed GDP growth rates are shown in terms of fourth quarter on fourth quarter annual changes.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Our material banking and insurance risks The material risk types associated with our banking and insurance manufacturing operations are described in the following tables: Description of risks banking operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and managementof risk Credit risk see page 72 Credit risk is the risk of financial Credit risk arises Credit risk is: loss if a customer or counterparty principally from direct measured as the amount that could be lost if a customer or counterparty fails to fails to meet an obligation under a lending, trade finance and make repayments: contract.
leasing business, but also monitored using various internal risk management measures and within limits from certain other approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities: and products such as managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear andconsistent guarantees and policies, principles and guidance for risk managers.
Liquidity and funding risk see page 73 Liquidity risk is the risk that we do Liquidity risk arises from Liquidity and funding risk is: not have sufficient financial mismatches in the timing measured using a range of metrics including liquidity coverage ratio and net stable resources to meet our obligations of cash flows.
funding ratio: as they fall due or that we can only Funding risk arises when assessed through the internal liquidity adequacy assessment process ILAAP : do so at an excessive cost.
illiquid asset positions monitored against the Groups liquidity and funding risk framework: and Funding risk is the risk that funding cannot be funded at the managed on a stand-alone basis with no reliance on any Group entity unless preconsidered to be sustainable, and expected terms and when committed or central bank unless this represents routine established business-astherefore used to fund assets, is required.
Market risk see page 74 Market risk is the risk that Exposure to market risk is Market risk is: separated into two movements in market factors, such measured using sensitivities, value at risk VaR and stress testing, giving a detailed portfolios: trading and as foreign exchange rates, interest picture of potential gains and losses for a range of market movements and scenarios, non-trading.
rates, credit spreads, equity prices as well as tail risks over specified time horizons: Market risk exposures and commodity prices, will reduce arising from our insurance monitored using VaR, stress testing and other measures including the sensitivity of our income or the value of our operations are discussed net interest income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange: and on page114.
managed using risk limits approved by the RMM and the risk management meeting in various global businesses.
Operational risk see page 77 Operational risk is the risk to Operational risk arises Operational risk is: achieving our strategy or objectives from day-to-day operations Measured using the risk and control assessment process, which assesses the level of as a result of inadequate or failed or external events, and is risk and the effectiveness of controls, and measured for Economic Capital internal processes, people and relevant to every aspect of management using risk event losses and scenario analysis: systems or from external events.
monitored using key indicators and other internal control activities: and Regulatory compliance risk managed primarily by global business and functional managers who identify and and financial crime assess risks, implement controls to manage themand monitor the effectiveness of compliance risk are these controls using theoperational risk management framework.
Regulatory compliance risk see page 77 Regulatory compliance risk is the Regulatory compliance risk Regulatory compliance risk is: risk that we fail to observe the is part ofoperational risk, measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments, regulatory letter and spirit of all relevant laws, and arises from the risks feedback and the judgement and assessment of our regulatory compliance teams: codes, rules, regulations and associated with breaching monitored against the first line of defence risk and control assessments, the results of standards of good market practice, our duty to clients and the monitoring and control assurance activities of the second line of defence and incur fines and penalties and other counterparties, functions, and the results of internal andexternal audits and regulatory inspections: suffer damage to our business as inappropriate market and aconsequence.
conduct and breaching managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and procedures, other regulatory training employees in them, and monitoring activity to help ensure their observance.
Proactive risk control and or remediation work is undertaken where required.
Financial crime risk see page 78 Financial crime risk is the riskthat Financial crime risk is part Financial crime risk is: we knowingly or unknowingly help of operational risk and measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments, regulatory parties tocommit or to further arises from day-to-day feedback and the judgement and assessment of our financial crime risk teams: potentially illegal activity through banking operations.
monitored against our financial crime risk appetite statements and metrics, the HSBC.
results of the monitoring and control activities of the second line of defence functions, and the results of internal andexternal audits and regulatory inspections: and managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and procedures, training employees in them, and monitoring activity to help ensure their observance.
70 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Description of risks banking operations continued Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and managementof risk Other material risks Reputational risk see page 79 Reputational risk is the risk of Primary reputational risks Reputational risk is: failure to meet stakeholder arise directly from an measured by reference to our reputation as indicated by our dealings with all relevant expectations as a result of any action or inaction by stakeholders, including media, regulators, customers and employees: event, behaviour, action or HSBC, its employees or monitored through a reputational risk management framework that is integrated into inaction, either by HSBC itself, our associated parties that are the Groups broader risk management framework: and employees or those with whom we not the consequence of managed by every member of staff, and covered by a number of policies and are associated, that might cause another type of risk.
There is a clear structure of committees and individuals charged with stakeholders to form a negative Secondary reputational mitigating reputational risk.
risks are those arising indirectly and are a result of a failure to control any other risks.
Pension risk see page 80 Pension risk is the risk of increased Pension risk arises from Pension risk is: costs to HSBC from offering postinvestments delivering an measured in terms of the schemes ability to generate sufficient funds to meet the employment benefit plans to its inadequate return, adverse cost of their accrued benefits: employees.
changes in interest rates monitored through the specific risk appetite that has been developed at both Group orinflation, or members and regional levels: and living longer than managed locally through the appropriate pension risk governance structure and expected.
Pension risk globally through the Global Pensions Oversight Forum and ultimately the RMM.
alsoincludes operational and reputational risk of sponsoring pension plans.
Sustainability risk see page 80 Sustainability risk is the riskthat Sustainability risk arises Sustainability risk is: financial services provided to from the provision of measured by assessing the potential sustainability effect of a customers activities customers by theGroup indirectly financial services to and assigning a sustainability risk rating to allhigh-risk transactions: result inunacceptable impacts on companies or projects monitored quarterly by the RMM and monthly by the Groups sustainability risk people or the environment.
which indirectly result function: and inunacceptable impacts managed using sustainability risk policies covering project finance lending and on people or on the sector-based sustainability policies for sectors and themes with potentially large environment.
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are regulated separately Group oversight.
Our insurance operations are also subject to from our banking operations.
Risks in our insurance entities are some of the same risks as our banking operations, which are managed using methodologies and processes that are subject to covered by the Groups risk management processes.
Description of risks insurance manufacturing operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and managementof risk Financial risk see page 114 Our ability to effectively match Exposure to financial risk Financial risk is: liabilities arising under insurance arises from: measured i for credit risk, in terms of economic capital and the amount that contracts with the asset portfolios market risk affecting the fair could be lost if a counterparty fails to make repayments: ii for market risk, in that back them is contingent on values of financial assets or terms of economic capital, internal metrics and fluctuations in key financial the management of financial risks their future cash flows: variables: and iii for liquidity risk, in terms of internal metrics including stressed and the extent towhich these are operational cash flow projections: credit risk: and borne by policyholders.
monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated authorities: and liquidity risk of entities being unable to managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear and makepayments to consistent policies, principles and guidance.
This includes using product design, policyholders as they asset liability matching and bonus rates.
Insurance risk see page 116 Insurance risk is the risk that, over The cost of claims and benefits Insurance risk is: time, the cost of insurance policies can be influenced bymany measured in terms of life insurance liabilities and economic capital allocated to written, including claims and factors, including mortality and insurance underwriting risk: benefits, may exceed the total morbidity experience, as well monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated authorities: and amount of premiums and as lapse and surrender rates.
managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear and investment income received.
consistent policies, principles and guidance.
This includes using product design, underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk or other conditions.
We use a number of controls andmeasures to Credit risk management minimise undue concentration of exposure inour portfolios across Details of changes in our credit risk profile in 2017 can be found on page81, industries, countries and global businesses.
These include portfolio in Key developments and risk profile in 2017. and counterparty limits, approval and review controls, and stress There were no material changes to the policies and practices testing.
forthe management of credit risk in 2017. Credit quality of financial instruments Credit risk sub-function Audited Audited Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to Group Chief Executive together with the authority to sub-delegate support calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital them.
The Credit Risk sub-function in Global Risk is responsible for requirement.
the key policies and processes for managing credit risk, which The customer risk rating CRR 10-grade scale summarises a include formulating Group credit policies and risk rating more granular underlying 23-grade scale of obligor probability of frameworks, guiding the Groups appetite for credit risk exposures, default PD.
All corporate customers are rated using the 10- or undertaking independent reviews and objective assessment of 23-grade scale, depending on the degree of sophistication of the credit risk, and monitoring performance and management of Basel II approach adopted for the exposure.
Each CRR band is associated with an external rating grade by The principal objectives of our credit risk management are: reference to long-run default rates for that grade, represented by to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible the average of issuer-weighted historical default rates.
This lending, and robust risk policies and control frameworks: mapping between internal and external ratings is indicative and may vary over time.
to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite The expected loss EL 10-grade scale for retail business under actual and scenario conditions: and summarises a more granular underlying EL scale for this customer segment.
This combines obligor and facility product risk factors in to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, a composite measure.
their costs and their mitigation.
For the five credit quality classifications defined, each Concentration of exposure encompasses a range of granular internal credit rating grades Audited assigned to wholesale and retail lending businesses, and the Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of external ratings attributed by external agencies to debt securities.
counterparties or exposures have comparable economic For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, characteristics, or such counterparties are engaged in similar external ratings have been aligned to the five quality classifications activities or operate in the same geographical areas or industry based upon the mapping of related CRR to external credit rating.
sectors so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in economic, political Credit quality classification Sovereign debt Other debt securities securities Wholesale lending and bills and bills and derivatives Retail lending 12-month External credit External credit Internal credit probability of Internal credit Footnotes rating rating rating default % rating Expected loss % Quality classification 1, 2 Strong BBB and above Aand above CRR 1 to CRR 2 0 0.169 EL 1 to EL 2 0 0.999 Good BBBto BB BBB to BBBCRR 3 0.170 0.740 EL 3 1.000 4.999 Satisfactory BBto B and BB to B and unrated unrated CRR 4 to CRR 5 0.741 4.914 EL 4 to EL 5 5.000 19.999 Sub-standard Bto C Bto C CRR 6 to CRR 8 4.915 99.999 EL 6 to EL 8 20.000 99.999 100 or CRR 9 to CRR Impaired 3 Default Default 10 100 EL 9 to EL 10 defaulted 1 Customer risk rating CRR.
3 The EL percentage is derived through a combination of probability of default PD and loss given default LGD, and may exceed 100% in circumstances where the LGD is above 100% reflecting the cost of recoveries.
Quality classification definitions Strong exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and or low levels of expected loss.
Good exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk.
Satisfactory exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average-to-fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with moderate default risk.
Sub-standard exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern.
Impaired exposures have been assessed as impaired, as described on page 86.
These also include retail accounts classified as EL 1 toEL 8 that are delinquent by more than 90 days, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired, and renegotiated loans that have met the requirements to bedisclosed as impaired and have not yet met the criteria to be returned to the unimpaired portfolio see following page.
72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Renegotiated loans and forbearance Impairment methodologies for available-for-sale assetbacked securities ABSs Audited Audited Forbearance describes concessions made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to an obligors financial difficulties.
To identify objective evidence of impairment for available-for-sale ABSs, an industry standard valuation model is normally applied A loan is classed as renegotiated when we modify the which uses data with reference to the underlying asset pools and contractual payment terms, on concessionary terms, because we models their projected future cash flows.
The estimated future have significant concerns about the borrowers ability to meet cash flows of the securities are assessed at the specific financial contractual payments when due.
asset level to determine whether any of them are unlikely to be Non-payment related concessions e. g. covenant waivers, while recovered as a result of loss events occurring on or before the potential indicators of impairment, do not trigger identification as reporting date.
The principal assumptions and inputs to the models are typically Loans that have been identified as renegotiated retain this the delinquency status of the underlying loans, the probability of designation until maturity or derecognition.
A loan that is delinquent loans progressing to default, the prepayment profiles of renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement iscancelled the underlying assets and the loss severity in the event of default.
and a new agreement is made on substantially different terms, or However, the models utilise other variables relevant tospecific if the terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the classes of collateral to forecast future defaults and recovery rates.
renegotiated loan is substantially a different financial instrument.
Management uses externally available data andapplies judgement Loans arising as a result of derecognition events will continue to when determining the appropriate assumptions in respect of these be disclosed as renegotiated loans.
We use a modelling approach which incorporates historically observed progression rates to default to determine if Credit quality of renegotiated loans the decline in aggregate projected cash flows from the underlying On execution of a renegotiation, the loan will also be classified as collateral will lead to a shortfall in contractual cash flows.
In such impaired if it is not already so classified.
In wholesale lending, all cases, the security is considered to be impaired.
facilities with a customer, including loans which have not been In respect of collateralised debt obligations CDOs, expected modified, are considered impaired following the provision of a future cash flows for the underlying collateral are assessed to renegotiated loan.
determine whether there is likely to be a shortfall in the Those loans that are considered impaired retain the impaired contractual cash flows of the CDO.
classification for a minimum of one year.
Renegotiated loans will When a security benefits from a contract provided by a monoline continue to be disclosed as impaired until there is sufficient insurer that insures payments of principal and interest, the evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of nonexpected recovery on the contract is assessed in determining the payment of future cash flows the evidence typically comprises a total expected credit support available to the ABS.
history of payment performance against the original or revised terms, and there are no other indicators of impairment.
Liquidity and funding risk management Renegotiated loans and recognition of impairment Details of HSBCs Liquidity and Funding Risk Management allowances Framework LFRF can be found in the Groups Pillar 3 Audited Disclosures at December 2017 document.
For retail lending, renegotiated loans are segregated from other Liquidity and funding risk management framework parts of the loan portfolio for collective impairment assessment to The LFRF aims to allow us to withstand very severe liquidity reflect the higher rates of losses typically encountered with stresses.
It is designed to be adaptable to changing business renegotiated loans.
The Group Treasurer, who For wholesale lending, renegotiated loans are typically assessed reports to the Group Finance Director, has responsibility for the individually.
Credit risk ratings are intrinsic to the impairment oversight of the LFRF.
Asset, Liability and Capital Management assessments.
The individual impairment assessment takes into ALCM teams are responsible for the application of the LFRF at a account the higher risk of the non-payment of future cash flows local operating entity level.
This comprises of the following inherent in renegotiated loans.
elements: stand-alone management of liquidity and funding by operating Impairment assessment entity: Audited operating entity classification by inherent liquidity risk ILR For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and categorisation: financial investments, see Note 1.2 d on the Financial Statements.
minimum LCR requirement depending on ILR categorisation: Write-off of loans and advances minimum NSFR requirement depending on ILR categorisation: Audited legal entity depositor concentration limit: For details of our policy on the write-off of loans and advances, see Note 1.2 d on the Financial Statements.
three-month and 12-month cumulative rolling term contractual maturity limits covering deposits from banks, deposits from Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally non-bank financial institutions and securities issued: written off at between 150 and 210 days past due.
Thestandard period runs until the end of the month in which the account annual individual liquidity adequacy assessment by principal becomes 180 days contractually delinquent.
Write-off periods may operating entity: be extended, generally to no more than 360 days past due.
minimum LCR requirement by currency: However, in exceptional circumstances, they may be extended further.
For example, in a few countries where local regulation or management and monitoring of intra-day liquidity: legislation constrain earlier write-off, or where the realisation of liquidity funds transfer pricing: and collateral for secured real estate lending takes more time.
For secured personal facilities, final write-off should generally occur within 60 months of the default.
In the event of bankruptcy or analogous proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than the maximum periods stated above.
Collection procedures may continue after write-off.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Risk governance and oversight Market risk management The elements of the LFRF are underpinned by a robust governance Details of changes in our market risk profile in 2017 can be found on page 81, in Key developments and risk profile in 2017. framework, the two major elements of which are: There were no material changes to our policies and practices for Group, regional and entity level asset and liability management the management of market risk in 2017. committees ALCOs.
Market risk in global businesses Annual internal liquidity adequacy assessment process ILAAP for principal operating entities used to validate risk The diagram below summarises the main business areas where tolerance and set risk appetite.
trading and non-trading market risks reside, and the market risk measures used to monitor and limit exposures.
Liquidity and funding are predominantly managed at an entity level.
Where appropriate, management may be expanded to cover a consolidated group of legal entities or narrowed to a principal Trading risk Non-trading risk office branch of a wider legal entity to reflect the management Foreign exchange and under internal or regulatory definitions.
Structural foreign commodities Risk types exchange The RMM reviews and agrees annually the list of countries, legal 1 Interest rates Interest rates Credit spreads entities or consolidated groups it directly oversees and the Credit spreads Equities composition of these entities principal operating entities.
This 2 list forms the basis of liquidity and funding risk disclosures.
2 GB&M, BSM, GPB, CMB Global business GB&M and BSM and RBWM There were no material changes to the policies and practices for VaR | Sensitivity | Stress VaR | Sensitivity | Stress the management of liquidity and funding risk in 2017.
Risk measure Testing Testing HSBC Holdings 1 The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued byHSBC Holdings is not included in the Group VaR.
The management of this risk is described on page101.
HSBC Holdings primary sources of liquidity are dividends received 2 BSM, for external reporting purposes, forms part of Corporate Centre while daily from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intra-group loans operations and risk are managed within GB&M.
and securities, and interest earned on its own liquid funds.
HSBC Holdings also raises ancillary funds in the debt capital markets Where appropriate, we apply similar risk management policies and through subordinated and senior debt issuances.
Cash is primarily measurement techniques to both trading and non-trading used for the provision of capital and subordinated funding to portfolios.
Our objective is to manage and control market risk subsidiaries, payment of operating expenses, interest payments to exposures to optimise return on risk while maintaining a market debt holders and dividend payments to shareholders.
profile consistent with our established risk appetite.
HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue The nature of the hedging and risk mitigation strategies performed of credit-related commitments and guarantees and similar across the Group corresponds to the market risk management contracts issued relating to its subsidiaries.
Such commitments instruments available within each operating jurisdiction.
These and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of HSBC strategies range from the use of traditional market instruments, Holdings ability to finance the commitments and guarantees and such as interest rate swaps, to more sophisticated hedging the likelihood ofthe need arising.
strategies to address a combination of risk factors arising at the portfolio level.
HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding Market risk governance company level.
During 2017, consistent with the Groups capital Audited plan, the Groups subsidiaries did not experience any significant Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
the RMM for HSBC Holdings.
These limits are allocated across Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to business lines and to the Groups legal entities.
However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
HSBC Holdings Board GB&M manages market risk, where the majority of HSBCs total value at risk excluding insurance and almost all trading VaR resides, using risklimits approved by the RMM.
VaR limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with market liquidity being aprimary factor in determining the level of limits set.
Global Risk is Group Chairman responsible for setting market risk management policies and measurement techniques.
Group Chief Executive Each major operating entity has an independent market risk management and control sub-function which General isresponsible for measuring market risk exposures, monitoring and reporting these exposures against the measures prescribed limits on a dailybasis.
The market risk limits are governed according tothe framework illustrated to Risk Management the left.
Meeting of the GMB Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising on each product in its business and to transfer them to either its local GB&M unit for management, or to separate books managed under the supervision ofthe local ALCO.
Group traded risk Model risk is governed through Model Oversight Committees MOCs at the regional and global Wholesale Credit and Market Risk levels.
They have direct oversight and approval responsibility for all traded risk models used forrisk measurement and management andstress testing.
We are committed to the ongoing development of our in-house risk models.
Entity risk management committee The Markets MOC reports into the Group MOC, which oversees all model risk types at Group level.
The GroupMOC informs the RMM about material issues at least two times a year.
The RMM is the Groups Designated Committee according to regulatory rules and has delegated day-to-day governance ofall traded Specific Principal office manager risk models to the Markets MOC.
measures Global Risk enforces trading in permissible instruments approved for each site, new product approval procedures, restricting trading in the more complex derivative products only to offices with appropriate levels of product expertise and robust control systems.
Business desk trader 74 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Market risk measures approach within the RNIV framework.
The outcome of the VaRbased RNIV is included in the VaR calculation and back-testing: a Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures stressed VaR RNIV is also computed for the risk factors considered Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures in the VaR-based RNIV approach.
while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk Stress-type RNIVs include a gap risk exposure measure to capture appetite.
risk on non-recourse margin loans and a fide-peg risk measure to We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures capture risk to pegged and heavily-managed currencies.
including sensitivity analysis, value at risk and stresstesting.
Stress testing Sensitivity analysis Stress testing is an important procedure that is integrated intoour Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market market risk management framework to evaluate the potential factor movements on specific instruments or portfolios, including impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices, such as events or movements in a set of financial variables.
Insuch the effect of a one basis point change in yield.
We use sensitivity scenarios, losses can be much greater than those predicted by measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk VaR modelling.
Sensitivity limits are set forportfolios, products and risk Stress testing is implemented at legal entity, regional and overall types, with the depth of the market being a principal factor in Group levels.
A set of scenarios is used consistently across all determining the level.
Scenarios are tailored to capture the Value at risk relevant potential events or market movements ateach level.
The risk appetite around potential stress losses forthe Group is set and Audited monitored against referral limits.
Value at risk VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses Market risk reverse stress tests are undertaken on the premise that on risk positions as a result of movements in market ratesand there is a fixed loss.
The stress testing process identifies which prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of scenarios lead to this loss.
The rationale behind the reverse stress confidence.
The use of VaR is integrated into market risk test is to understand scenarios that are beyond normal business management and calculated for all trading positions regardless of settings and could have contagion and systemic implications.
Where there is not an approved internal model, we use the appropriate local rules to capitalise exposures.
Stressed VaR and stress testing, together with reverse stress In addition, we calculate VaR for non-trading portfolios to have a testing and the management of gap risk, provide management complete picture of risk.
Where we do not calculate VaR explicitly, withinsights regarding the tail risk beyond VaR, for which we use alternative tools as summarised in the Stress testing HSBCs appetite is limited.
Trading portfolios Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that Back-testing incorporates the following features: We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by backhistorical market rates and prices are calculated with reference testing them against both actual and hypothetical profit and loss to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, against the corresponding VaR numbers.
Hypothetical profit and equity prices and the associated volatilities: loss excludes non-modelled items such as fees, commissions and potential market movements utilised for VaR are calculated revenues of intra-day transactions.
with reference to data from the past two years: and We would expect, on average, to see two or three profits and two VaR measures are calculated to a 99% confidence level and use or three losses in excess of VaR at the 99% confidence level over a a one-day holding period.
The actual number of profits or losses in excess of VaR over this period can therefore be used to gauge how well The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the the models are performing.
The nature of the VaR models means that an increase in observed market volatility will lead to anincrease in We back-test our Group VaR at various levels that reflect a full VaR without any changes in the underlying positions.
legal entity scope of HSBC, including entities that do not have local permission to use VaR for regulatory purposes.
VaR model limitations Structural foreign exchange exposures Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations.
For example: Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the functional currencies use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events of which are currencies other than the US dollar.
An entitys may not encompass all potential events, particularly extreme functional currency is normally that of the primary economic ones: environment in which the entity operates.
the use of a holding period assumes that all positions can Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in beliquidated or the risks offset during that period, which may Other comprehensive income.
We use the US dollar as our not fully reflect the market risk arising at times ofsevere presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements illiquidity, when the holding period may be insufficient to because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major liquidate or hedge all positions fully: currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business.
Our the use of a 99% confidence level does not take into account consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence: and differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the functional currencies of underlying subsidiaries.
close of business and therefore does not necessarily reflect Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the intra-day exposures.
primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual Risk not in VaR framework banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of The risks not in VaR RNIV framework aims to capture and changes in exchange rates.
We hedge structural foreign exchange capitalise material market risks that are not adequately covered in exposures only in limited circumstances.
the VaR model, such as the LIBOR tenor basis.
For further details of our structural foreign exchange exposures, Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and either please see page 108. incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or quantified through the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress test HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Interest rate risk in the banking book BSM manages the banking book interest rate positions transferred to it within the Market Risk limits approved by RMM.
Effective Overview governance of BSM is supported by the dual reporting lines it has Interest rate risk in the banking book is the risk of an adverse to the Chief Executive Officer of GB&M andto the Group impact to earnings or capital due to changes in market interest Treasurer.
The global businesses can only transfer non-trading rates.
It is generated by our non-traded assets and liabilities and is assets and liabilities to BSM provided BSM can economically monitored and controlled at Group level by Group Treasury and at hedge the risk they receive.
Hedging is generally executed through the entity level by Asset, Liability and Capital Management vanilla interest rate derivatives or fixed rate government bonds.
Group Treasury and ALCM functions are governed by Any interest rate risk which BSM cannot economically hedge is RMM who approve risk limits used in the management of interest not transferred and will remain within the global business where rate risk.
Interest rate risk in the banking book is transferred to and the risk is originated.
managed by BSM, which is overseen by Wholesale Market Risk, Measurement of interest rate risk in the banking book Product Control and Group Treasury functions.
ALCM uses a number of measures to monitor and control interest Key risk drivers rate risk in the banking book, including: The banks interest rate risk in the banking book can be non-traded VaR: segregated into the following drivers: net Interest Income NII sensitivity: and Managed rate risk the risk that the pricing of products, which economic value of equity EVE.
are dependent upon business line decisions, do not correlate to movements in market interest rates.
Non-traded VaR Re-investment risk risk arising due to change in rates when Non-traded VaR uses the same models as those used in the behaviouralised balances are reinvested as per the transfer trading book and excludes both HSBC Holdings and the elements pricing policy.
of risk which are not transferred to BSM.
Basis risk the risk arising from assets and liabilities that are NII sensitivity priced referencing different market indices creating a repricing A principal part of our management of non-traded interest rate risk mismatch.
is to monitor the sensitivity of expected net interest income under Prepayment risk the risk that the actual customer prepayment varying interest rate scenarios simulation modelling, where all in different interest rate scenarios does not match the profile other economic variables are held constant.
This monitoring is used to hedge the interest rate risk.
undertaken at an entity level by local ALCOs, where entities Duration risk the risk that there are changes in the maturities forecast both one-year and five-year net interest income of assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rate, which sensitivities across a range of interest rate scenarios.
Entities apply a combination of scenarios and assumptions Governance and structure relevant to their local businesses, and standard scenarios which are required throughout HSBC.
The latter are consolidated to Group Treasury and ALCM monitor and control non-traded interest illustrate the combined pro forma effect on a hypothetical base rate risk.
This includes reviewing and challenging the business case of our consolidated netinterest income.
prior to the release of new products and in respect of proposed Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the behavioural assumptions used for hedging activities.
ALCM are also responsible for maintaining and updating the transfer pricing effect of the pro forma movements in projected yield curves based on a static balance sheet size and structure, other than where the framework, informing the Asset and Liability Committee ALCO of the Groups overall banking book interest rate risk exposure and size of the balances or repricing is deemed interest rate sensitive, managing the balance sheet in conjunction with BSM.
for example, non-interest bearing current account migration and fixed rate loan early prepayment.
These sensitivity calculations do The internal transfer pricing framework is constructed to ensure not incorporate actions which would be taken by BSM or in the that structural interest rate risk, arising due to differences in the business units to mitigate the effect of interest rate movements.
repricing timing of assets and liabilities, is transferred to BSM and business lines are correctly allocated income and expense based The net interest income sensitivity calculations assume that on the products they write, inclusive of activities to mitigate this interest rates of all maturities move by the same amount in the up-shock scenario.
Rates are not assumed to become negative in risk.
Contractual principal repayments, payment schedules, expected prepayments, contractual rate indices used for repricing the down-shock scenario unless the central bank rate is already negative.
In these cases, rates are not assumed to go further and interest rate reset dates are examples of elements transferred for risk management by BSM.
negative, which may, in certain currencies, effectively result in non-parallel shock.
In addition, the net interest income sensitivity The internal transfer pricing framework is governed by each calculations take account of the effect on net interest income of entitys ALCO.
The ALCO defines each operating entitys transfer anticipated differences in changes between interbank interest pricing curve, reviews and approves the transfer pricing policy, rates and internally determined interest rates over which the entity including behaviouralisation assumptions used for products where has discretion in terms of the timing and extent of rate changes.
there is either no defined maturity or customer optionality exists.
The ALCO is also responsible for monitoring and reviewing each Tables showing our calculations of net interest income sensitivity can be found on page 108. entitys overall structural interest rate risk position.
Interest rate behaviouralisation policies have to be formulated in line with the Economic value of equity Groups behaviouralisation policies and approved at least annually EVE represents the present value of the future banking book cash by local ALCOs.
flows that could be distributed to equity providers under a Non-traded assets and liabilities are transferred to BSM based on managed run-off scenario, i. e. the current book value of equity their repricing and maturity characteristics.
For assets and plus the present value of future net interest income in this liabilities with no defined maturity or repricing characteristics scenario.
This can be used to assess the economic capital required behaviouralisation is used to assess the interest rate risk profile: to support IRRBB.
An EVE sensitivity is the extent to which the the maximum average duration to which a portfolio of nonEVE value will change due to a pre-specified movements in maturity defined customer balances or equity can be interest rates, where all other economic variables are held behaviouralised is five years.
The maximum percentage of any constant.
Operating entities are required to monitor EVE sensitivity portfolio that can be behaviouralised is 90% with the residual as a percentage of capital resources.
76 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 HSBC Holdings Key risk management processes HSBC Holdings is a financial services holding company.
Its Business managers throughout the Group are responsible activities predominantly involve maintaining sufficient capital formaintaining an acceptable level of internal control resources to support the Groups diverse activities: allocating commensurate with the scale and nature of operations, and these capital resources across ourbusinesses: earning dividend foridentifying and assessing risks, designing controls and and interest income on its investments in our businesses: payment monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
The ORMF helps of operating expenses: providing dividend payments toits equity managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a standard risk shareholders and interest payments to providers ofdebt capital: assessment methodology and providing a tool for the systematic and maintaining a supply of short-term liquid assets for reporting of operational loss data.
A group-wide risk management system is used to record the The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed results of the operational risk management process.
Operational arebanking book interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
risk and control self-assessments, along with issue and action Exposure to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, plans, are entered and maintained by business units.
Business and funding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in longfunctional management monitor the progress of documented term financial assets and financial liabilities including debt capital action plans to address shortcomings.
To help ensure that issued.
The objective of HSBC Holdings market risk management operational risk losses are consistently reported and monitored at strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks andminimise Group level, all Group companies are required to report individual volatility in capital resources, cash flows and distributable losses when the net loss is expected to exceed $10,000, and to reserves.
Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by Holdings aggregate all other operational risk losses under $10,000.
Losses ALCO in accordance with its risk appetite statement.
are entered into the group-wide risk management system and reported to governance on a monthly basis.
HSBC Holdings uses interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk and foreign Regulatory compliance risk management currency risk arising from its long-term debt issues.
Overview Operational risk management The Regulatory Compliance sub-function RC provides Details of our operational risk profile in 2017 can be found on page 111, in independent, objective oversight and challenge, and promotes Operational risk exposures in 2017.  culture that supports the business in delivering fair outcomes for customers, maintaining the integrity of Overview financial markets and achieving HSBCs strategic objectives.
The objective of our operational risk management is to manage Key developments in 2017 and control operational risk in a cost-effective manner within targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, There were no material changes to the policies and practices for as defined by the GMB.
the management of RC risk in 2017, except for the following: Key developments in 2017 We implemented a number of initiatives to raise our standards in relation to the conduct of our business, as described below During 2017 we implemented a new operational risk management under Conduct of business.
framework ORMF and group-wide risk management system.
The new ORMF provides an end-to-end view of non-financial risks, Surveillance capabilities have been strengthened during the enhancing focus on the risks that matter the most and associated year with the deployment of an unauthorised trading detection controls.
It provides a platform to drive forward-looking risk tool in London, New York and Hong Kong, implementation of a awareness and assist management focus.
It also helps the foreign exchange trade analytics platform and expanded organisation understand the level of risk it is willing to accept.
coverage of electronic communications surveillance.
Infrastructure to support the effective delivery and reporting of We also maintained activity to continually strengthen our risk surveillance activity continues to mature.
In particular, we focused on the use of the three lines of defence model to reinforce individual accountability.
It sets our We continued to take steps to enhance our regulatory roles and responsibilities for managing operational risk on a daily compliance risk management and controls, and to work with basis.
regulators in relation to their investigations into historical Further information on the three lines of defence model can be found in the activities.
This included, in September 2017, matters giving rise Our risk management framework section on page 66. to a civil money penalty order with the Federal Reserve Board in connection with its investigation into HSBCs historical Governance and structure foreign exchange activities, and in January 2018, matters The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes, and the giving rise to HSBCs entry into a three-year deferred governance structure for the management of operational risk and prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice internal control in our geographical regions, global businesses and DoJ regarding fraudulent conduct in connection with two global functions.
The ORMF has been codified in a high-level particular transactions in 2010 and 2011 which concluded the standards manual, supplemented with detailed policies, which DoJs investigation into HSBCs historical foreign exchange describes our approach to identifying, assessing, monitoring and activities.
For further details, see Note 34 on the Financial controlling operational risk and gives guidance on mitigating Statements.
action to be taken when weaknesses are identified.
Governance and structure We have a dedicated Global Operational Risk sub-function within The Global Head of RC reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
To our Global Risk function.
It is responsible for leading the align with our global business structure and help ensure coverage embedding of the ORMF, and assuring adherence to associated of local regulatory requirements, RC is structured as aglobal policies and processes across the first and second lines of function with regional and country RC teams, which support and defence.
It supports the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Global advise each global business and global function.
Operational Risk Committee, which meets at least quarterly to discuss key risk issues and review implementation of the ORMF.
Key risk management processes The sub-function is also responsible for preparation of operational We regularly review our policies and procedures.
Global policies risk reporting at Group level, including reports for consideration by and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation of the RMM and Group Risk Committee.
A formal governance any actual or potential regulatory breach to RC.
Reportable events structure provides oversight of the sub-functions management.
are escalated to the RMM and the Group Risk Committee, as appropriate.
Matters relating to the Groups regulatory conduct of business are reported to the Conduct &Values Committee.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Conduct of business Key risk management processes In 2017, we focused on embedding conduct considerations in During 2017, HSBC introduced a strengthened financial crime risk business-as-usual activity and decision making across the Group, management governance framework, mandating Financial Crime reflecting our values and required behaviours, to deliver fair Risk Management Committees with a standardised agenda at outcomes for customers and maintain market integrity.
During the country, region and global business line levels.
year, we continued to focus on work relating to potentially At a Group level, the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee vulnerable customers, third parties, digital channels, markets continues to report to the Board on matters relating to financial trading surveillance and monitoring and testing.
Other key crime, and we introduced new members with significant external activities in 2017 included: expertise in this area.
Throughout the year the committee, which is Ongoing oversight of the breadth, depth and effectiveness of attended by the Group Head of Financial Crime Risk, received conduct management and governance at country level.
regular reports on actions being taken to address issues and vulnerabilities.
Identification and integration of conduct considerations in the enterprise-wide risk management framework and the Groups We strengthened our approach to affiliate risk management, planning processes.
implementing an effective Group-level process to assess and remediate affiliate risk, and established a strong investigations and Expansion of conduct management information to identify analytical capability to enable us to proactively identify emergent actual or potential issues for resolution, in the global functions risk issues.
and HSBC Operations Services and Technology, complementing global business conduct management The Monitor information.
Under the agreements entered into with the US Department of Implementing new conduct-specific global mandatory training Justice DoJ and the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA modules and an enhanced programme of conduct in2012, including the five-year deferred prosecution agreement communications.
AML DPA and a Direction issued by the FCA, the Monitor who is, for FCA purposes, a skilled person under section 166 of the Enhancing the assessment of conduct in performance appraisal Financial Services and Markets Act was appointed in July 2013 scorecards and remuneration decision-making processes.
for an expected five-year period to produce annual assessments of The Board maintained oversight of conduct matters through the the effectiveness of the Groups AML and sanctions compliance Conduct & Values Committee.
Additionally, under the Cease and Desist Order issued by the US Federal Reserve Board FRB in 2012, the Monitor also Further detail can be found under the Our conduct section of www.
For conduct-related costs relating to significant items, see page 61. serves as an independent consultant to conduct annual assessments.
Financial crime risk management In December 2017, the AML DPA expired and the charges deferred Overview by the AML DPA were dismissed.
The Monitor will continue HSBC continued its progress towards implementing an effective working in his capacity as a skilled person and independent financial crime risk management capability across the Group.
We consultant for a period of time at the FCAs and FRBs discretion.
completed the roll-out of major compliance systems and shifted In February 2018, the Monitor delivered his fourth annual followour focus towards embedding a sustainable approach to financial up review report based on various thematic and country reviews crime risk management everywhere we operate.
This was he had conducted during 2017.
In his report, the Monitor underpinned by the implementation of a target operating model concluded that, in 2017, HSBC made significant progress in for the Financial Crime Risk function and by the completion of a developing a reasonably effective and sustainable AML and country-by-country assessment against our financial crime risk sanctions compliance programme and expressed confidence that framework.
HSBC can achieve its target end state within the next 18 months Key developments in 2017 ifit is able to maintain the concerted effort and focus it has demonstrated in remediating and enhancing its programme over During 2017, HSBC continued to increase its efforts to assist with the last five years.
Nonetheless, the Monitor identified various keeping financial crime out of the financial system.
We completed challenges that HSBC faces in achieving this objective, noted the roll-out of compliance systems to support our anti-money deficiencies in HSBCs financial crime compliance controls and laundering and sanctions policies, having invested $1bn in new areas of HSBCs programme that require further work, and and upgraded IT systems since 2015. highlighted potential instances of financial crime and certain areas To ensure we have a clear view of our progress, we completed an in which he believes that HSBC is not yet adequately managing assessment of each country in which we operate against the financial crime risk.
As described on page 246 of note 34, the capabilities set out in our financial crime risk framework.
Monitor identified potential anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance issues that HSBC is reviewing further with the DoJ, We implemented a new target operating model for the Financial FRB and or FCA.
Crime Risk function which puts in place a sustainable structure at a global, regional and country level, and across all lines of Throughout 2017, the FSVC received regular reports on HSBCs business, and continued to build the functions leadership at the relationship with the Monitor and its compliance with the AML most senior levels.
The FSVC received regular updates on the Monitors review activity as part of the fourth annual review, and hasreceived the An engaged and well-trained workforce is crucial and in 2017 we Monitors fourth annual review report.
continued to invest significantly in this area.
We relaunched and refreshed our global mandatory training for all employees and Insurance manufacturing operations risk introduced targeted training for relationship managers and other management key roles.
Details of changes in our insurance manufacturing operations risk Working in partnership is vital to managing financial crime risk.
profile in 2017 can be found on page 111, under Insurance HSBC is a strong proponent of public-private partnerships and manufacturing operations risk profile.
During 2017 we joined three new There were no material changes to our policies and practices for partnerships in Australia, Singapore and Hong Kong and cothe management of risks arising in our insurance manufacturing sponsored a major public report into the future of financial operations in 2017. intelligence sharing.
We also worked with, or invested in, a number of financial technology fintech firms to help us continue to strengthen our analytical and innovative approach to financial crime risk management.
78 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Designing new products to mitigate market risk, such as changing the investment return sharing portion between Audited policyholders and the shareholder.
Insurance risks are managed to a defined risk appetite, which Exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose risk isaligned to the Groups risk appetite and risk management is considered unacceptable.
framework, including its three lines of defence model.
For details of the Groups governance framework, see page66.
The Global Repricing premiums charged to policyholders.
Insurance Risk Management Meeting oversees the control Credit risk framework globally and is accountable to the RBWM Risk Audited Management Meeting on risk matters relating to the insurance business.
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the credit risk, quality and performance of their investment portfolios.
The monitoring of the risks within our insurance operations is Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and carried out by insurance risk teams.
Specific risk functions, counterparties is based primarily upon internationally recognised including Wholesale Credit & Market Risk, Operational Risk, credit ratings and other publicly available information.
Information Security Risk and Financial Crime Risk and Regulatory Compliance support Insurance Risk teams in their respective areas Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our of expertise.
insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, and are aggregated and reported to the Group Insurance Credit Risk and Group Credit Risk Stress and scenario testing functions.
Stress testing is performed on investment credit Audited exposures using credit spread sensitivities and default Stress testing forms a key part of the risk management framework probabilities.
We participate in local and Group-wide We use tools to manage and monitor credit risk.
These include a regulatory stress tests, including the Bank of England stress test of credit report containing a watch-list of investments with current the banking system, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority stress credit concerns, primarily investments that may be at risk of future test, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority impairment or where high concentrations to counterparties are stress test, and individual country insurance regulatory stress present in the investment portfolio.
The report is circulated tests.
monthly to senior management in Group Insurance and individual These have highlighted that a key risk scenario for the insurance country chief risk officers to identify investments that may be at business is a prolonged low interest rate environment.
In order to risk of future impairment.
mitigate the impact of this scenario, the insurance operations have Liquidity risk taken a number of actions including repricing some products to Audited reflect lower interest rates, launching less capital intensive products, investing in more capital efficient assets and developing Risk is managed by cash flow matching and maintaining sufficient investment strategies to optimise the expected returns against the cash resources, investing in high credit-quality investments with cost of economic capital.
deep and liquid markets, monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them where appropriate, and establishing Management and mitigation of key risk types committed contingency borrowingfacilities.
Market risk Insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete Audited quarterly liquidity risk reports for the Group Insurance Risk All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk function and an annual review of the liquidity risks to which they mandates which specify the investment instruments in which they are exposed.
are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market risk Insurance risk which they may retain.
They manage market risk by using, among HSBC Insurance primarily uses the following techniques to others, some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on manage and mitigate insurance risk: the nature of the contracts written: formalised product approval process covering product design, For products with discretionary participating features DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the liabilities to policyholders.
pricing and overall proposition management for example, management of lapses by introducing surrender charges : The effect is that a significant portion of the market risk is borne by the policyholder.
underwriting policy: Asset and liability matching where asset portfolios are claims management processes: and structured to support projected liability cash flows.
The Group reinsurance which cedes risks above our acceptable thresholds manages its assets using an approach that considers asset to an external reinsurer thereby limiting ourexposure.
quality, diversification, cash flow matching, liquidity, volatility and target investment return.
It is not always possible to match Reputational risk management asset and liability durations, due to uncertainty over the receipt Overview of all future premiums and the timing of claims: and because the forecast payment dates of liabilities may exceed the Reputational risk is the risk of failing to meet stakeholder duration of the longest dated investments available.
We use expectations as a result of any event, behaviour, action orinaction, models to assess the effect of a range of future scenarios on either by HSBC, our employees or those with whom we are the values of financial assets and associated liabilities, and associated.
This might cause stakeholders toform a negative view ALCOs employ the outcomes in determining how best to of the Group and result in financial or non-financial effects and structure asset holdings to support liabilities.
loss of confidence in the Group.
Stakeholders expectations change constantly, and so reputational risk is dynamic and varies Using derivatives to protect against adverse market movements between geographical regions, groups and individuals.
We have or better match liability cash flows.
an unwavering commitment to operating at the high standards we For new products with investment guarantees, considering the set for ourselves in every jurisdiction.
Any material lapse in cost when determining the level of premiums or the price standards of integrity, compliance, customer service or operating structure.
efficiency may represent a potential reputational risk.
Periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features linked to savings and investment products, for active management.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Key developments in 2017 Key developments in 2017 There were no material changes to the policies and practices for We periodically review our sustainability risk policies.
In 2017, we the management of reputational risk in 2017, except for the issued a revised Agricultural Commodities policy, requiring palm formation of a new Group Reputational Risk Committee which oil customers to make further commitments in line with recently replaced the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee and the enhanced sustainability standards in the industry.
We are also Global Risk Resolution Committee, as described below.
currently conducting a review of our Energy Policy.
In 2017, we rolled out a training module for relevant relationship Governance and structure managers globally on our sustainability risk policies and their From December, the development of policies and an effective responsibilities, to ensure consistent implementation.
By the end control environment for the identification, assessment, of the year, over 9,000 of our employees had completed this management and mitigation of reputational risk, are considered by training.
the new Group Reputational Risk Committee GRRC which is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
It is the highest decisionGovernance and structure making forum in the Group for dealing with matters arising from The Global Risk function is mandated to manage sustainability risk clients or transactions that either present a serious potential globally, working with the Global Businesses, Global Functions reputational risk to the Group or merit a Group-led decision to and local offices as appropriate.
Sustainability risk managers have ensure a consistent risk management approach across the regional or national responsibilities for advising on and managing regions, global businesses and global functions.
The committee is environmental and social risks.
responsible for keeping the RMM apprised of areas and activities Key risk management processes presenting significant reputational risk and, where appropriate, for making recommendations to the RMM to mitigate such risk.
The Global Risk functions responsibilities in relation to sustainability risk include: Prior to December, these responsibilities were split between the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee and the Global Risk Formulating sustainability risk policies.
This includes work Resolution Committee which were demised to create the GRRC.
inseveral key areas: overseeing our sustainability risk standards: overseeing our application of the Equator Principles, Key risk management processes which provide a framework for banks to assess and manage The Global Communications function maintains policies and gives the social and environmental impact of large projects to which policy advice for the issues that might affect HSBCs reputation they provide financing: overseeing our application of our and standing with customers, employees, opinion formers and the sustainability policies, covering agricultural commodities, public.
It oversees the identification, management and control of chemicals, defence, energy, forestry, freshwater infrastructure, reputational risk for all HSBC entities in the areas of media mining and metals, UNESCO World Heritage Sites and the relations and engagement with non-governmental organisations Ramsar Convention on Wetlands: undertaking independent and other external stakeholders.
reviews of transactions where sustainability risks are assessed Our Reputational Risk and Client Selection RRCS team, which to be high: and supporting our operating companies to assess reports to both the Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance similar risks ofa lesser magnitude.
and the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance, oversees the Building and implementing systems-based processes to help identification, management and control of all othersignificant ensure consistent application of policies, reduce the costs reputational risks across the Group.
It is responsible for setting ofsustainability risk reviews, and capture management policies to guide the Groups reputational risk management, information to measure and report on the effect of our lending devising strategies to protect against reputational risk, and and investment activities on sustainable development.
advising the global businesses and global functions to help them Providing training and capacity building within our operating identify, assess and mitigate such risks, where possible.
It is led by companies to ensure sustainability risks are identified and a headquarters-based team.
This is supported by teams in each mitigated consistently to appropriate standards.
business line and region, which help ensure that issues are directed to the appropriate forums, that decisions are made and Pension risk management implemented effectively, and thatmanagement information is There were no material changes to our policies and practices generated to aid senior management in the businesses and forthe management of pension risk in 2017. regions in understanding where reputational risk exists.
Each global business has established a governance process that Governance and structure empowers the RRCSs committees to address reputational risk A global pension risk framework and accompanying global issues at the right level, escalating decisions where appropriate.
policies on the management of risks related to defined benefit and The global functions manage and escalate reputational risks within defined contribution plans are in place.
Pension risk is managed by established operational risk frameworks.
a network of local and regional pension risk forums.
The Global Our policies set out our risk appetite and operational procedures Pensions Oversight Forum is responsible for the governance and for all areas of reputational risk, including financial crime oversight of all pension plans sponsored by HSBC around the prevention, regulatory compliance, conduct-related concerns, world.
environmental impacts, human rights matters and employee Key risk management processes relations.
Our global pensions strategy is to move from defined benefit For further details of our financial crime risk management and todefined contribution plans, where local law allows and it is regulatory compliance risk management, see Financial crime risk considered competitive to do so.
management on page 78 and Regulatory compliance risk management on page 77 respectively.
In defined contribution pension plans, the contributions that HSBC Further details can be found at www.
is required to make are known, while the ultimate pension benefit will vary, typically with investment returns achieved by investment Sustainability risk management choices made by the employee.
While the market risk to HSBC of defined contribution plans is low, theGroup is still exposed to Overview operational and reputational risk.
Assessing the environmental and social impacts of providing In defined benefit pension plans, the level of pension benefit is finance to our customers is integral to our overall risk known.
Therefore, the level of contributions required by HSBC will management processes.
vary due to a number of risks, including: investments delivering a return below that required to provide the projected plan benefits: 80 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate Credit risk profile failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values both equity and debt : Page Credit risk in 2017 81 a change in either interest rates or inflation expectations, Credit exposure 83 causing an increase in the value of plan liabilities: and Wholesale lending 90 plan members living longer than expected known as longevity Personal lending 95 risk.
Supplementary information 99 Pension risk is assessed using an economic capital model HSBC Holdings 100 thattakes into account potential variations in these factors.
Securitisation exposures and other structured products 100 Theimpact of these variations on both pension assets and pension Credit risk in 2017 liabilities is assessed using a one-in-200-year stress test.
Scenario analysis and other stress tests are also used to support pension Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty risk management.
fails to meet an obligation under a contract.
It arises principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also To fund the benefits associated with defined benefit plans, from other products, such as guarantees and credit derivatives sponsoring Group companies, and in some instances employees, and from holding assets in the form of debt securities.
All amounts make regular contributions in accordance with advice from shown by geographical region or country are based on the actuaries and in consultation with the plans trustees where location ofthe principal operations of the lending subsidiary or, in relevant.
These contributions are normally set toensure that there the case of the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai are sufficient funds to meet the cost of theaccruing benefits for Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East the future service of active members.
However, higher Limited and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending contributions are required when plan assets are considered branch.
insufficient to cover the existing pension liabilities.
Contribution rates are typically revised annually oronce every three years, For details on the adoption of IFRS 9, see Note 1.1 c on the depending on the plan.
The defined benefit plans invest contributions in a range of A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the investments designed to limit the risk of assets failing to meet management of credit risk is provided from page 72. aplans liabilities.
Any changes in expected returns from the Gross loans and advances increased by $103bn to $1,060bn.
This investments may also change future contribution requirements.
In included foreign exchange movements increasing balances by pursuit of these long-term objectives, an overall target allocation $48bn.
of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes is established.
In addition, each permitted asset class has its own Loan impairment charges and other credit provisions LICs for benchmarks, such as stock-market or property valuation indices.
the year were $1.8bn, which was $1.6bn lower than the prior year.
The benchmarks are reviewed at least once every three to five In wholesale lending, balances increased by $67bn to $684bn.
years and more frequently if required by local legislation or This increase included foreign exchange movements of $30bn.
The process generally involves anextensive asset Excluding foreign exchange movements, Asia grew strongly with and liability review.
loans and advances increasing by $34bn.
In North America and Latin America, loans and advances increased by $2.3bn in each region, while Europe increased by $1.8bn.
These increases were Key developments and risk profile in 2017 offset by a decrease in loans and advances in MENA of $3.2bn.
Key developments in 2017 In personal lending, balances increased by $37bn to $376bn.
Thisincrease included foreign exchange movements of $19bn.
In 2017, HSBC undertook a number of initiatives to enhance Excluding foreign exchange movements, lending balances itsapproach to the management of risk.
These included: increased by $13bn in Asia and $9.0bn in Europe.
Growth was Implementing a new operational risk management framework partly offset by a $3.7bn fall in North America, due to the final ORMF and system of record known as Helios, as described loans sales of $5.0bn in our US CML run-off portfolio, which were on page 77 of the Operational risk management section.
MENA and Latin America lending balances were broadly unchanged.
We have completed the introduction of the major compliance IT systems, put in place our AML and sanctions policy framework, Information on constant currency movements is provided on page 32. and assessed our current financial crime risk management capabilities to identify any gaps and enable integration into our day-to-day operations.
All of the actions that we committed to in 2013 as part of the Global Standards programme have been completed or superseded.
Further improvements are underway to make our reforms more effective and sustainable.
We continued to take steps to enhance our regulatory compliance risk management and controls, implementing a number of initiatives to raise our standards in relation to the conduct of our business and other regulatory compliancerelated initiatives, as described on page 77 of the Regulatory compliance risk management section.
The formation of a new Group Reputational Risk Committee which replaced the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee and the Global Risk Resolution Committee, as described on page 79 under Reputational risk management.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Summary of credit risk Loan impairment charge over five years $bn 2017 2016 $bn $bn Page At 31 Dec Maximum exposure to credit risk 3,030 2,898 83 total assets subject to creditrisk 2,306 2,205 off-balance sheet commitments 724 693 subjecttocredit risk Gross loans and advances 1,060 958 personal lending 376 340 96 wholesale lending 684 618 90 Impaired loans 15 18 86 personal lending 5 6 wholesale lending 10 12 % % Impaired loans as a % of gross loans andadvances Personal lending 1.3 1.8 Wholesale lending 1.5 1.9 Personal Wholesale Total 1.5 1.9 $bn $bn Loan impairment charges by geographical region $bn Impairment allowances 7.5 7.9 90 personal lending 1.7 2.0 89 wholesale lending 5.8 5.9 91 Loans and advances net of 1,053 950 impairment allowances For year ended 31 Dec Loan impairment charge 2.0 3.3 88 personal lending 1.0 1.7 wholesale lending 1.0 1.6 Other credit risk provisions 0.2 0.1 1.8 3.4 Gross loans to customers and banks over five years $bn Personal Wholesale 2017 2016 Loan impairment charges by industry $bn Unimpaired Impaired 2017 2016 82 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The offset on derivatives remains in line with the movements Loan impairment allowances over five years $bn inmaximum exposure amounts.
Personal Wholesale Maximum exposure to credit risk table The following table presents our maximum exposure before taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements unless such enhancements meet accounting offsetting requirements.
The table excludes financial instruments whose carrying amount best represents the net exposure to credit risk and it excludes equity securities as they are not subject to credit risk.
For the financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount: for financial guarantees and similar contracts granted, it is the maximum amount that we would have topay if the guarantees were called upon.
For loan commitments and other credit-related commitments, it is generally thefull amount of the committed facilities.
The offset in the table relates to amounts where there is a legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk purposes.
However, as there is no intention to settle these balances on a net basis under normal circumstances, they do notqualify for net presentation for accounting purposes.
No offset has been applied to off-balance sheet collateral.
In the case of derivatives the offset column also includes collateral received in cash and other financial assets.
Other credit risk mitigants While not disclosed as an offset in the following Maximum exposure to credit risk table, other arrangements are in place which reduce our maximum exposure to credit risk.
These include a charge over collateral on borrowers specific assets such as Loan impairment allowances as Loan impairment residential properties, collateral held in the form of financial a percentage of impaired loans allowances $bn instruments that are not held on balance sheet and short positions Credit exposure in securities.
In addition, for financial assets heldas part of linked insurance investment contracts the risk ispredominantly borne by Maximum exposure to credit risk the policyholder.
See Note 29 and pages 190 and 193 on the Audited Financial Statements for further details of collateral in respect of certain loans and advances andderivatives.
The table that follows provides information on balance sheet items, offsets, and loan and other credit-related commitments.
Commentary on consolidated balance sheet movements in 2017 isprovided on page44.
Maximum exposure to credit risk Audited 2017 2016 Maximum Maximum exposure Offset Net exposure Offset Net $m $m $m $m $m $m Derivatives 219,818 204,829 14,989 290,872 262,233 28,639 Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 962,964 35,414 927,550 861,504 33,657 827,847 personal 374,762 2,946 371,816 337,826 3,629 334,197 corporate and commercial 516,754 29,459 487,295 460,209 27,686 432,523 non-bank financial institutions 71,448 3,009 68,439 63,469 2,342 61,127 Loans and advances to banks held at amortised cost 90,393 273 90,120 88,126 248 87,878 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 201,553 3,724 197,829 160,974 4,764 156,210 Total balance sheet exposure to credit risk 2,305,592 244,240 2,061,352 2,204,751 300,902 1,903,849 Total off-balance sheet 723,917 723,917 692,915 692,915 financial guarantees and similar contracts 38,328 38,328 37,072 37,072 loan and other credit-related commitments 685,589 685,589 655,843 655,843 At 31 Dec 3,029,509 244,240 2,785,269 2,897,666 300,902 2,596,764 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Concentration of exposure Credit quality of financial instruments Audited The geographical diversification of our lending portfolio, and ourbroad range of global businesses and products, ensured that We assess the credit quality of all financial instruments that are we did not overly depend on a few markets or businesses subject to credit risk.
Additional credit quality information in togenerate growth in 2017. respect of our consolidated holdings of ABSs isprovided on page100.
For an analysis of: For the purpose of the following disclosure, loans past due upto financial investments, see Note 15 on the Financial Statements: 90 days and not otherwise classified as impaired are separately trading assets, see Note 10 on the Financial Statements: classified as past due but not impaired, irrespective of their credit derivatives, see page 94 and Note 14 on the Financial quality grade.
Trading assets, financial assets designated at fair Statements: and value and financial investments exclude equity securities as they are not subject to credit risk.
loans and advances by industry sector and by the location ofthe principal operations of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending branch see page 90 for wholesale lending and page 95 for personal lending.
Audited Past due but not impaired balances are concentrated in the up to Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments are those 29 days ageing bucket.
loans where, although customers have failed to make payments in accordance with the contractual terms of their facilities, they have not met the impaired loan criteria described on page 86.
Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments by geographical region Audited North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2017 1,324 3,892 852 2,015 633 8,716 At 31 Dec 2016 1,206 3,484 1,260 2,549 529 9,028 Ageing analysis of days for past due but not impaired gross financial instruments Audited Up to 29 30-59 60-89 90-179 180 days days days days days and over Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Loans and advances to customers and banks held at amortised cost 6,837 1,255 493 10 14 8,609 personal 3,455 866 337 4,658 corporate and commercial 2,899 343 156 10 14 3,422 financial 483 46 529 Other financial instruments 33 12 18 12 32 107 At 31 Dec 2017 6,870 1,267 511 22 46 8,716 Loans and advances to customers and banks held at amortised cost 6,743 1,320 587 11 7 8,668 personal 3,696 986 380 5,062 corporate and commercial 2,593 316 201 11 7 3,128 financial 454 18 6 478 Other financial instruments 264 47 23 12 14 360 At 31 Dec 2016 7,007 1,367 610 23 21 9,028 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Impaired loans advances more than 90 days past due unless they have been individually assessed as not impaired.
Audited Renegotiated loans and advances: loans where we Impaired loans and advances are those that meet any of the havechanged the contractual cash flows due to credit distress following criteria: of the obligor.
Renegotiated loans remain classified as impaired Wholesale loans and advances classified as customer risk until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant rating CRR 9 or CRR 10: these grades are assigned when reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cashflows.
HSBC considers that the customer is either unlikely to pay their In personal lending, the completion of loan sales in our US CML credit obligations in full without recourse to security, oris more run-off portfolio reduced impaired loan balances by a further than 90 days past due on any material credit obligation to $1.5bn.
The reduction in corporate and commercial balances is a HSBC.
result of fewer significant current year impaired loans together Retail loans and advances classified as expected loss EL 9or with loan credit grade improvements, repayments and write-offs.
The following tables show the gross carrying amounts of theGroups holdings of renegotiated loans and advances tocustomers by industry sector, geographical region, credit quality classification and arrangement type.
Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by industry sector First lien Other Corporate Non-bank residential personal and financial mortgages lending commercial institutions Total $m $m $m $m $m Neither past due nor impaired 476 268 2,082 257 3,083 Past due but not impaired 58 49 120 227 Impaired 1,329 298 4,894 251 6,772 At 31 Dec 2017 1,863 615 7,096 508 10,082 Impairment allowances on renegotiated loans 165 127 1,584 151 2,027 Neither past due nor impaired 976 282 1,848 260 3,366 Past due but not impaired 346 78 301 725 Impaired 2,751 325 5,416 257 8,749 At 31 Dec 2016 4,073 685 7,565 517 12,840 Impairment allowances on renegotiated loans 267 150 1,667 130 2,214 Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2017 5,667 921 1,622 1,604 268 10,082 At 31 Dec 2016 5,855 1,046 1,871 3,736 332 12,840 A range of forbearance strategies are employed in order to The following tables show renegotiated loans by arrangement type improve the management of customer relationships, maximise as a percentage ofthe total value of arrangements offered.
collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure Inpersonal lending, renegotiated loans have been allocated tothe or repossession.
single most dominant arrangement type.
The movements in personal lending arrangement types in 2017 are mainly driven by the loan sales in our US CML run-off portfolio.
Renegotiated loans by arrangement type: personal lending 2017 2016 % % Interest rate and terms modifications 42.6 21.9 Payment concessions 15.8 14.3 Collection re-age 2.1 19.2 Modification re-age 24.0 34.6 Other 15.5 10.0 At 31 Dec 2017 100.0 100.0 Corporate renegotiated loans often require the granting of more than one arrangement type as part of an effective strategy.
The percentages reported in the table below include the effect ofloans being reported in more than one arrangement type.
Renegotiated loans by arrangement type: corporate and commercial, and financial 2017 2016 % % Maturity term extensions 35.8 37.3 Reductions in margin, principal forgiveness, debtequity swaps and interest, fees or penalty payment forgiveness 23.8 21.4 Other changes to repayment profile 17.7 19.4 Interest only conversion 9.0 9.3 Other 13.7 12.6 At 31 Dec 2017 100.0 100.0 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Impairment of loans and advances individually or collectively assessed, and for collective impairment allowances on loans and advances that are classified as not Audited impaired.
For an analysis of LICs by global business, see page40.
The tables below analyse the loan impairment charges for the year by industry sector for impaired loans and advances that are either Loan impairment charge to the income statement by industry sector North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total Footnote $m $m $m $m $m $m Personal 140 243 92 32 452 959 first lien residential mortgages 6 1 5 27 17 other personal 134 244 87 32 479 976 Corporate and commercial 619 298 83 163 90 927 manufacturing and international trade and services 314 236 95 18 59 722 commercial real estate and other property-related 200 21 4 9 226 other commercial 105 41 8 190 31 21 Financial 66 17 22 1 106 At 31Dec 2017 825 558 197 130 542 1,992 Personal 162 264 226 219 832 1,703 first lien residential mortgages 1 1 10 149 7 166 other personal 161 265 216 70 825 1,537 Corporate and commercial 337 388 53 500 330 1,608 manufacturing and international trade and services 38 306 105 81 195 725 commercial real estate and other property-related 15 28 16 3 25 31 other commercial 314 110 36 416 110 914 Financial 34 2 13 10 39 45 At 31Dec 2016 533 654 292 709 1,162 3,350 For footnote, see page 116.
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers by geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total % % % % % % New allowances net of allowance releases 0.33 0.17 0.79 0.05 3.20 0.29 Recoveries 0.09 0.03 0.14 0.07 0.41 0.07 At 31 Dec 2017 0.24 0.14 0.65 0.12 2.79 0.22 Amount written off net of recoveries 0.23 0.13 1.35 0.28 2.42 0.28 New allowances net of allowance releases 0.23 0.23 0.93 0.62 7.02 0.46 Recoveries 0.08 0.04 0.13 0.06 0.56 0.07 At 31 Dec 2016 0.15 0.19 0.80 0.56 6.46 0.39 Amount written off net of recoveries 0.26 0.14 0.84 0.48 2.99 0.32 88 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector and by geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2017 2,789 1,635 1,681 1,272 473 7,850 Amounts written off Personal 438 366 329 100 487 1,720 first lien residential mortgages 8 6 42 26 9 91 other personal 430 360 287 74 478 1,629 Corporate and commercial 648 273 119 273 63 1,376 manufacturing and international trade and services 318 250 74 44 18 704 commercial real estate and other property-related 121 10 37 20 4 192 other commercial 209 13 8 209 41 480 Financial 74 1 2 77 Total amounts written off 1,160 640 448 375 550 3,173 Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years Personal 296 104 39 38 68 545 first lien residential mortgages 9 4 17 25 55 other personal 287 100 39 21 43 490 Corporate and commercial 35 10 2 37 13 97 manufacturing and international trade and services 10 9 1 11 3 34 commercial real estate and other property-related 8 1 1 10 other commercial 17 1 25 10 53 Financial 2 2 Total recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 333 114 41 75 81 644 Charge to income statement 825 558 197 130 542 1,992 Exchange and other movements 274 5 10 51 47 171 At 31 Dec 2017 3,061 1,672 1,461 791 499 7,484 Impairment allowances against banks: individually assessed Impairment allowances against customers: individually assessed 2,296 1,056 1,104 383 121 4,960 collectively assessed 765 616 357 408 378 2,524 Impairment allowances at 31 Dec 2017 3,061 1,672 1,461 791 499 7,484 At 1 Jan 2016 3,477 1,525 1,810 2,041 720 9,573 Amounts written off Personal 412 358 208 284 340 1,602 first lien residential mortgages 10 6 3 142 12 173 other personal 402 352 205 142 328 1,429 Corporate and commercial 730 285 137 381 297 1,830 manufacturing and international trade and services 380 172 78 125 10 765 commercial real estate and other property-related 109 31 54 35 223 452 other commercial 241 82 5 221 64 613 Financial 1 5 18 24 Total amounts written off 1,143 648 363 665 637 3,456 Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years Personal 225 124 34 54 78 515 first lien residential mortgages 3 4 26 8 41 other personal 222 120 34 28 70 474 Corporate and commercial 35 24 10 18 22 109 manufacturing and international trade and services 15 23 5 9 16 68 commercial real estate and other property-related 9 2 11 other commercial 11 1 5 7 6 30 Financial 1 1 1 3 Total recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 261 149 44 73 100 627 Charge to income statement 533 654 292 709 1,162 3,350 Exchange and other movements 339 45 102 886 872 2,244 At 31 Dec 2016 2,789 1,635 1,681 1,272 473 7,850 Impairment allowances against banks: individually assessed Impairment allowances against customers: individually assessed 2,060 1,038 1,137 540 157 4,932 collectively assessed 729 597 544 732 316 2,918 Impairment allowances at 31 Dec 2016 2,789 1,635 1,681 1,272 473 7,850 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks Audited 2017 2016 Customers Customers Banks Banks individually Individually Collectively individually Individually Collectively assessed assessed assessed Total assessed assessed assessed Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 4,932 2,918 7,850 18 5,402 4,153 9,573 Amounts written off 1,468 1,705 3,173 18 1,831 1,607 3,456 Recoveries of loans and advances previously 119 525 644 107 520 627 writtenoff Charge to income statement 1,114 878 1,992 1,831 1,519 3,350 Exchange and other movements 263 92 171 577 1,667 2,244 At 31 Dec 4,960 2,524 7,484 4,932 2,918 7,850 Impairment allowances % ofloans and 0.5% 0.3% 0.8% 0.6% 0.3% 0.8% advances Wholesale lending In North America, lending increased by $2.3bn in the US and Canada.
The US bank loans increased by $5.8bn largely due to Total wholesale lending balances increased by $67bn with foreign excess liquidity placement.
This was mostly offset by decreased exchange differences accounting for $30bn of the increase.
US corporate and commercial lending of $5.1bn as paydowns and While the tables are presented on a reported basis, the maturities exceeded new loan originations owing to our continued commentary that follows is on a constant currency basis.
In Asia, particularly within Hong Kong, lending balances increased In MENA, overall lending fell by $3.2bn, mainly within the UAE by $34bn.
In this region, demand for lending increased across owing to a combination of large run-offs and repayments together most industry sectors with notable growth in commercial real with the exiting of some customer relationships.
estate and property-related lending of $15bn and international In Latin America, lending increased by $2.3bn largely in Mexico.
In Europe, overall lending increased by $1.8bn owing to decreased lending in the UK of $2.8bn being offset by increased lending in the rest of Europe, mainly in France and Germany.
The portfolio is markets to support economic and population growth.
In lessglobally diversified with larger concentrations in Hong Kong, developed commercial real estate markets, our exposures theUK, the US and Canada.
comprise lending for development assets on relatively short tenors with a particular focus on supporting larger, better capitalised Our global exposure is centred largely on cities with economic, developers involved in residential construction or assets political or cultural significance.
In many less-developed markets, supporting economic expansion.
industry is moving from the development and rapidconstruction of recent years to an increasing focus on investment stock Commercial real estate lending grew $13bn, including foreign consistent with more developed markets.
exchange movements of $2.9bn, mainly in Hong Kong and, to a lesser extent, within the UK and Canada.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Refinance risk in commercial real estate customer, being unable to repay the debt on maturity, fails to refinance it at commercial rates.
We monitor our commercial real Commercial real estate lending tends to require the repayment of estate portfolio closely, assessing indicators forsigns of potential a significant proportion of the principal at maturity.
customer will arrange repayment through the acquisition of a new loan to settle the existing debt.
The loan-toCollateral held is analysed separately for commercial real estate value LTV figures use open market values with no adjustments.
and for other corporate, commercial and financial non-bank Impairment allowances are calculated on a different basis, by lending.
The following tables include off-balance sheet loan considering other cash flows and adjusting collateral values for commitments, primarily undrawn credit lines.
costs of realising collateral as explained further on page 189.
The collateral measured in the following tables consists of Commercial real estate loans and advances fixedfirst charges on real estate, and charges over cash and marketable financial instruments.
The values in the tables The value of commercial real estate collateral is determined represent the expected market value on an open market basis: no byusing a combination of external and internal valuations adjustment has been made to the collateral for any expected costs andphysical inspections.
For CRR 17, local valuation policies of recovery.
Marketable securities are measured at their fair value.
determine the frequency of review on the basis of local market conditions because of the complexity of valuing collateral Other types of collateral such as unsupported guarantees and forcommercial real estate.
For CRR 810, almost all collateral floating charges over the assets of a customers business are not would have been revalued within the last three years.
measured in the tables below.
While such mitigants have value, often providing rights in insolvency, their assignable value is not In Hong Kong, market practice is typically for lending to major sufficiently certain and they are therefore assigned no value for property companies to be either secured by guarantees or disclosure purposes.
In Europe, facilities of a working capital nature are generally not secured by a first fixed charge, and are therefore disclosed as not collateralised.
For financing activities in other corporate and necessary to rely on them.
commercial lending, collateral value is not strongly correlated Accordingly, the table below reports values only for customers toprincipal repayment performance.
with CRR 8 to 10, recognising that these loans and advances generally have valuations that are comparatively recent.
are employed and methods used to mitigate credit risk arising The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk includes financial from financial assets.
These are summarised below: guarantees and similar contracts granted, as well as loan and Some securities issued by governments, banks and other other credit-related commitments.
Depending on the terms of financial institutions benefit from additional credit the arrangement, we may use additional credit mitigation if a enhancement provided by government guarantees guarantee is called upon or a loan commitment is drawn and thatcoverthe assets.
Debt securities issued by banks and financial institutions For further information on these arrangements, seeNote32 onthe Financial Statements.
include ABSs and similar instruments which are supported by underlying pools of financial assets.
Credit risk associated with Derivatives ABSs is reduced through the purchase ofcredit default swap HSBC participates in transactions exposing us to counterparty CDS protection.
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of financial loss if the Disclosure of the Groups holdings of ABSs and associated CDS protection is counterparty to a transaction defaults before satisfactorily settling provided onpage 100. it.
It arises principally from over-the-counter OTC derivatives and Trading loans and advances mainly consist of cash collateral securities financing transactions and is calculated in both the posted to satisfy margin requirements.
There is limited credit trading and non-trading books.
Transactions vary in value by risk on cash collateral posted since in the event of default of the reference to a market factor suchas an interest rate, exchange counterparty these would be set off against the related liability.
Reverse repos and stock borrowing are by their nature collateralised.
94 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 For an analysis of CVAs, see Note 11 on the Financial Statements.
The counterparty risk from derivative transactions is taken into account when reporting the fair value of derivative positions.
The The table below reflects by risk type the fair values and gross adjustment to the fair value is known as the credit value notional contract amounts of derivatives cleared through an adjustment CVA.
exchange, central counterparty and non-central counterparty.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA Loan impairment charges for personal lending were $1.0bn for Master Agreement is our preferred agreement for documenting 2017, $0.7bn lower compared with 2016, mainly due to our sale of derivatives activity.
It is common, and our preferred practice, operations in Brazil in 2016 and the US CML run-off portfolio.
For forthe parties to execute a Credit Support Annex CSA in further analysis of LICs by global business, see page 40. conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, While the tables are presented on a reported basis, the collateral is passed between the parties to mitigate the commentary that follows is on a constant currency basis and counterparty risk inherent in outstanding positions.
The majority excludes the effect of the loan sales in the US CML run-off ofour CSAs are with financial institutional clients.
We manage the counterparty exposure on our OTC derivative Overall, personal lending increased by $23bn, mainly driven by contracts by using collateral agreements with counterparties and mortgage balances which grew $19bn.
UK mortgage balances netting agreements.
Currently, we do not actively manage increased by $8.2bn reflecting stronger acquisition performance, ourgeneral OTC derivative counterparty exposure in the credit including the expanded use of broker relationships.
Mortgages in markets, although we may manage individual exposures in certain Asia grew by $9.3bn, mainly driven by Hong Kong, Australia and circumstances.
China, as a result of business growth initiatives and property We place strict policy restrictions on collateral types and as a market growth.
Mortgages in Canada grew by $2.3bn, mainly due consequence the types of collateral received and pledged are, by to business growth initiatives and competitive product offerings.
value, highly liquid and of a strong quality, being predominantly The quality of both our Hong Kong and UK mortgage books cash.
remained high, with negligible defaults and impairment Where a collateral type is required to be approved outside the allowances.
The average LTV ratio on new mortgage lending in collateral policy, approval is required from a committee of senior Hong Kong was 50% compared with an estimated 31% for the representatives from Markets, Legal and Risk.
The average LTV ratio on new lending in the UK was 59% compared with an estimated 40% for the See page 239 and Note 29 on the Financial Statements for details regarding legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and overall mortgage portfolio.
collateral received in respect of derivatives.
Group credit policy prescribes the range of acceptable residential Personal lending property LTV thresholds, with the maximum upper limit for new loans set at between 75% and 95%.
Specific LTV thresholds and On a reported basis, total personal lending increased by $37bn to debt-to-income ratios are managed at regional and country levels.
This increase included foreign exchange movements of LTV thresholds must comply with the Groups policies, strategy $19bn.
Excluding foreign exchange movements, lending balances and risk appetite, but vary to reflect the local factors: economic increased by $13bn in Asia and $9.0bn in Europe.
Growth was and housing market conditions, regulations, portfolio performance, partly offset by a $3.7bn fall in North America, due to the final pricing and product features.
loans sales of $5.0bn in our US CML run-off portfolio, which were sold through 2017.
Balances grew on an underlying basis by $0.7bn in Latin America and reduced by $0.8bn in MENA.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Other personal lending balances increased by $3.7bn, mainly due mainly due to Private Bank growth, and $1.0bn in France, partially to growth of $2.9bn in loans and overdrafts, and $1.0bn in credit offset by decreases in North America and MENA.
Credit cards cards, as a result of business growth initiatives and increased grew by $0.4bn in Hong Kong, $0.3bn in China and $0.3bn in demand.
Loans and overdrafts grew by $3.1bn in Hong Kong theUK.
During the year, $0.17bn of interest-only mortgages matured.
Of these, 1,290 loans with total balances of $0.06bn Of total UK mortgage lending, interest-only mortgage products were repaid in full, 153 loans with balances of $0.01bn have contributed $33bn, including $12bn of offset mortgages in First agreed future repayment plans and 438 loans with balances Direct and $1.1bn of endowment mortgages.
On a constant of$0.10bn are subject to ongoing individual assessment.
currency basis, total UK interest-only mortgage products declined by $1.6bn on prior year.
The profile of expiring HSBC Bank plcs UK interest-only loans was as follows.
The following information is presented for HSBC Bank plcs UK interest-only mortgage loans with balances of $16bn at the end of UK interest-only mortgage loans $m Expired interest-only mortgage loans 216 Interest-only mortgage loans by maturity 2018 465 2019 520 2020 532 2021 652 2022-2026 3,185 Post 2026 10,215 At 31 Dec 2017 15,785 contractual obligations, and where the collateral is cash or can be Collateral and other credit enhancements held realised by sale in an established market.
Audited The collateral valuation excludes any adjustments for obtaining The following table shows the values of the fixed charges we hold and selling the collateral and, in particular, loans shown as not over specific assets where we are able to enforce collateral in collateralised or partially collateralised may also benefit from other satisfying a debt because the borrower has failed to meet forms of credit mitigants.
These offsets Risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by the HSBC Holdings Asset also include collateral received in cash and other financial assets.
and Liability Management Committee Holdings ALCO.
The The total offset relating to our derivative balances is $2.1bn at major risks faced by HSBC Holdings are credit risk, liquidity risk 31December 2017 2016:$1.8bn.
and market risk in the form of interest rate risk and foreign The credit quality of loans and advances and financial exchange risk.
investments, both of which consist of intra-Group lending, Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises from transactions isassessed as strong or good, with 100% of the exposure being with Group subsidiaries and from guarantees issued in support of neither past due nor impaired 2016: 100%.
For further details of obligations assumed by certain Group operations in the normal credit quality classification, see page 73. conduct of their business.
It principally represents claims on Group Securitisation exposures and other structured products subsidiaries in Europe and North America.
The following table summarises the carrying amount of our ABS In HSBC Holdings, the maximum exposure to credit risk arises exposure by categories of collateral and includes assets held in the from two components: legacy credit portfolio held within the Corporate Centre with a financial instruments on the balance sheet see page 183 : and carrying value of $9bn 2016: $11bn.
financial guarantees and similar contracts, where the maximum At 31 December 2017, the available-for-sale reserve in respect of exposure is the maximum that we would have to pay if the ABSs was a deficit of $466m 2016: deficit of $749m.
For 2017, guarantees were called upon see Note 32. the impairment write-back in respect of ABSs was $240m 2016:write-back of $121m.
Carrying amount of HSBCs consolidated holdings of ABSs Designated at Of which fair value held through Available Held to through profit Loans and consolidated Trading for sale maturity or loss receivables Total SEs $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Mortgage-related assets 1,767 14,221 13,965 1,762 31,715 1,826 sub-prime residential 22 918 32 972 484 US Alt-A residential 1,102 3 1,105 1,041 US Government agency and sponsored enterprises: MBSs 331 11,750 13,962 26,043 other residential 814 181 1,595 2,590 75 commercial property 600 270 135 1,005 226 Leveraged finance-related assets 128 373 45 546 283 Student loan-related assets 155 2,198 2,353 2,158 Other assets 1,266 731 2 3,553 5,552 428 At 31 Dec 2017 3,316 17,523 13,965 2 5,360 40,166 4,695 Mortgage-related assets 1,320 17,575 12,793 338 32,026 2,859 sub-prime residential 63 1,544 104 1,711 618 US Alt-A residential 1,453 5 39 1,497 1,382 US Government agency and sponsored enterprises: MBSs 247 13,070 12,788 26,105 other residential 662 362 54 1,078 152 commercial property 348 1,146 141 1,635 707 Leveraged finance-related assets 175 1,284 70 1,529 735 Student loan-related assets 140 2,865 11 3,016 2,616 Other assets 1,278 730 19 48 2,075 404 At 31 Dec 2016 2,913 22,454 12,793 19 467 38,646 6,614 100 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Net stable funding ratio Liquidity and funding risk profile We are required to maintain sufficient stable funding.
The Net Page Stable Funding Ratio NSFR measures stable funding relative to Liquidity and funding risk in 2017 101 required stable funding, and reflects a banks long-term funding profile funding with a term of more than a year.
It is designed to Management of liquidity and funding risk 101 complement the LCR.
Sources of funding 102 Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 104 At 31 December 2017, the Groups principal operating entities HSBC Holdings 104 were within the NSFR risk tolerance level established by the Board and applicable under the LFRF.
Liquidity and funding risk in 2017 The table below displays the NSFR levels for the principal This section provides a summary of our current policies and practices HSBCoperating entities.
regarding the management of liquidity and funding risk.
The liquidity position of the Group remained strong in 2017.
Operating entities NSFRs Theamount of our unencumbered liquid assets was $600bn 2016: $560bn.
We recognised $536bn 2016: $447bn of these liquid At assets for the purposes of theGroup consolidated Liquidity 31 Dec 31 Dec Coverage Ratio LCR, which was 142% 2016: 136%.
2017 2016 Footnotes % % Management of liquidity and funding risk 46 HSBC UK liquidity group 108 116 Liquidity coverage ratio The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation HongKong Branch 47 144 157 The LCR aims to ensure that a bank has sufficient unencumbered The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking high-quality liquid assets HQLA to meet its liquidity needs in a Corporation Singapore Branch 47 117 112 30-calendar-day liquidity stress scenario.
HQLA consist of cash or HSBC Bank USA 129 120 assets that can be converted into cash at little or no loss of value.
48 The Groups LCR is calculated on a European Commission EC HSBC France 116 120 basis and at 31December 2017 was 142% 31 December 2016: Hang Seng Bank 155 162 48 136%.
HSBC Canada 136 139 HSBC Bank China 148 149 We assume no transferability of liquidity from non-EU entities HSBC Middle East UAE Branch 143 141 other than to the extent currently permitted.
This results in $64bn HSBC Mexico 123 128 of HQLA being excluded from the Groups LCR.
If there were no HSBC Private Bank 185 155 exclusions on transferability of liquidity between entities, the Groups LCR would have been 160% 31 December 2016: 171%, Depositor concentration and term funding maturity reflecting this additional $64bn 31 December 2016: $113bn concentration ofHQLAs.
The LCR and NSFR metrics assume a stressed outflow based ona At 31 December 2017, all the Groups principal operating entities portfolio of depositors within retail, corporate and financial deposit were within the LCR risk tolerance level established by the Board segments.
The validity of these assumptions is challenged if the and applicable under the Groups internal liquidity and funding risk portfolio of depositors is not large enough to avoid depositor management framework LFRF.
The following table displays the individual LCR levels for our Operating entities are exposed to term refinancing concentration principal operating entities on anEC LCR basis, a key element of risk if the current maturity profile results in future maturities being our LFRF.
This basis may vary from local LCR measures due to overly concentrated in any defined period.
differences in the way non-EU regulators have implemented theBasel III recommendations.
At 31 December 2017, all principal operating entities were within the risk tolerance levels set for depositor concentration and term Operating entities LCRs funding maturity concentration.
These risk tolerances were established by the Board and are applicable under the LFRF.
At 31 Dec 31 Dec Liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating entities 2017 2016 Footnotes The table below shows the unweighted liquidity value of assets % % 46 categorised as liquid, which is used for the purposes of calculating HSBC UK liquidity group 139 123 the LCR metric.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Hong Kong Branch 47 151 185 This reflects the stock of unencumbered liquid assets at the The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking reporting date, using the regulatory definition of liquid assets.
The Corporation Singapore Branch 47 181 154 amount recognised by entity at the Group level is different from HSBC Bank USA 132 130 the amount recognised at a solo entity level, reflecting liquidity 48 HSBC France 149 122 that cannot be freely transferred up to Group.
Hang Seng Bank 204 218 48 HSBC Canada 123 142 HSBC Bank China 162 253 HSBC Middle East UAE Branch 197 241 HSBC Mexico 215 177 HSBC Private Bank 220 178 For footnotes, see page 116.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 101 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Liquid assets of HSBCs principal entities 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Recognised at Recognised at Group and entity Recognised at Group and entity Recognised at level entity level only level entity level only Footnotes $m $m $m $m 46 HSBC UK liquidity group Level 1 161,036 161,036 143,884 143,884 Level 2a 2,914 2,914 2,085 2,085 Level 2b 18,777 18,777 7,663 7,663 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Hong Kong Branch Level 1 68,335 77,217 48,342 98,963 Level 2a 26,848 26,848 23,790 23,790 Level 2b 5,528 5,528 3,450 3,450 HSBC Bank USA Level 1 46,443 65,131 53,409 72,931 Level 2a 13,690 13,690 14,995 14,995 Level 2b 39 39 10 10 Hang Seng Bank Level 1 20,804 31,091 21,798 37,525 Level 2a 3,287 3,287 1,474 1,474 Level 2b 197 197 199 199 49 Total of HSBCs other principal entities Level 1 77,958 88,281 74,239 90,579 Level 2a 7,899 7,899 6,240 6,240 Level 2b 1,003 1,003 226 226 For footnotes, see page 116.
Sources of funding Funding sources and uses Audited 2017 2016 Our primary sources of funding are customer current accounts $m $m and customer savings deposits payable on demand or at short Sources notice.
We issue wholesale securities secured and unsecured to Customer accounts 1,364,462 1,272,386 supplement our customer deposits and change the currency mix, Deposits by banks 69,922 59,939 maturity profile or location of our liabilities.
Repurchase agreements non-trading 130,002 88,958 Debt securities in issue 64,546 65,915 The adjacent Funding sources and uses table provides a Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 1,286 2,790 consolidated view of how our balance sheet is funded, and should Subordinated liabilities 19,826 20,984 be read in light of the LFRF, which requires operating entities to manage liquidity and funding risk on a stand-alone basis.
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 94,429 86,832 Liabilities under insurance contracts 85,667 75,273 The table analyses our consolidated balance sheet according to Trading liabilities 184,361 153,691 the assets that primarily arise from operating activities and the repos 2,255 1,428 sources of funding primarily supporting these activities.
Assets stock lending 8,363 3,643 and liabilities that do not arise from operating activities are settlement accounts 11,198 15,271 presented as a net balancing source or deployment of funds.
other trading liabilities 162,545 133,349 In 2017, the level of customer accounts continued to exceed the Total equity 197,871 182,578 level of loans and advances to customers.
The positive funding At 31 Dec 2,212,372 2,009,346 gap was predominantly deployed in liquid assets cash and Uses balances with central banks and financial investments as required Loans and advances to customers 962,964 861,504 by the LFRF.
Loans and advances to banks 90,393 88,126 Loans and advances to banks continued to exceed deposits by Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 201,553 160,974 banks, meaning the Group remained a net unsecured lender to the Assets held for sale 781 4,389 banking sector.
Trading assets 287,995 235,125 reverse repos 10,224 4,780 stock borrowing 6,895 5,427 settlement accounts 15,258 17,850 other trading assets 255,618 207,068 Financial investments 389,076 436,797 Cash and balances with central banks 180,624 128,009 Net deployment in other balance sheet assets and liabilities 98,986 94,422 At 31 Dec 2,212,372 2,009,346 102 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Wholesale term debt maturity profile cash flows relating to principal payments and not the balance sheet carrying value, which include debt securities and The maturity profile of our wholesale term debt obligations is set subordinated liabilities measured at fair value.
out in the following table.
The balances in the table are not directly comparable with those in the consolidated balance sheet because the table presents gross Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not more but not but not more than more than more than more than than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Debt securities issued 7,502 8,409 9,435 8,132 15,111 13,000 55,347 48,234 165,170 unsecured CDs and CP 1,085 3,636 4,334 3,064 6,132 137 386 277 19,051 unsecured senior MTNs 1,614 2,973 3,047 2,924 5,109 6,564 41,090 39,544 102,865 unsecured senior structured notes 1,298 1,796 2,054 1,935 2,870 4,586 10,156 5,328 30,023 secured covered bonds 209 212 2,494 1,655 4,570 secured asset-backed commercial 3,479 3,479 paper secured ABS 914 436 1,350 others 26 4 1,000 1,501 307 994 3,832 Subordinated liabilities 3 1,918 74 170 2,371 4,077 32,000 40,612 subordinated debt securities 3 1,918 74 170 2,371 3,618 30,162 38,315 preferred securities 459 1,838 2,297 At 31 Dec 2017 7,505 10,327 9,509 8,132 15,281 15,371 59,424 80,234 205,782 Debt securities issued 7,462 10,110 11,834 6,930 8,043 21,906 43,764 44,164 154,213 unsecured CDs and CP 691 5,906 5,530 3,152 2,384 242 133 12 18,050 unsecured senior MTNs 837 1,706 3,727 2,699 3,580 13,626 30,519 36,240 92,934 unsecured senior structured notes 1,088 1,675 1,389 882 2,066 5,940 8,344 3,885 25,269 secured covered bonds 1,584 295 71 207 1,357 2,559 6,073 secured asset-backed commercial 3,196 3,196 paper secured ABS 11 23 893 126 13 91 908 439 2,504 others 55 800 1,800 2,503 1,029 6,187 Subordinated liabilities 13 63 145 500 1,775 7,292 32,179 41,967 subordinated debt securities 13 63 145 500 1,775 6,881 30,425 39,802 preferred securities 411 1,754 2,165 At 31 Dec 2016 7,475 10,173 11,979 6,930 8,543 23,681 51,056 76,343 196,180 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Contractual maturity of financial liabilities A maturity analysis of repos and debt securities in issue included in trading liabilities is presented in Note 28 on the Financial The table below shows, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows Statements.
relating to principal and future coupon payments except for trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging In addition, loans and other credit-related commitments, financial guarantees and similar contracts are generally not recognised on derivatives.
For this reason, balances in the table below do not agree directly with those in our consolidated balance sheet.
The undiscounted cash flows potentially Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative payable under loan and other credit-related commitments, and financial guarantees and similar contracts are classified on the liabilities areclassified according to their contractual maturities.
Trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging basis of the earliest date they can be called.
Application of this policy throughout the Group was improved in 2017, and therefore derivatives are included in the On demand time bucket and notby contractual maturity.
comparative information has been represented.
Undiscounted cash flows payable This risk arises because of HSBC Holdings obligation to make in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according payments to debt holders as they fall due and to pay its operating to their contractual maturities.
Derivatives not treated as hedging expenses.
The liquidity risk related to these cash flows is managed derivatives are included in the On demand time bucket.
by matching external debt obligations with internal loan cash flows and by maintaining an appropriate liquidity buffer that is In addition, loan commitments and financial guarantees and similar contracts are generally not recognised on our balance monitored byHoldings ALCO.
The undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under The balances in the table below are not directly comparable with financial guarantees and similar contracts are classified on those on the balance sheet of HSBC Holdings as the table thebasis of the earliest date on which they can be called.
104 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities Audited On Due within Due between Due between Due after demand 3 months 3 and 12 months 1 and 5 years 5 years $m $m $m $m $m Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,525 46 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 286 875 16,554 19,465 Derivatives 2,008 293 781 Debt securities in issue 232 1,787 13,975 26,452 Subordinated liabilities 2,113 537 2,852 20,944 Other financial liabilities 849 200 2,008 6,005 3,445 33,674 67,642 Loan commitments Financial guarantees and similar contracts 7,778 At 31 Dec 2017 9,786 6,005 3,445 33,674 67,642 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,051 105 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 314 960 11,964 25,665 Derivatives 3,841 592 592 Debt securities in issue 157 478 8,393 19,164 Subordinated liabilities 196 598 4,461 20,899 Other financial liabilities 1,343 164 3,841 4,061 2,200 25,515 66,320 Loan commitments Financial guarantees and similar contracts 7,619 At 31 Dec 2016 11,460 4,061 2,200 25,515 66,320 Equity markets continued to reach new highs into the year end, in Market risk profile both developed and emerging markets, supported by robust earnings forecasts.
Page Market risk in 2017 105 The EU and UK have agreed to move to the next phase of the Trading portfolios 105 Brexit talks, however the ongoing uncertainty regarding the Non-trading portfolios 106 terms of the exit from the EU remains.
Market risk balance sheet linkages 107 Trading value at risk VaR ended the year higher when compared Structural foreign exchange exposures 108 to the previous year.
The trading VaR composition changed during Net interest income sensitivity 108 the year, where equity and credit spread trading VaR increased Sensitivity of capital and reserves 109 relative to interest rate VaR.
The increases in equity and credit Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management 109 spread trading VaR during 2H17 has resulted in these asset Defined benefit pension schemes 109 classes becoming major contributors to the overall trading VaR, in Additional market risk measures applicable only to the parent company 109 addition to interest rate risk trading VaR.
Non-trading interest rate VaR ended the year lower when Market risk in 2017 compared to the previous year.
In 1H17 non-trading interest rate Market risk is the risk that movements in market factors, such as VaR decreased as exposures were managed down and was largely foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices range bound during 2H17.
and commodity prices, will reduce our income or the value of our Trading portfolios portfolios.
Exposure to market risk is separated intotwo portfolios: trading portfolios: and Value at risk of the trading portfolios Trading VaR predominantly resides within Global Markets where non-trading portfolios.
trading VaR was higher at 31 December 2017 compared with Market risk exposures arising from our insurance manufacturing 31December 2016.
In 1H17, the trading VaR from the credit operations are discussed on page 78. spread asset class increased reflecting larger exposures.
This was A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the partly offset by a reduction in the interest rate asset class, from management of market risk is set out on page 75. modelling enhancements, which led to an improved measure.
Global markets were influenced by positive global growth In 2H17, trading VaR increased from two asset classes: credit forecasts and broadly accommodative monetary policies.
The increase in the credit spread trading VaR Although bond yields have started to increase, yield curves remain was driven by increased exposures and changes to the calibration low and flat by historical standards.
Outside of the US and UK, of benchmark curves used for lower rated trading portfolios.
The where central banks started to raise interest rates, other key change in equity trading VaR was from fluctuations in dividend central banks kept reference interest rates unchanged.
These increases into year-end in the VaR measures for these asset classes were partially offset by a Realised and implied volatilities also remain low by historical reduction in the interest rates asset class VaR.
standards, despite various geopolitical tensions that create uncertainty for markets.
The impact of these risks on markets, in particular China, where debt levels remain high, did not crystallise into significant market moves or volatility during 2017.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk The daily levels of total trading VaR over the last year are set outin the graph below.
Daily VaR trading portfolios, 99% 1 day $m The Group trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.
Back-testing Non-trading VaR includes the interest rate risk in the banking book transferred to and managed by Balance Sheet Management In 2017, the Group experienced two back-testing exceptions BSM and the non-trading financial instruments held by BSM.
against hypothetical profit and loss in December: a loss exception, The management of interest rate risk in the banking book and the driven by a margin loan: and a profit exception, driven by gains on role of BSM are described further in Interest rate risk in the Japanese yen cross currency swaps, and gains in strategic foreign banking book section below.
Non-trading VaR excludes the insurance operations which are There was no evidence of model errors or control failures.
discussed further on page 111 and the interest rate risk in the The back-testing result excludes exceptions due to changes in fair banking book arising from HSBC Holdings.
Non-trading portfolios Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios Non-trading VaR of the Group includes contributions from all global businesses.
There is no commodity risk in the non-trading portfolios.
The gradual reduction in the non-trading interest rate VaR was due to fide-risking the banking book in 2017.
106 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The daily levels of total non-trading VaR over the last year are set out in the graph below.
Daily VaR non-trading portfolios, 99% 1 day $m The Group non-trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.
Non-trading VaR excludes equity risk on available-for-sale Market risk balance sheet linkages securities, structural foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk on Below are the balance sheet lines in the Groups consolidated fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings.
This section and position that are subject to market risk.
the sections below describe the scope of HSBCs management of market risks in non-trading books.
Trading assets and liabilities The Groups trading assets and liabilities are in almost all cases Equity securities classified as available forsale originated by GB&M.
These assets and liabilities are treated as traded risk for the purposes of market risk management, other Fair value of equity securities than a limited number of exceptions, primarily in Global Banking Audited where the short-term acquisition and disposal of the assets are 2017 2016 linked to other non-trading related activities such as loan Footnotes $bn $bn origination.
53 Private equity holdings 1.0 1.2 Derivative assets and liabilities 54 Investment to facilitate ongoing business 1.6 1.5 Other strategic investments 1.3 2.0 We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: to At 31 Dec 3.9 4.7 create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks arising from client business, and to manage and For footnotes, see page 116. hedge our own risks.
Most of our derivative exposures arise from sales and trading activities within GB&M, and are treated as The table above sets out the maximum possible loss on traded risk for market risk management purposes.
shareholders equity from available-for-sale equity securities.
The fair value of equity securities classified as available for sale The assets and liabilities included in trading VaR give rise to a reduced from $4.7bn to $3.9bn.
The decrease in Other strategic large proportion of the income included in net trading income.
As investments was largely due to the sale of two investments: Visa set out on page176, HSBCs net trading income in 2017 was and First Data.
Adjustments to trading income such as valuation adjustments do not affect the trading VaR model.
For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments at fair value, see Note13 on the Financial Statements.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Structural foreign exchange exposures Net interest income sensitivity For our policies and procedures for managing structural foreign These disclosures have been enhanced in order to show sensitivity exchange exposures, see page 75 of the Risk management effects above one year.
The tables set out the assessed impact to a section.
hypothetical basecase projection of our net interest income NII excluding insurance under the following scenarios: Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the functional currencies a series of four quarterly parallel shocks of 25 basis points to of which are currencies other than the US dollar.
Exchange the current market-implied path of interest rates across all differences on structural exposures are recognised in Other currencies at the beginning of each quarter from 1January comprehensive income.
2018 effect over 1 year : an immediate shock of 25 basis points to the current marketimplied path of interest rates across all currencies on 1 January Net structural foreign exchange exposures 2018 effects over 1 year and 5 years : and 2017 2016 $m $m an immediate shock of 100 basis points to the current marketimplied path of interest rates across all currencies on 1 January Currency of structural exposure 1 2018 effects over 1 year and 5 years.
Pound sterling 37,039 27,527 Hong Kong dollars 33,992 32,472 The sensitivities shown represent our assessment of the change to Chinese renminbi 27,968 24,504 a hypothetical base case NII, assuming a static balance sheet and Euros 20,269 17,397 no management actions from BSM.
They incorporate the effect of Indian rupees 4,286 3,901 interest rate behaviouralisation, managed rate product pricing Mexican pesos 4,270 3,826 assumptions and customer behaviour, for example, prepayment of Canadian dollars 4,241 3,734 mortgages or customer migration from non-interest bearing to Saudi riyals 3,971 3,690 interest bearing deposit accounts under the specific interest rate Malaysian ringgit 2,461 2,079 scenarios.
The scenarios represent interest rate shocks to the current market implied path of rates.
Singapore dollars 2,433 1,995 UAE dirhams 2,054 2,073 The NII sensitivities shown are indicative and based on simplified Australian dollars 1,892 1,667 scenarios.
A sequence of four quarterly 25 bps rises would Taiwanese dollars 1,877 1,753 increase projected net interest income for 2018 by $2,178m 2017: Indonesian rupiah 1,845 1,439 $1,709, while a sequence of four quarterly 25bps falls would Korean won 1,423 1,260 decrease projected net interest income in 2018 by $2,492, 2017: Swiss francs 950 2,226 $2,409.
These figures reflect a reassessment of assumptions from Turkish lira 778 734 those used in 2017.
Thai baht 766 736 The structural sensitivity arising from the four global businesses, Argentine pesos 753 860 excluding Global Markets, is positive in a rising rate environment Brazilian real 745 755 and negative in a falling rate environment.
Both BSM and Global Others, each less than $700m 5,623 5,728 Markets have NII sensitivity profiles that offset this to some At 31 Dec 159,636 140,356 degree.
The tables do not include BSM management actions or changes in Global Markets net trading income that may further 1 At 31 December, we maintained forward foreign exchange contracts of $5bn 2016: $5bn in order to manage our sterling structural foreign exchange exposure.
The limitations of this analysis are discussed within the Risk Shareholders equity would decrease by $2,659m 2016: $2,247m management section on page76.
if euro and sterling foreign currency exchange rates weakened by 5% relative to the US dollar.
Net interest income sensitivity 12 months Audited US dollar HK dollar Sterling Euro Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Change in 2018 net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 563 511 407 249 448 2,178 -25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 821 789 494 17 405 2,492 Change in 2017 net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 577 504 61 153 414 1,709 -25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 985 797 261 9 372 2,406 NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves 12 months Currency US dollar HK dollar Sterling Euro Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m 25bps parallel 227 179 147 50 203 806 -25bps parallel 287 305 181 8 160 925 100bps parallel 845 711 600 412 731 3,299 -100bps parallel 1,444 1,425 631 31 732 4,201 The net interest income sensitivities arising from the scenarios presented in the tables above are not directly comparable.
This is due to timing differences relating to interest rate changes and the repricing of assets and liabilities.
108 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves 5 years Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Total $m $m $m $m $m $m 25bps parallel 806 1,153 1,326 1,439 1,507 6,231 -25bps parallel 925 872 1,154 1,271 1,381 5,603 100bps parallel 3,299 4,463 5,105 5,472 5,759 24,098 -100bps parallel 4,201 4,538 5,102 5,498 5,813 25,152 Sensitivity of capital and reserves expected reduction in valuation of cash flow hedges due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps in all yield curves.
These Under CRD IV, available-for-sale AFS reserves are included as particular exposures form only a part of our overall interest rate part of CET1 capital.
We measure the potential downside risk to exposure.
the CET1 ratio due to interest rate and credit spread risk in the The following table describes the sensitivity of our cash flow AFS portfolio using the portfolios stressed VaR, with a 99% confidence level and an assumed holding period of one quarter.
hedge reported reserves to the stipulated movements in yield curves and the maximum and minimum month-end figures during AtDecember 2017, the stressed VaR of the portfolio was $2.6bn 2016: $3.2bn.
The sensitivities are indicative and based on simplified scenarios.
We monitor the sensitivity of reported cash flow hedging reserves to interest rate movements on a monthly basis by assessing the Sensitivity of cash flow hedging reported reserves to interest rate movements Maximum Minimum impact impact $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2017 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 684 839 684 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.36 % 0.44 % 0.36 % -100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 720 860 720 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.38% 0.45% 0.38% At 31 Dec 2016 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 1,051 1,173 1,051 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.6 % 0.7 % 0.60 % -100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 1,080 1,145 1,080 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.6% 0.7% 0.60% Financial investments decreased by $50bn, predominantly in Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management Europe, along with a decrease in Asia, where funds were deployed For our BSM governance framework, see page 76 of Risk management.
Third-party assets in BSM increased by 1% during 2017.
Cash and balances at central banks increased by $52bn, predominantly in Europe as a result of Financial investment maturities and disposals.
Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management 2017 2016 $m $m Cash and balances at central banks 161,715 110,052 Trading assets 637 414 Loans and advances: to banks 36,047 38,188 to customers 3,202 2,564 Reverse repurchase agreements 38,842 35,143 Financial investments 309,908 360,315 Other 4,648 4,839 At 31 Dec 554,999 551,515 Defined benefit pension schemes Additional market risk measures applicable only to the parent company Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are not fully HSBC Holdings uses VaR to monitor and manage foreign matched by assets with determinable cash flows.
In order to manage interest rate risk, HSBC Holdings uses the project sensitivity of its net interest income to For details of our defined benefit schemes, including asset allocation, see future changes in yield curves and the interest rate gap repricing Note 5 on the Financial Statements, and for pension risk management seepage 80. tables.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Foreign exchange risk exchange hedges are taken directly to HSBC Holdings income statement.
Total foreign exchange VaR arising within HSBC Holdings in2017 was as follows.
Sensitivity of net interest income HSBC Holdings monitors NII sensitivity over a five-year time HSBC Holdings foreign exchange VaR horizon reflecting the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk 2017 2016 management appropriate to a financial services holding company.
$m $m These sensitivities assume that any issuance where HSBC Holdings has an option to reimburse at a future call date is called At 31 Dec 78.9 32.1 at this date.
The table below sets out the effect on HSBC Holdings Average 86.1 44.4 future NII over a five-year time horizon of incremental 25 basis Minimum 74.9 32.1 point parallel falls or rises in all yield curves at the beginning of Maximum 101.2 58.2 each quarter during the 12 months from 1January 2018.
The foreign exchange risk arises from loans to subsidiaries of a Assuming no management actions, under the scenarios outlined capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency above, base case NII for the next five years would increase by of either the provider or the recipient and which are accounted for $981m 2017: increase of $746m under rising rates, and decrease as financial assets, and from structural foreign exchange hedges.
by $904m 2017: decrease of $723m under falling rates.
Changes in the carrying amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate differences, and changes in the fair value of foreign Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to interest rate movements US dollar Sterling Euro Total $m $m $m $m Change in projected net interest income as at 31 Dec arising from a shift in yield curves 2018 of 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 86 9 13 82 2-3 years 362 39 41 442 4-5 years 365 41 52 458 of -25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 86 7 24 69 2-3 years 362 36 7 391 4-5 years 365 41 38 444 2017 of 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 84 6 90 2-3 years 299 20 6 325 4-5 years 304 20 8 332 of -25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 84 4 88 2-3 years 299 13 312 4-5 years 304 19 1 324 NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves 5 years Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Total $m $m $m $m $m $m 25bps parallel 34 52 52 53 53 244 -25bps parallel 26 47 57 53 53 236 100bps parallel 135 208 210 210 210 973 -100bps parallel 97 168 189 201 205 860 For footnote, see page 116.
The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above are indicative Interest rate repricing gap table andbased on simplified scenarios.
The figures represent The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC hypothetical movements in NII based on our projected yield curve Holdings is not included within the Group VaR but is managed on scenarios, HSBC Holdings current interest rate risk profile and a repricing gap basis.
The interest rate repricing gap table below assumed changes to that profile during the next five years.
analyses the full-term structure of interest rate mismatches within The sensitivities represent our assessment of the change to a HSBC Holdings balance sheet where debt issuances are reflected hypothetical base case based on a static balance sheet based on either the next reprice date if floating rate or the assumption and do not take intoaccount the effect of actions maturity call date, whichever is first, if fixed rate.
thatcould be taken to mitigate this interest rate risk.
The prior year figures have been amended to reflect this.
Operational risk profile increased monitoring and enhanced detective controls tomanage those fraud risks which arise from new technologies Operational risk is the risk to achieving our strategy or objectives and new ways of banking: as a result of inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events.
strengthened internal security controls to prevent cyberattacks: Responsibility for minimising operational risk lies with HSBCs employees.
They are required to manage the operational risks of improved controls and security to protect customers when the business and operational activities for which they are using digital channels: and responsible.
enhanced our third-party risk management capability to enable A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the the consistent risk assessment of any third-party service.
management of operational risk is set out on page 77.
Further information on the nature of these risks is provided in Operational risk exposures in 2017 Topand emerging risks on page63 and in Risk management from pages 66 to 81.
In 2017 we continued our ongoing work to strengthen those controls that manage our most material risks.
Among other Operational risk losses in 2017 measures, we: Operational risk losses in 2017 are lower than in 2016, reflecting a further developed controls to help ensure that we know our reduction in losses incurred relating to large legacy conductcustomers, ask the right questions, monitor transactions and related events.
Provisions related to the civil money penalty order escalate concerns to detect, prevent and deter financial crime associated with the Federal Reserve Board agreed in September risk: 2017 and the deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice in January 2018, in connection with implemented a number of initiatives to raise our standards in investigations into HSBCs historical foreign exchange activities, relation to the conduct of our business and other regulatory were recognised in prior periods.
For further details see Note 34 compliance-related initiatives, as described on page 77 of the on the Financial Statements and on conduct-related costs included Regulatory compliance risk management section: in significant items on page 61.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk We have life insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in nine Insurance manufacturing operations risk profile countries Argentina, mainland China, France, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Singapore and the UK.
We also have a Page life insurance manufacturing associate in India.
Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2017 112 Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale tobe HSBCs bancassurance model 112 an effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a handful of Measurement 112 leading external insurance companies in order to provide Key risk types 114 insurance products to our customers through our banking network Market risk 114 and direct channels.
These arrangements aregenerally structured Credit risk 115 with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a Liquidity risk 115 combination of commissions, fees and a share of profits.
We Insurance risk 116 distribute insurance products in all of our geographical regions.
Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2017 Insurance products are sold worldwide, predominantly by RBWM, CMB and GPB through our branches and direct channels.
The majority of the risk in our insurance business derives from manufacturing activities and can be categorised as financial risk or Measurement insurance risk.
Financial risks include market risk, credit risk and Audited liquidity risk.
Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to the The risk profile of our insurance manufacturing businesses is issuer HSBC.
measured using an economic capital approach.
Assets and liabilities are measured on a market value basis, and a capital A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the management requirement is defined to ensure that there is a less than oneof insurance risk is set out on page 78. in-200 chance of insolvency over a one-year time horizon, given HSBCs bancassurance model the risks to which the businesses are exposed.
The methodology We operate an integrated bancassurance model that provides for the economic capital calculation is largely aligned to the panEuropean Solvency II insurance capital regulations.
The economic insurance products principally for customers with whom we have capital coverage ratio economic net asset value divided by the a banking relationship.
economic capital requirement is a key risk appetite measure.
The insurance contracts we sell relate to the underlying needs of The business has a current appetite to remain above 140% witha our banking customers, which we can identify from our point-ofsale contacts and customer knowledge.
For the products we tolerance of 110%.
In addition to economic capital, the regulatory solvency ratio is also a metric used to manage risk appetite on an manufacture, the majority ofsales are of savings, universal life and entity basis.
credit and term life contracts.
The following tables show the composition of assets and liabilities By focusing largely onpersonal and SME lines of business, we are by contract type and by geographical region.
A portfolio of able to optimise volumes and diversify individual insurance risks.
We choose to manufacture these insurance products in HSBC business in our Maltese insurance operations was reported as held for sale at 31 December 2017. subsidiaries based on an assessment of operational scale and risk appetite.
Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks and rewards associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping part of the underwriting profit and investment income within the Group.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk 55, 61 Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by geographical region Audited Latin Europe Asia America Total Footnotes $m $m $m $m Financial assets 30,231 63,973 1,500 95,704 trading assets financial assets designated at fair value 12,430 15,633 494 28,557 derivatives 169 171 340 57 financial investments HTM 38,506 523 39,029 57 financial investments AFS 15,144 6,393 456 21,993 58 other financial assets 2,488 3,270 27 5,785 Reinsurance assets 469 2,063 4 2,536 59 PVIF 773 5,709 128 6,610 Other assets and investment properties 1,666 1,577 24 3,267 Total assets 33,139 73,322 1,656 108,117 Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value 739 4,896 5,635 Liabilities under insurance contracts 28,416 56,047 1,204 85,667 60 Deferred tax 217 1,033 9 1,259 Other liabilities 2,043 1,209 73 3,325 Total liabilities 31,415 63,185 1,286 95,886 Total equity 1,724 10,137 370 12,231 Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2017 33,139 73,322 1,656 108,117 Financial assets 26,238 56,371 1,434 84,043 trading assets 2 2 financial assets designated at fair value 10,171 13,618 510 24,299 derivatives 187 86 273 57 financial investments HTM 33,624 491 34,115 57 financial investments AFS 13,812 5,735 373 19,920 58 other financial assets 2,068 3,308 58 5,434 Reinsurance assets 362 1,499 7 1,868 59 PVIF 711 5,682 109 6,502 Other assets and investment properties 871 1,493 53 2,417 Total assets 28,182 65,045 1,603 94,830 Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value 1,321 4,681 6,002 Liabilities under insurance contracts 24,310 49,793 1,170 75,273 60 Deferred tax 238 919 32 1,189 Other liabilities 841 914 50 1,805 Total liabilities 26,710 56,307 1,252 84,269 Total equity 1,472 8,738 351 10,561 Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2016 28,182 65,045 1,603 94,830 For footnotes, see page 116.
Key risk types DPF products expose HSBC to the risk of variation in asset returns, which will impact our participation in the investment performance.
The key risks for the insurance operations are market risks in In addition, in some scenarios the asset returns can become particular interest rate and equity and credit risks, followed by insurance underwriting risk and operational risks.
Liquidity risk, insufficient to cover the policyholders financial guarantees, in which case the shortfall has to be met by HSBC.
Reserves are held while significant for the bank, is minor for our insurance against the cost of such guarantees, calculated by stochastic operations.
Market risk Where local rules require, these reserves are held as part Audited ofliabilities under insurance contracts.
Any remainder is Description and exposure accounted for as a deduction from the present value of in-force PVIF long-term insurance business on the relevant product.
The Market risk is the risk of changes in market factors affecting following table shows the total reserve held for the cost of HSBCs capital or profit.
Market factors include interest rates, guarantees, the range of investment returns on assets supporting equity and growth assets and foreign exchange rates.
these products and the implied investment return that would Our exposure varies depending on the type of contract issued.
enable the business to meet the guarantees.
Ourmost significant life insurance products are contracts with The cost of guarantees increased to $696m 2016: $625m discretionary participating features DPF issued in France and primarily due to the impact of modelling changes.
These products typically include some form of capital guarantee or guaranteed return on the sums invested bythe For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne bythe policyholders, to which discretionary bonuses are added ifallowed policyholder, but some market risk exposure typically remains, as by the overall performance of the funds.
These funds are primarily fees earned are related to the market value of the linked assets.
invested in bonds, with a proportion allocated to other asset classes to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns.
114 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Financial return guarantees Audited 2017 2016 Long-term Long-term investment investment Investment returns on Investment returns on returns implied relevant Cost of returns implied relevant Cost of by guarantee portfolios guarantees by guarantee portfolios guarantees Footnote % % $m % % $m Capital 0.0 0.03.2 103 0.0 0.03.0 59 Nominal annual return 0.12.0 3.23.7 64 0.12.0 3.73.8 64 62 Nominal annual return 2.14.0 3.24.4 459 2.14.0 3.04.4 426 Nominal annual return 4.15.0 3.24.1 70 4.15.0 3.04.1 76 At 31 Dec 696 625 For footnotes, see page 116.
Sensitivities therisk factors is non-linear, therefore the results disclosed should not be extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different levels of Changes in financial market factors, from the economic stress.
For the same reason, the impact of the stress is not assumptions in place at the start of the year, had a positive symmetrical on the upside and downside.
The sensitivities are impact on reported profit before tax of $296m 2016: $386m stated before allowance for management actions which may negative.
The following table illustrates the effects of selected mitigate the effect of changes in the market environment.
The interest rate, equity price and foreign exchange rate scenarios on sensitivities presented allow for adverse changes in policyholder our profit for the year and the total equity of our insurance behaviour that may arise in response to changes in market rates.
Interest rate movements have a greater impact on total equity as Where appropriate, the effects of the sensitivity tests on profit changes in market value of available-for-sale bonds are not after tax and equity incorporate the impact of the stress on the recognised in profit after tax.
The relationship between the profit and total equity and Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors Audited 2017 2016 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on profit after tax total equity profit after tax total equity Footnote $m $m $m $m 100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves 42 583 63 494 63 -100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves 140 617 182 490 10% increase in equity prices 223 237 189 190 10% decrease in equity prices 225 239 191 191 10% increase in US dollar exchange rate compared with all currencies 24 24 19 19 10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared with all currencies 24 24 19 19 For footnote, see page 116. Credit risk Liquidity risk Audited Audited Description and exposure Description and exposure Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty Liquidity risk is the risk that an insurance operation, though fails to meet their obligation under a contract.
It arises in two main solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources areas for our insurance manufacturers: available to meet its obligations when they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
risk associated with credit spread volatility and default by debt security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a The following table shows the expected undiscounted cash flows return for policyholders and shareholders: and for insurance liabilities at 31 December 2017.
The liquidity risk exposure is wholly borne by the policyholder in the case of unitrisk of default by reinsurance counterparties and nonlinked business and is shared with the policyholder for non-linked reimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk.
The amounts outstanding at the balance sheet date in respect The profile of the expected maturity of insurance contracts at ofthese items are shown in the table on page 113.
The credit quality of the reinsurers share of liabilities under The remaining contractual maturity of investment contract insurance contracts is assessed as satisfactory or higher as liabilities is included in Note 28. defined on page 72, with 100% of the exposure being neither past due nor impaired 2016: 100%.
Credit risk on assets supporting unit-linked liabilities is predominantly borne by the policyholder: therefore, our exposure is primarily related to liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment contracts and shareholders funds.
The credit quality of insurance financial assets is included in thetable on page 84.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk | Capital 55 Expected maturity of insurance contract liabilities Audited Expected cash flows undiscounted Within 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years Over 15 years Total $m $m $m $m $m Unit-linked 969 3,041 4,695 6,814 15,519 With DPF and Other contracts 6,916 26,453 43,784 45,334 122,487 At 31 Dec 2017 7,885 29,494 48,479 52,148 138,006 Unit-linked 630 2,468 5,101 9,513 17,712 With DPF and Other contracts 5,582 23,136 40,621 40,447 109,786 At 31 Dec 2016 6,212 25,604 45,722 49,960 127,498 For footnotes, see page 116.
Insurance risk Description and exposure Footnotes to Risk Insurance risk is the risk of loss through adverse experience, in either timing or amount, of insurance underwriting parameters 45 2016 includes loan impairment charges from the operations in Brazil that we sold non-economic assumptions.
These parameters include mortality, on 1 July 2016. morbidity, longevity, lapses and unit costs.
46 The HSBC UK Liquidity Group shown comprises four legal entities: HSBC Bank plc including all overseas branches, and SPEs consolidated by HSBC Bank plc for The principal risk we face is that, over time, the cost of the Financial Statement purposes, Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc, HSBC contract, including claims and benefits, may exceed the total Private Bank UK Ltd and HSBC Trust Company UK Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed amount of premiums and investment income received.
The tables on pages 113 and 114 analyse our life insurance risk 47 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Hong Kong branch and The exposures by type of contract and by geographical region.
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Singapore branch represent the material activities of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
Each The insurance risk profile and related exposures remain largely branch is monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity.
consistent with those observed at 31 December 2016.
48 HSBC France and HSBC Canada represent the consolidated banking operations of Sensitivities the Group in France and Canada, respectively.
HSBC France andHSBC Canada are each managed as single distinct operating entities for liquidity purposes.
Audited 49 The total shown for other principal HSBC operating entities represents the The following table shows the sensitivity of profit and total equity combined position of all the other operating entities overseen directly by the Risk to reasonably possible changes in non-economic assumptions Management Meeting of the GMB.
across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
50 Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from the market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.
Mortality and morbidity risk is typically associated with life 51 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio insurance contracts.
The effect on profit of an increase in mortality containing different risk types.
It represents the reduction in unsystematic market or morbidity depends on the type of business being written.
Our risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types: for example, largest exposures to mortality and morbidity risk exist in Hong interest rate, equity and foreign exchange, together inone portfolio.
It is measured Kong and Singapore.
as the difference between the sum of the VaRby individual risk type and the combined total VaR.
A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type of contracts diversification.
As the maximum and minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification beingwritten.
For a portfolio of term assurance, an increase in benefit for these measures.
lapse rates typically has a negative effect on profit due to the loss 52 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
offuture income on the lapsed policies.
However, some contract 53 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are lapses have a positive effect on profit due to the existence of subject to limits on the amount of investment.
Potential new commitments are policy surrender charges.
We are most sensitive toa change in subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations lapse rates on unit-linked and universal life contracts in Hong Kong remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio.
and Singapore, and DPF contracts inFrance.
54 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in governmentExpense rate risk is the exposure to a change in the cost sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
To the extent that increased 55 Does not include associated insurance companies SABB Takaful Company and expenses cannot be passed on to policyholders, anincrease in Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
expense rates will have a negative effect on ourprofits.
56 Other Contracts includes term insurance, credit life insurance, universal life insurance and investment contracts not included in the Unit-linked or With DPF columns.
Sensitivity analysis 57 Financial investments held to maturity HTM and available for sale AFS.
Audited 58 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and inter-company balances 2017 2016 with other non-insurance legal entities.
$m $m 59 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business.
Effect on profit after tax and total equity 60 Deferred tax includes the deferred tax liabilities arising on recognition of PVIF.
at 31 Dec 61 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in Middle East and North 10% increase in mortality and or morbidity rates 77 71 Africa or North America.
10% decrease in mortality and or morbidity rates 82 75 62 A block of contracts in France with guaranteed nominal annual returns in the range 10% increase in lapse rates 93 80 1.25%-3.72% is reported entirely in the 2.1%-4.0% category in line with the 10% decrease in lapse rates 106 93 average guaranteed return of 2.6% offered to policyholders by these contracts.
10% increase in expense rates 92 89 63 For 2016, where a -100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve would result in a negative interest rate, the effects on profit after tax and total equity have been 10% decrease in expense rates 91 87 calculated using a minimum rate of 0%.
116 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
