Additional information Risk factors The duration and outcome of the DOJs investigations and other Set out below are certain risk factors that could adversely affect RMBS matters remain uncertain, including in respect of whether the Groups future results, its financial condition and prospects settlements for all or any such matters may be reached and any and cause them to be materially different from what is expected.
Further substantial provisions and costs may be The factors discussed below and elsewhere in this report should recognised.
not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of Global Restructuring Group all potential risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
As announced on 8 November 2016, the Group has taken steps, The Group is subject to a number of legal, regulatory and including automatic refunds of certain complex fees and a governmental actions and investigations.
Unfavourable complaints process, overseen by an independent third party for outcomes in such actions and investigations could have a small and medium entity SME customers in the UK and the material adverse effect on the Groups operations, operating Republic of Ireland that were in its Global Restructuring Group results, reputation, financial position and future prospects GRG between 2008 and 2013.
This complaints review process The Groups operations remain diverse and complex and it and the automatic refund of complex fees was developed with the operates in legal and regulatory environments that expose it to involvement of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Group potentially significant legal and regulatory actions, including booked a provision of 400 million in Q4 2016, based on its litigation claims and proceedings and civil and criminal regulatory estimates of the costs associated with the complaints review and governmental investigations, and other regulatory risk.
The process and the automatic refund of complex fees for SME Group has settled a number of legal and regulatory actions over customers in GRG.
On 23 October 2017, the FCA published an the past several years but continues to be, and may in the future interim report incorporating a summary of the Skilled Persons be, involved in a number of legal and regulatory actions in the report which stated that, further to the general investigation US, the UK, Europe and other jurisdictions.
announced in November 2016, the FCA had decided to carry out a more focused investigation.
The FCA published its final The legal and regulatory actions specifically referred to below summary of the Skilled Persons report on 28 November 2017. are, in the Groups view, the most significant legal and regulatory The UK House of Commons Treasury Select Committee, seeking actions to which the Group is currently exposed.
However, the to rely on Parliamentary powers, published the full version of the Group is also subject to a number of additional claims, Skilled Persons report on 20 February 2018.
The FCA proceedings and investigations, the adverse resolution of which investigation is ongoing and fines or additional redress may also have a material adverse impact on the Group and commitments may be accepted by or imposed upon the Group as which include ongoing reviews, investigations and proceedings a result of this or any subsequent investigation or enquiry, both formal and informal by governmental law enforcement and notwithstanding the steps the Group has already taken.
other agencies and litigation proceedings including class action Payment protection insurance litigation, relating to, among other matters, the offering of To date, the Group has booked provisions totaling 5.1 billion securities, including residential mortgage-backed securities with respect to payment protection insurance PPI, including an RMBS, conduct in the foreign exchange market, the setting of additional provision of 175 million in 2017.
Of the 5.1 billion benchmark rates such as LIBOR and related derivatives trading, cumulative provision, 4.0 billion had been utilised by 31 the issuance, underwriting, and sales and trading of fixed-income December 2017.
In August 2017, the FCAs new rules and securities including government securities, product mis-selling, guidance on PPI complaints handling Policy Statement 17 3 customer mistreatment, anti-money laundering, sanctions, came into force.
The Policy Statement introduced new so called antitrust and various other compliance issues.
See Litigation, Plevin rules, under which customers may be eligible for redress investigations and reviews of Note 31 on the consolidated if the bank earned a high level of commission from the sale of accounts on pages 313 to 325 for details for these matters.
The PPI, but did not disclose this detail at the point of sale.
The Policy Group continues to cooperate with governmental and regulatory Statement also introduced a two year PPI deadline, due to expire authorities in relation to ongoing informal and formal inquiries or in August 2019, before which new PPI complaints must be made.
investigations regarding these and other matters.
Legal and RBS is implementing the Policy Statement.
The number of claims regulatory actions are subject to many uncertainties, and their received and the cost of the redress of such claims may outcomes, including the timing, amount of fines or settlements or materially exceed the Groups estimates and may entail the form of any settlements, which may be material, are often additional material provisions and reputational harm.
difficult to predict, particularly in the early stages of a case or investigation.
It is expected that the Group will continue to have a Settlements, resolutions and outcomes in relation to ongoing material exposure to legal and regulatory actions relating to legal or regulatory actions may result in material financial fines or legacy issues in the medium term.
penalties, non-monetary penalties, restrictions upon or revocation of regulatory permissions and licences and other collateral RMBS consequences and may prejudice both contractual and legal In the US, ongoing matters include certain matters relating to rights otherwise available to the Group.
The costs of resolving legacy RMBS activities including investigations by the US these legal and regulatory actions could individually or in Department of Justice DOJ and several state attorneys general aggregate prove to be substantial and monetary penalties and and various civil claims.
A further provision of $650 million 492 other outcomes could be materially in excess of provisions, if million was recorded by the Group in Q4 2017 in relation to any, made by the Group.
New provisions or increases in existing RBSs various RMBS investigations and litigation matters, taking provisions relating to existing or future legal or regulatory actions the total charge for the year to $971 million 714 million.
The may be substantial and may have a material adverse effect on total aggregate provision at 31 December 2017 was $4.4 billion the Groups financial condition and results of operations as well 3.2 billion.
The outcome of on-going claims against the Group may give rise to additional legal claims being asserted against the Group.
372 Additional information Risk factors continued See Implementation of the ring-fencing regime in the UK which Adverse outcomes or resolution of current or future legal or began in 2015 and must be completed before 1 January 2019 will regulatory actions could result in restrictions or limitations on the result in material structural changes to the Groups business.
The Groups operations, adversely impact the implementation of steps required to implement the UK ring-fencing regime are Groups current transformation programme as well as its capital complex and entail significant costs and operational, legal and position and its ability to meet regulatory capital adequacy execution risks, which risks may be exacerbated by the Groups requirements.
The remediation programmes or commitments other ongoing restructuring efforts.
The Group is concurrently which the Group has agreed to in connection with past seeking to implement the Alternative Remedies Package.
See settlements or investigations, could require significant financial The cost of implementing the Alternative Remedies Package costs and personnel investment for the Group and may result in regarding the business previously described as Williams & Glyn changes in its operations or product offerings, and failure to could be more onerous than anticipated and any failure to comply comply with undertakings made by the Group to its regulators with the terms of the Alternative Remedies Package could result may result in additional measures or penalties being taken in the imposition of additional measures or limitations on the against the Group.
The Group has been, and will remain, in a period of major Due to changes in the macro-economic and political and business transformation and structural change through to at regulatory environment in which it operates, in particular as a least 2019 as it implements its own transformation result of the UKs exit from the EU Brexit, the Group has been programme and seeks to comply with UK ring-fencing and required to reconsider certain aspects of its current restructuring recovery and resolution requirements as well as the and transformation programme.
In anticipation of Brexit the Alternative Remedies Package.
Additional structural Group has announced that it will be re-purposing its Dutch changes to the Groups operations will also be required as a subsidiary, The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. RBS N. V. for the result of Brexit.
These various transformation and NatWest Market franchises European business and further restructuring activities are required to occur concurrently, structural changes to Groups Western European operations may which carries significant execution and operational risks, also be required, including in response to proposed changes to and the Group may not be a viable, competitive and the European prudential regulatory framework for banks and profitable bank as a result.
These proposals may result in additional Since early 2015, the Group has been implementing a major prudential or structural requirements being imposed on financial restructuring and transformation programme, articulated around a institutions based outside the EU wishing to provide financial strategy focused on the growth of its strategic operations in services within the EU and may apply to the Group once the UK Personal & Business Banking PBB and Commercial & Private has formally exited the EU.
The ability of the RBS Group to Banking CPB and the further restructuring of the NatWest successfully re-purpose and utilise RBS N. V. as the platform for Markets franchise, to focus mainly on UK and Western European the NatWest Market franchises European business following corporate and financial institutions.
Brexit is subject to numerous uncertainties, including those relating to Brexit negotiations.
See The Group is subject to Part of the focus of this transformation programme is to downsize political risks, including economic, regulatory and political and simplify the Group, reduce underlying costs and strengthen uncertainty arising from the referendum on the UKs membership its overall capital position.
The transformation programme also of the European Union which could adversely impact the Groups aims to improve customer experience and employee business, results of operations, financial condition and engagement, update the Groups operational and technological prospects.
capabilities, strengthen governance and control frameworks and better position the Group to operate in compliance with the UK One proposal made by the European Commission would impose ring-fencing regime by 1 January 2019.
Together, these initiatives a requirement for any bank established outside the EU which has are referred to as the Groups transformation programme.
an asset base within the EU exceeding a certain size and has two or more institutions within the EU, to establish a single This transformation programme including the restructuring of its intermediate parent undertaking IPU in the European Union, NatWest Markets franchise, is being completed at the same time under which all EU entities within that group will operate.
The as the Group is going through a period of very significant Group is currently taking steps to plan for how these proposals, if structural reform to implement the requirements of the UK ringadopted as currently proposed, may impact the Group and its fencing regime and the requirements of the bank recovery and current plans to implement the UK ring-fencing regime which will resolution framework.
Alongside changes to help make the Group come into force on 1 January 2019 ahead of any IPU being resolvable specifically, regulatory requirements to ensure required.
The impact of these proposals could be material given operational continuity in resolution, ring-fencing also requires the expectation that banking entities both inside the ring-fence significant changes in how services are delivered between legal and outside of it would continue to carry out operations in the EU.
It is complex and entails significant This could result in organisational complexity, could require costs and operational, legal and execution risks.
material additional capital requirements and could have adverse tax implications.
The scale and scope of the changes currently being implemented present material operational, people and financial risks to the Group.
373 Additional information Risk factors continued These include, but are not limited to, market, regulatory, The Groups transformation programme and structural reform economic and political uncertainties, developments relating to agenda comprise a large number of concurrent actions and litigation, governmental actions and investigations and regulatory initiatives, any of which could fail to be implemented due to matters, operational risks, risks relating to the Groups business operational or execution issues.
Implementation of such actions model and strategy and delays or difficulties in implementing its and initiatives is expected to result in significant costs, which transformation programme, including the restructuring and could be materially higher than currently contemplated, including funding of its NatWest Markets franchise, the implementation of due to material uncertainties and factors outside of the Groups the UK ring-fencing regime, and compliance with the Groups control.
Furthermore it requires the implementation and Alternative Remedies Package obligations.
A number of factors application of robust governance and controls frameworks and may impact the Groups ability to maintain its current CET1 ratio there is no guarantee that the Group will be successful in doing target at 13% throughout the restructuring period, including so.
The planning and execution of the various restructuring and conduct related costs, pension or legacy charges, accounting transformation activities is disruptive and will continue to divert impairments, including as a result of the implementation of IFRS management resources from the conduct of the Groups 9, or limited organic capital generation through profits.
In addition, operations and development of its business.
Any additional the run-down of risk-weighted assets may be accompanied by restructuring or transformation of the Groups activities would the recognition of disposal losses which may be higher than increase these risks and could result in further material anticipated, including due to a degraded economic environment.
restructuring or transformation costs, jeopardise the delivery and implementation of a number of other significant change projects, The Groups ability to meet its cost:income ratio target and the impact the Groups product offering or business model or planned reductions in its annual underlying costs excluding adversely impact the Groups ability to deliver its strategy and restructuring and conduct-related charges may also be meet its targets and guidance, each of which could have a impacted.
In 2017, the Groups costs on an unadjusted basis take material adverse impact on the Groups results of operations, into account restructuring costs of 1,565 million, including costs financial condition and prospects.
relating Williams & Glyn and property exit costs of 221 million and 293 million, respectively, as well as litigation and conduct There can be no certainty that the Group will be able to costs of 1,285 million.
Such costs may vary considerably from successfully complete its transformation programme and year to year and may impact the Groups ability to maintain its programmes for mandatory structural reform nor that the 2020 cost reduction targets, and the focus on meeting cost restructured Group will be a viable, competitive or profitable reduction targets may result in limited investment in other areas banking business.
which could affect the Groups long-term product offering or competitive position.
The Groups ability to meet the targets and expectations which accompany the Groups transformation programme, More generally, the targets and expectations which accompany including with respect to its cost reduction programme and the Groups transformation programme are based on its return to profitability and the timing thereof, are subject management plans, projections and models and are subject to a to various internal and external risks and are based on a number of key assumptions and judgments any of which may number of key assumptions and judgments any of which prove to be inaccurate.
Among others, the targets and may prove to be inaccurate.
expectations set as part of the Groups transformation As part of its transformation programme, a number of financial, programme assume that the Group will be successful in capital, operational and diversity targets and expectations have implementing its business model and strategy, in executing its been set by management for the Group, both for the short term transformation programme and reducing the complexity of its and throughout the transformation and restructuring period.
business and infrastructure at the same time that it will be These include but are not limited to expectations relating to the implementing significant structural changes to comply with the Groups return to profitability and the timing thereof, one-off costs regulatory environment and that it will implement and maintain a incurred in connection with material litigation and conduct matters robust control environment and effective culture, including with and the timing thereof, expected growth rates in income, respect to risk management.
customer loans and advances and volumes and underlying drivers and trends, cost:income ratio targets, expectations with In addition, the plans to deliver a UK ring-fencing compliant respect to reductions in operating costs, including remediation structure across franchises and functions may impact the Groups costs, expectations relating to restructuring or transformation concurrent transformation programme, which could result in costs and charges as well as impairment charges, disposal delays to the transformation programme portfolio deliveries which losses, CET1 ratio targets and expectations regarding funding in turn could result in delayed benefits therefrom.
See The Group plans and requirements, expectations with respect to reductions has been, and will remain, in a period of major business in risk-weighted assets and the timing thereof, expectations with transformation and structural change through to at least 2019 as respect to employee engagement and diversity and it implements its own transformation programme and seeks to environmental targets.
comply with UK ring-fencing and recovery and resolution requirements as well as the Alternative Remedies Package.
The successful implementation of the Groups transformation Additional structural changes to the Groups operations will also programme and the Groups ability to meet associated targets be required as a result of Brexit.
These various transformation and expectations, are subject to various internal and external and restructuring activities are required to occur concurrently, factors and risks, including those described in this risk factor, the which carries significant execution and operational risks, and the other risk factors included in this section and the disclosure Group may not be a viable, competitive and profitable bank as a included in the rest of this document.
374 Additional information Risk factors continued The approval of the scheme by the Prudential Regulation As a result, there can be no certainty that the implementation of Authority PRA is expected to be confirmed shortly before that the Groups transformation programme will prove to be a hearing date.
If the scheme is duly approved by the Court at the successful strategy, that the Group will meet its targets and hearing expected to be held on 22 March 2018, it is expected that expectations during the restructuring period or that the the scheme will be implemented with effect from 30 April 2018 or restructured Group will be a viable, competitive or profitable any later date which the Group may agree with the PRA and the banking business.
It remains possible that the court process described above may result in amendments being Implementation of the ring-fencing regime in the UK which required to be made to the Groups current plan and that this may began in 2015 and must be completed before 1 January 2019 result in delays in the implementation of the UK ring-fencing will result in material structural changes to the Groups compliant structure, additional costs and or changes to the business.
The steps required to implement the UK ringGroups business.
fencing regime are complex and entail significant costs and operational, legal and execution risks, which risks may be In addition, during the second half of 2018, it is proposed that exacerbated by the Groups other ongoing restructuring NatWest Holdings Limited, being the parent of the future ringefforts.
fenced sub-group which together with other entities is intended The requirement for large UK banks taking deposits to ringto include National Westminster Bank Plc, Adam & Company fence retail banking operations was introduced under the UK PLC to be renamed The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Ulster Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013 the Banking Bank Ireland DAC, will become a direct subsidiary of RBSG.
Reform Act 2013 and adopted through secondary legislation This is expected to occur through a capital reduction of The the UK ring-fencing regime.
These reforms form part of a Royal Bank of Scotland plc to be renamed NatWest Markets broader range of structural reforms of the banking industry Plc, which will be satisfied by the transfer of the shares in seeking to improve the resilience and resolvability of banks and NatWest Holdings Limited currently held by of The Royal Bank of which range from structural reforms including ring-fencing to the Scotland plc to RBSG, which will occur via a further and separate implementation of a new recovery and resolution framework court process, which is subject to the relevant Court and which in the UK will incorporate elements of the ring-fencing regulatory approvals.
It is possible that the court process regime.
See The Group and its subsidiaries are subject to an described above may result in amendments being required to be evolving framework on recovery and resolution, the impact of made to the Groups current plan and that this may result in which remains uncertain, and which may result in additional delays in the implementation of the UK ring-fencing compliant compliance challenges and costs.
structure, additional costs and or changes to the Groups business.
By the end of 2018, the Group intends to have placed the majority of its UK banking business in ring-fenced banking During the course of 2018, it is proposed that the Group will seek entities organised as a sub-group RFB under an intermediate to implement a second, smaller ring-fencing transfer scheme as holding company named NatWest Holdings Limited, which will part of its strategy to implement its future ring-fencing compliant ultimately be a direct subsidiary of RBSG and will own National structure, which is proposed to transfer certain assets from Westminster Bank Plc, Adam & Company PLC to be renamed National Westminster Bank Plc to The Royal Bank of Scotland The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC plc by then renamed to NatWest Markets Plc.
As a result, National Westminster Bank Plc will no would be subject to the same reviews and approvals as longer be a subsidiary of the current The Royal Bank of Scotland described above in connection with the first scheme.
The current RBS plc and the RBS International businesses will sit outside the RFB.
As a result of the implementation of the changes described above, there will be a material impact on how the Group conducts As part of this restructuring, the majority of existing personal, its business and will require a significant legal and organisational private, business and commercial customers of RBS plc is restructuring of the Group and the transfer of large numbers of expected to be transferred to the RFB during the second quarter assets, liabilities, obligations, customers and employees between of 2018, specifically to Adam & Company PLC to be renamed legal entities and the realignment of employees within the Group.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Certain assets and liabilities including the covered bond programme, certain hedging The Groups final ring-fenced legal structure and the actions positions and parts of the liquid asset portfolio will also be being taken to achieve it, remain subject to, amongst other transferred to National Westminster Bank Plc.
At the same time, factors, additional regulatory, board and other approvals.
In RBS plc which will sit outside the RFB will be renamed NatWest particular, transfers of assets and liabilities by way of a RingMarkets Plc to bring its legal name in line with the rebranding of Fencing Transfer Scheme, as described above, must be the NatWest Markets franchise which was initiated in December reviewed and reported on by an Independent Skilled Person 2016, and will continue to operate the NatWest Markets franchise appointed by the Group with the prior approval of the PRA as a direct subsidiary of RBSG.
The transfer, as described having consulted with the FCA.
The reports of the Skilled above, will be effected principally by utilising a legal scheme Person are made public and form part of the court process entitled a Ring-Fencing Transfer Scheme under Part VII of the described above.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The implementation of such a scheme is subject to, amongst other considerations, The implementation of these changes involves a number of risks regulatory approval and the sanction of the Court of Session in related to both the revised Group structure and also the process Scotland, Edinburgh the Court.
A hearing to seek the Courts of transition to such new structure.
approval of the scheme is expected to be held on 22 March 2018.
375 Additional information Risk factors continued Those risks include the following: From 2026 it will not be possible for the Group entities As a result of ring-fencing, certain customers will be moved outside the RFB to participate in the same defined benefit to the RFB and certain customers will be required to deal pension scheme as RFB entities or their wholly-owned with both the RFB and other Group entities outside the RFB subsidiaries.
As a result, it will be necessary to restructure to obtain the full range of products and services or to take the Groups defined benefit pension scheme including The any affirmative steps in connection with the reorganisation.
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund Main The Group is unable to predict how some customers may scheme.
This restructuring will be such that either the RFB react to these and other required changes.
or other Group outside the RFB leave the current scheme.
As part of the establishment of the RFB, the RFB will need The costs of separation may be material and may trigger to operate independently from the other Group entities certain legal and regulatory obligations including possibly outside the RFB and as a result, amendments will need to increased contributions.
Such restructuring may be made to the Groups existing corporate governance also result in additional or increased cash contributions in structure to ensure the RFB is independent from the other the event the pension trustees determine that the employer Group entities outside the RFB.
This new structure, which covenant has been weakened as a result of such will also require the approval of the PRA, may result in separation.
See The Group is subject to pension risks and divergences between the various governance bodies within will be required to make additional contributions as a result the Group and create operational challenges.
of the restructuring of its pension schemes in relation to the In order to comply with the requirements of the UK ringimplementation of the UK ring-fencing regime.
In addition, fencing regime, the Group will need to revise its operations the Group expects to make additional contributions to cover infrastructure so as to comply with the shared services, pension funding deficits if there are degraded economic independence and resolvability requirements set out in the conditions or if there is any devaluation in the asset portfolio UK ring-fencing legislation and rules, including in areas such held by the pension trustee.
as information technology IT infrastructure, human The restructuring and planned transfers may also result in resources and critical service providers which may involve accounting consequences for the Group.
Although a number associated execution risk and may result in increased costs.
of transfers will be made at book value between fully owned Arrangements between the RFB and other Group entities Group entities, certain transfers will be made at fair value outside the RFB will also need to be reviewed in light of which may result in a profit or loss being recognised by these requirements and the requirement that all such Group entities.
In addition, transfers of assets that have transactions take place on an arms-length basis.
Any related hedging arrangements may result in adverse duplication of certain infrastructure or functions between the operational, financial or accounting consequences if the RFB and other Group entities outside the RFB that are transfer is not consistent with the unaffected continuation of required to comply with the UK ring-fencing legislation and such hedging arrangements.
rules and dis-synergies resulting therefrom may in turn In addition, the proposed transfers may have tax costs, or result in additional costs and or changes to the Groups may impact the tax attributes of the RFB or other Group business and operations entities outside the RFB and the ability to transfer tax The implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime will losses.
significantly impact the management of the Groups treasury operations, including internal and external funding The steps required to implement the UK ring-fencing regime arrangements.
The changes required may adversely impact within the Group to comply with the relevant rules and regulations the assessment made by credit rating agencies, creditors are complex and require an extended period of time to plan, and other stakeholders of the credit strength of the different execute and implement and entail significant costs and entities on a standalone basis and may heighten the cost of operational, legal and execution risks, which risks may be capital and funding for the Group and its subsidiaries.
The exacerbated by the Groups other ongoing restructuring efforts.
ability of bank entities outside the RFB to meet funding and External or internal factors including new and developing legal capital prudential requirements may be dependent on requirements relating to the regulatory framework for the banking obtaining an adequate credit rating.
Once the UK ringindustry and the evolving regulatory and economic landscape fencing regime is implemented, reliance on intragroup resulting from Brexit, as well as further political developments or exemptions in relation to large exposures and liquidity will changes to the Groups current strategy, may require the Group not be possible between the RFB and other Group entities to further restructure its operations including certain operations and may result in risk-weighted assets inflation.
in the UK and Western Europe and may in turn require further changes to be made to the Groups ring-fencing plans including the planned structure of the Group post implementation.
376 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group is currently implementing a number of complex The completion of ring-fencing will substantially reconfigure the change initiatives, including its transformation programme, the way RBSG holds its businesses and the legal entities within the UK ring-fencing regime and the restructuring of the NatWest Group.
There is no certainty that the Group will be able to Markets franchise.
A failure to safely and timely implement one complete the legal restructuring and migration of customers or several of these initiatives could lead to disruptions of the assets and liabilities by the 1 January 2019 deadline or in Groups IT infrastructure or loss or publication of confidential accordance with future rules and the consequences of noncustomer data and in turn could cause long-term damage to the compliance are currently uncertain.
Groups reputation, brands, results of operations and financial position.
Conducting the Groups operations in accordance with the new rules may result in additional costs transitional and recurring In addition, recent or future regulatory changes, such as the EU following implementation and impact the Groups profitability.
As General Data Protection Regulation and the CMAs Open a result, the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime could Banking standard, increase the risks relating to the Groups have a material adverse effect on the Groups reputation, results ability to comply with rules that impact its IT infrastructure.
Any of operations, financial condition and prospects.
non-compliance with such regulations could result in regulatory proceedings or the imposition of fines or penalties and The Groups operations are highly dependent on its IT consequently could have a material adverse effect on the systems.
A failure of the Groups IT systems, including as a Groups business, reputation, financial condition and future result of the lack of or untimely investments, could prospects.
adversely affect its operations, competitive position and investor and customer confidence and expose the Group to The Group has made, and will continue to make, considerable regulatory sanctions.
investments in its IT systems and technology to further simplify, The Groups operations are dependent on the ability to process a upgrade and improve its capabilities to make them more costvery large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while effective and improve controls, procedures, strengthen cyber complying with applicable laws and regulations where it does security defences, enhance the digital services provided to its business.
The proper functioning of the Groups payment bank customers and improve its competitive position, which is systems, financial and sanctions controls, risk management, also designed to reduce the potential for system failures which credit analysis and reporting, accounting, customer service and adversely affect its relationship with its customers and reputation, other IT systems, as well as the communication networks which may lead to regulatory investigations and redress.
between its branches and main data processing centres, are However, the Groups current focus on cost-saving measures, as critical to the Groups operations.
part of its transformation programme, may impact the resources available to implement further improvements to the Group IT The vulnerabilities of the Groups IT systems are in part due to infrastructure and technology or limit the resources available for their complexity, which is attributable to overlapping multiple investments in technological developments and or innovation.
dated systems that result from the Groups historical acquisitions Should such investment and rationalisation initiatives fail to and insufficient investment prior to 2013 to keep the IT achieve the expected results, or prove to be insufficient, it could applications and infrastructure up-to-date.
Within a complex IT have a material adverse impact on the Groups operations, its estate, the risk of disruption due to end-of-life hardware and ability to retain or grow its customer business or its competitive software may create challenges in recovering from system position and could negatively impact the Groups financial breakdowns.
In 2017, the Group made progress to remediate or position.
replace out of date systems, reducing the overall risk of disruption.
However, some risk remains, and will require The Group is exposed to cyberattacks and a failure to continued focus and investment on an on-going basis to limit any prevent or defend against such attacks and provide, as IT failures which may adversely affect the Groups relationship appropriate, notification of them, could have a material with its customers and its reputation, and which may also lead to adverse effect on the Groups operations, results of regulatory investigations and redress.
The Groups regulators in the UK, continue to actively monitor The Group is subject to regular cybersecurity attacks and related progress being made by banks in the UK to modernise, manage threats, which have targeted financial institutions, corporates, and secure their IT infrastructure and environment, in order to governments and other institutions across all industries.
The prevent future failures affecting customers.
Any critical system Group is increasingly reliant on technology which is vulnerable to failure, any prolonged loss of service availability or any material attacks, and these attacks continue to increase in frequency, breach of data security could cause serious damage to the sophistication and severity and could have a material adverse Groups ability to provide service to its customers, which could effect on the Groups operations, customers and reputation.
The result in significant compensation costs or fines resulting from Group relies on the effectiveness of its internal policies, controls, regulatory investigations and could breach regulations under procedures and capabilities to protect the confidentiality, integrity which the Group operates.
and availability of information held on its computer systems, networks and devices, and also on the computer systems, In particular, failures or breaches resulting in the loss or networks and devices of third parties with whom the Group publication of confidential customer data could cause long-term interacts.
damage to the Groups reputation, business and brands, which could undermine its ability to attract and keep customers.
377 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group is subject to political risks, including economic, The Group takes appropriate measures to prevent, detect and regulatory and political uncertainty arising from the minimise attacks that could disrupt the delivery of critical referendum on the UKs membership of the European Union business processes to its customers.
Because financial which could adversely impact the Groups business, results institutions such as the Group operate with complex legacy of operations, financial condition and prospects.
infrastructure, they may be even more susceptible to attack due In a referendum held in the UK on 23 June 2016 the EU to the increased number of potential entry points and Referendum, a majority voted for the UK to leave the European weaknesses.
In addition, the increasing sophistication of cyber Union EU.
On 29 March 2017 the UK Government triggered criminals may increase the risk of a security breach of the the exit process contemplated under Article 50 of the Treaty on Groups systems and as security threats continue to evolve the European Union.
This provides for a maximum two year period of Groups may be required to invest additional resources to modify negotiation to determine the terms of Brexit and set the the security of its systems, which could have a material adverse framework for the UKs new relationship with the EU.
After this effect on the Groups results of operations.
period its EU membership and all associated treaties will cease to apply, unless some form of transitional agreement Failure to protect the Groups operations from cyberattacks or to encompassing those associated treaties is agreed or there is continuously review and update current processes and controls in unanimous agreement by the European Council with the UK to response to new or existing threats could result in the loss of extend the negotiation period defined under Article 50.
There is customer data or other sensitive information as well as instances no certainty that negotiations relating to the terms of the UKs of denial of service for the Groups customers and staff.
The relationship with the EU will be completed within the two-year Groups systems, and those of third parties suppliers, are often period designated by Article 50.
Such negotiations may well subject to cyberattacks which have to date been immaterial to the extend beyond 29 March 2019, into any transitional period, the Groups operations.
In 2017, the Group experienced 11 terms and duration of which are currently uncertain.
Furthermore, distributed denial of service DDOS attacks against customerthe government has introduced the European Union Withdrawal facing websites, one of which caused minimal customer impacts Bill the Withdrawal Bill to the UK Parliament, which aims to for a short period of time.
This represents a decrease from 26 repeal the European Communities Act of 1972 and to transpose attacks against the Group in 2016, but a recent surge of activity EU law relevant to the UK into national law upon the UKs exit in the fourth quarter of 2017 points towards an increasing trend of from the EU.
However, the precise terms of the Withdrawal Bill, if such attacks into 2018.
The Groups DDOS mitigation controls enacted by the UK Parliament, are uncertain and it remains have recently been strengthened and will continue to be unclear how the Withdrawal Bill will impact the legal and strengthened further in 2018.
However, there can be no regulatory landscape in the UK after it becomes effective.
In assurance that those and the Groups other strategies to defend addition, it is possible although of low likelihood that a disorderly against cyberattacks, including future DDOS attacks, will be termination of the Article 50 process could occur, resulting in the successful and avoid the potential adverse effects of UK leaving the EU before 29 March 2019.
The consequences of cyberattacks on the Group.
such an early termination of the Article 50 process are uncertain and adverse impacts could crystallise rapidly should this occur.
The Bank of England, the FCA and HM Treasury in the UK and regulators in the US and in Europe continue to recognise This prevailing uncertainty relates to the timing of Brexit, as well cybersecurity as a systemic risk to the financial sector and have as to the negotiation and form of the UKs relationships with the highlighted the need for financial institutions to improve resilience EU, with other multilateral organisations and with individual to cyberattacks and provide timely notification of them, as countries at the time of exit and beyond.
The timing of, and appropriate.
The Group expects greater regulatory engagement, process for, such negotiations and the resulting terms of the UKs supervision and enforcement on cybersecurity in the future.
The future economic, trading and legal relationships with both the EU Group continues to participate in initiatives led by the Bank of and other counterparties could impact the Groups financial England and other regulators designed to share best practice and condition, results of operations and prospects.
The direct and to test how major firms respond to significant cyberattacks.
The indirect effects of Brexit are expected to affect many aspects of outputs of this collaboration along with other regulatory and the Groups business and operating environment, including as industry-led initiatives are continually incorporated into the described elsewhere in these risk factors, and may be material.
Groups on-going IT priorities and improvement measures.
However, the Group continues to expect to be targeted regularly The longer term effects of Brexit on the Groups operating in the future but there can be no certainty that the Group will not environment are difficult to predict, and subject to wider global be materially impacted by a future attack.
macro-economic trends and events, but may significantly impact the Group and its customers and counterparties who are Any failure in the Groups cybersecurity policies, procedures or themselves dependent on trading with the EU or personnel from controls, could lead to the Group suffering financial losses, the EU and may result in periodic financial volatility and slower reputational damage, a loss of customers, additional costs economic growth, in the UK in particular, but also in Republic of including costs of notification of consumers, credit monitoring or Ireland, Europe and potentially the global economy.
Until the card reissuance, regulatory investigations or sanctions being bilateral and multilateral trading and economic relationships imposed and could have a material adverse effect on the Groups between the UK, the EU, members of the World Trade results of operations, financial condition or future prospects.
Organisation and other key trading partners are agreed, implemented and settled, the longer-term effects of this uncertainty are likely to endure and their severity increase in the absence of such agreements.
378 Additional information Risk factors continued In addition to the political risks described above, the Group There is related uncertainty as to the respective legal and remains exposed to risks arising out of geopolitical events, such regulatory arrangements under which the Group and its as the imposition of trade barriers, the implementation of subsidiaries will operate when the UK is no longer a member of exchange controls and other measures taken by sovereign the EU.
The Group and its counterparties may no longer be able governments that can hinder economic or financial activity levels.
to rely on the EU passporting framework for financial services Furthermore, unfavourable domestic or international political, and could be required to apply for authorisation in multiple military or diplomatic events, armed conflict, pandemics and jurisdictions in the EU.
The cost and timing of that authorisation terrorist acts and threats, and the response to them by the UK process is uncertain.
The Group has already announced plans to and other governments could also adversely affect levels of re-purpose its Dutch banking subsidiary, RBS N. V. to conduct economic activity and have an adverse effect upon the Groups the NatWest Market franchises European business and further business, financial condition and results of operations.
changes to the Groups business operations may be required.
The Group is also monitoring proposed amendments to the The Group is subject to pension risks and will be required to prudential framework for non-EU banks operating within in the make additional contributions as a result of the restructuring EU.
of its pension schemes in relation to the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime.
In addition, the Group expects These and any other restructuring or commercial actions as well to make additional contributions to cover pension funding as new or amended rules, could have a significant impact on the deficits if there are degraded economic conditions or if there Groups operations and or legal entity structure, including is any devaluation in the asset portfolio held by the pension attendant restructuring costs, capital requirements and tax trustee.
implications and as a result adversely impact the Groups The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension profitability, business model and product offering.
These impacts schemes for certain former and current employees.
The UK ringwould potentially be greater in the event of a disorderly fencing regime will require significant changes to the structure of termination of the Article 50 process and early Brexit.
See The the Groups existing defined benefit pension schemes because, Group has been, and will remain, in a period of major business from 2026 it will not be possible for Group entities outside the transformation and structural change through to at least 2019 as RFB to participate in the same defined benefit pension scheme it implements its own transformation programme and seeks to as RFB entities or their wholly-owned subsidiaries.
As a result, comply with UK ring-fencing and recovery and resolution RFB cannot be liable for debts to pension schemes that might requirements as well as the Alternative Remedies Package.
arise as a result of the failure of an entity that is not a RFB entity Additional structural changes to the Groups operations will also or wholly owned subsidiary thereof after 1 January 2026.
The be required as a result of Brexit.
These various transformation restructuring of the Group and its defined benefit pension scheme and restructuring activities are required to occur concurrently to implement the UK ring-fencing regime could also affect which carries significant execution and operational risks, and the assessments of the Groups pension scheme deficits or result in Group may not be a viable, competitive and profitable bank as a the pension scheme trustees considering that the employer result.
covenant has been weakened and result in further additional material contributions being required.
The Group faces additional political uncertainty as to how the Scottish parliamentary process may impact the negotiations The Group is developing a strategy to meet these requirements.
RBSG, RBS plc and one of the future post ringThis will require the agreement of the pension scheme trustee.
fencing principal operating companies, Adam & Company PLC, The Groups intention is for the Main scheme to be supported by are all headquartered and incorporated in Scotland.
Discussions with the pension scheme trustee are changes to Scotlands relationship with the UK or the EU as an ongoing and will be influenced by the Groups overall ring-fence indirect result of Brexit or other developments would impact the strategy and its pension funding and investment strategies.
environment in which the Group and its subsidiaries operate, and may require further changes to be made to the Groups structure, If agreement is not reached with the pension trustee, alternative independently or in conjunction with other mandatory or strategic options less favourable to the Group may need to be developed structural and organisational changes and as a result could to meet the requirements of the pension regulations.
The costs adversely impact the Group.
associated with the restructuring of the Groups existing defined benefit pension schemes could be material and could result in The Group is currently subject to increased political risks as a higher levels of additional contributions than those described result of the UK Governments majority ownership stake in the above and currently agreed with the pension trustee which could Group.
The UK Government in its November 2017 Autumn have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of Budget indicated its intention to recommence the process for the operations, financial position and prospects.
privatisation of RBSG before the end of 2018-2019, although there can be no certainty as to the commencement of any sellPension risk also includes the risk that the assets of the Groups downs or the timing or extent thereof.
See HM Treasury or various defined benefit pension schemes do not fully match the UKFI on its behalf may be able to exercise a significant degree timing and amount of the schemes liabilities, as a result of which of influence over the Group and any further offer or sale of its the Group is required or chooses to make additional contributions interests may affect the price of securities issued by the Group.
to address deficits that may emerge.
Were there to be a change of UK government as a result of a general election, the Group may face new risks as a result of a change in government policy.
In its 2017 manifesto, for example, the Labour Party announced its intention to launch a consultation on breaking up the Group to create new local public banks.
379 Additional information Risk factors continued Pension risk and changes to the Groups funding of its Risk arises from the schemes because the value of the asset pension schemes may have a significant impact on the portfolios may be less than expected, or may have reduced in Groups regulatory capital position or its capital plan.
value relative to the pension liabilities it supports, and because The Groups capital position is influenced by pension risk in there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated several respects: Pillar 1 capital is impacted by the requirement value of the schemes liabilities and additional future contributions that net pension assets are deducted from capital and that to the schemes may be required.
Pension regulations may also actuarial gains losses impact reserves and, by extension, CET1 change in a manner adverse to the Group.
capital: Pillar 2A requirements result in the Group being required to carry a capital add-on to absorb stress on the pension fund: The value of pension scheme liabilities varies with changes to and finally, the risk of additional contributions to the Groups long-term interest rates including prolonged periods of low pension fund and investment risk associated with the pension interest rates as is currently the case, inflation, monetary policy, fund is taken into account in the Groups capital plan and include pensionable salaries and the longevity of scheme members, as additions to its capital management buffer to cater for certain well as changes in applicable legislation.
In addition, as the Group expects to continue to materially reduce The Group believes that the accelerated payment to the Groups the scope of its operations as part of the implementation of its Main scheme pension fund made in the first quarter of 2016 transformation programme and of the UK ring-fencing regime, improved the Groups capital planning and resilience through the pension liabilities will therefore increase relative to the size of the period to 2019 and provided the Main scheme pension trustee Group, which may impact the Groups results of operations and with more flexibility over its investment strategy.
This payment has capital position.
resulted in a reduction in prevailing Pillar 2A add-on.
However, subsequent contributions required in connection with the 2018 Given economic and financial market difficulties and volatility, the triennial valuation, or otherwise, may adversely impact the low interest rate environment and the risk that such conditions Groups capital position.
may occur again over the near and medium term, some of the Groups pension schemes have experienced increased pension As the Group is unable to recognise any accounting surplus due deficits.
to constraints under IFRIC14, any contributions made which increase the accounting surplus, or contributions committed to The last triennial valuation of the Main scheme, had an effective which would increase the accounting surplus when paid, would date of 31 December 2015.
This valuation was concluded with have a corresponding negative impact on the Groups capital the acceleration of the nominal value of all committed position.
contributions in respect of past service 4.2 billion, which was paid in the first quarter of 2016.
As a result, if any of these assumptions prove inaccurate, or if the Group does not hold adequate capital in its management buffer The next triennial period valuation will take place in the fourth to cover market risk in the pension fund in a stressed scenario, quarter of 2018 and the Main scheme pension trustee agreed the Groups capital position may significantly deteriorate and fall that it would not seek a new valuation prior to that date, except below the minimum capital requirements applicable to the Group where a material change arises.
The 2018 triennial valuation is or Group entities, and in turn result in increased regulatory expected to result in a significant increase in the regular annual supervision or sanctions, restrictions on discretionary contributions in respect of the ongoing accrual of benefits.
distributions or loss of investor confidence, which could Notwithstanding the 2016 accelerated payment and any individually or in aggregate have a material adverse effect on the additional contributions that may be required beforehand as a Groups results of operations, financial prospects or reputation.
result of a material change, the Group expects to have to agree to additional contributions, over and above the existing committed The impact of the Groups pension obligations on its results and past service contributions, as a result of the next triennial operations are also dependent on the regulatory environment in valuation.
Under current legislation, such agreement would need which it operates.
There is a risk that changes in prudential to be reached no later than the first quarter of 2020.
The cost of regulation, pension regulation and accounting standards, or a such additional contributions could be material and any additional lack of coordination between such sets of rules, may make it contributions that are committed to the Main scheme following more challenging for the Group to manage its pension obligations new actuarial valuations would trigger the recognition of a resulting in an adverse impact on the Groups CET1 capital.
significant additional liability on the Groups balance sheet and or an increase in any pension surplus derecognised, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial position and prospects.
380 Additional information Risk factors continued If the Group is unable to offer competitive, attractive and The Groups business and results of operations may be innovative products that are also profitable, it will lose market adversely affected by increasing competitive pressures and share, incur losses on some or all of its activities and lose technology disruption in the markets in which it operates.
The markets for UK financial services, and the other markets within which the Group operates, are very competitive, and For example, companies in the financial services industry are management expects such competition to continue or intensify in increasingly using artificial intelligence and or automated response to customer behaviour, technological changes processes to enhance their output and performance.
As part of including the growth of digital banking, competitor behaviour, this broader trend, the Group is in the early stages of automating new entrants to the market including non-traditional financial certain of its solutions and interactions within its customer-facing services providers such as large retail or technology businesses.
Such developments may result in unintended conglomerates, new lending models such as peer-to-peer consequences or conduct risk for the Group if such new lending, industry trends resulting in increased disaggregation or processes, including the algorithms used, are not carefully tested unbundling of financial services or conversely the reand integrated into the Groups current solutions.
In addition to intermediation of traditional banking services, and the impact of such reputational risks, the development of automated solutions regulatory actions and other factors.
In particular, developments will require investment in technology and will likely result in in the financial sector resulting from new banking, lending and increased costs for the Group.
payment solutions offered by rapidly evolving incumbents, challengers and new entrants, in particular with respect to In addition, recent and future disposals and restructurings by the payment services and products, and the introduction of disruptive Group relating to the implementation of non-customer facing technology may impede the Groups ability to grow or retain its elements of its transformation programme and the UK ringmarket share and impact its revenues and profitability, fencing regime, or required by the Groups regulators, as well as particularly in its key UK retail banking segment.
constraints imposed on the Groups ability to compensate its employees at the same level as its competitors, may also have These trends may be catalysed by various regulatory and an impact on its ability to compete effectively.
competition policy interventions, particularly as a result of the Open Banking initiative and other remedies imposed by the Intensified competition from incumbents, challengers and new Competition and Markets Authority CMA which are designed to entrants in the Groups core markets could lead to greater further promote competition within retail banking.
pressure on the Group to maintain returns and may lead to unsustainable growth decisions.
These and other changes in the Increasingly many of the products and services offered by the Groups competitive environment could have a material adverse Group are, and will become, technology intensive and the effect on the Groups business, margins, profitability, financial Groups ability to develop such services has become increasingly condition and prospects.
important to retaining and growing the Groups customer business in the UK.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups businesses and these risks are heightened as the Group implements its There can be no certainty that the Groups investment in its IT transformation programme, including significant cost capability intended to address the material increase in customer reductions, the UK ring-fencing regime and implementation use of online and mobile technology for banking will be of the Alternative Remedies Package against the backdrop successful or that it will allow the Group to continue to grow such of legal and regulatory changes.
Certain of the Groups current or future Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or competitors may have more efficient operations, including better failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external IT systems allowing them to implement innovative technologies events, including legal risks.
The Group has complex and diverse for delivering services to their customers.
Furthermore, the operations and operational risks or losses can result from a Groups competitors may be better able to attract and retain number of internal or external factors, including: customers and key employees and may have access to lower internal and external fraud and theft from the Group, cost funding and or be able to attract deposits on more including cybercrime: favourable terms than the Group.
Although the Group invests in compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of new technologies and participates in industry and research led the Groups data, systems and services: initiatives aimed at developing new technologies, such failure to identify or maintain the Groups key data within the investments may be insufficient, especially given the Groups limits of the Groups agreed risk appetite: focus on its cost savings targets, which may limit additional failure to provide adequate data, or the inability to correctly investment in areas such as financial innovation and therefore interpret poor quality data: could affect the Groups offering of innovative products and its failure of the Groups technology services due to loss of competitive position.
The Group may also fail to identify future data, systems or data centre failure as a result of the opportunities or derive benefits from disruptive technologies in Groups actions or those actions outside the Groups control, the context of rapid technological innovation, changing customer or failure by third parties to restore services: behaviour and growing regulatory demands, including the UK failure to appropriately or accurately manage the Groups initiative on Open Banking PSD2, resulting in increased operations, transactions or security: competition from both traditional banking businesses as well as incorrect specification of models used by the Group or new providers of financial services, including technology implementing or using such models incorrectly: companies with strong brand recognition, that may be able to failure to effectively design, execute or deliver the Groups develop financial services at a lower cost base.
transformation programme: 381 Additional information Risk factors continued A shortage of capital, which could in turn affect the Groups failure to attract, retain or engage staff: capital ratio and ability to resume dividend payments, could arise insufficient resources to deliver change and business-asfrom: usual activity: a depletion of the Groups capital resources through decreasing employee engagement or failure by the Group to increased costs or liabilities including pension, conduct and embed new ways of working and values: or litigation costs, reduced profits or increased losses which incomplete, inaccurate or untimely statutory, regulatory or would in turn impact retained earnings, sustained periods of management reporting.
low or lower interest rates, reduced asset values resulting in Operational risks are and will continue to be heightened as a write-downs, impairments or accounting charges: result of the number of initiatives being concurrently implemented reduced upstreaming of dividends from the Groups by the Group, in particular the implementation of its subsidiaries as a result of the Bank of Englands approach transformation programme, including its cost-reduction to setting the minimum requirements for own funds and programme, the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime eligible liabilities MREL within groups, requiring suband implementation of the Alternative Remedies Package.
groups to hold internal MREL resources sufficient to match Individually, these initiatives carry significant execution and both their own individual MREL as well as the internal MREL delivery risk and such risks are heightened as their of the subsidiaries constituting the sub-group: implementation is often highly correlated and dependent on the an increase in the amount of capital that is required to meet successful implementation of interdependent initiatives.
These the Groups regulatory requirements, including as a result of initiatives are being delivered against the backdrop of ongoing changes to the actual level of risk faced by the Group, cost challenges and increasing legal and regulatory uncertainty factors influencing the Groups regulators determination of and will put significant pressure on the Groups ability to maintain the firm-specific Pillar 2B buffer applicable to the Group effective internal controls and governance frameworks.
Although PRA buffer, changes in the minimum levels of capital or the Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation liquidity required by legislation or by the regulatory actions and significant resources and planning have been authorities or the calibration of capital or leverage buffers devoted to mitigate operational risk, it is not possible to be certain applicable to the Group, including countercyclical buffers, that such actions have been or will be effective in controlling each increases in risk-weighted assets or in the risk weighting of of the operational risks faced by the Group.
Ineffective existing asset classes, or an increase in the Groups view of management of such risks could have a material adverse effect any management buffer it needs, taking account of, for on the Groups business, financial condition and results of example, the capital levels or capital targets of the Groups operations.
peer banks and criteria set by the credit rating agencies: the implementation of the Groups transformation The Groups business performance and financial position programme, including in response to implementation of the could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed UK ring-fencing regime, certain intragroup funding effectively or if it is unable to meet its prudential regulatory arrangements will be limited and may no longer be permitted requirements, or if it is deemed prudent to increase the and the Group may need to increasingly manage funding amount of any management buffer that it requires.
Effective and liquidity at an individual Group entity level, which could management of the Groups capital is critical to its ability to result in the Group being required to maintain higher levels operate its businesses, comply with its regulatory of capital in order to meet the Groups regulatory obligations, pursue its transformation programme and requirements than would otherwise be the case, as may be current strategies, resume dividend payments on its the case if the Bank of England were to identify impediments ordinary shares, maintain discretionary payments and to the Groups resolvability resulting from new funding and pursue its strategic opportunities.
The Group is required by regulators in the UK, the EU and other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain The Groups current capital strategy is based on the expected adequate capital resources.
Adequate capital also gives the accumulation of additional capital through the accrual of profits Group financial flexibility in the face of continuing turbulence and over time and or through the planned reduction of its riskuncertainty in the global economy and specifically in its core UK weighted assets through disposals, natural attrition and other and European markets.
The Group currently targets a CET1 ratio at or above 13% Further losses or a failure to meet profitability targets or reduce throughout the period until completion of its restructuring.
On a risk-weighted assets in accordance with or within the timeline fully loaded basis, the Groups CET1 ratio was 15.9% at 31 contemplated by the Groups capital plan, a depletion of its December 2017, compared with 13.4% at 31 December 2016. capital resources, earnings and capital volatility resulting from the implementation of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018, or an increase in The Groups target capital ratio is based on its expected the amount of capital it needs to hold including as a result of the regulatory requirements and internal modelling, including stress reasons described above, would adversely impact the Groups scenarios.
However, the Groups ability to achieve such targets ability to meet its capital targets or requirements and achieve its depends on a number of factors, including the implementation of capital strategy during the restructuring period.
its transformation programme and any of the factors described below.
382 Additional information Risk factors continued As a result of these and other restructuring changes that could If the Group is determined to have a shortage of capital, including result in the Groups need to manage funding and liquidity at an as a result of any of the circumstances described above, the individual entity level, the Group may be required to maintain Group may suffer a loss of confidence in the market with the higher levels of funding and liquidity than would otherwise be the result that access to liquidity and funding may become case.
constrained or more expensive or may result in the Group being subject to regulatory interventions and sanctions.
The Groups The Group relies on retail and wholesale deposits to meet a regulators may also request that the Group carry out certain considerable portion of its funding.
The level of deposits may capital management actions or, in an extreme scenario, this may fluctuate due to factors outside the Groups control, such as a also trigger the implementation of its recovery plans.
Such loss of confidence including in individual Group entities, actions may, in turn, affect, among other things, the Groups increasing competitive pressures for retail customer deposits or product offering, ability to operate its businesses, comply with its the repatriation of deposits by foreign wholesale depositors, regulatory obligations, pursue its transformation programme and which could result in a significant outflow of deposits within a current strategies, resume dividend payments on its ordinary short period of time.
shares, maintain discretionary payments on capital instruments and pursue strategic opportunities, affecting the underlying An inability to grow, or any material decrease in, the Groups profitability of the Group and future growth potential.
deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the other factors described above, have a material adverse impact on the If, in response to such shortage, certain regulatory capital Groups ability to satisfy its liquidity needs.
Increases in the cost instruments are converted into equity or the Group raises of retail deposit funding may impact the Groups margins and additional capital through the issuance of share capital or profitability.
regulatory capital instruments, existing shareholders may experience a dilution of their holdings.
The success of such The market view of bank credit risk has changed radically as a issuances will also be dependent on favourable market result of the financial crisis and banks perceived by the market to conditions and the Group may not be able to raise the amount of be riskier have had to issue debt at significantly higher costs.
capital required or on satisfactory terms.
Separately, the Group Although conditions have improved, there have been recent may address a shortage of capital by taking action to reduce periods where corporate and financial institution counterparties leverage and or risk-weighted assets, by modifying the Groups have reduced their credit exposures to banks and other financial legal entity structure or by asset or business disposals.
Such institutions, limiting the availability of these sources of funding.
actions may affect the underlying profitability of the Group.
Rules currently proposed by the Financial Stability Board FSB and in the EU in relation to the implementation of total lossRBSG and the Group entities ability to meet their absorbing capacity TLAC and MREL may also limit the ability obligations, including funding commitments, depends on of certain large financial institutions to hold debt instruments their ability to access sources of liquidity and funding.
If the issued by other large financial institutions.
The ability of the Bank Group or any Group entity is unable to raise funds through of England to resolve the Group in an orderly manner may also deposits and or in the capital markets, its liquidity position increase investors perception of risk and hence affect the could be adversely affected which may require availability and cost of funding for the Group.
Any uncertainty unencumbered assets to be liquidated or it may result in relating to the credit risk of financial institutions may lead to higher funding costs which may impact the Groups margins reductions in levels of interbank lending or may restrict the and profitability.
Groups access to traditional sources of funding or increase the Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its costs or collateral requirements for accessing such funding.
obligations, including funding commitments, as they fall due.
This risk is inherent in banking operations and can be heightened by a The implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime may impact number of factors, including an over-reliance on a particular the Groups funding strategy and the cost of funding may source of wholesale funding including, for example, short-term increase for certain Group entities which will be required to and overnight funding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide manage their own funding and liquidity strategy, in particular phenomena such as market dislocation and major disasters.
those entities outside the ring-fence which will no longer be able to rely on retail deposit funding.
The Groups funding may also be impacted at the Group entity level as a result of ongoing restructuring efforts and strategy In addition, the Group is subject to certain regulatory planning, including in response to implementation of the UK ringrequirements with respect to liquidity coverage, including a fencing regime, planning around Brexit and the implementation of liquidity coverage ratio set by the PRA in the UK.
This the Alternative Remedies Package, amongst others.
For requirement was phased in at 90% from 1 January 2017 and example, where the Groups funding strategy depends on increased to 100% in January 2018 as required by the Capital intragroup funding arrangements between Group entities, as a Requirements Regulation.
The PRA may also impose additional result of the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime, such liquidity requirements to reflect risks not captured in the leverage arrangements will be limited and may no longer be permitted if coverage ratio by way of Pillar 2 add-ons, which may increase they are provided between RFB and entities outside the RFB and or decrease from time to time and require the Group to and, as a result, the cost of funding may increase for certain obtain additional funding or diversify its sources of funding.
Group entities, which will be required to manage their own Current proposals by the FSB and the European Commission funding and liquidity strategy.
also seek to introduce certain liquidity requirements for financial institutions, including the introduction of a net stable funding ratio NSFR.
383 Additional information Risk factors continued CRD IV also introduced a number of new capital buffers that are Under the European Commission November 2016 proposals, the in addition to the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements as described NSFR would be calculated as the ratio of an institutions available below that must be met with CET1 capital.
The combination of stable funding relative to the required stable funding it needs over the capital conservation buffer which, subject to transitional a one-year horizon.
provisions, will be set at 2.5% from 2019, the countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% which is currently set at 1.0%, with The NSFR would be expressed as a percentage and set at a binding effect from 28 November 2018 by the FPC for UK banks minimum level of 100%, which indicates that an institution holds and the higher of depending on the institution the systemic risk sufficient stable funding to meet its funding needs during a onebuffer, the global systemically important institutions buffer G-SIB year period under both normal and stressed conditions.
If an Buffer and the other systemically important institutions buffer, is institutions NSFR were to fall below the 100% level, the referred to as the combined buffer requirement.
These rules institution would be required to take the measures laid down in entered into force on 1 May 2014 for the countercyclical capital the CRD IV Regulation for a timely restoration to the minimum buffer and on 1 January 2016 for the capital conservation buffer level.
Competent authorities would assess the reasons for nonand the G-SIB Buffer.
compliance with the NSFR requirement before deciding on any potential supervisory measures.
These proposals are currently The G-SIB Buffer is currently set at 1.0% for the Group from 1 being considered and negotiated among the European January 2017, and is being phased in over the period to 1 Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council January 2019.
The systemic risk buffer will be applicable from 1 and, in light of Brexit, there is considerable uncertainty as to the January 2019.
The Bank of Englands Financial Policy Committee extent to which such rules will apply to the Group.
the FPC was responsible for setting the framework for the systemic risk buffer and the PRA adopted in December 2016 a If the Group is unable to raise funds through deposits or in the final statement of policy implementing the FPCs framework.
In capital markets on acceptable terms or at all, its liquidity position early 2019, the PRA is expected to determine which institutions could be adversely affected and it might be unable to meet the systemic risk buffer should apply to, and if so, how large the deposit withdrawals on demand or at their contractual maturity, to buffer should be up to a maximum of 3% of a firms risk-weighted repay borrowings as they mature, to meet its obligations under assets.
The systemic risk buffer will apply to ring-fenced entities committed financing facilities, to comply with regulatory funding only and not all entities within a banking group.
The systemic risk requirements, to undertake certain capital and or debt buffer is part of the UK framework for identifying and setting management activities, or to fund new loans, investments and higher capital buffers for domestic systemically important banks businesses.
The Group may need to liquidate unencumbered D-SIBs, which are groups that, upon distress or failure, could assets to meet its liabilities, including disposals of assets not have an important impact on their domestic financial systems.
previously identified for disposal to reduce its funding commitments.
In a time of reduced liquidity, the Group may be In addition, national supervisory authorities may add extra capital unable to sell some of its assets, or may need to sell assets at requirements the Pillar 2A requirements to cover risks that they depressed prices, which in either case could have a material believe are not covered or insufficiently covered by Pillar 1 adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and results of requirements.
The Groups current Pillar 2A requirement has operations.
been set by the PRA at an equivalent of 4.0% of risk-weighted assets.
Failure by the Group to comply with regulatory capital, funding, liquidity and leverage requirements may result in The PRA has also introduced a firm-specific the PRA buffer, intervention by its regulators and loss of investor which is a forward-looking requirement set annually and based confidence, and may have a material adverse effect on its on various factors including firm-specific stress test results and is results of operations, financial condition and reputation and to be met with CET1 capital in addition to any CET1 capital used may result in distribution restrictions and adversely impact to meet any Pillar 1 or Pillar 2A requirements.
appropriate, the PRA may require an increase in an institutions The Group is subject to extensive regulatory supervision in PRA buffer to reflect additional capital required to be held to relation to the levels and quality of capital it is required to hold in mitigate the risk of additional losses that could be incurred as a connection with its business, including as a result of the result of risk management and governance weaknesses, transposition of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions including with respect to the effectiveness of the internal stress regulatory capital framework Basel III in Europe by a Directive testing framework and control environment.
UK banks are and Regulation collectively known as CRD IV.
required to meet the higher of the combined buffer requirement or PRA buffer requirement.
The FPC and PRA have expressed In addition, the Group is currently identified as a global concerns around potential systemic risk associated with recent systemically important bank G-SIB by FSB and is therefore increases in UK consumer lending and the impact of consumer subject to more intensive oversight and supervision by its credit losses on banks resilience in a stress scenario, which the regulators as well as additional capital requirements, although the PRA has indicated that it will consider when setting capital Group belongs to the last bucket of the FSB G-SIB list and is buffers for individual banks.
therefore subject to the lowest level of additional loss-absorbing capacity requirements.
In addition to capital requirements and buffers, the regulatory framework adopted under CRD IV, as transposed in the UK, sets Under CRD IV, the Group is required to hold at all times a out minimum leverage ratio requirements for financial institutions.
minimum amount of regulatory capital calculated as a percentage of risk-weighted assets Pillar 1 requirement.
384 Additional information Risk factors continued The revised Basel III standards will take effect from 1 January These include a minimum leverage requirement of 3.25% which 2022 and will be phased in over five years.
Although the revised applies to major UK banks, as recalibrated in October 2017 in Basel III standards must be implemented through legislation in accordance with the FPCs recommendation to the PRA.
In the EU and UK, and precise estimates of their impact would be addition, the UK leverage ratio framework provides for: i an premature at this time, the revised standards may result in higher additional leverage ratio to be met by G-SIBs and ring-fenced levels of risk-weighted assets and therefore higher levels of institutions to be calibrated at 35% of the relevant firms capital capital, and in particular CET1 capital, required to be held by the G-SIB Buffer or systemic risk buffer and which is being phased in Group, under Pillar 1 requirements.
Such requirements would be from 2016 currently set at 0.75% from 1 January 2018 and ii a separate from any further capital overlays required to be held as countercyclical leverage ratio buffer for all firms subject to the part of the PRAs determination of the Groups Pillar 2A or PRA minimum leverage ratio requirements which is calibrated at 35% buffer requirements with respect to such exposures.
of a firms countercyclical capital buffer.
Further changes may be made to the current leverage ratio framework as a result of future In the UK, the PRA also set revised expectations to the regulatory reforms, including FSB proposals and proposed calculation of risk-weighted capital requirements in relation to amendments to the CRD IV proposed by the European residential mortgage portfolios which firms are expected to meet Commission in November 2016. by the end of 2020.
To this effect, firms should also submit amended models for regulatory approval.
Most of the capital requirements which apply or will apply to the Group will need to be met in whole or in part with CET1 capital.
Although the above provides an overview of the capital and CET1 capital broadly comprises retained earnings and equity leverage requirements currently applicable to the Group, such instruments, including ordinary shares.
As a result, the Groups requirements are subject to ongoing amendments and revisions, ability meet applicable CET1 capital requirements is dependent including as a result of final rules and recommendations adopted on organic generation of CET1 through sustained profitability by the FSB or by European or UK regulators.
In particular, on 23 and or the Groups ability to issue ordinary shares, and there is November 2016, the European Commission published a no guarantee that the Group may be able to generate CET1 comprehensive package of reforms including proposed capital through either of these alternatives.
amendments to CRD IV and the EU Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive BRRD.
Although such proposals are The amount of regulatory capital required to meet the Groups currently being considered and discussed among the European regulatory capital requirements and any additional management Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council buffer, is determined by reference to the amount of risk-weighted and their final form and the timetable for their implementation are assets held by the Group.
The models and methodologies used not known, such amendments may result in increased or more to calculate applicable risk-weightings are a combination of stringent requirements applying to the Group or its subsidiaries.
individual models, subject to regulatory permissions, and more This uncertainty is compounded by Brexit which may result in standardised approaches.
The rules are applicable to the further changes to the prudential and regulatory framework calculation of the Groups risk-weighted assets are subject to applicable to the Group.
regulatory changes which may impact the levels of regulatory capital required to be met by the Group.
If the Group is unable to raise the requisite amount of regulatory capital including loss absorbing capital in the form of MREL, or On 7 December 2017, the Basel Committee on Banking to otherwise meet regulatory capital and leverage requirements, it Supervision published revised standards intended to finalise the may be exposed to increased regulatory supervision or Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms.
The revised standards sanctions, loss of investor confidence, restrictions on distributions include the following elements: i a revised standardised and it may be required to reduce further the amount of its riskapproach for credit risk, which will improve the robustness and weighted assets or total assets and engage in the disposal of risk sensitivity of the existing approach: ii revisions to the core and other non-core businesses, which may not occur on a internal ratings-based approach for credit risk, where the use of timely basis or achieve prices which would otherwise be the most advanced internally modelled approaches for lowattractive to the Group.
default portfolios will be limited: iii revisions to the credit valuation adjustment CVA framework, including the removal of This may also result in write-down or the conversion into equity of the internally modelled approach and the introduction of a revised certain regulatory capital instruments issued by the Group or the standardised approach: iv a revised standardised approach for issue of additional equity by the Group, each of which could operational risk, which will replace the existing standardised result in the dilution of the Groups existing shareholders.
A approaches and the advanced measurement approaches: v breach of the Groups applicable capital or leverage requirements revisions to the measurement of the leverage ratio and a may also trigger the application of the Groups recovery plan to leverage ratio buffer for global systemically important banks Gremediate a deficient capital position.
SIBs, which will take the form of a Tier 1 capital buffer set at 50% of a G-SIBs risk-weighted capital buffer: and vi an Failure by the Group to comply with its capital requirements aggregate output floor, which will ensure that banks' riskor to maintain sufficient distributable reserves may result in weighted assets RWAs generated by internal models are no the application of restrictions on its ability to make lower than 72.5% of RWAs as calculated by the Basel III discretionary distributions, including the payment of frameworks standardised approaches.
dividends to its ordinary shareholders and coupons on certain capital instruments.
In accordance with the provisions of CRD IV, a minimum level of capital adequacy is required to be met by the Group in order for it to be entitled to make certain discretionary payments.
385 Additional information Risk factors continued RBSGs distributable reserves and distributable items are Pursuant to Article 141 Restrictions on distribution of the CRD sensitive to the accounting impact of factors including the IV Directive, as transposed in the UK, institutions that fail to meet redemption of preference shares, restructuring costs and the combined buffer requirement will be subject to restricted impairment charges and the carrying value of its investments in discretionary payments which are defined broadly by CRD IV subsidiaries which are carried at the lower of cost and their as payments relating to CET1 instruments dividends, variable prevailing recoverable amount.
Recoverable amounts depend on remuneration and coupon payments on additional Tier 1 discounted future cash flows which can be affected by instruments.
The resulting restrictions are scaled according to restructurings, including the restructuring required to implement the extent of the breach of the combined buffer requirement and the UK ring-fencing regime, or unforeseen events.
calculated as a percentage of the profits of the institution since the last distribution of profits or discretionary payment which The distributable reserves of RBSG also depend on the receipt of gives rise to a maximum distributable amount MDA if any that income from subsidiaries, principally as dividends.
The ability of the financial institution can distribute through discretionary subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to their performance and payments.
applicable local laws and other restrictions, including their respective regulatory requirements and distributable reserves.
The EBA has clarified that the CET1 capital to be taken into Any of these factors, including restructuring costs, impairment account for the MDA calculation should be limited to the amount charges and a reduction in the carrying value of RBSG not used to meet the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 own funds requirements subsidiaries or a shortage of dividends from them could limit of the institution.
In the event of a breach of the combined buffer RBSGs ability to maintain sufficient distributable reserves to be requirement, the Group will be required to calculate its MDA, and able to pay coupons on certain capital instruments and dividends as a consequence it may be necessary for the Group to reduce to its ordinary shareholders.
or cease discretionary payments to the extent of the breach.
The Group may be required to recognise further impairments in The ability of the Group to meet the combined buffer requirement the future if the outlook for its subsidiaries were to worsen.
Whilst will be subject to the Group holding sufficient CET1 capital in this level of distributable profits does not impact upon RBSGs excess of its minimum Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 capital requirements.
ability to pay coupons on existing securities, the Group In addition, the interaction of such restrictions on distributions implemented a capital reorganisation in 2017 in order to increase with the capital requirements and buffers applicable to the Group RBSGs distributable reserves by approximately 30 billion, remains uncertain in many respects while the relevant authorities providing greater flexibility for potential future distributions and in the EU and the UK consult on and develop their proposals and preference share redemptions if any.
guidance on the application of the rules.
In particular, the proposals published by the European Commission in November Failure by the Group to meet the combined buffer requirement or 2016 contain certain proposed amendments to Article 141, retain sufficient distributable reserves or distributable items as a including to introduce a stacking order in the calculation of the result of reduced profitability or losses, or changes in regulation maximum distributable amount and establish certain priorities in or taxes adversely impacting distributable reserves or the payments which could be made in the event the restrictions distributable items, may therefore result in limitations on the apply with payments relating to additional Tier 1 instruments Groups ability to make discretionary distributions which may being required to be made before payments on CET1 negatively impact the Groups shareholders, holders of additional instruments dividends or other discretionary payments.
The Tier 1 instruments, staff receiving variable compensation such treatment of MDA breaches under the European Commission as bonuses and other stakeholders and impact its market proposals differ from the proposed consequences set out in the valuation and investors and analysts perception of its financial final PRA rules and may result in uncertainty in the application of soundness.
The cost of implementing the Alternative Remedies Package In addition to these rules and the requirement for PRA approval, regarding the business previously described as Williams & in order to make distributions including dividend payments in Glyn could be more onerous than anticipated and any failure the first place, RBSG is required to have sufficient distributable to comply with the terms of the Alternative Remedies reserves available.
Furthermore, coupon payments due on the Package could result in the imposition of additional additional Tier 1 instruments issued by RBSG must be cancelled measures or limitations on the Groups operations.
in the event that RBSG has insufficient distributable items as On 18 September 2017, the Group received confirmation that an defined under CRD IV.
Both distributable reserves and alternative remedies package announced on 26 July 2017 distributable items are largely impacted by the Groups ability to Alternative Remedies Package, regarding the business generate and accumulate profits or conversely by material losses previously described as Williams & Glyn, had been formally including losses resulting from conduct related-costs, approved by the European Commission EC in the form restructuring costs or impairments.
386 Additional information Risk factors continued The Alternative Remedies Package replaced the existing A failure to comply with the terms of the Alternative Remedies requirement to divest the business previously described as Package could result in the imposition of additional measures or Williams & Glyn by 31 December 2017.
The Alternative limitations on the Groups operations, additional supervision by Remedies Package focuses on the following two remedies to the Groups regulators, and loss of investor or customer promote competition in the market for banking services to small confidence, any of which could have a material adverse impact and medium-sized enterprises SMEs in the UK: i a 425 on the Group.
Delays in execution may also impact the Groups million capability and innovation fund that will grant funding to a ability to carry out its transformation programme, including the range of eligible competitors in the UK banking and financial implementation of cost saving initiatives and mandatory technology sectors: and ii a 275 million incentivised switching regulatory requirements.
Such risks will increase in line with any scheme which will provide funding for eligible bodies to help them delays.
incentivise SME customers of the business previously described as Williams & Glyn to switch their primary accounts and loans As a result of extensive reforms being implemented relating from the Group paid in the form of dowries to business current to the resolution of financial institutions within the UK, the accounts at the receiving bank.
The Group has also agreed to set EU and globally, material additional requirements will arise aside up to a further 75 million in funding to cover certain costs to ensure that financial institutions maintain sufficient losscustomers may incur as a result of switching under the absorbing capacity.
Such changes to the funding and incentivised switching scheme.
In addition, under the terms of the regulatory capital framework may require the Group to meet Alternative Remedies Package, should the uptake within the higher capital levels than the Group anticipated within its incentivised switching scheme not be sufficient, RBSG may be strategic plans and affect the Groups funding costs.
required to make a further contribution, capped at 50 million.
In addition to the prudential requirements applicable under CRD IV, the BRRD introduces, among other things, a requirement for An independent body Independent Body is in the process of banks to maintain at all times a sufficient aggregate amount of being established to administer the Alternative Remedies own funds and eligible liabilities that is, liabilities that can Package.
However, the implementation of the Alternative absorb loss and assist in recapitalising a firm in accordance with Remedies Package also entails additional costs for the Group, a predetermined resolution strategy, known as the minimum including but not limited to the funding commitments and financial requirements for MREL, designed to ensure that the resolution of incentives envisaged to be provided under the plan.
a financial institution may be carried out, without public funds Implementation of the Alternative Remedies Package could also being exposed to the risk of loss and in a way which ensures the divert resources from the Groups operations and jeopardise the continuity of critical economic functions, maintains financial delivery and implementation of other significant plans and stability and protects depositors.
In addition, under the terms of the Alternative Remedies Package, the Independent Body can require the Group In November 2015, the FSB published a final term sheet setting to modify certain aspects of the Groups execution of the out its TLAC standards for G-SIBs.
The EBA was mandated to incentivised switching scheme, which could increase the cost of assess the implementation of MREL in the EU and the implementation.
Furthermore, should the uptake within the consistency of MREL with the final TLAC standards and incentivised switching scheme not be sufficient, the Independent published an interim report setting out the conclusions of its Body can extend the duration of the scheme by up to twelve review in July 2016 and its final report in December 2016.
On the months and can compel the Group to extend the customer base basis of the EBAs work and its own assessment of CRD IV and to which the scheme applies which may result in prolonged the BRRD, the European Commission published in November periods of disruption to a wider portion of the Groups business.
2016 a comprehensive set of proposals, seeking to make certain amendments to the existing MREL framework.
In particular, the As a direct consequence of the incentivised switching scheme, proposals make a number of amendments to the MREL the Group will lose existing customers and deposits, which in turn requirements under the BRRD, in part in order to transpose the will have adverse impacts on the Groups business and FSBs final TLAC term sheet.
Furthermore, the capability and innovation fund is intended to benefit eligible competitors and The UK government is required to transpose the BRRDs negatively impact the Groups competitive position.
To support provisions relating to MREL into law through further secondary the incentivised switching initiative, upon request by an eligible legislation.
In November 2016, the Bank of England published its bank, the Group has also agreed to grant those customers which final rules setting out its approach to setting MREL for UK banks.
have switched to eligible banks under the incentivised switching These final rules which were adopted on the basis of the current scheme access to its branch network for cash and cheque MREL framework in force in the EU do not take into account the handling services, which may result in reputational and financial European Commissions most recent proposals with respect to exposure for the Group and impact customer service quality for MREL and differ in a number of respects.
In addition, rules RBSs own customers with consequent competitive, financial and relating to a number of specific issues under the framework reputational implications.
The implementation of the incentivised remain to be implemented.
These include internal MREL switching scheme is also dependent on the engagement of the requirements, in respect of which the FSB published guiding eligible banks with the incentivised switching scheme and the principles in July 2017.
The Bank of England published a application of the eligible banks to and approval by the consultation paper in October 2017 but has not yet published a Independent Body.
The incentivised transfer of SME customers final statement of policy on its approach to setting internal MREL.
to third party banks places reliance on those third parties to The Bank of England has also stated that it expects to set out achieve satisfactory customer outcomes which could give rise to policy proposals for MREL cross-holdings and disclosure reputational damage if these are not forthcoming.
requirements once there is greater clarity as to the timing and final content of related EU proposals.
387 Additional information Risk factors continued The TLAC standard requires that the total amount of excluded The Bank of England is responsible for setting the MREL liabilities on RBSGs balance sheet does not exceed 5% of its requirements for each UK bank, building society and certain external TLAC i. e. the eligible liabilities RBSG has issued to investment firms in consultation with the PRA and the FCA, and investors which meet the TLAC requirements and the Bank of such requirement will be set depending on the resolution strategy England has adopted this criterion in its final rules.
In its final rules, the Bank of England has set out a staggered compliance timeline for UK banks, If the Group were to fail to comply with this clean balance sheet including with respect to those requirements applicable to G-SIBs requirement, it could disqualify otherwise eligible liabilities from including the Group.
counting towards MREL and result in the Group breaching its MREL requirements.
The purpose of internal MREL requirements Under the revised timeline, G-SIBs will be expected to i meet is to provide for loss-absorbing capacity to be appropriately the minimum requirements set out in the FSBs TLAC term sheet distributed within a banking group and to provide the mechanism from 1 January 2019 i. e. the higher of 16% of risk-weighted by which losses can be transferred from operating companies to assets or 6% of leverage exposures, and ii meet the full MREL the resolution entity.
requirements to be phased in from 1 January 2020, with the full requirements applicable from 2 January 2022 i. e. for G-SIBs two The Bank of England proposes to set internal MREL times Pillar 1 plus Pillar 2A or the higher of two times the requirements above capital requirements for each material applicable leverage ratio requirement or 6.75% of leverage subsidiary of a banking group.
The Bank of England will formally exposures.
MREL requirements are expected to be set on determine which entities within the group represent material consolidated, sub-consolidated and individual bases, and are in subsidiaries, with reference to indicative criteria including such addition to regulatory capital requirements so that there can be subsidiarys contribution to the Groups risk-weighted assets and no double counting of instruments qualifying for capital operating income.
It will also set the internal MREL requirement, requirements.
calibrated to be between 75% and 90% of the external MREL requirement that would otherwise apply to a material subsidiary For institutions, including the Group, for which bail-in is the were it a resolution entity in its own right.
Such requirements required resolution strategy and which are structured to permit must be met with internal MREL resources which are single point of entry resolution due to their size and systemic subordinated to the operating liabilities of the material subsidiary importance, the Bank of England has indicated that in order to issuing them and must be capable of being written down or qualify as MREL, eligible liabilities must be issued by the converted to equity via a contractual trigger.
These liabilities, resolution entity i. e. the holding company for the Group and be issued to other group entities typically the issuing entitys structurally subordinated to operating and excluded liabilities immediate parent, must be priced on an arms-length basis.
The which include insured deposits, short-term debt, derivatives, impact of these requirements on the Group, the cost of servicing structured notes and tax liabilities.
Under the single point of these liabilities and the implications for the Groups funding plans entry SPE resolution model that applies to the Group, losses cannot be assessed with certainty until the Bank of Englands that crystallise in the operating companies are passed up the proposed internal MREL policy is finalised and final rules are chain to RBSG through the write down of the holding companys published.
investments in the equity and debt of its operating companies.
The probability of the external MREL investors being bailed-in will Compliance with these and other future changes to capital depend on the Groups overall going-concern capital resources, adequacy and loss-absorbency requirements in the EU and the the extent of any losses in the operating companies, and the UK by the relevant deadline will require the Group to restructure extent to which those losses are passed up to the investing entity its balance sheet and issue additional capital and other recognising that some operating company liabilities, including instruments compliant with the rules which may be costly whilst obligations to pension schemes, are protected from bail-in.
certain existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities and other senior, unsecured instruments issued by the Group will cease to count The final rules set out a number of liabilities which cannot qualify towards the Groups loss-absorbing capacity for the purposes of as MREL and are therefore excluded liabilities.
As a result, meeting MREL TLAC requirements.
The Groups resolution senior unsecured issuances by RBSG will need to be authority can impose an MREL requirement over and above the subordinated to the excluded liabilities described above.
The regulatory minima and potentially higher than the Groups peers, proceeds from such issuances will be transferred to material if it has concerns regarding the resolvability of the Group.
As a operating subsidiaries as identified using criteria set in the Bank result, RBSG may be required to issue additional loss-absorbing of Englands final rules on internal MREL in the form of capital or instruments in the form of CET1 capital or subordinated or senior another form of subordinated claim.
unsecured debt instruments or may result in an increased risk of a breach of the Groups combined buffer requirement, triggering In this way, MREL resources will be structurally subordinated to the restrictions relating to the MDA described above.
There senior liabilities of operating companies, allowing losses from remain some areas of uncertainty regarding the implementation operating companies to be transferred to the holding company of outstanding regulatory requirements within the UK, the EU and and - if necessary - for resolution to occur at the holding company globally, and the final requirements to which the Group will be level, without placing the operating companies into a resolution subject, and the Group may therefore need to revise its capital process.
388 Additional information Risk factors continued Developments relating to current economic conditions, including The Groups businesses and performance can be negatively those discussed above, could have a material adverse effect on affected by actual or perceived economic conditions in the the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations UK and globally and other global risks, including risks and prospects.
Any such developments may also adversely arising out of geopolitical events, and political developments impact the financial position of the Groups pension schemes, and the Group will be increasingly impacted by which may result in the Group being required to make additional developments in the UK as its operations become contributions.
See The Group is subject to pension risks and will increasingly concentrated in the UK.
be required to make additional contributions as a result of the Actual or perceived difficult global economic conditions can restructuring of its pension schemes in relation to the create challenging economic and market conditions and a difficult implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime.
In addition, the operating environment for the Groups businesses and its Group expects to make additional contributions to cover pension customers and counterparties.
funding deficits if there are degraded economic conditions of if there is any devaluation in the asset portfolio held by the pension As part of its revised strategy, the Group has been refocusing its trustee.
business in the UK, the ROI and Western Europe and, accordingly is more exposed to the economic conditions of the In addition, the Group is exposed to risks arising out of British economy as well as the Eurozone.
In particular, the longer geopolitical events or political developments, such as trade term effects of Brexit are difficult to predict and are subject to barriers, exchange controls, sanctions and other measures taken wider global macro-economic trends, but may include periods of by sovereign governments that can hinder economic or financial financial market volatility and slower economic growth, in the UK activity levels.
Furthermore, unfavourable political, military or in particular, but also in the ROI, Europe and the global economy, diplomatic events, including secession movements or the exit of at least in the short to medium term.
See The Group is subject to other Member States from the EU, armed conflict, pandemics, political risks, including economic, regulatory and political state and privately sponsored cyber and terrorist acts or threats, uncertainty arising from the referendum on the UKs membership and the responses to them by governments, could also adversely of the European Union which could adversely impact the Groups affect economic activity and have an adverse effect upon the business, results of operations, financial condition and Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
and The Group has been, and will remain, in a period of major business transformation and structural change through The financial performance of the Group has been, and may to at least 2019 as it implements its own transformation continue to be, materially affected by customer and programme and seeks to comply with UK ring-fencing and counterparty credit quality and deterioration in credit quality recovery and resolution requirements as well as the Alternative could arise due to prevailing economic and market Remedies Package.
Additional structural changes to the Groups conditions and legal and regulatory developments.
operations will also be required as a result of Brexit.
These The Group has exposure to many different industries, customers various transformation and restructuring activities are required to and counterparties, and risks arising from actual or perceived occur concurrently, which carries significant execution and changes in credit quality and the recoverability of monies due operational risks, and the Group may not be a viable, competitive from borrowers and other counterparties are inherent in a wide and profitable bank as a result.
range of the Groups businesses.
The outlook for the global economy over the medium-term In particular, the Group has significant exposure to certain remains uncertain due to a number of factors including: political individual customers and other counterparties in weaker business instability, an extended period of low inflation and low interest sectors and geographic markets and also has concentrated rates, although monetary policy has begun the process of country exposure in the UK, the US and across the rest of normalisation in some countries.
The normalisation of monetary Europe principally Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland and policy in the USA may affect some emerging market economies France.
which may raise their domestic interest rates in order to avoid capital outflows, with negative effects on growth and trade.
Such At 31 December 2017, current exposure in the UK was 363.0 conditions could be worsened by a number of factors including billion, in the US was 18.4 billion and in Western Europe political uncertainty or macro-economic deterioration in the excluding the UK was 60.0 billion : and within certain Eurozone or the US, increased instability in the global financial business sectors, namely personal and financial institutions at system and concerns relating to further financial shocks or 31 December 2016, personal lending amounted to 176.6 billion, contagion, volatility in the value of the pound sterling, new or and lending to banks and other financial institutions was 37.8 extended economic sanctions, volatility in commodity prices or billion.
In particular, concerns relating to emerging markets, including lower economic growth or Provisions held on loans in default have decreased in recent recession, concerns relating to the Chinese economy and years due to asset sales and the portfolio run-down in Ulster financial markets, reduced global trade in emerging market Bank Ireland DAC and the NatWest Markets franchises legacy economies to which the Group is exposed or increased financing portfolios.
If the risk profile of these loans were to increase, needs as existing debt matures, may give rise to further instability including as a result of a degradation of economic or market and financial market volatility.
conditions, this could result in an increase in the cost of risk and the Group may be required to make additional provisions, which Any of the above developments could impact the Group directly in turn would reduce earnings and impact the Groups by resulting in credit losses and indirectly by further impacting profitability.
global economic growth and financial markets.
389 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group also remains exposed to certain counterparties The Groups lending strategy or processes may also fail to operating in certain industries which have been under pressure in identify or anticipate weaknesses or risks in a particular sector, recent years and any further deterioration in the outlook the credit market or borrower category, which may result in an increase in quality of these counterparties may require the Group to make default rates, which may, in turn, impact the Groups profitability.
additional provisions, which in turn would reduce earnings and Any adverse impact on the credit quality of the Groups impact the Groups profitability.
customers and other counterparties, coupled with a decline in collateral values, could lead to a reduction in recoverability and In addition, the Groups credit risk is exacerbated when the value of the Groups assets and higher levels of impairment collateral it holds cannot be realised as a result of market allowances, which could have an adverse effect on the Groups conditions or regulatory intervention or is liquidated at prices not operations, financial position or prospects.
sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that is due to the Group, which is most likely to occur The credit quality of the Groups borrowers and its other during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such counterparties is impacted by prevailing economic and market as those experienced in recent years.
conditions and by the legal and regulatory landscape in their respective markets.
This has particularly been the case with respect to large parts of the Groups commercial real estate portfolio.
Any such Credit quality has improved in certain of the Groups core deteriorations in the Groups recoveries on defaulting loans could markets, in particular the UK and Ireland, as these economies have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and have improved.
However, a further deterioration in economic and financial condition.
market conditions or changes to legal or regulatory landscapes could worsen borrower and counterparty credit quality and also Concerns about, or a default by, one financial institution could impact the Groups ability to enforce contractual security rights.
In lead to significant liquidity problems and losses or defaults by particular, developments relating to Brexit may adversely impact other financial institutions, as the commercial and financial credit quality in the UK.
soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of credit, trading, clearing and other relationships.
In addition, as the Group continues to implement its strategy and Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or questions further reduces its scale and global footprint, the Groups relative about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity problems exposure to the UK and certain sectors and asset classes in the and losses for, or defaults by, the Group.
This systemic risk may UK will continue to increase as its business becomes more also adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing concentrated in the UK as a result of the reduction in the number agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and of jurisdictions outside of the UK in which it operates.
The level of exchanges with which the Group interacts on a daily basis.
UK household indebtedness remains high and the ability of some households to service their debts could be challenged by a period The effectiveness of recent prudential reforms designed to of higher unemployment.
Highly indebted households are contain systemic risk in the EU and the UK is yet to be tested.
particularly vulnerable to shocks, such as falls in incomes or Counterparty risk within the financial system or failures of the increases in interest rates, which threaten their ability to service Groups financial counterparties could have a material adverse their debts.
effect on the Groups access to liquidity or could result in losses which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups In particular, in the UK, the Group is at risk from downturns in the financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
UK economy and volatility in property prices in both the residential and commercial sectors.
With UK home loans The trends and risks affecting borrower and counterparty credit representing the most significant portion of the Groups total quality have caused, and in the future may cause, the Group to loans and advances to the retail sector, the Group has a large experience further and accelerated impairment charges, exposure to adverse developments in the UK residential property increased repurchase demands, higher costs, additional writesector.
In the UK commercial real estate market, activity has downs and losses for the Group and an inability to engage in improved against 2016 but may be short-lived given continued routine funding transactions.
political uncertainty and progress of negotiations relating to the form and timing of Brexit.
There is a risk of further adjustment The Groups borrowing costs, its access to the debt capital given the reliance of the UK commercial real estate market in markets and its liquidity depend significantly on its credit recent years on inflows of foreign capital and, in some segments, ratings and, to a lesser extent, on the UK sovereign ratings.
As a result, the continued house The credit ratings of RBSG, RBS plc and other Group members price weakness, particularly in London and the South East of the directly affect the cost of funding and capital instruments issued UK, would be likely to lead to higher impairment and negative by the Group, as well as secondary market liquidity in those capital impact as loss given default rate increases.
The implementation of ring-fencing is expected to reduced affordability of residential and commercial property in the change the funding strategy of the Group as a result of the RFB UK, for example, as a result of higher interest rates, inflation or and the entities outside of the RFB raising debt capital directly.
A increased unemployment, could also lead to higher impairments number of UK and other European financial institutions, including on loans held by the Group being recognised.
RBSG, RBS plc and other Group entities, have been downgraded multiple times in recent years in connection with rating methodology changes and credit rating agencies revised outlook relating to regulatory developments, macroeconomic trends and a financial institutions capital position and financial prospects.
390 Additional information Risk factors continued A failure to obtain such a rating, or any subsequent downgrades The senior unsecured long-term and short-term credit ratings of may threaten the ability of the NatWest Markets franchise or RBSG and RBS plc are investment grade by Moodys, S&P and other entities outside of the RFB to satisfy their funding needs Fitch.
The outlook for RBSG is currently stable for S&P, Fitch and and to meet prudential capital requirements.
At 31 December Moodys and the outlook for RBS plc is currently stable for S&P 2017, a simultaneous one-notch long-term and associated shortand Fitch and under review for downgrade for Moodys.
This term downgrade in the credit ratings of RBSG and RBS plc by the outlook is consistent with previous statements made by Moodys three main ratings agencies would have required the Group to that the implementation of the ring-fencing regime is likely to lead post estimated additional collateral of 1.4 billion, without taking to downgrades in the ratings of RBS plc.
account of mitigating action by management.
Individual credit ratings of RBSG, RBS plc, RBS N. V. RBS International, RBS Rating agencies regularly review the RBSG and Group entity Securities Inc. National Westminster Bank Plc, Ulster Bank Ltd, credit ratings and their ratings of long-term debt are based on a Ulster Bank Ireland DAC and Adam & Company PLC are also number of factors, including the Groups financial strength as well important to the Group when competing in certain markets such as factors not within the Groups control, such as political as corporate deposits and over-the-counter derivatives.
developments and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.
The major credit rating agencies downgraded and changed their outlook to negative on the UKs sovereign credit rating in June In particular, the rating agencies may further review the RBSG 2016 and September 2017 following the UKs decision to leave and Group entity ratings as a result of the implementation of the the EU.
Any further downgrade in the UK Governments credit UK ring-fencing regime, pension and litigation regulatory ratings could adversely affect the credit ratings of Group entities investigation risk, including potential fines relating to and may result in the effects noted above.
Further political investigations relating to legacy conduct issues, and other developments, including in relation to Brexit or the outcome of macroeconomic and political developments, including in light of any further Scottish referendum could negatively impact the the outcome of the negotiations relating to the form and timing of credit ratings of the UK Government and result in a downgrade of the UKs exit from the EU.
the credit ratings of RBSG and Group entities.
A challenging macroeconomic environment, a delayed return to The Groups businesses are exposed to the effect of satisfactory profitability and greater market uncertainty could movements in currency rates, which could have a material negatively impact the Groups credit ratings and potentially lead adverse effect on the results of operations, financial to ratings downgrades which could adversely impact the Groups condition or prospects of the Group.
ability and cost of funding.
The Groups ability to access capital As part of its strategy, the Group has revised its focus to become markets on acceptable terms and hence its ability to raise the a UK-focused domestic bank.
However, 6.5% of its revenues are amount of capital and funding required to meet its regulatory derived in foreign currencies.
The Groups foreign exchange requirements and targets, including those relating to lossexposure arises from structural foreign exchange risk, including absorbing instruments to be issued by the Group, could be capital deployed in the Groups foreign subsidiaries, branches affected.
See Implementation of the ring-fencing regime in the and joint arrangements, and non-trading foreign exchange risk, UK which began in 2015 and must be completed before 1 including customer transactions and profits and losses that are in January 2019 will result in material structural changes to the a currency other than the functional currency of the transacting Groups business.
The steps required to implement the UK ringentity.
The Group also relies on MREL issuances in foreign fencing regime are complex and entail significant costs and currency.
The Group maintains policies and procedures to ensure operational, legal and execution risks, which risks may be the impact of exposures to fluctuations in currency rates are exacerbated by the Groups other ongoing restructuring efforts.
Nevertheless, changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar and euro-sterling exchange rates, affect Any reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings of the value of assets, liabilities, including the total amount of RBSG or of certain of its subsidiaries particularly RBS plc, MREL eligible instruments, income and expenses denominated including downgrades below investment grade, could adversely in foreign currencies and the reported earnings of the Groups affect the Groups issuance capacity in the financial markets, non-UK subsidiaries and may affect the Groups reported increase its funding and borrowing costs, require the Group to consolidated financial condition or its income from foreign replace funding lost due to the downgrade, which may include the exchange dealing and may also require incremental MREL to be loss of customer deposits and may limit the Groups access to issued.
capital and money markets and trigger additional collateral or other requirements in derivatives contracts and other secured Changes in foreign exchange rates may result from the decisions funding arrangements or the need to amend such arrangements, of the Bank of England, ECB, the US Federal Reserve and from limit the range of counterparties willing to enter into transactions political or global market events outside the Groups control and with the Group and its subsidiaries and adversely affect its lead to sharp and sudden variations in foreign exchange rates, competitive position, all of which could have a material adverse such as those seen in the sterling US dollar exchange rates since impact on the Groups earnings, cash flow and financial the occurrence of the EU Referendum.
ongoing UK negotiations to exit the EU, amongst other factors, resulted in continued volatility in the sterling exchange rate As discussed above, the success of the implementation of the UK relative to other major currencies.
Continued or increasing ring-fencing regime and the restructuring of the Groups NatWest volatility in currency rates can materially affect the Groups Markets franchise, is in part dependent upon the relevant banking results of operations, financial condition or prospects.
entities obtaining a sustainable credit rating and being able to satisfy their funding needs.
391 Additional information Risk factors continued Financial markets have recently experienced and may in the near Continued low interest rates have significantly affected and term experience significant volatility, including as a result of will continue to affect the Groups business and results of concerns about Brexit, political and financial developments in the operations.
A continued period of low interest rates, and US and in Europe, including as a result of general elections, yield curves and spreads may affect net interest income, the geopolitical developments and developments relating to trade effect of which may be heightened during periods of liquidity agreements volatility and instability in the Chinese and global stress.
stock markets, expectations relating to or actions taken by central Interest rate and foreign exchange risks, discussed below, are banks with respect to monetary policy, and weakening significant for the Group.
Monetary policy has been highly fundamentals of the Chinese economy, resulting in further shortaccommodative in recent years, including as a result of certain term changes in the valuation of certain of the Groups assets.
policies implemented by the Bank of England and HM Treasury Uncertainty about potential fines for past misconduct and such as the Term Funding Scheme, which have helped to concerns about the longer-term viability of business models have support demand at a time of very pronounced fiscal tightening also weighed heavily on the valuations of some financial and balance sheet repair.
In the UK, the Bank of England institutions in Europe and in the UK, including the Group.
lowered interest rates to 0.25% in August 2016 and raised them to 0.5% in November 2017.
Any further deterioration in economic and financial market conditions or weak economic growth could require the Group to However, there remains considerable uncertainty as to whether recognise further significant write-downs and realise increased or when the Bank of England and other central banks will further impairment charges or goodwill impairments, all of which may increase interest rates.
While the ECB has been conducting a have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of quantitative easing programme since January 2015 designed to operations and capital ratios.
As part of its transformation improve confidence in the Eurozone and encourage more private programme, the Group is executing the run-down or disposal of a bank lending, there remains considerable uncertainty as to number of businesses, assets and portfolios.
whether such measures have been or will be sufficient or successful and the extension of this programme until the end of Moreover, market volatility and illiquidity and the assumptions, September 2018 or beyond may put additional pressure on judgements and estimates in relation to such matters that may margins.
Continued sustained low or negative interest rates or change over time and may ultimately not turn out to be accurate any divergences in monetary policy approach between the Bank make it difficult to value certain of the Groups exposures.
of England and other major central banks could put further pressure on the Groups interest margins and adversely affect the Valuations in future periods reflecting, among other things, the Groups profitability and prospects.
then-prevailing market conditions and changes in the credit ratings of certain of the Groups assets may result in significant A continued period of low interest rates and yield curves and changes in the fair values of the Groups exposures, such as spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between credit market exposures, and the value ultimately realised by the lending and borrowing costs, the effect of which may be Group may be materially different from the current or estimated heightened during periods of liquidity stress.
As part of its ongoing derivatives operations, the Group also faces significant basis, volatility and correlation risks, the Conversely while increases in interest rates may support Group occurrence of which are also impacted by the factors noted income, sharp increases in interest rates could lead to generally above.
weaker than expected growth, or even contracting GDP, reduced business confidence, higher levels of unemployment or In addition, for accounting purposes, the Group carries some of underemployment, adverse changes to levels of inflation, its issued debt, such as debt securities, at the current market potentially higher interest rates and falling property prices in the price on its balance sheet.
Factors affecting the current market markets in which the Group operates.
In turn, this could cause price for such debt, such as the credit spreads of the Group, may stress in the loan portfolio of the Group, particularly in relation to result in a change to the fair value of such debt, which is non-investment grade lending or real estate loans and recognised in the income statement as a profit or loss.
consequently to an increase in delinquency rates and default rates among customers, leading to the possibility of the Group The Groups businesses are subject to substantial incurring higher impairment charges.
Similar risks result from the regulation and oversight.
Significant regulatory exceptionally low levels of inflation in developed economies, developments and increased scrutiny by the Groups key which in Europe particularly could deteriorate into sustained regulators has had and is likely to continue to increase deflation if policy measures prove ineffective.
Reduced monetary compliance and conduct risks and could have a material stimulus and the actions and commercial soundness of other adverse effect on how the Group conducts its business and financial institutions have the potential to impact market liquidity.
on its results of operations and financial condition.
The Group is subject to extensive laws, regulations, corporate The Groups earnings and financial condition have been, and governance requirements, administrative actions and policies in its future earnings and financial condition may continue to each jurisdiction in which it operates.
Many of these have been be, materially affected by depressed asset valuations introduced or amended recently and are subject to further resulting from poor market conditions.
The Groups businesses and performance are affected by financial market conditions.
The performance and volatility of financial markets affect bond and equity prices and have caused, and may in the future cause, changes in the value of the Groups investment and trading portfolios.
392 Additional information Risk factors continued Areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, Among others, the implementation and strengthening of the regulatory and accounting changes and increased public and prudential and recovery and resolution framework applicable to regulatory scrutiny could have an adverse impact some of which financial institutions in the UK, the EU and the US, and future could be material on the Group include, but are not limited to, amendments to such rules, are considerably affecting the those set out above as well as the following: regulatory landscape in which the Group operates and will amendments to the framework or requirements relating to operate in the future, including as a result of the adoption of rules the quality and quantity of regulatory capital to be held by relating to the UK ring-fencing regime, severe restrictions on the Group as well as liquidity and leverage requirements, proprietary trading, CRD IV and the BRRD and certain other either on a solo, consolidated or subgroup level and taking measures.
Increased regulatory focus in certain areas, including into account the Groups new legal structure following the conduct, consumer protection regimes, anti-money laundering, implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime, including anti-tax evasion, payment systems, and antiterrorism laws and amendments to the rules relating to the calculation of riskregulations, have resulted in the Group facing greater regulation weighted assets and reliance on internal models and credit and scrutiny in the UK, the US and other countries in which it ratings as well as rules affecting the eligibility of deferred tax operates.
assets: the design and implementation of national or supranational Recent regulatory changes, proposed or future developments mandated recovery, resolution or insolvency regimes or the and heightened levels of public and regulatory scrutiny in the UK, implementation of additional or conflicting loss-absorption Europe and the US have resulted in increased capital, funding requirements, including those mandated under UK rules, and liquidity requirements, changes in the competitive landscape, BRRD, MREL or by the FSBs recommendations on TLAC: changes in other regulatory requirements and increased new or amended regulations or taxes that reduce profits operating costs, and have impacted, and will continue to impact, attributable to shareholders which may diminish, or restrict, product offerings and business models.
the accumulation of the distributable reserves or distributable items necessary to make distributions or Such changes may also result in an increased number of coupon payments or limit the circumstances in which such regulatory investigations and proceedings and have increased distributions may be made or the extent thereof: the risks relating to the Groups ability to comply with the the monetary, fiscal, interest rate and other policies of applicable body of rules and regulations in the manner and within central banks and other governmental or regulatory bodies: the time frames required.
further investigations, proceedings or fines either against the Group in isolation or together with other large financial Such risks are currently exacerbated by Brexit and the institutions with respect to market conduct wrongdoing: unprecedented degree of uncertainty as to the respective legal the imposition of government-imposed requirements and or and regulatory frameworks in which the Group and its related fines and sanctions with respect to lending to the UK subsidiaries will operate when the UK is no longer a member of SME market and larger commercial and corporate entities: the EU.
For example, current proposed changes to the European increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to mortgage prudential regulatory framework for banks and investment banks lending, including through the implementation of the FCAs may result in additional prudential or structural requirements UK mortgages market study and other initiatives led by the being imposed on financial institutions based outside the EU Bank of England or European regulators: wishing to provide financial services within the EU which may concerns expressed by the FPC and PRA around potential apply to the Group once the UK has formally exited the EU.
See systemic risk associated with recent increases in UK The Group has been, and will remain, in a period of major consumer lending and the impact of consumer credit losses business transformation and structural change through to at least on banks resilience in a stress scenario, which the PRA has 2019 as it implements its own transformation programme and indicated that it will consider when setting capital buffers for seeks to comply with UK ring-fencing and recovery and resolution individual banks: requirements as well as the Alternative Remedies Package.
additional rules and regulatory initiatives and review relating Additional structural changes to the Groups operations will also to customer protection, including the FCAs Treating be required as a result of Brexit.
These various transformation Customers Fairly regime and increased focus by regulators and restructuring activities are required to occur concurrently, on how institutions conduct business, particularly with which carries significant execution and operational risks, and the regard to the delivery of fair outcomes for customers and Group may not be a viable, competitive and profitable bank as a orderly transparent markets: result..
In addition, the Group and its counterparties may no the imposition of additional restrictions on the Groups ability longer be able to rely on the European passporting framework for to compensate its senior management and other employees financial services and could be required to apply for authorisation and increased responsibility and liability rules applicable to in multiple European jurisdictions, the costs, timing and viability of senior and key employees: which is uncertain.
rules and regulations relating to, and enforcement of, antiAny of these developments including failures to comply with new corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, antirules and regulations could have a significant impact on how the terrorism, sanctions, anti-tax evasion or other similar Group conducts its business, its authorisations and licenses, the regimes: products and services it offers, its reputation and the value of its investigations into facilitation of tax evasion or avoidance or assets, the Groups operations or legal entity structure, including the creation of new civil or criminal offences relating thereto: attendant restructuring costs and consequently have a material rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, adverse effect on its business, funding costs, results of nationalisation and confiscation of assets: operations, financial condition and future prospects.
393 Additional information Risk factors continued Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or changes to financial reporting standards including enforcement, or the implementation of new laws, rules or accounting standards or guidance and guidance or the regulations, including contradictory laws, rules or regulations by timing of their implementation: key regulators in different jurisdictions, or failure by the Group to changes to risk aggregation and reporting standards: comply with such laws, rules and regulations, may have a changes to corporate governance requirements, senior material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial manager responsibility, corporate structures and conduct of condition and results of operations.
In addition, uncertainty and business rules: lack of international regulatory coordination as enhanced competition reviews and investigations relating to the retail supervisory standards are developed and implemented may banking sector in the UK, including with respect to SME adversely affect the Groups ability to engage in effective banking and PCAs: business, capital and risk management planning.
financial market infrastructure reforms establishing new rules applying to investment services, short selling, market The Group relies on valuation, capital and stress test models abuse, derivatives markets and investment funds, including to conduct its business, assess its risk exposure and the European Market Infrastructure Regulation and the anticipate capital and funding requirements.
Failure of these Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation in models to provide accurate results or accurately reflect the EU and the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform Consumer changes in the micro-and macroeconomic environment in Protection Act of 2010 in the US: which the Group operates or findings of deficiencies by the increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to UK payment Groups regulators resulting in increased regulatory capital systems by the Payments Systems Regulator and the FCA, requirements could have a material adverse effect on the including in relation to banks policies and procedures for Groups business, capital and results.
handling push payment scams: Given the complexity of the Groups business, strategy and increased attention to competition and innovation in UK capital requirements, the Group relies on analytical models to payment systems and developments relating to the UK manage its business, assess the value of its assets and its risk initiative on Open Banking and the European directive on exposure and anticipate capital and funding requirements, payment services: including with stress testing.
The Groups valuation, capital and new or increased regulations relating to customer data and stress test models and the parameters and assumptions on privacy protection, including the EU General Data Protection which they are based, need to be periodically reviewed and Regulation GDPR : updated to maximise their accuracy.
restrictions on proprietary trading and similar activities within a commercial bank and or a group: Failure of these models to accurately reflect changes in the the introduction of, and changes to, taxes, levies or fees environment in which the Group operates or to be updated in line applicable to the Groups operations, such as the imposition with the Groups business model or operations, or the failure to of a financial transaction tax, changes in tax rates, increases properly input any such changes could have an adverse impact in the bank corporation tax surcharge in the UK, restrictions on the modelled results or could fail to accurately capture the on the tax deductibility of interest payments or further Groups risk exposure or the risk profile of the Groups financial restrictions imposed on the treatment of carry-forward tax instruments or result in the Group being required to hold losses that reduce the value of deferred tax assets and additional capital as a function of the PRA buffer.
For example, require increased payments of tax: as the Group implements its transformation programme, including the regulation or endorsement of credit ratings used in the the restructuring and funding of its NatWest Markets franchise EU whether issued by agencies in European member and the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime, any states or in other countries, such as the US : impacted models would need to be correctly identified and the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID adapted in line with the implementation process.
The Group also regulating the provision of investment services and uses valuation models that rely on market data inputs.
If incorrect activities in relation to a range of customer-related areas market data is input into a valuation model, it may result in and the revised directive MiFID II and new regulation incorrect valuations or valuations different to those which were Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation or MiFIR predicted and used by the Group in its forecasts or decision replacing and changing MiFID to include expanded making.
Internal stress test models may also rely on different, supervisory powers that include the ability to ban specific less severe, assumptions or take into account different data products, services and practices: points than those defined by the Groups regulators.
the European Commissions proposal to impose a requirement for any bank established outside the EU, which Some of the analytical models used by the Group are predictive has an asset base of a certain size and has two or more in nature.
In addition, a number of internal models used by Group institutions within the EU, to establish a single intermediate subsidiaries are designed, managed and analysed by the Group parent undertaking IPU in the European Union, under and may not appropriately capture the risks and exposures at which all EU entities within that group would operate: and subsidiary level.
Some of the Groups internal models are subject other requirements or policies affecting the Group and its to periodic review by its regulators and, if found deficient, the profitability or product offering, including through the Group may be required to make changes to such models or may imposition of increased compliance obligations or be precluded from using any such models, which could result in obligations which may lead to restrictions on business an additional capital requirement which could have a material growth, product offerings, or pricing.
impact on the Groups capital position.
394 Additional information Risk factors continued The Groups operations entail inherent reputational risk, i. e. The Group could face adverse consequences as a result of the risk of brand damage and or financial loss due to a decisions which may lead to actions by management based on failure to meet stakeholders expectations of the Groups models that are poorly developed, implemented or used, or as a conduct, performance and business profile.
result of the modelled outcome being misunderstood or such Brand damage can be detrimental to the business of the Group in information being used for purposes for which it was not a number of ways, including its ability to build or sustain business designed.
Risks arising from the use of models could have a relationships with customers, low staff morale, regulatory censure material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial or reduced access to, or an increase in the cost of, funding.
In condition and results of operations, minimum capital particular, negative public opinion resulting from the actual or requirements and reputation.
perceived manner in which the Group conducts or modifies its business activities and operations, including as a result of the The Group is subject to stress tests mandated by its transformation programme or other restructuring efforts, regulators in the UK and in Europe which may result in speculative or inaccurate media coverage, the Groups financial additional capital requirements or management actions performance, ongoing investigations and proceedings and the which, in turn, may impact the Groups financial condition, settlement of any such investigations and proceedings, IT failures results of operations and investor confidence or result in or cyber-attacks resulting in the loss or publication of confidential restrictions on distributions.
customer data or other sensitive information, the level of direct The Group is subject to annual stress tests by its regulator in the and indirect government support, or the actual or perceived UK and also subject to stress tests by the European regulators strength or practices in the banking and financial industry may with respect to RBSG, RBS N. V. and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC.
adversely affect the Groups ability to keep and attract customers Stress tests provide an estimate of the amount of capital banks and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors.
might deplete in a hypothetical stress scenario.
In addition, if the stress tests reveal that a banks existing regulatory capital buffers Modern technologies, in particular online social networks and are not sufficient to absorb the impact of the stress, it is possible other broadcast tools which facilitate communication with large that it will need to take action to strengthen its capital position.
audiences in short time frames and with minimal costs, may also There is a strong expectation that the PRA would require a bank significantly enhance and accelerate the impact of damaging to take action if, at any point during the stress, a bank were information and allegations.
projected to breach any of its minimum CET1 capital or leverage ratio requirements.
Although the Group has implemented a Reputational Risk Policy across customer-facing businesses to improve the identification, However, if a bank is projected to fail to meet its systemic buffers, assessment and management of customers, transactions, it will still be expected to strengthen its capital position over time products and issues which represent a reputational risk, the but the supervisory response is expected to be less intensive Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in avoiding than if it were projected to breach its minimum capital damage to its business from reputational risk, which could result requirements.
The PRA will also use the annual stress test in a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial results to inform its determination of whether individual banks condition, results of operations and prospects.
current capital positions are adequate or need strengthening.
For some banks, their individual stress-test results might imply that The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical rates set for all accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that banks is not consistent with the impact of the stress on them.
In underlie the preparation of its financial statements.
Its that case, the PRA can increase regulatory capital buffers for results in future periods may be affected by changes to individual banks by adjusting their PRA buffers.
applicable accounting rules and standards.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to Under the 2017 Bank of England stress tests, which were based make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the on the balance sheet of the Group for the year ended 31 reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
December 2016, the Groups capital position before the impact of Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, results strategic management actions that the PRA judged could reported in future periods may reflect amounts which differ from realistically be taken in the stress scenario remained below its those estimates.
Estimates, judgements and assumptions take CET1 capital hurdle rate and above its Tier 1 leverage hurdle into account historical experience and other factors, including rate.
After the impact of strategic management actions the market practice and expectations of future events that are Groups capital position would have remained above its CET1 believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
capital hurdle rate, but the PRA judged that RBS did not meet its systemic reference point in this scenario.
Given the steps RBS The accounting policies deemed critical to the Groups results had already taken to strengthen its capital position during 2017, and financial position, based upon materiality and significant the PRA did not require the Group to submit a revised capital judgements and estimates, include goodwill, provisions for plan.
liabilities, deferred tax, loan impairment provisions, fair value of financial instruments, which are discussed in detail in Critical Failure by the Group to meet the thresholds set as part of the accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty on stress tests carried out by its regulators in the UK and elsewhere pages 259 to 261.
IFRS Standards and Interpretations that have may result in the Groups regulators requiring the Group to been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board generate additional capital, increased supervision and or the IASB but which have not yet been adopted by the Group are regulatory sanctions, restrictions on capital distributions and loss discussed in Accounting developments on pages 261 to 263. of investor confidence, which may impact the Groups financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
395 Additional information Risk factors continued The Groups businesses are also exposed to risks from employee Changes in accounting standards or guidance by accounting misconduct including non-compliance with policies and regulatory bodies or in the timing of their implementation, whether rules, negligence or fraud including financial crimes, any of mandatory or as a result of recommended disclosure relating to which could result in regulatory fines or sanctions and serious the future implementation of such standards could result in the reputational or financial harm to the Group.
In recent years, a Group having to recognise additional liabilities on its balance number of multinational financial institutions, including the Group, sheet, or in further write-downs or impairments and could also have suffered material losses due to the actions of employees, significantly impact the financial results, condition and prospects including, for example, in connection with the foreign exchange of the Group.
and LIBOR investigations and the Group may not succeed in protecting itself from such conduct in the future.
It is not always In July 2014, the IASB published a new accounting standard for possible to timely detect or deter employee misconduct and the financial instruments IFRS 9 effective for annual periods precautions the Group takes to detect and prevent this activity beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
It introduced a new may not always be effective.
framework for the recognition and measurement of credit The Group has implemented a number of policies and allocated impairment, based on expected credit losses, rather than the new resources in order to help mitigate against these risks.
The incurred loss model currently applied under IAS 39.
The inclusion Group has also prioritised initiatives to reinforce good conduct in of loss allowances with respect to all financial assets that are not its engagement with the markets in which it operates, together recorded at fair value tend to result in an increase in overall with the development of preventative and detective controls in impairment balances when compared with the previous basis of order to positively influence behaviour.
The Group expects IFRS 9 to increase earnings and capital volatility in 2018 and beyond.
The Groups transformation programme is also intended to improve the Groups control environment.
Nonetheless, no The valuation of financial instruments, including derivatives, assurance can be given that the Groups strategy and control measured at fair value can be subjective, in particular where framework will be effective and that conduct and financial crime models are used which include unobservable inputs.
Generally, issues will not have an adverse effect on the Groups results of to establish the fair value of these instruments, the Group relies operations, financial condition or prospects.
on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that The Group may be adversely impacted if its risk utilise observable market data.
In certain circumstances, the data management is not effective and there may be significant for individual financial instruments or classes of financial challenges in maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be risk management framework as a result of the number of available or may become unavailable due to prevailing market strategic and restructuring initiatives being carried out by conditions.
In such circumstances, the Groups internal valuation the Group simultaneously.
models require the Group to make assumptions, judgements and The management of risk is an integral part of all of the Groups estimates to establish fair value, which are complex and often activities.
Risk management includes the definition and relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
Resulting changes monitoring of the Groups risk appetite and reporting of the in the fair values of the financial instruments has had and could Groups exposure to uncertainty and the consequent adverse continue to have a material adverse effect on the Groups effect on profitability or financial condition arising from different earnings, financial condition and capital position.
sources of uncertainty and risks as described throughout these risk factors.
The Group is exposed to conduct risk which may adversely impact the Group or its employees and may result in Ineffective risk management may arise from a wide variety of conduct having a detrimental impact on the Groups events and behaviours, including lack of transparency or customers or counterparties.
incomplete risk reporting, unidentified conflicts or misaligned In recent years, the Group has sought to refocus its culture on incentives, lack of accountability control and governance, lack of serving the needs of its customers and continues to redesign consistency in risk monitoring and management or insufficient many of its systems and processes to promote this focus and challenges or assurance processes.
However, the Group is exposed to various forms of Failure to manage risks effectively could adversely impact the conduct risk in its operations.
These include business and Groups reputation or its relationship with its customers, strategic planning that does not adequately reflect the Groups shareholders or other stakeholders, which in turn could have a customers needs, ineffective management and monitoring of significant effect on the Groups business prospects, financial products and their distribution, actions taken that may not condition and or results of operations.
conform to the Groups customer-centric focus, outsourcing of customer service and product delivery via third parties that do not Risk management is also strongly related to the use and have appropriate levels of control, oversight and culture, the effectiveness of internal stress tests and models.
See The Group possibility of alleged mis-selling of financial products or the relies on valuation, capital and stress test models to conduct its mishandling of complaints related to the sale of such product, or business, assess its risk exposure and anticipate capital and poor governance of incentives and rewards.
Some of these risks funding requirements.
Failure of these models to provide have materialised in the past and ineffective management and accurate results or accurately reflect changes in the micro-and oversight of conduct issues may result in customers being poorly macroeconomic environment in which the Group operates or or unfairly treated and may in the future lead to further findings of deficiencies by the Groups regulators resulting in remediation and regulatory intervention enforcement.
increased regulatory capital requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, capital and results.
396 Additional information Risk factors continued In addition, in order to ensure the independence of the RFB as A failure by the Group to embed a strong risk culture across part of the Groups implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime, the organisation could adversely affect the Groups ability to the Group will be required to recruit new independent directors achieve its strategic objective.
and senior members of management to sit on the boards of In response to weaknesses identified in previous years, the directors and board committees of the RFB and other Group Group is currently seeking to embed a strong risk culture within entities, and there may be a limited pool of competent candidates the Group based on a robust risk appetite and governance from which such appointments can be made.
A key component of this approach is the three lines of defence model designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk The Groups evolving strategy has led to the departure of a large across all levels of the organisation.
This framework has been number of experienced and capable employees.
The implemented and improvements continue and will continue to be restructuring relating to the ongoing implementation of the made to clarify and improve the three lines of defence and Groups transformation programme and related cost-reduction internal risk responsibilities and resources, including in response targets may cause experienced staff members to leave and to feedback from regulators.
Notwithstanding the Groups efforts, prospective staff members not to join the Group.
The lack of changing an organisations risk culture requires significant time, continuity of senior management and the loss of important investment and leadership, and such efforts may not insulate the personnel coordinating certain or several aspects of the Groups Group from future instances of misconduct.
A failure by any of restructuring could have an adverse impact on its these three lines to carry out their responsibilities or to effectively implementation.
embed this culture could have a material adverse effect on the Group through an inability to achieve its strategic objectives for The failure to attract or retain a sufficient number of appropriately its customers, employees and wider stakeholders.
skilled personnel to manage the complex restructuring required to implement the Groups strategy could prevent the Group from As a result of the commercial and regulatory environment in successfully maintaining its current standards of operation, which it operates, the Group may be unable to attract or implementing its strategy and meeting regulatory commitments.
retain senior management including members of the board This could have a material adverse effect on the Groups and other skilled personnel of the appropriate qualification business, financial condition and results of operations.
The Group may also suffer if it does not maintain good employee relations.
In addition, many of the Groups employees in the UK, Republic The Groups current and future success depend on its ability to of Ireland and continental Europe are represented by employee attract, retain and remunerate highly skilled and qualified representative bodies, including trade unions.
Engagement with personnel, including senior management which includes its employees and such bodies is important to the Group and a directors and other key employees, in a highly competitive breakdown of these relationships could adversely affect the labour market.
This cannot be guaranteed, particularly in light of Groups business, reputation and results.
heightened regulatory oversight of banks and the increasing scrutiny of, and in some cases restrictions placed upon, HM Treasury or UKFI on its behalf may be able to exercise employee compensation arrangements, in particular those of a significant degree of influence over the Group and any banks in receipt of Government support such as the Group, further offer or sale of its interests may affect the price of which may place the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
securities issued by the Group.
In addition, the market for skilled personnel is increasingly On 6 August 2015, the UK Government made its first sale of competitive, thereby raising the cost of hiring, training and RBSG ordinary shares since its original investment in 2009 and retaining skilled personnel.
sold approximately 5.4% of its stake in RBSG.
Following this initial sale, the UK Government exercised its conversion rights Certain of the Groups directors as well as members of its under the B Shares on 14 October 2015 which resulted in HM executive committee and certain other senior managers and Treasury holding 72.88% of the ordinary share capital of RBSG.
employees are also subject to the new responsibility regime introduced under the Banking Reform Act 2013 which introduces The UK Government, through HM Treasury, held 70.5% of the clearer accountability rules for those within the new regime.
The issued ordinary share capital of the Group as of 31 December senior managers regime and certification regime took effect on 7 2017.
The UK Government in its November 2017 Autumn Budget March 2016, whilst the conduct rules apply to the wider employee indicated its intention to recommence the process for the population from 7 March 2017, with the exception of some privatisation of RBSG before the end of 2018-2019 and to carry transitional provisions.
The new regulatory regime may contribute out over the forecast period a programme of sales of RBSG to reduce the pool of candidates for key management and nonordinary shares expected to sell down approximately two thirds of executive roles, including non-executive directors with the right HM Treasurys current shareholding in the Group, although there skills, knowledge and experience, or increase the number of can be no certainty as to the commencement of any sell-downs departures of existing employees, given concerns over the or the timing or extent thereof.
allocation of responsibilities and personal liability introduced by the new rules.
Any offers or sale, or expectations relating to the timing thereof, of a substantial number of ordinary shares by HM Treasury, could negatively affect prevailing market prices for the outstanding ordinary shares of RBSG and other securities issued by the Group and lead to a period of increased price volatility for the Groups securities.
397 Additional information Risk factors continued Adverse findings resulting from current or future competition In addition, UKFI manages HM Treasurys shareholder investigations may result in the imposition of reforms or remedies relationship with the Group and, although HM Treasury has which may impact the competitive landscape in which the Group indicated that it intends to respect the commercial decisions of operates or result in restrictions on mergers and consolidations the Group and that the Group will continue to have its own within the UK financial sector.
independent board of directors and management team determining its own strategy, its position as a majority The impact of any such developments in the UK will become shareholder and UKFIs position as manager of this more significant as the Groups business becomes increasingly shareholding means that HM Treasury or UKFI might be able to concentrated in the UK retail sector.
These and other changes to exercise a significant degree of influence over, among other the competitive framework in which the Group operates could things, the election of directors and appointment of senior have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, margins, management, the Groups capital strategy, dividend policy, profitability, financial condition and prospects.
remuneration policy or the conduct of the Groups operations.
The manner in which HM Treasury or UKFI exercises HM The Group and its subsidiaries are subject to an evolving Treasurys rights as majority shareholder could give rise to framework on recovery and resolution, the impact of which conflicts between the interests of HM Treasury and the interests remains uncertain, and which may result in additional of other shareholders.
The Board has a duty to promote the compliance challenges and costs.
success of the Group for the benefit of its members as a whole.
In the EU, the UK and the US, regulators have implemented or are in the process of implementing recovery and resolution The Group operates in markets that are subject to intense regimes designed to prevent the failure of financial institutions scrutiny by the competition authorities and its business and and resolution tools to ensure the timely and orderly resolution of results of operations could be materially affected by financial institutions without use of public funds.
competition decisions and other regulatory interventions.
The competitive landscape for banks and other financial These initiatives have been complemented by a broader set of institutions in the UK, the rest of Europe and the US is changing initiatives to improve the resilience of financial institutions and rapidly.
Recent regulatory and legal changes have and may reduce systemic risk, including the UK ring-fencing regime, the continue to result in new market participants and changed introduction of certain prudential requirements and powers under competitive dynamics in certain key areas, such as in retail and CRD IV, and certain other measures introduced under the BRRD, SME banking in the UK where the introduction of new entrants is including the requirements relating to loss absorbing capital.
being actively encouraged by the UK Government.
The competitive landscape in the UK is also likely to be affected by The BRRD, which was implemented in the UK from January the UK Governments implementation of the UK ring-fencing 2015, provides a framework for the recovery and resolution of regime and other customer protection measures introduced by credit institutions and investment firms, their subsidiaries and the Banking Reform Act 2013.
The implementation of these certain holding companies in the EU, and the tools and powers reforms may result in the consolidation of newly separated introduced under the BRRD include preparatory and preventive businesses or assets of certain financial institutions with those of measures, early supervisory intervention powers and resolution other parties to realise new synergies or protect their competitive tools.
position and is likely to increase competitive pressures on the Group.
Implementation of certain provisions of the BRRD remains subject to secondary rulemaking as well as a review by the The UK retail banking sector has been subjected to intense European Parliament and the European Commission of certain scrutiny by the UK competition authorities and by other bodies, topics mandated by the BRRD.
In November 2016, as a result of including the FCA, in recent years, including with a number of this review, the European Commission published a package of reviews inquiries being carried out, including market reviews proposals seeking to introduce certain amendments to CRD IV conducted by the CMA and its predecessor the Office of Fair and the BRRD.
These proposals are now subject to further Trading regarding SME banking and personal banking products discussions and negotiations among the European institutions and services, the Independent Commission on Banking and the and it is not possible to anticipate their final content.
Further Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards.
amendments to the BRRD or the implementing rules in the EU or the UK may also be necessary to ensure continued consistency These reviews raised significant concerns about the with the FSB recommendations on key attributes of national effectiveness of competition in the retail banking sector.
The resolution regimes and resolution planning for G-SIBs, including CMAs Retail Banking Market Investigation report sets out with respect to TLAC and MREL requirements.
measures primarily intended to make it easier for consumers and businesses to compare PCA and SME bank products, increase In light of these potential developments as well as the impact of the transparency of price comparison between banks and amend Brexit, there remains uncertainty as to the rules which may apply PCA overdraft charging.
The CMA is working with HM Treasury to the Group going forward.
In addition, banks headquartered in and other regulators to implement these remedies which are countries which are members of the Eurozone are now subject to likely to impose additional compliance requirements on the Group the European banking union framework.
and could, in aggregate, adversely impact the Groups competitive position, product offering and revenues.
398 Additional information Risk factors continued Achieving compliance with the expectations set out in any such In November 2014, the ECB assumed direct supervisory statement of policy, once finalised, may require changes to the responsibility for RBS N. V. and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC under Groups existing valuation processes and or the development of the Single Supervisory Mechanism SSM.
As a result of the additional capabilities, infrastructure and processes.
The Group above, there remains uncertainty as to how the relevant may incur costs in complying with such obligations, which costs resolution regimes in force in the UK, the Eurozone and other may increase if the Bank of England determined that the Groups jurisdictions, would interact in the event of a resolution of the valuation capabilities constitute an impediment to resolution and Group, although it remains clear that the Bank of England, as UK subsequently exercised its statutory power to direct the Group to resolution authority, would be responsible for resolution of the take measures to address such impediment.
Group overall consistent with the Groups single point of entry bail-in resolution strategy, as determined by the Bank of England In addition, compliance by the Group with this recovery and resolution framework has required and is expected to continue to The BRRD requires national resolution funds to raise ex ante require significant work and engagement with the Groups contributions on banks and investment firms in proportion to their regulators, including in order for the Group to continue to submit liabilities and risk profiles and allow them to raise additional ex to the PRA an annual recovery plan assessed as meeting post funding contributions in the event the ex-ante contributions regulatory requirements and to be assessed as resolvable by the do not cover the losses, costs or other expenses incurred by use Bank of England.
The outcome of this regulatory dialogue may of the resolution fund.
Although receipts from the UK bank levy impact the Groups operations or structure or otherwise result in are currently being used to meet the ex-ante and ex post funding increased costs, including as a result of the Bank of Englands requirements, the Group may be required to make additional power under section 3A of the Banking Act to direct institutions to contributions in the future.
In addition, Group entities in countries address impediments to resolvability.
subject to the European banking union are required to pay supervisory fees towards the funding of the SSM as well as The Group may become subject to the application of contributions to the single resolution fund.
stabilisation or resolution powers in certain significant stress situations, which may result in various actions being The recovery and resolution regime implementing the BRRD in taken in relation to the Group and any securities of the the UK places compliance and reporting obligations on the Group, including the write-off, write-down or conversion of Group.
These compliance and reporting obligations may result in the Groups securities.
increased costs, including as a result of the Groups mandatory The Banking Act 2009, as amended to implement the BRRD participation in resolution funds, and heightened compliance risks Banking Act confers substantial powers on relevant UK and the Group may not be in a position to comply with all such authorities designed to enable them to take a range of actions in requirements within the prescribed deadlines or at all.
In addition relation to UK banks or investment firms and certain of their to the costs associated with the issuance of MREL-eligible debt affiliates in the event a bank or investment firm in the same group securities and compliance with internal MREL requirements, is considered to be failing or likely to fail.
Under the Banking Act, further changes may be required for the Group to enhance its wide powers are granted to the Bank of England as the relevant resolvability, in particular due to regulatory requirements relating resolution authority, as appropriate as part of a special resolution to operational continuity and valuations capabilities in resolution.
These powers enable the Bank of England to implement resolution measures with respect to a UK bank or In July 2016, the PRA adopted a new framework requiring investment firm and certain of its affiliates including, for example, financial institutions to ensure the continuity of critical shared RBSG each a relevant entity in circumstances in which the services provided by entities within the group or external relevant UK resolution authorities are satisfied that the resolution providers to facilitate recovery action, orderly resolution and conditions are met.
Under the applicable regulatory framework post-resolution restructuring, which will apply from 1 January and pursuant to guidance issued by the Bank of England, 2019. governmental financial support, if any is provided, would only be used as a last resort measure where a serious threat to financial The application of such rules to the Group requires the Group to stability cannot be avoided by other measures such as the restructure certain of its activities relating to the provision of stabilisation options described below, including the UK bail-in services from one legal entity to another within the Group, may power and subject to the limitations set out in the Banking Act.
limit the Groups ability to outsource certain functions and will result in increased costs resulting from the requirement to ensure Several stabilisation options and tools are available to the Bank the financial and operational resilience and independent of England under the SRR, where a resolution has been governance of such critical services.
In addition, the Bank of England may commence In August 2017, the Bank of England published a consultation special administration or liquidation procedures specifically paper setting out its preliminary views on the valuation applicable to banks.
Where stabilisation options are used which capabilities that firms should have in place prior to resolution.
The rely on the use of public funds, such funds can only be used once Bank of England has not yet published a final statement of policy there has been a contribution to loss absorption and in this area.
recapitalisation of at least 8% of the total liabilities of the institution under resolution.
The Bank of England has indicated that among these options, the UK bail-in tool as described further below would apply in the event that a resolution of the Group were triggered.
399 Additional information Risk factors continued The UK government amended the provisions of the Banking Act Further, the Banking Act grants broad powers to the Bank of to ensure the consistency of these provisions with the bail-in England, the application of which may adversely affect provisions under the BRRD, which amendments came into effect contractual arrangements and which include the ability to i on 1 January 2015.
The UK bail-in tool includes both a power to modify or cancel contractual arrangements to which an entity in write-down or convert capital instruments and triggered at the resolution is party, in certain circumstances: ii suspend or point of non-viability of a financial institution and a bail-in tool override the enforcement provisions or termination rights that applicable to eligible liabilities including senior unsecured debt might be invoked by counterparties facing an entity in resolution, securities issued by the Group and available in resolution.
as a result of the exercise of the resolution powers: and iii disapply or modify laws in the UK with possible retrospective The capital instruments write-down and conversion power may effect to enable the powers under the Banking Act to be used be exercised independently of, or in combination with, the effectively.
exercise of a resolution tool, and it allows resolution authorities to cancel all or a portion of the principal amount of capital The stabilisation options are intended to be applied prior to the instruments and or convert such capital instruments into common point at which any insolvency proceedings with respect to the equity Tier 1 instruments when an institution is no longer viable.
relevant entity would otherwise have been initiated.
Accordingly, The point of non-viability for such purposes is the point at which the stabilisation options may be exercised if the relevant UK the Bank of England or the PRA determines that the institution resolution authority: i is satisfied that a UK bank or investment meets certain conditions under the Banking Act, for example if firm is failing, or is likely to fail: ii determines that it is not the institution will no longer be viable unless the relevant capital reasonably likely that ignoring the stabilisation powers action instruments are written down or extraordinary public support is will be taken by or in respect of a UK bank or investment firm that provided, and without such support the appropriate authority will result in condition i above ceasing to be met: iii considers determines that the institution would no longer be viable.
The the exercise of the stabilisation powers to be necessary, having Bank of England may exercise the power to write down or regard to certain public interest considerations such as the convert capital instruments without any further exercise of stability of the UK financial system, public confidence in the UK resolution tools, as may be the case where the write-down or banking system and the protection of depositors, being some of conversion of capital instruments is sufficient to restore an the special resolution objectives and iv considers that the institution to viability.
special resolution objectives would not be met to the same extent by the winding-up of the UK bank or investment firm.
Where the conditions for resolution exist and it is determined that a stabilisation power may be exercised, the Bank of England may In the event that the Bank of England seeks to exercise its use the bail-in tool in combination with other resolution tools powers in relation to a UK banking group company such as under the Banking Act to, among other things, cancel or reduce RBSG, the relevant UK resolution authority has to be satisfied all or a portion of the principal amount of, or interest on, certain that A the conditions set out in i to iv above are met in unsecured liabilities of a failing financial institution and or convert respect of a UK bank or investment firm in the same banking certain debt claims into another security, including ordinary group or, in respect of an EEA or third country credit institution shares of the surviving entity.
or investment firm in the same banking group, the relevant EEA or third country resolution authority is satisfied that the conditions In addition, the Bank of England may use the bail-in tool to, for resolution applicable in its jurisdiction are met and B certain among other things, replace or substitute the issuer as obligor in criteria are met, such as the exercise of the powers in relation to respect of debt instruments, modify the terms of debt instruments such UK banking group company being necessary having regard including altering the maturity if any and or the amount of to public interest considerations.
The use of different stabilisation interest payable and or imposing a temporary suspension on powers is also subject to further specific conditions that vary payments and discontinue the listing and admission to trading of according to the relevant stabilisation power being used.
The exercise of the bail-in tool will be Although the SRR sets out the pre-conditions for determining determined by the Bank of England which will have discretion to whether an institution is failing or likely to fail, it is uncertain how determine whether the institution has reached a point of nonthe relevant UK resolution authority would assess such viability or whether the conditions for resolution are met, by conditions in any particular pre-insolvency scenario affecting application of the relevant provisions of the Banking Act, and RBSG and or other members of the Group and in deciding involves decisions being taken by the PRA and the Bank of whether to exercise a resolution power.
There has been no England, in consultation with the FCA and HM Treasury.
As a application of the SRR powers in the UK to a large financial result, it will be difficult to predict when, if at all, the exercise of institution, such as RBSG, to date, which could provide an the bail-in power may occur.
indication of the relevant UK resolution authoritys approach to the exercise of the resolution powers, and even if such examples The potential impact of these powers and their prospective use existed, they may not be indicative of how such powers would be may include increased volatility in the market price of shares and applied to RBSG.
Therefore, holders of shares and other other securities issued by the Group, as well as increased securities issued by the Group may not be able to anticipate a difficulties in issuing securities in the capital markets and potential exercise of any such powers.
increased costs of raising such funds.
The UK bail-in tool is one of the powers available to the Bank of If these powers were to be exercised or there is an increased England under the SRR and was introduced under the Banking risk of exercise in respect of the Group or any entity within the Reform Act 2013.
Group, such exercise could result in a material adverse effect on the rights or interests of shareholders which would likely be extinguished or very heavily diluted.
400 Additional information Risk factors continued The FSCS funds compensation for customers by raising levies on Holders of debt securities which may include holders of senior the industry, including the Group.
In relation to protected unsecured debt, may see the conversion of part or all of their deposits, each deposit-taking institution contributes towards claims into equity or written down in part or written off entirely.
In these levies in proportion to their share of total protected accordance with the rules of the Special Resolution Regime, the deposits.
losses imposed on holders of equity and debt instruments through the exercise of bail-in powers would be subject to the no In the event that the FSCS needs to raise additional and creditor worse off safeguard, which requires losses net of any unexpected funding, is required to raise funds more frequently or compensation received not to exceed those which would be significantly increases the levies to be paid by authorised firms, realised in an insolvency counterfactual.
the associated costs to the Group may have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition.
Although the above represents the risks associated with the UK bail-in power currently in force in the UK and applicable to the To the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group operates Groups securities, changes to the scope of, or conditions for the have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, exercise of the UK bail-in power may be introduced as a result of contributory or reimbursement schemes, the Group may make further political or regulatory developments.
For example, the further provisions and may incur additional costs and liabilities, application of these powers to internally-issued MREL which may have an adverse impact on its financial condition and instruments, issued by one group entity and held solely by its results of operations.
parent entity, is currently being consulted on by the Bank of England.
In addition, further political, legal or strategic The Group intends to execute the run-down and or the sale developments may lead to structural changes to the Group, of certain portfolios and assets.
Failure by the Group to do including at the holding company level.
Notwithstanding any such so on commercially favourable terms could have a material changes, the Group expects that its securities would remain adverse effect on the Groups operations, operating results, subject to the exercise of a form of bail-in power, either pursuant financial position and reputation.
to the provisions of the Banking Act, the BRRD or otherwise.
The Groups ability to execute the run-down and or sale of certain portfolios and assets and the price achieved for such disposals The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the will be dependent on prevailing economic and market conditions.
Group has purchased depends on the value of the underlying assets and the financial condition of the insurers As a result, there is no assurance that the Group will be able to and counterparties.
sell or run down these portfolios or assets either on favourable The Group has some remaining credit exposure arising from economic terms to the Group or at all or that it may do so within over-the-counter derivative contracts, mainly credit default swaps the intended timetable.
Material tax or other contingent liabilities CDSs, and other credit derivatives, each of which are carried at could arise on the disposal or run-down of assets and there is no fair value.
assurance that any conditions precedent agreed will be satisfied, or consents and approvals required will be obtained in a timely The fair value of these CDSs, as well as the Groups exposure to manner or at all.
The Group may be exposed to deteriorations in the risk of default by the underlying counterparties, depends on the portfolios or assets being sold between the announcement of the valuation and the perceived credit risk of the instrument the disposal and its completion, which period may span many against which protection has been bought.
counterparties have been adversely affected by their exposure to residential mortgage-linked and corporate credit products, In addition, the Group may be exposed to certain risks, including whether synthetic or otherwise, and their actual and perceived risks arising out of ongoing liabilities and obligations, breaches of creditworthiness may deteriorate rapidly.
If the financial condition covenants, representations and warranties, indemnity claims, of these counterparties or their actual or perceived transitional services arrangements and redundancy or other creditworthiness deteriorates, the Group may record further credit transaction-related costs, and counterparty risk in respect of valuation adjustments on the credit protection bought from these buyers of assets being sold.
The Group also recognises any fluctuations in the fair value of other credit derivatives.
The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of Any such adjustments or fair value changes may have a material operations, financial condition and capital position and adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of consequently may have the potential to impact the competitive operations.
position of part or all of the Groups business.
In the UK and in other jurisdictions, the Group is responsible The Groups results could be adversely affected in the event for contributing to compensation schemes in respect of of goodwill impairment.
banks and other authorised financial services firms that are The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess unable to meet their obligations to customers.
of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the In the UK, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
was established under the Financial Services and Markets Act Acquired goodwill is recognised initially at cost and subsequently 2000 and is the UKs statutory fund of last resort for customers of at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
As required by authorised financial services firms.
The FSCS pays IFRS Standards, the Group tests goodwill for impairment compensation if a firm is unable to meet its obligations.
annually, or more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
401 Additional information Risk factors continued Changes in tax legislation or failure to generate future An impairment test involves comparing the recoverable amount taxable profits may impact the recoverability of certain the higher of the value in use and fair value less cost to sell of deferred tax assets recognised by the Group.
an individual cash generating unit with its carrying value.
In accordance with IFRS Standards, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets on losses available to relieve future profits At 31 December 2017, the Group carried goodwill of 5.6 billion from tax only to the extent it is probable that they will be on its balance sheet.
The value in use and fair value of the recovered.
The deferred tax assets are quantified on the basis of Groups cash-generating units are affected by market conditions current tax legislation and accounting standards and are subject and the performance of the economies in which the Group to change in respect of the future rates of tax or the rules for operates.
computing taxable profits and offsetting allowable losses.
Where the Group is required to recognise a goodwill impairment, Failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or further it is recorded in the Groups income statement, but it has no changes in tax legislation including rates of tax or accounting effect on the Groups regulatory capital position.
Further standards may reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised impairments of the Groups goodwill could have an adverse effect deferred tax assets.
Changes to the treatment of deferred tax on the Groups results and financial condition.
assets may impact the Groups capital, for example by reducing further the Groups ability to recognise deferred tax assets.
The implementation of the rules relating to the UK ring-fencing regime and the resulting restructuring of the Group may further restrict the Groups ability to recognise tax deferred tax assets in respect of brought forward losses.
402 Additional information Approach to the Financial Stability Boards Task Force on Direct impacts Climate-related Financial Disclosure TCFD The strategy for managing direct climate change impacts is recommendations focused on continued efficiency of buildings, processes and In 2016, the Financial Stability Board FSB launched an industryassociated activities such as business travel.
In 2017 90% of UK led initiative, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial and Republic of Ireland electricity usage was from renewable Disclosure, to review how to best manage the threat climate sources 66% globally.
RBS is also investing in its property change presents to the stability of the global financial system.
estate to reduce energy usage and waste.
This is further The mandate was to develop recommendations for voluntary, supported by the Innovation Gateway initiative for green consistent climate-related risk to provide information to entrepreneurs.
The property strategy has and will aim to continue stakeholders.
The Task Force considered the physical, liability to result in a material reduction in footprint which in aggregate will and transition risks associated with climate change.
reduce the exposure to direct physical impacts for climate-related risks.
The Task Force published its final recommendations in June 2017.
RBS welcomed the release of these recommendations and RBS also continues to refine its business continuity plans to deal is committed to implementing them.
RBS has reported on carbon with the impact of severe weather to operations and sees the emissions and climate-related matters, and submitted information shift to digital and mobile banking as helping to improve the to the CDP sustainability index, since 2003. resilience of the business and customers activities during severe Governance weather.
The Board has oversight of climate related risks and opportunities through the Sustainable Banking Committee SBC.
Indirect impacts SBCs remit includes considering relevant environmental, social The strategy for managing indirect climate change impacts is and ethical issues and during 2017 was engaged on focused on supporting customers with the transition to a low environmental targets, the sustainable energy strategy and carbon economy through the provision of financial products and reputational risk appetite.
In addition, in August 2017 SBC invited services.
RBS is committed to ensuring it does not miss the a group of external experts to attend a stakeholder engagement substantial opportunities available to finance low carbon session on climate change risk.
For further details on risk technologies and has been recognised externally as a leader in governance, see page 152. supporting renewable energy finance.
RBS expects these, and wider opportunities to continue to grow in the future.
At a franchise level, climate-related opportunities in relation to supporting customers through the low carbon transition are Risk Management managed and assessed through the business and products RBS employs a continuous process for identifying and managing approvals processes, with strategy and co-ordination undertaken emerging risks, including climate-related risks.
While no climateby the cross-bank Sustainable Energy Forum SEF.
This forum related risks have been identified that would have a major impact brings together senior leaders from across RBS who support on RBSs strategy over a five-year horizon, the ability to manage customers from SMEs to multinationals to achieve their new, emerging and unforeseen threats is a key element of the sustainable energy ambitions.
Strategy The RBS climate change strategy is driven by a range of external The impact of climate-related issues on the risk profile of RBSs and internal drivers and encompasses all activities covering both customers may also be considered as part of the periodic sector direct and indirect impacts.
reviews and deep dives carried out to monitor and assess different types of risk across the portfolios.
Further climate Climate Change Strategy Drivers scenario analysis will be undertaken in 2018.
Climatechange Governance Customers RBS has significantly reduced its credit exposure to the sectors Sustainable Banking most vulnerable to climate-related regulation and market Committee Risk TCFD changes.
At 31 December 2017, total exposure to the Power and Management Bankof Oil & Gas sectors had reduced to 1.2% of total lending Customer England PRA productsand exposures.
climatechange services Reputation risk and Investors environmental, RBS has had a policy in place for ESE risks since 2011.
The social, Special policy includes sectors sensitive to climate-related risk, such as Sustainable ethicalrisk Sciencebased interestgroups Energy operational Forestry, Fisheries and Agriculture, and prohibits lending activity andNGO Strategy targets engagement to some industry types proven to have a material adverse Indices Innovation environmental impact.
includingCDP Gateway Sustainable Environment development Procurement Metrics and Targets Policy goals RBS uses a range of metrics and targets to assess our climate Technologyand related risks and opportunities.
These include: climate impacts innovation from our operations refer to page 30 of the Strategic Report : exposure to high carbon sectors and lending to support External drivers Internal contributions sustainable energy sectors.
For further information refer to the Sustainable Banking pages on rbs.
