STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Details of the poll voting for the 2017 AGM are set out in the table below: Women Leaders November 2016 and the theappointment as executive Director, Hampton-Alexander Review: Improving Gender commencing in May 2017.
Bindi became For & Discretionary Against Votes Total Votes Resolution votes votes excluding withheld Withheld Balance inFTSE Leadership November 2017.
Group Finance Director on 1 July 2017, 1 To Adopt Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 338,880,844 187,100 339,067,944 433 As a member of the steering group of the following Derek Hardings departure Hampton-Alexander Reviews, I am pleased to on30June 2017.
2 To Approve Remuneration Report 2016 316,783,191 20,893,739 337,676,930 1,391,446 report that the Board is supportive of the aim 3 To Approve Remuneration Policy 2016 309,832,904 29,187,701 339,020,605 47,770 I would like to thank Derek for his dedication to increase the level of female representation 4 To Approve a 2016 Final Dividend 339,062,944 5,000 339,067,944 433 and strong contribution to the Group during in Board and senior leadership positions.
Senior 5 To Re-elect Charles Berry 331,493,091 5,293,171 336,786,262 2,282,114 hisfour years with Senior and wish him well plc features as a FTSE Board Story in the 2017 inhis new role.
Following the appointment of Bindi Foyle OVERVIEW As previously announced, I am to retire from to the Board in May 2017, three of the eight 10 To Re-elect David Squires 335,268,100 1,703,763 336,972,863 2,096,514 The Nominations Committee is chaired the Board in April 2018 and a comprehensive Directors are currently female 38% : upon my 11 To Re-elect Mark Vernon 337,714,914 1,326,297 339,041,211 27,166 bymyself, and comprises all non-executive recruitment process was undertaken with retirement from the Board, three of the seven 12 To Appoint Auditor 338,602,889 457,287 339,060,176 8,201 Directors.
The Group Company Secretary acts thesupport of Korn Ferry to select a new Directors will be female 43%.
Following the 13 To Determine Auditors Remuneration 338,989,781 53,138 339,042,919 25,458 as Secretary to the Committee.
Senior non-executive Director, to take over as appointment ofJane Johnston as Group HR 14 Authority to Allot Equity Securities 321,448,913 1,299,991 322,748,904 16,319,473 members of management and advisers are Chairman upon my retirement.
The Boards Director in May2016, two of the eight members invited to attend meetings when deemed 15 Authority to Disapply Pre-Emption Rights 331,876,582 7,188,488 339,065,070 3,307 recruitment process was led by Mark Vernon, of the Executive Committee are female 25%.
There were two scheduled our Senior Independent Director.
When 16 Authority to Purchase the Companys Own Shares 333,683,153 5,384,190 339,067,343 1,033 The Board remains committed to further meetings of the Committee in 2017: two recruiting, the Committee was keen to ensure 17 To Retain 14 Days Notice Period for General Meetings 330,808,228 8,248,448 339,056,676 11,700 promoting diversity and equality of all kinds additional meetings were held to discuss that the chosen candidate would have the throughout the Group, regardless of geography matters relating to the recruitment of a Group rightpersonality to fit the Groups culture and independently investigated and tracked from interest, or the perception of a conflict of also attended the full-year and interim results or position, notwithstanding engineering Finance Director and anon-executive Director.
the necessary skills and experience to deliver inception to resolution and, where necessary, interest.
As a result, there is a Group policy announcements made to analysts, in February companies have traditionally employed more Two members constitute a quorum for the continued strong results, both financially and actions are taken to rectify any weakness restricting the receiving and giving of gifts and July respectively.
The Committee regularly Nominations Committee.
The Committees operationally, in order to develop and oversee insystems that may have been identified.
andhospitality from, and to, third parties.
discusses the benefits of diversity withregard attendance records are shown on page 39.
The Chairman meets periodically with the future progression of the Group.
Theseactions, and the overall integrity of Thispolicy requires that all gifts and hospitality to the Board and its Committees.
The Senior Independent Director The Committee is tasked with administering The Committee, chaired by Mark Vernon, thereporting system, are subject to regular must be recorded.
The Head of Risk & is also available to attend meetings with major theprocess for appointments, considering aftertaking into account all relevant factors, scrutiny by the Audit Committee.
This process Assurance assesses compliance with the SUCCESSION PLANNING shareholders upon request, so providing an succession planning, regularly reviewing such recommended to the Board that Ian King is also available to third parties, such as Groups gifts and hospitality policy during The Committee regularly considers the issue of alternative channel of communication between processes and overseeing the composition beappointed as a non-executive Director.
Subject to internal audit visits.
succession planning for the various Board-level the Company and its shareholders.
The Nominations Committees TheBoard agreed with the Committees confidentiality considerations, the outcome roles.
The Group increased its focus on Baxter, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Data Protection Termsof Reference can be found on the recommendation and Ian King accepted ofeach investigation is provided, insofar maximising the potential of its employees and During 2017, additional work was consulted extensively with major shareholders Companys website.
theappointment as non-executive Director, asitispossible, to the complainant.
The Executive on the proposed revisions to the Directors undertakenon Data Protection to ensure commencing on 13 November 2017.
Ian is The Nominations Committee enlists external Committee, supported by the Group HR Mark Vernon is the Senior Independent thatthe Company, and relevant subsidiaries, Remuneration Policy.
dueto take over as Chairman when I retire consultancy firms to assist in the appointment Director, conducted an extensive review of Director: this position provides employees are compliant with the General Data Protection from the Board at the conclusion of the The Company makes constructive use of ofDirectors to the Board.
The Company senior executive succession planning.
The andthird parties with an alternative channel Regulation in advance of it becoming effective Groups next Annual General Meeting in April itsAGMs to communicate with its private provides the appointed firm with a role review identified key employees who were ofcommunication to resolve issues if they on 25 May 2018.
Ian will also become Chairman of the shareholders.
A presentation on the Companys description, together with the required skills considered to be, or could be developed into have a concern that the Chairman, Group Chief Nominations Committee upon my retirement.
Section D: Remuneration annual performance was given following and personal attributes to be considered.
becoming, critical to the success of the Group, Executive or Group Finance Director have Ians biography appears on page 37.
The Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 70 completion of the formal business at the Thefirm filters a list of candidates down to a so that appropriate plans are in place to ensure failed to resolve the issues, or where such describes the Boards approach to 2017AGM, and a copy of the presentation, number of those that it feels meet the skills there was an appropriate mix of employees contact with them is not appropriate.
The Directors together with other investor relations material, and attributes required, then conducts within the Group who could fill key roles in Managing external sales agents Remuneration Policy was approved by is available on the Companys website.
The Nominations Committee and the Board still preliminary interviews with the selected theshort and longer term.
The Board recognises the potential bribery and shareholders at the Companys 2017 AGM.
consider all of the non-executive Directors to candidates.
The candidates arethen referred The total issued share capital of the Company corruption risks posed by the markets in which The Board has undertaken an extensive review be fully independent and free from conflicting toSenior for interview, together with a written APPOINTMENT OF GROUP FINANCE as at 1 March 2017 the date of the Notice of the Group operates and, in particular, the use of the Policy and the updated Directors interests which may cause difficulties whilst analysis on each candidate, with each DIRECTOR Meeting for the 2017 AGM, was 419.4 million of third-party intermediaries it engages.
All Remuneration Policy, which is highlighted in carrying out their duties.
Senior considers candidate being interviewed by a number of ordinary shares of 10p each.
The total number Derek Harding, Seniors former Group Finance external sales agents and representatives the Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 60, is thenon-executive Directors to be proactive members of the Board.
The final recruitment of proxy votes received for the 2017 AGM Director, tendered his resignation in early 2017, working on behalf of Senior across the world to be put to shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM, incontributing their respective experiences decision is taken by the Board as a whole.
represented approximately 80.84% 2016 having been invited to take up a similar role at are required to operate in compliance with the as stated in Section C: Accountability, above.
andskills gained from various industries.
80.78% of the issued share capital of the Shop Direct.
A comprehensive recruitment Following the appointment of a Director, a full Code.
Local management is required to Section E: Relations with shareholders Company.
All resolutions put to shareholders process was undertaken with the support of Conflicts of interests are fully disclosed by and comprehensive induction programme is conduct a due diligence and risk assessment The Company maintains regular contact atthe 2017 AGM were passed on a poll.
The Zygos Partnership, based on a detailed Directors upon appointment and are reviewed provided by the Company.
Within the induction process prior to engaging or re-appointing any withits institutional shareholders and candidate and person specification.
process, areas such as financial forecasts, sales agents and to issue them with a copy Details of the poll voting received by the continued toconsult with its major Groupstrategy and philosophy are explained, ofthe Code, ensuring that they understand, Company for the 2017 AGM resolutions are The Committee, after taking into account Following the changes made in 2017, I am shareholders during 2017.
Twice a year, the together with other relevant topics.
Visits to acknowledge and accept its requirements.
In setout in the table above.
allrelevant factors concerning the candidates confident that we have the desired diversity Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director theGroups operations are also undertaken, 2016, the Board revised the Code of Conduct presented, recommended to the Board that ofskills, people, and experience that will and Director of Investor Relations & Corporate Details of the votes to be received by the involving the new Director meeting local and further improved the guidance it provided Bindi Foyle be appointed as Group Finance guideus in delivering shareholder value.
Communications undertake a series of Company for the 2018 AGM resolutions will management teams and learning about to the Groups operations, giving detailed Director.
Most recently, Bindi has been ThisReport was reviewed and approved meetings with the Companys major bemade available on the Companys website thekeyissues faced by each operation.
information on how they should conduct Director of Investor Relations and Corporate bytheNominations Committee and signed shareholders, following theannouncement following the close of the meeting.
duediligence and risk assess sales agents.
Communications for Senior plc: her biography onitsbehalf by: The Nominations Committee and the Board ofthe full-year and interim results, to discuss appears on page 37. have been taking due regard of Lord Davies Managing gifts and hospitality both the Boards strategic objectives and the Charles Berry Charles Berry review into Women on Boards February 2011, detailed performance of thebusiness.
During Chairman The Board recognises that gifts and hospitality The Board agreed the Committees Chairman of the Nominations Committee the Hampton-Alexander Review: FTSE have the potential to create a conflict of 2017, the Companys non-executive Chairman 23 February 2018 recommendation and Bindi Foyle accepted 23 February 2018 44 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 45 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT reviewing the effectiveness of the internal COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE audit function: considering the major findings COMMITTEE The Audit Committee met on 23 February 2017 to consider the 2016 year-end report and during the subsequent 12 months conducted the of internal audit activities and managements Member Appointment date following business on the meeting dates indicated below: response: ensuring co-ordination between Giles Kerr 2 September 2013 Meeting date 25 July 2017 19 October 2017 21 February 2018 the internal audit function and the external Committee Chair Items Received and considered an Internal Received and discussed an update on Reviewed key accounting judgements auditor and ensuring that the former is Celia Baxter 2 September 2013 Audit Report including Risk & Assurance audit transition from the external auditor.
for the year ended 31 December 2017, adequately resourced and has appropriate Susan Brennan 1 January 2016 and Mapping reports presented by the Discussed and approved the updated including consideration of those standing within the Group: Groups Head of Risk& Assurance.
external auditors audit strategy report significant risks outlined on page 48.
Mark Vernon 22 April 2016 reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Reviewed key accounting judgements for the 2017 audit, including significant Reviewed the longer-term viability ofthe internal controls and risk management For the attendance record, please see page 39. for the half-year ended 30 June 2017. risks, other areas of audit focus, the Group and agreed the viability statement systems ensuring that the process is active Reviewed and agreed the basis for audit cycleand scoping.
Two members constitute a quorum for the Audit and dynamic: going concern to be adopted for Agreed with the auditors proposal Reviewed and agreed the going concern Committee.
The Group Company Secretary DEAR SHAREHOLDER the2017 Interim Results.
tosetmateriality at 5% of profit basis to be adopted for the 2017 understanding the strategy at both Group acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
Reviewed the Tax Memorandum for beforetax.
The Audit Committee has been established by and operational levels to ensure that Collectively, the members of the Audit thehalf-year ended 30 June 2017.
Discussed scope-related changes tothe Reviewed the Tax Memorandum for the Board and consists entirely of independent business risks and other relevant issues Committee have significant commercial and Discussed first impressions from audit audit fee since the audit tenderproposal theyear ended 31 December 2017. non-executive Directors.
The primary role areeffectively identified and communicated financial experience at a senior management transition with the external auditor.
Received a technical update from Reviewed and accepted the Report ofthe Audit Committee is to maintain the to the Board: level.
Giles Kerr has the recent and relevant Considered the external auditors theexternal auditor on accounting, tothe Audit Committee on the 2017 integrity of the financial reporting of the Group ensuring the Companys corporate ethics, financial experience required by the UK Interim Review for the half-year ended reporting and corporate audit made by the external auditor.
and to ensure appropriate risk management anti-bribery and compliance procedures Corporate Governance Code to chair the Audit 30 June 2017. .
Approved the Audit Committee Report and internal control procedures.
To enable areup to date in terms of addressing the Committee.
For details of the qualifications of Reviewed and approved the terms of Received and reviewed an accounting for 2017. theAudit Committee to fulfil this role, its main potential risks of fraud and misconduct: members of the Audit Committee, please refer the management representation letter update on the UK Reporting on Payment Reviewed the effectiveness of the responsibilities include: to the Board of Directors biographies shown addressed to the external auditor.
Practices and Performance Regulations Groups risk management and internal assessing the Audit Committees capabilities considering and making recommendations on pages 36 and 37.
Discussed the Groups draft and on IFRS changes.
control systems and disclosures made in relation to diversity, risk experience and to the Board, and ultimately shareholders Announcement of the 2017 Interim Received an update to the Group inthe Annual Report & Accounts 2017. the financial expertise of its members: forapproval, of the appointment of the Results together with the draft slides Treasury Policy.
Reviewed the draft Annual Report & AUDIT COMMITTEES TERMS external auditor, the audit fee, initiating understanding the implications of forthe analysts presentation.
Received and reviewed the draft Accounts 2017.
OF REFERENCE tender processes in accordance with forthcoming changes to accounting Approved the external audit strategy.
Seniorplc Groups Approach to Tax Discussed the Groups draft The Board expects the Audit Committee regulatory requirements, and any questions standards, including the new revenue Held a private meeting with the external policy statement.
Announcement of the 2017 Final to have an understanding of: relating to the resignation or dismissal andfinancial instrument standards, to be auditor, without executive management Considered the Groups Risk & Assurance Results together with the draft slides oftheexternal auditor: implemented from 2018, and the new being present.
Strategic Plan and a preliminary view forthe analysts presentation.
the principles, contents and leasing standard to be implemented ofthe 2018 assurance activity.
Reviewed the Notice of Meeting developments in financial reporting, assessing annually the independence nolaterthan 2019: Noted a co-source relationship with forthe2018 AGM and the Proxy Form including the applicable accounting andobjectivity of the external auditor, Deloitte LLP had been established to for the 2018 AGM.
standards and statements of itscompliance with regulatory requirements assessing potential IT, cyber security and undertake the internal audit service.
Received and considered a report recommended practice: and authorising the provision, if any, social media issues in order to manage Received an update on the assessment presented by the Group Finance ofnon-audit services: theCompanys reputational and business the key aspects of the Groups of Cyber risk and on 2017 Code of Director, which included the proposed continuity risks: operations, including corporate policies, monitoring the integrity of the half-year Conduct training.
2018 internal audit plan, and noted its products and services, Group andannual Accounts and related formal reviewing the Groups Whistle-blowing Noted preparations for the General progress against the Groups risk and financing, and systems of internal control: Company announcements, and reviewing Policy, to ensure that appropriate procedures DataProtection Regulation assurance strategic objectives.
significant financial reporting judgements are in place for employees to raise, in Noted the external performance Held a separate private meeting with the matters that could influence or contained within them, before their confidence, any concerns that they may evaluation of the Audit Committee theexternal auditor, without executive distort the presentation of accounts submission to the Board: have relating to suspected malpractice, which was to be undertaken by management being present.
andkey figures: illegal acts, omissions or other unethical Independent Audit Limited.
reviewing the Companys statement on the principles of, and developments in, corporate conduct, regarding financial Agreed the Audit Committee Terms theAnnual Report & Accounts prior to company law, sector-specific laws and orother matters: and ensuring that ofReference to remain appropriate, endorsement by the Board, that taken as a other relevant corporate legislation: arrangements are in place for investigation subject to minor amendment.
whole the Annual Report & Accounts is fair, ofsuch matters and follow-up action: and Reviewed the Group Whistle-blowing the roles of internal and external balanced and understandable and provides Policy and agreed no changes auditing and risk management: and the information necessary toassess the considering any other topics specifically wererequired.
business model, strategy andperformance: delegated to the Committee by the Board the regulatory framework for the Reviewed the FRCs Audit Quality from time to time.
discussing with the external auditor issues Review of Deloitte LLPs 2016 audit of and reservations, if any, arising from the The Audit Committee is required to report its the Group.
The full Terms of Reference of the interim review and final audit and any other findings to the Board, identifying any matters AuditCommittee may be found on matters the external auditor may raise: where it considers that action or improvement theCompanys website.
is needed, and to make recommendations as reviewing and approving the terms of to the steps taken.
themanagement representation letter addressed to the external auditor: reviewing the longer term viability oftheGroup: 1 The Group engaged the services of PwC to perform certain internal audit procedures during 2016.
46 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 47 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED On 19 May 2017, the Chairman of the Audit Committee together with the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller also met with All proposed contracts for services to be Assessment of external audit effectiveness EXTERNAL AUDIT the Group external auditor, KPMG LLP following its formal appointment at the Annual General Meeting held in April 2017.
During the meeting, the provided by the auditor in excess of 25,000 The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness Independence of the external auditor external auditor presented and discussed their audit strategy for the year ending 31 December 2017 which included significant risks, other areas of require the Audit Committees approval.
of the external auditor at its October meeting.
and policy on non-audit services audit focus, materiality, scoping, audit cycle and changes to the audit fee since the audit tender proposal.
An update on audit transition was also Given the appointment of KPMG LLP during To fulfil its responsibility regarding the Fees to the external auditor for audit related discussed.
This presentation was subsequently also shared and reviewed with the Audit Committee at itsmeeting on 19 October 2017.
2017 as the new external auditor who had not independence of the external auditor, services undertaken in the year were 0.04m yet concluded the audit, it was not appropriate the Audit Committee reviewed: The Audit Committee normally invites thenon-executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, the and for other non-audit work were nil.
to perform that evaluation in the financial year Groups Head of Tax and senior representatives of the internal audit function and the external audit firm to attend its meetings, although it reserves a report from the external auditor describing In 2017, the Audit Committee considered ended 31 December 2017.
We intend to return the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw from any meeting.
the arrangements that had been made to thatit was beneficial for the Company to to the normal evaluation cycle in the financial identify, report and manage any conflicts of The Audit Committee also holds separate discussions with the Head of Risk & Assurance and the external auditor without executive management retainDeloitte LLP for non-audit work services, year ending 31 December 2018. interest and to maintain its independence: being present.
In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee holds separate meetings with the internal and external auditor during the course because of the firms expertise in this area and and of the year to discuss both routine and business-relevant matters.
The Audit Committee continues to closely monitor the nature and the FRCs Audit Inspection Unit public report Periodically, the Audit Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed to take into account current views on good practice and any recent level of such non-audit work.
amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Policy on tendering The Audit Committees policy in respect of SIGNIFICANT RISKS CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE In order to maintain auditor independence and services provided by the external auditor is comply with FRC and EU guidance on audit asfollows: Significant risks considered by the Committee How the risk was addressed by the Committee tendering, the Group undertook a formal tender Inventory net realisable value The Audit Committee recognises the risk that the Group may not the external auditor is invited to provide of its external audit during the first half of 2016, Inventory held covers a wide range of products in both the recover the full cost of inventory via future sales, and may not hold services which, in its position as auditor, led by the Audit Committee.
A selected number Aerospace and Flexonics Divisions.
The ability of the Group to sell appropriate provisions against obsolete and slow moving inventory.
itmust or is best placed to undertake.
This of audit firms received an invitation to tender: this inventory at a value above its carrying value in the future can be includes formalities relating to borrowings, Deloitte LLP was not invited to tender due In addition, a significant change in production costs or in the execution adversely affected by many factors.
shareholder and other circulars, various tothe longevity of its appointment.
The to deliver planned cost savings in relation to specific work packages otherregulatory reports and certain work in appointment of KPMG LLP as the Group could result in unavoidable costs associated with one or more work respect of larger acquisitions and disposals: external auditor for the financial year packages to exceed the economic benefits expected to be achieved.
commencing 1 January 2017 received This is a key area of judgement and as such the Audit Committee the auditor may provide tax compliance and approval by shareholders at the Annual General carefully considers executive managements assumptions relating advice where it is best suited.
In all material Meeting held in April 2017.
The Board extends tothe achievability of these plans.
cases, such work is put out to tender: and its appreciation to Deloitte for its contribution These were further discussed with the external auditor.
other services may not be provided where over many years.
The Committee reviews precluded by ethical standards or where annually whether it is appropriate to put the The Audit Committee believes there are no reportable issues arising theAudit Committee believes that it audit out to tender.
wouldcompromise audit independence Other provisions The Audit Committee considered the basis upon which management andobjectivity.
Provisions or accruals are held where management considers there had made its accounting judgements to determine the level of other isan obligation, payment is probable and the amount payable can provisions.
These were further discussed with the external auditor.
The Audit Committee believes there are no reportable issues arising Provisions held by the Group include but are not limited to: from these significant areas.
those held against legal claims or product warranties: and central tax provisions.
In its assessment of risks, the Audit Committee resolved that Goodwill was no longer to be considered a significant risk in terms of a material misstatement, given the available headroom the extent to which recoverable amount exceeds carrying amount in the context of the in-year performance, future forecasts and market conditions.
48 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 49 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL STATEMENT FROMTHECHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE performance management system.
In 2017, The Committee considered the inclusion of a INTERNAL AUDIT CONCLUSION with the support of the Group HR Director and return on capital measure in the LTIP.
Whilst The Audit Committee is required to assist the As a result of its work during the year, the the Committees new external advisers, we Senior has an internal ROCE KPI, we have not Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to Audit Committee has concluded that it has reviewed all aspects of the shortand longincluded this within the remuneration targets the effectiveness, resourcing and plans of the acted in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
as we feel this could cause conflicts between Group internal audit function.
At its meeting held on 21 February 2018, the making the right long-term investments versus Audit Committee considered each section of A central conclusion of this review was that In 2017, as set out on pages 24 to 29, the meeting shorter-term remuneration targets.
the Annual Report & Accounts 2017, and the the incentives remain broadly fit for purpose Group further strengthened its risk document as a whole, as proposed by the Further details of the targets to be set for the and support Seniors primary strategic management procedures and these have been Company: it reached a conclusion and advised objective of creating long-term sustainable 2018 LTIP awards are set out in the Annual reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Risk has the Board that it considered the Annual Report Report on Remuneration.
The performance been assessed on a top down and bottom up & Accounts 2017 to be fair, balanced and metrics in place EPS, free cash flow and basis.
A risk based programme of internal audit As part of our review, we also considered understandable and that it provided the relative TSR are well understood internally has been conducted in the year.
This has been whether any changes were required to the information necessary for shareholders to DEAR SHAREHOLDER and are also measures used by the investment delivered internally and, from July 2017, with Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders assess the Companys business model and community to assess Seniors performance.
I am pleased to present the Report of the the assistance of a new co-source partner, at last years AGM.
Our conclusion was that strategy.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee Remuneration Committee for the financial year Deloitte LLP.
To support the effectiveness of We do not, therefore, intend to make itwould be appropriate to ask shareholders to will be available at the 2018 AGM to answer any ended 31 December 2017.
This statement sets the internal audit programme a software tool radical changes to the structure of incentives approve a new Policy this year to ensure that questions about the work of the Committee.
out the work of the Committee during the year, has been implemented which tracks actions or use different performance metrics.
we can provide our incentives through an provides the context for the decisions taken resulting from internal audits.
The same tool However, we intend to make a number up-to-date pay framework.
The key changes APPROVAL and also explains the changes we intend to has also been implemented during the year for of amendments to improve the operation we wish to introduce are set out below: This Report was reviewed and approved by the make for 2018. the annual control self assessment which all of the incentive schemes: We propose to increase the shareholding Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: sites complete.
Progress has been made in Seniors performance during 2017 guidelines for the Executive Directors from In the Annual Bonus Plan, from 2018 2017 against the Group Risk & Assurance Giles Kerr Seniors vision is to be a trusted and onwards we will move to measuring EPS 100% to 200% of basic salary.
Strategic Plan developed by the Head of Risk Chairman of the Audit Committee collaborative high value-added engineering and on a constant currency basis in order to &Assurance in 2016.
A two-year post-vesting holding period 23 February 2018 manufacturing company producing sustainable reduce the impact of short-term exchange will be applied to LTIP awards, creating a growth in operating profit, cash flow and The Chairman and non-executive Directors rate movements on annual bonus outcomes.
five-year period between the grant of the shareholder value.
are actively encouraged to visit the Groups We will also simplify the operation of the awards and their final release.
We will also operating businesses unaccompanied by Plan by removing the practice of requiring Our remuneration policy and practices support apply the holding period to the LTIP awards executive Directors.
This enables them to year-on-year EPS growth for a small this vision with our bonus plans incentivising to be granted in early 2018, even though meet the local management teams and proportion of the bonus, although the earnings growth and cash flow and our this precedes the date of approval of the employees and also undertake site tours to proportion of bonus earned for achieving long-term plans rewarding both the creation of new policy.
review matters including production methods, EPS targets versus free cash flow will shareholder value and earnings growth.
health and safety and the status of internal remain unchanged.
The Adjusted EPS To drive performance and to support the As explained in the Chairmans Statement and audit findings.
In 2017, a total of 19 site visits current momentum in thebusiness, we wish measure within the LTIP with continue to the Chief Executives Review, Senior delivered were undertaken by the Chairman and measure year-on-year performance at actual to increase the individual award opportunity a solid performance during the year under non-executive Directors.
These visits by the under the Annual Bonus Plan from 105% of currency rates.
Free cash flow will also be review after a challenging 2016: Chairman and non-executive Directors are retained as a performance condition for a basic salary to 125% of basic salary to viewed by the Audit Committee as making ensure appropriate levels of incentivisation portion of the bonus scheme.
Group revenue increased to an all-time high: a positive contribution to the internal for increased performance.
This higher In the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Aerospace Division margins were impacted control framework.
bonus level will apply from 2018 onwards, for the award to be granted in early 2018, by the transition from more mature to new and we confirm that the increase to the we will retain the current 50 50 weighting aircraft production programmes: and maximum bonus level has been of adjusted EPS and relative TSR accompanied by an increase in the Margins in Flexonics Division reflected some performance metrics but we will broaden performance targets required to be met to of the challenging market conditions in the the TSR comparator group to the FTSE 350, achieve the maximum payout level.
Bonus higher-margin segments of the division.
excluding certain sectors with limited direct targets will continue to be disclosed on a relevance to Senior and those exhibiting However margins improved in the second half retrospective basis in the Annual Report on high volatility.
of the year from increased revenues and Remuneration.
operational improvements as we continued our For the EPS element of the LTIP, we have set The new policy explicitly states that the cost reduction focus on newer programmes.
a different target range for the award to be Remuneration Committee will have the granted in early 2018, recognising market The Group continues to generate healthy cash discretion to adjust bonus targets or conditions as well as internal and external flows and the level of net debt has decreased.
outcomes if deemed appropriate, where expectations of performance over the next thebonus outcome feels perverse.
This Review of incentive schemes and proposed three years: discretion, which is common practice in changes to Seniors Remuneration Policy Target, where 25% of the award vests, other companies, is intended to give the The performance of the business has formed willmove from 10% growth in adjusted Committee an appropriate level of flexibility the backdrop to the Remuneration earningsper share over the performance to deal with exceptional circumstances if Committees work during 2017.
We spent a period to 15%: andwhen they arise.
significant amount of time undertaking a full review of Seniors incentive programmes.
In Maximum vesting of 100% of the award my statement introducing last years Annual will move from 25% to 30% growth in Report on Remuneration I noted that the adjusted earnings per share over the Committee had delayed this review in 2016 performance period.
due to the recruitment of a new Group HR Director and a review of the Companys 50 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 51 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL STATEMENT 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT AT A GLANCE FROMTHECHAIROFTHE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Committee consulted Seniors major Review of the Group Chief Executives Implementation of the Remuneration OVERVIEW OF OUR REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK shareholders and leading proxy advisory bodies basic salary Policy for 2018 Element of remuneration Key features in late 2017 on the terms of the new policy as As mentioned in my statement last year, the The basic salaries of the Group Chief Executive Salary and employment benefits Market competitive to attract and retain high quality executives including fully expensed car, well as the changes we plan to make to the Committee noted the request of the Group and Group Finance Director have been private medical insurance, life insurance and defined contribution retirement benefits operation of the incentive schemes.
I am Chief Executive and the then Group Finance increased by 3% and 4% respectively with Annual bonus: Rewards achievement against annual performance objectives: pleased to say that the majority of those who Director for no increase to their basic salary effect from 1 January 2018, broadly in line with Adjusted EPS Maximum bonus is 105% of salary responded to our consultation were supportive to be applied on 1 January 2017.
This request the increase applied to the wider workforce.
1 Free cash flow 3 of any award is paid in shares, deferred for three years of our proposals.
was acknowledged by the Committee, but Subject to shareholder approval of the new Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director target: 52.5% of salary with an intention to review the salaries later The new policy is set out in full on pages 55 to remuneration policy, the executive Directors Long-Term Incentive Plan: Supports the Companys longer-term strategic aims to create sustainable growth in in 2017.
In last years Annual Report on 60.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the will be eligible for a maximum bonus Adjusted EPS 50% shareholder value and to incentivise, motivate and retain senior talent: Remuneration, we said that the Committee policy at the Annual General Meeting to be equivalent to 125% of basic salary.
Bonuses TSR 50% Maximum award is 200% of salary but normal awards are 150% of salary and the Board would be minded to apply an held in April 2018.
Other than in the event of will be payable subject to the satisfaction of 25% vesting at threshold increase in 2017 if the Groups financial exceptional circumstances, the Committee performance targets linked to EPS and cash Shareholding requirements Equivalent to 100% of executive Directors salary performance was seen to improve during H1 does not intend to revert to shareholders with flow targets.
As a consequence, during the year the Clawback and malus provisions Unvested Deferred Bonus Award subject to clawback a new Remuneration Policy before the end of Committee reviewed the salary of the Group As noted above, LTIP awards will be granted Long-Term Incentive Plan subject to clawback and malus during the period of three years the three-year policy period in 2021.
The salary for the new Group to both executive Directors subject to the following the date of vesting Incentive scheme outcomes for the year Finance Director was set at the time of her satisfaction of challenging three-year targets The Committee spent time after the end of the appointment to the Board in May 2017, and linked to EPS growth and relative TSR, with PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS AND INCENTIVE OUTCOMES financial year reviewing the extent to which the sono further review was undertaken.
the application of a two-year holding period on Achieved targets under the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP vested awards.
Awards will be granted at a % of We were pleased with progress for H1 2017, had been met, taking into account performance level of 150% of basic salary, the same as in Annual bonus Target Actual maximum including a healthy cash performance for the during 2017. previous years.
Overall trading for the period was in Free cash flow For the Annual Bonus Plan, we set EPS and line with expectations and, in recognition of the More information is provided in the Annual Full year 38.78m 58.3m 100% cash flow targets at the start of the year which underlying strength of the business and its Report on Remuneration on pages 61 to 70. were viewed as challenging but achievable in future prospects, the Board approved an Adjusted EPS At the AGM in April 2018, shareholders the context of Seniors situation coming out interim dividend of 2.05p for H1 2017, an Full year internal target 13.59p 14.39p 79.45% will be asked to approve the Annual Report ofa difficult period.
The targets are disclosed increase of 5% over H1 2016.
The market Year-on-year growth 14.37p 14.39p 52.00% on Remuneration as well as the new inthe Annual Report on Remuneration.
Awards response to the Companys progress was very Remuneration Policy.
I hope the decisions Bonus award to Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director: 79.05% of maximum for the year at 79.05% of maximum reflect the positive, with the share price from January to the Committee has taken in respect of progress the Company has made during September 2017 when we reviewed the Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 award Targets threshold stretch Actual 2017 and the changes we propose to make theyear against the targets set.
CEOs base pay rising by 40% compared to Adjusted EPS 50% 4% 10% compound annual average growth above RPI 11.82% below threshold for2018 will have your support.
3.4% growth for the wider FTSE 350. over three years Awards made under the LTIP in 2015 Total Shareholder Return 50% TSR ranking: 6.3 maximum threshold 22 ranking below threshold weresubject to EPS and TSR performance Against this backdrop, we applied a 3.2% basic Celia Baxter 1 5.0 minimum threshold measured over three years up to the end salary increase to the Group Chief Executive Chair of the Remuneration Committee No awards vesting of2017.
Unfortunately, the targets were not with effect from 1 July 2017.
We recognise achieved and the awards therefore lapsed that a mid-year increase is unusual, but we infull.
are comfortable that this was the right APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY decision in light of the improvement in Seniors The chart below shows how the composition of each of the executive Directors packages varies at different levels of performance under The Committee is satisfied that the above performance during the first half of the year.
The assumptions noted for target performance in the graph below are provided for illustration outcomes were a fair reflection of the We also took into account the fact that the purposesonly.
performance of the Company over the increase for the Group Chief Executive was relevant performance periods for the at a similar level to that enjoyed by employees incentive schemes.
across the Group more widely, albeit such increases were received from 1 January 2017.
2,017 2,100 This chart is based on the following assumptions: Threshold Target Maximum 38% Fixed pay Salary is the 2018 basic salary 1,575 1,324 The value of Benefits and Pension is taken from the single total figure of remuneration for 2017 1,083 1,047 38% Annual Nil 52.5% of 2018 125% of 2018 1,050 17.5% 31% bonus basic salary basic salary 24.5% 40% Long-term Nil 25% vesting under 100% vesting under 698 675 628 18% share the LTIP i. e. 25% the LTIP i. e. 100% 32% 20% 11.5% 6% 12% 525 25.5% 42% awards of 150% x 2018 of 150% x 2018 394 14% 8% 4% 8% basic salary and basic salary and 80% 46.5% 25% 48% 86% 48.5% 26% 50% set out at face set out at face value, with no value, with no 0 share price growth share price growth Below Target Max.
Actual Target Target or dividend or dividend assumptions assumptions Group Chief Executive Finance Director Salary Annual Bonus Benets and Pension Long-Term Share Awards 52 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 53 000s STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT AT A GLANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY In determining remuneration for the executive Directors and other senior managers, the Remuneration Committee seeks to maintain PROPOSED CHANGES FOR THE YEAR AHEAD a competitive programme which enables the Company to attract and retain the highest calibre of executive.
In 2017, a full review was undertaken of all aspects of the short and long-term incentives.
The review concluded that the incentives remain broadly fit for purpose and support Seniors primary strategic objective of creating long-term sustainable growth in shareholder value.
However, a number Performance-related elements of remuneration form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package of each executive Director, details of amendments to improve the operation of the incentive schemes are to be implemented and shareholders are to be asked to approve a new of which are set out below.
These performance-related elements, which take into account the Companys risk policies and systems, are designed Remuneration Policy this year to ensure that we can provide our incentives through an up-to-date pay framework.
Details of the proposed changes to align the Directors interests with those of shareholders and to reward executive Directors for performance at the highest levels.
to the Remuneration Policy and incentives can be found on page 51.
POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS About this Report The table below summarises the Committees policy for the remuneration of executive Directors which was approved by shareholders at the The Report on Remuneration on pages 61 to 70 is produced in accordance with the 2013 Regulations and the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration are subject to audit, these provide details of the Directors 2017 AGM, except for those matters highlighted in bold which are to be added to the policy in 2018.
The updated policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the 2018 AGM on 27 April 2018 and, subject to shareholder approval, the updated policy will come into effect from emoluments, shareholdings, Long-Term Incentive Plan awards and pension benefits for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the Committees intentions for 2018.
Purpose and link We have structured the rest of the Report as follows: Element to strategy Operation Maximum Performance assessment Salary Reflects the Will normally be reviewed annually with Other than to reflect Individual performance in the Remuneration Policy: effect from 1 January change in the size and role and Group performance performance of Policy for executive Directors theindividual, Benchmarked periodically against complexity of the are among the factors taken companies with similar characteristics role Company, the into consideration when hisorher skills and How shareholder views are taken into account experience over and sector companies Committee will have awarding increases Legacy arrangements Normally positioned within a range regard to the basic time and the responsibilities around the mid-market level taking into salary percentage Discretions of the Remuneration Committee account the experience and increases taking place of the role Policy for non-executive Directors.
Provides an performance in the role of the across the Company individual, complexity of the role, more generally when appropriate level Annual Report on Remuneration ofbasic fixed pay market competitiveness and the impact determining salary of salary increases on total increases for the avoiding excessive risk arising from remuneration executive Directors No maximum salary over-reliance on variable income cap Bonus Incentivises Up to 83.3% of salary paid in cashwith Overall maximum The Committee determines annualdelivery of up to a further 41.7% ofsalary paid as of 125% of salary performance conditions and corporate financial aconditional award of deferred shares weightings at the start of each and non-financial Maximum bonus only payable for year goals achieving demanding targets For 2017, the financial metrics Delivery of a Deferred shares are released three included free cash flow proportion of bonus years after award but are subject to full-year performance against in deferred shares forfeiture by a bad leaver target and adjusted earnings provides alignment Executives are entitled to receive the per share yearon-year growth with shareholders value of dividend payments that would and performance compared to and assists with have otherwise been paid in respect of target measured over a year retention vested deferred shares The Committee may include All bonus payments are at the non-financial metrics up to discretion of the Committee 25% of the overall award Different performance conditions may Performance below threshold be set when recruiting an executive results in zero payment.
Director Payment rises from 0% to The Committee may review the 100% of the maximum performance conditions from time to opportunity for levels of time performance between the The Committee has the discretion in threshold and maximum certain circumstances to grant and or targets settle an award in cash.
In practice, this Typically, threshold is around will only be used in exceptional 90% of target, and on-target circumstances for executive Directors performance delivers The Committee has the approximately 50% of the discretionto adjust bonus targets maximum opportunity or outcomes if deemed appropriate, Subject to clawback at the where the bonus outcome feels Committees discretion over perverse.
In practice, this will only unvested deferred shares in the be used inexceptional event of material misstatement circumstances forexecutive or gross misconduct and, if Directors required, over any unvested LTIP awards 54 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 55
