STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY AngloAmerican recognises that risk is inherent AngloAmericans assessment of strategic, in all its business activities.
Our risks can have a operational, project and sustainable development related risks financial, operational or reputational impact.
The volatility in commodity markets over the past few years provides a good illustration of risk inherent 4 1 in our business.
As understanding our risks and developing appropriate responses are critical to our future success, we are committed to an effective, robust system of risk identification, and an effective response to such risks, in order 3 2 to support the achievement of our objectives.
HOW DOES RISK RELATE TO OUR STRATEGY?
Identifying risks Risks can arise from events outside of our control or from A robust methodology is used to identify key risks across operational matters.
Each of the risks described on the the Group: at business units, operations and projects.
This following pages can have an impact on our ability to deliver is being applied consistently through the development Byron Grote our strategy.
and ongoing implementation of a Group integrated risk Chairman management framework and associated guidelines.
Audit Committee For more on the Groups strategy See page 10 2.
Analysing risks and controls to manage identified risks VIABILITY STATEMENT Once identified, the process will evaluate identified risks to establish root causes, financial and non-financial impacts, Context and likelihood of occurrence.
Consideration of risk An understanding of our business model and strategy is treatments is taken into account to enable the creation of key to the assessment of our prospects.
Our strategy is to a prioritised register and in determining which of the risks secure, develop and operate a portfolio of high quality and should be considered as a principal risk.
long life assets that deliver leading shareholder returns.
Determining management actions required Details of our business model are provided on pages 6-7.
The effectiveness and adequacy of controls are assessed.
Commodity prices for the majority of our products fared well If additional controls are required, these will be identified in 2017, as the world economy continued its recovery and and responsibilities assigned.
provided a basis for a more positive outlook.
Reporting and monitoring sustainability of commodity prices remains uncertain, with Management is responsible for monitoring progress of some downside risk.
Supply may either struggle to match actions to mitigate key risks and to determine if any such risk demand growth or demand reduction, generating ongoing falls outside the limits of our risk appetite.
Management is commodity price volatility.
Against that background, the supported through the Groups internal audit programme, Board maintains a low appetite for risk in major new projects which evaluates the design and effectiveness of controls.
and investments unless they are world class orebodies with The risk management process is continuous: key risks are competitive cost positions and long reserve lives.
New reported to the Audit Committee, with sustainability risks also greenfield projects are likely to be syndicated with other being reported to the Sustainability Committee.
investors to reduce our risk profile and capital requirements.
40 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report The assessment process and key assumptions PRINCIPAL RISKS Assessment of the Groups prospects is based upon We define a principal risk as a risk or combination of the Groups strategy, its financial plan and principal risks.
risks that would threaten the business model, future The Groups focus during 2017 has been to drive efficiencies performance, solvency or liquidity of AngloAmerican.
through the operations and upgrade the quality of our In addition to these principal risks, we continue to be portfolio in order to improve cash flow generation, exposed to other risks related to currency, inflation, strengthen the balance sheet and create sustainable value.
community relations, environment, litigation and regulatory A financial forecast covering the next three years is prepared proceedings, changing social expectations, infrastructure based on the context of the strategic plan and is reviewed on and human resources.
These risks are subject to our normal a regular basis to reflect changes in circumstances.
The procedures to identify, implement and oversee appropriate financial forecast is based on a number of key assumptions, mitigation actions.
These principal risks are considered over the most important of which include commodity prices, the next three years as a minimum, but we recognise that exchange rates, estimates of production, production costs many of them will be relevant for a longer period.
A key component of the For more on principal risks 2-11 See pages 42-45 financial forecast and strategic plan is the life of mine plans created for each operation, providing expected annual production volumes over the anticipated economic life CATASTROPHIC RISKS of mine.
We also face certain risks that we deem catastrophic risks.
The principal risks are those that we believe could prevent These are very high severity, very low likelihood events that the Group from delivering its strategic objectives.
A number could result in multiple fatalities or injuries, an unplanned of these risks are deemed catastrophic to the Groups fundamental change to strategy or the way we operate, and prospects and have been considered as part of the have significant financial consequences.
We do not consider Groups viability.
likelihood when assessing these risks, as the potential impacts mean these risks must be treated as a priority.
Assessment of viability Catastrophic risks are included as principal risks.
The assessment of the Groups prospects has been made with reference to the Groups current position and expected For more on catastrophic risks See page 42 performance over a three-year period, using budgeted commodity prices and expected foreign exchange rates.
Financial performance and cash flows have then been RISK APPETITE subjected to stress and sensitivity analysis over the We define risk appetite as the nature and extent of risk three-year period using a range of severe, but plausible AngloAmerican is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit scenarios.
The scenarios tested include: of its objectives.
We look at risk appetite from the context of Commodity price reductions of up to 20% from budget severity of the consequences should the risk materialise, prices over three years, with no offsetting foreign any relevant internal or external factors influencing the risk, exchange rate improvement and the status of management actions to mitigate or control the risk.
A scale is used to help determine the limit of Operational incidents that have a significant impact on appetite for each risk, recognising that risk appetite will production at key sites in the Group change over time.
Technology developments affecting demand for diamonds If a risk exceeds appetite, it will threaten the achievement of Technology developments in the automobile industry objectives and may require a change to strategy.
Risks that affecting demand for platinum group metals PGMs are approaching the limit of the Groups risk appetite may require management actions to be accelerated or enhanced Failure to achieve budgeted level of financial performance in order to ensure the risks remain within appetite levels.
owing to cost inflation or operational performance issues.
Further details on the risk management and internal control systems If these scenarios were to materialise, we have a range of and the review of their effectiveness are provided on pages 85-86 options that enable us to maintain our financial strength, including reduction in capital expenditure, the sale of assets, SUMMARY raising debt or reducing the dividend.
Our risk profile changed during the course of 2017: as the Viability statement external environment has evolved, progress has been made The directors confirm they have a reasonable expectation in the mitigation of our risks and we have updated our risk that the Group will continue in operation and meet its profile to include new principal risks based on a revised liabilities as they fall due for the next three years.
We no longer consider South African power has been selected for the following reasons: as a principal risk, but we have added Competitive position, The Groups strategy and budgeting process are aligned Investor activism, Cyber security, Corruption, and with a three-year view Operational performance including delivery of cash targets as new principal risks.
We no longer classify Delay in The volatility in commodity markets in recent years obtaining the Minas-Rio operating licence extension as a makes confidence in a longer assessment of prospects principal risk, following award of the installation licence in highly challenging.
January 2018, but recognise that various risks remain to the mine achieving full nameplate capacity.
Our catastrophic risks are the highest priority risks, given the potential consequences.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 41 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY 1.
CATASTROPHIC RISKS Pillars of value: No change in risk We are exposed to the following risks we Impact: Multiple fatalities and injuries, damage Risk appetite: Operating within deem as potentially catastrophic: tailings to assets, environmental damage, production the limits of our appetite.
dam failure: slope wall failure: mineshaft loss, reputational damage and loss of licence Commentary: These very high failure: and fire and explosion.
Financial costs associated with impact but very low frequency risks recovery and liability claims may be significant.
Root cause: Any of these risks may result are treated with the highest priority.
Regulatory issues may result and community from inadequate design or construction, relations may be affected.
adverse geological conditions, shortcomings in operational performance, natural events Mitigation: Technical standards exist that such as seismic activity or flooding, and failure provide minimum criteria for design and of structures or machinery and equipment.
operational performance requirements, implementation of which is regularly inspected by technical experts.
Additional assurance work is conducted to assess the adequacy of controls associated with these risks.
POLITICAL AND REGULATORY Pillars of value: No change in risk Uncertainty and adverse changes to Impact: Uncertainty over future business Risk appetite: Operating within mining industry regulation, legislation or conditions leads to a lack of confidence in the limits of our appetite.
tax rates can occur in any country in which making investment decisions, which can Commentary: Global economic we operate.
conditions can have a significant Increased costs can be incurred through Root cause: The Group has no control over impact on countries whose additional regulations or resource taxes, while political acts, actions of regulators, or changes economies are exposed to the ability to execute strategic initiatives that in local tax rates.
Our licence to operate commodities, placing greater reduce costs or divest assets may also be through mining rights is dependent on a pressure on governments to find restricted, all of which may reduce profitability number of factors, including compliance alternative means of raising and affect future performance.
revenues, and increasing the risk instability can also result in civil unrest, of social and labour unrest.
These nullification or non-renewal of existing factors could increase the political agreements, mining permits, sales agreements risks faced by the Group.
These may adversely affect the Groups operations or performance of those operations.
Mitigation: AngloAmerican has an active engagement strategy with the governments, regulators and other stakeholders within the countries in which we operate or plan to operate, as well as at international level.
We assess portfolio capital investments against political risks and avoid or minimise exposure to jurisdictions with unacceptable risk levels.
We actively monitor regulatory and political developments at a national level, as well as global themes and international policy trends, on a continuous basis.
See page 14 for more detail on how we engage with our key stakeholders.
PILLARS OF VALUE: Safety and Health Production Environment Cost Socio-political Financial People 42 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report 3.
COMPETITIVE POSITION Pillars of value: A new principal risk Inability to pursue a profitable Impact: Inability to execute growth strategy, Risk appetite: Operating within growth strategy.
the limits of our appetite.
Root cause: While AngloAmerican aims Mitigation: A cash improvement programme Commentary: This is a new to pursue an asset-driven profitable growth has been implemented across the business and principal risk for 2017. strategy, forecast cash flows may not be the Groups debt profile has been restructured adequate to fund growth options that maintain to support business growth plans.
competitiveness owing to low commodity prices or operational performance being below expectations.
INVESTOR ACTIVISM Pillars of value: A new principal risk Inability to execute strategy or significantly Impact: Investor pressure may cover Risk appetite: Operating within change strategy in the event of investors portfolio composition, commodity choices or the limits of our appetite.
seeking to influence management to take geographical locations in which we operate or Commentary: This is a new an alternative direction.
plan to operate in, all of which may have an principal risk for 2017. impact on longer term financial returns.
Root cause: Any larger, influential shareholder s may exert pressure on Mitigation: A proactive and regular management of companies they invest in to engagement programme with shareholders take a direction they assert is more conducive is undertaken to explain the Groups strategy to realising higher returns.
and portfolio, listen to and consider investor concerns, and to provide reassurance on any risks that are of major concern to investors.
FUTURE DEMAND FOR DIAMONDS Pillars of value: This risk has increased since 2016 Demand for diamonds impacted Impact: Potential loss of rough diamond sales, Risk appetite: Operating within as production and marketing of leading to a negative impact on revenue, cash the limits of our appetite.
Commentary: We believe the Root cause: Technological developments Mitigation: While research underlines likelihood of the disclosed synthetics have led to the production of higher quality consumers continued desire for natural risk materialising has increased synthetics.
Producers and distributors of this diamonds owing to their inherent value and owing to the factors described.
material may attempt to sell fraudulently into rarity, fide Beers has a comprehensive strategy the diamond pipeline undisclosed or market to mitigate risk of both the entry of undisclosed and sell as synthetics disclosed, with synthetics into the pipeline and the potentially manufacturing and distribution sources for misleading marketing of disclosed synthetics.
In addition, measures to emphasise and protect the inherent value of natural diamonds include: increased marketing investment, including through the Diamond Producers Association, e. g. reasserting the emotional symbolism of diamonds through the Real is Rare campaign: investment in blockchain to give consumers confidence as to the natural provenance of a diamond: and investment in bespoke technology to readily detect all synthetics.
Details of how technology is being developed and used to mitigate this risk are provided on page 48.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 43 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY 6.
FUTURE DEMAND FOR PGMs Pillars of value: No change in risk Longer term demand for PGMs is Impact: A negative impact on revenue, Risk appetite: Operating within impacted by fundamental shifts in cash flow, profitability and valuation.
Mitigation: Our Platinum business has a Commentary: We see this as a Root cause: Longer term demand is at risk strategy to grow PGM demand in industrial longer term threat to the business.
from declining internal combustion engine and jewellery sectors through marketing and manufacturing, and a switch to battery investment initiatives in research, product operated vehicles instead of fuel cell electric development and market development vehicles, which continue to use higher opportunities, particularly in Indian and volumes of PGMs.
CYBER SECURITY Pillars of value: A new principal risk Potential loss or harm to our technical Impact: Theft or loss of intellectual property, Risk appetite: Operating within infrastructure and the use of technology financial losses, increased costs and damage the limits of our appetite.
within the organisation from malicious or to reputation.
Commentary: This is a new unintentional sources.
Mitigation: We have employed a specialist principal risk for 2017.
Root cause: The number and sophistication third party to oversee our network security.
We of cyber criminal attacks is increasing.
have achieved UK Cyber Essentials Certification and an ongoing cyber awareness programme is in place across the Group.
SAFETY Pillars of value: This risk has increased since 2016 Failure to deliver a sustained improvement Impact: Loss of life, workplace injuries and Risk appetite: Operating within in safety performance.
safety-related stoppages all immediately affect the limits of our appetite.
production, while, over the longer term, such Root cause: Inability to deliver a sustained Commentary: During 2017 there factors are also a threat to our licence to operate.
improvement in safety performance will result were nine fatalities, compared with from management interventions and training Mitigation: All operations continue to 11 in 2016.
This is an unacceptable initiatives failing to translate into behavioural implement safety improvement plans, with level and explains why the risk has change by all employees and contractors.
a focus on: effective management of critical increased.
Management remains Non-compliance with critical controls is a controls required to manage significant safety committed to eliminating fatalities.
common failure in safety incidents.
risks: learning from high potential incidents and hazards: embedding a safety culture: and leadership engagement and accountability.
Our Operating Model has been updated to further integrate safety.
COMMODITY PRICES Pillars of value: This risk has decreased since 2016 Global macro-economic conditions Impact: Low commodity prices can result in Risk appetite: Operating within leading to sustained low commodity lower levels of cash flow, profitability and the limits of our appetite.
Debt costs may rise owing to ratings Commentary: We believe the risk agency downgrades and the possibility of Root cause: The most significant factors of an economic shock in China has restricted access to funding.
The Group may be contributing to this risk at present are a reduced, with a measured slowdown unable to complete any divestment programme continued slowdown in growth in China and being the more likely scenario.
More within the desired timescales or achieve other emerging markets, low growth rates in broadly, global economic activity has expected values.
The capacity to invest in developed economies and an oversupply of improved slightly, although downside growth projects is constrained during periods commodities into the market.
of low commodity prices which may, in turn, such as weak regional economies, fiscal crises affect future performance.
and conflict can also influence the economic environment and contribute to weak Mitigation: The successful delivery of cash commodity prices.
improvement and operational performance targets remains the key mitigation strategy for this risk.
Regular updates of economic analysis and commodity price assumptions are discussed with executive management and the Board.
PILLARS OF VALUE: Safety and Health Production Environment Cost Socio-political Financial People 44 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report 10.
CORRUPTION Pillars of value: A new principal risk Bribery or other forms of corruption Impact: Potential criminal investigations, Risk appetite: Operating within committed by an employee or agent of adverse media attention and reputational the limits of our appetite.
A possible negative impact on Commentary: This is a new licensing processes and valuation.
Root cause: AngloAmerican has operations principal risk for 2017, given in some countries where there is a relatively Mitigation: A comprehensive Anti-Bribery the heightened prominence high risk of corruption.
and Corruption Policy and programme, of corruption issues in the including risk assessment, training and extractives sector.
awareness, with active monitoring is in place.
OP ERATIONAL PERFORMANCE This risk has decreased since 2016 Pillars of value: INCLUDING DELIVERY OF CASH TARGETS Unplanned operational stoppages Impact: Inability to achieve production, cash Risk appetite: Operating within impacting production and inability to flow or profitability targets.
There are potential the limits of our appetite.
deliver the underlying EBITDA safety-related matters associated with Commentary: An underlying improvement target of $0.8 billion in 2018. unplanned operational stoppages, along with EBITDA improvement target of a loss of investor confidence.
Root cause: Unplanned and unexpected $0.8 billion is planned for 2018. operational issues will affect delivery of the Mitigation: Implementation of our Operating The Operating Model is contributing underlying EBITDA target.
Failure to Model, supported by operational risk to the mitigation of this risk.
implement the Operating Model, manage cost management and assurance processes, are the inflation or maintain critical plant, machinery key mitigations against this risk.
Compliance and infrastructure will affect our performance with our technical standards will prevent certain levels.
We are also exposed to failure of operational risks occurring.
Regular tracking third-party owned and operated and monitoring of progress against the infrastructure, e. g. rail networks and ports.
underlying EBITDA targets is undertaken.
Our operations may also be exposed to natural catastrophes or extreme weather.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 45
