247149 RIT R&A pp001-pp017 26 02 2018 11:07 Page 14 Principal Risks & Viability Risk Management and Internal Control Operational risks include those related to the legal The principal risks facing RIT are both financial and environment, regulation, taxation and other areas where operational.
The ongoing process for identifying, internal or external factors could result in financial or evaluating and managing these risks is the ultimate reputational loss.
These are managed by JRCM with responsibility of the Board and the Audit and Risk regular reporting to, and review by, the Audit and Risk Committee.
Day-to-day management is undertaken by Committee and the Board.
JRCM within parameters set by the Board.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of As an investment company, RIT is exposed to financial internal controls and it has delegated the supervision of risks inherent in its portfolio, which are primarily marketthe system to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Such related and common to any portfolio with significant systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, exposure to equities and other assets.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute The Board sets the portfolio risk parameters within which assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
This involves assessment of the nature Further information is provided in the Audit and Risk and level of risk within the portfolio using qualitative and Committee Report on page 29. quantitative methods.
Principal Risks The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company as described below: Financial Risks Mitigation Investment Strategy Risk As an investment company, a key risk is that the The Board is responsible for monitoring the investment investment strategy, guided by the Investment Policy: strategy to ensure it is appropriate to meet the Corporate Objective.
The Directors receive a detailed monthly report to To invest in a widely diversified, international portfolio enable them to monitor investment performance, attribution across a range of asset classes, both quoted and and exposure.
They also receive a comprehensive report unquoted: to allocate part of the portfolio to exceptional from the CIO in advance of the quarterly Board meetings.
managers in order to ensure access to the best external talent available.
The overall risk appetite is set by the Board, with portfolio risk managed by JRCM within prescribed limits.
This does not deliver the Corporate Objective: involves careful assessment of the nature and level of risk within the portfolio using qualitative and quantitative To deliver long-term capital growth, while preserving methods.
shareholders capital: to invest without the constraints of a formal benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders The JRCM Investment Committee meets regularly to increases in capital value in excess of the relevant indices review overall investment performance, portfolio exposure over time.
14 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp001-pp017 26 02 2018 11:07 Page 15 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Principal Risks & Viability Financial Risks Mitigation Market Risk RIT invests in a number of asset categories including The Group has a widely diversified investment portfolio stocks, equity funds, private investments, absolute return which significantly reduces the exposure to individual asset and credit, real assets, government bonds and derivatives.
Detailed portfolio valuations and exposure The portfolio is therefore exposed to the risk that the fair analysis are prepared daily, and form the basis for the value of these investments will fluctuate because of ongoing risk management and investment decisions.
In changes in market prices.
addition, regular scenario analysis is undertaken to assess likely downside risks and sensitivity to broad market Consistent with the Investment Policy, the Group invests changes, as well as assessing the underlying correlations globally in assets denominated in currencies other than amongst the separate asset classes.
Sterling as well as adjusting currency exposure to either seek to hedge and or enhance returns.
This exposes the Exposure management is undertaken with a variety of portfolio to currency risk as a result of changes in exchange techniques including using equity index futures and options rates.
to hedge or to increase equity exposure depending on overall macroeconomic and market views.
In addition, the Group is exposed to the direct and indirect impact of changes in interest rates.
Currency exposure is managed via an overlay strategy using a combination of foreign currency borrowings, forwards and or options to adjust the natural currency of the investments in order to achieve a desired net exposure.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will have difficulty in The Group manages its liquid resources to ensure sufficient meeting its obligations in respect of financial liabilities as cash is available to meet its expected commitments.
monitors the level of short-term funding, and balances the need for access to such funding and liquidity, with the longThe Group has significant investments in and commitments term funding needs of the Group, and the desire to achieve to direct private investments and funds which are investment returns.
Covenants embedded within the inherently illiquid.
In addition, the Group holds investments banking facilities and long-term notes are monitored on an with other third-party organisations which may require ongoing basis for compliance, and form part of the regular notice periods in order to be realised.
could, in theory, be drawn within minimal notice.
In addition, the Group may be required to provide additional In addition, existing cash reserves as well as the significant margin to support derivative financial instruments.
liquidity that could be realised from the sale or redemption of portfolio investments, could be utilised to meet funding requirements if necessary.
As Depositary, BNP Paribas Securities Services BNPSS has responsibilities in overseeing the Companys cash flow.
Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a financial The majority of the exposure to credit risk within the instrument held by the Group will fail to meet an obligation Absolute Return & Credit portfolio is indirect exposure as a which could result in a loss to the Group.
result of positions held within funds managed externally.
These are typically diversified portfolios monitored by the Certain investments held within the Absolute Return & third-party managers themselves, as well as through Credit portfolio are exposed to credit risk, including in JRCMs ongoing portfolio management oversight.
relation to underlying positions held by funds.
Listed transactions are settled on a delivery versus payment Substantially all of the listed portfolio investments capable basis using a wide pool of brokers.
Cash holdings and of being held in safe custody, are held by BNPSS as margin balances are also divided between a number of custodian and depositary.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of different financial institutions, whose credit ratings are BNPSS may cause the Groups rights with respect to regularly monitored.
securities held by BNPSS to be delayed.
All assets held by the custodian are in fully segregated client Unrealised profit on derivative financial instruments held by accounts.
Other than where local market regulations do not counterparties is potentially exposed to credit risk in the permit it, these accounts are designated in RITs name.
The event of the insolvency of a broker counterparty.
custodians most recent credit rating was A from Standard & Poors S&P.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 15 247149 RIT R&A pp001-pp017 26 02 2018 11:07 Page 16 Principal Risks & Viability Operational Risks Mitigation Key Person Dependency In common with other self-managed investment trusts, This risk is closely monitored and managed by the Board investment decisions are made by a small number of key which has established procedures in place to deal with any individuals.
If for any reason the services of these related business disruption.
The potential impact is reduced individuals were to become unavailable, there could be a by the combination of an experienced Board of Directors significant impact on our business.
with distinguished backgrounds in business or finance, and experienced senior management within JRCM.
Legal & Regulatory Risk As an investment trust, RITs operations are subject to wide The Operational Risk Committee of JRCM provides ranging laws and regulations including in relation to the UK oversight of all legal, regulatory and other operational risks.
Listing Authoritys UKLA Listing Rules and associated This Committee reports key findings to the JRCM Executive Disclosure, Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Companies Act 2006, as well as continued compliance with JRCM employs a legal counsel and a compliance manager relevant tax legislation.
as well as other personnel with experience of legal, JRCM is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct regulatory and taxation matters.
In addition, specialist Authority FCA.
The financial services sector continues to external advisers are engaged in relation to complex or experience regulatory change at national and international sensitive matters.
Co-investments with related entities are made on the same Failure to act in accordance with these laws and regulations terms.
Where necessary, co-investments and other could result in fines, censure or other losses including transactions are subject to review by the Conflicts taxation or reputational loss.
Committee and or the UKLA.
As a result of the close relationship and regular coinvestment with entities associated with the Chairman, conflicts of interest may arise.
Operational Risk Risks arising from inadequate or failed processes, people Systems and control procedures are the subject of and systems or external factors.
continued development and regular review.
Further detail can be found in the Internal Control section of the Audit and Key operational risks include reliance on third-party Risk Committee Report on page 29. suppliers, dealing errors, processing failures, pricing errors, fraud, reliability of core systems and IT security issues.
Processes are in place to ensure the recruitment and ongoing training of appropriately skilled staff within key operational functions.
Suitable remuneration policies are in place to encourage staff retention.
Independent pricing sources are used where available and performance is subject to regular monitoring.
In relation to more subjective areas such as private investments and property, the valuations are estimated by experienced staff and specialist external valuers using industry standard approaches, with the final decisions taken by the independent Valuation Committee, and subject to audit.
A business continuity and disaster recovery plan is maintained, and includes the ability to utilise an offsite facility in the event of any business disruption.
This was satisfactorily tested during the year.
Cyber security continues to receive an enhanced focus, with increased levels of protection implemented during 2017 as a result of the risk developments in this area.
16 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp001-pp017 26 02 2018 11:07 Page 17 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Principal Risks & Viability Viability Statement Going Concern In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters Governance Code Code, and as part of an ongoing considered in connection with the Viability Statement, programme of risk assessment, the Directors have and in particular the Groups liquidity balances of assessed the prospects of the Group, to the extent that 224 million, readily realisable securities of 43 million, they are able, over a five-year period.
As the Company is and the amounts that could be realised from the a long-term investor, the Directors have chosen a fiveremainder of the portfolio, the Directors consider it year period as this is viewed as sufficiently long term to appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing provide shareholders with a meaningful view, without the financial statements.
extending the period so far into the future as to The Strategic Report on pages 3 to 17 was approved by a undermine the exercise.
duly authorised Committee of the Board and signed on its The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable behalf by: expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next five years.
In making this assessment, the Directors have taken into consideration the principal risks and mitigants set out on the preceding pages and the impact these might have on Andrew Jones the business model, future performance, solvency and Chief Financial Officer liquidity.
In addition, the Directors considered the Groups J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited current financial position and prospects, the composition of the investment portfolio including the significant holdings of liquidity and readily realisable securities, the level of outstanding capital commitments, the term structure and availability of borrowings and the ongoing costs of the business.
As part of the approach, due consideration has been given to the uncertainty inherent in financial forecasts and, where applicable, reasonable sensitivities have been applied to the investment portfolio in stress situations including in relation to equity market declines, currency and interest rate movements, and the level of capital calls in respect of existing commitments.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 17 247149 RIT R&A pp018-pp022 26 02 2018 11:09 Page 18 Governance
