RISKS We have a framework of Code Policies that underpin the Code OUR RISK APPETITE AND APPROACH of Business Principles and set out the non-negotiable standards of behaviour expected from all our employees.
TO RISK MANAGEMENT For each of our principal risks we have a risk management Risk management is integral to Unilevers strategy and to the framework detailing the controls we have in place and who is achievement of Unilevers long-term goals.
Our success as an responsible for managing both the overall risk and the individual organisation depends on our ability to identify and exploit the controls mitigating that risk.
opportunities generated by our business and the markets we are in.
In doing this we take an embedded approach to risk management Unilevers functional standards define mandatory requirements across which puts risk and opportunity assessment at the core of the a range of specialist areas such as health and safety, accounting and Board agenda, which is where we believe it should be.
reporting and financial risk management.
Unilever adopts a risk profile that is aligned to our Vision to grow PROCESSES our business, whilst decoupling our environmental footprint from Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities across all our growth and increasing our positive social impact.
Our appetite its operations covering strategy, planning, execution and performance for risk is driven by the following: management.
Risk management is integrated into every stage of this Our growth should be consistent, competitive, profitable business cycle.
These procedures are formalised and documented and and responsible.
are increasingly being centralised and automated into transactional Our behaviours must be in line with our Code of Business and other information technology systems.
ASSURANCE AND RE-ASSURANCE We strive to continuously improve our operational efficiency Assurance on compliance with the Code of Business Principles and all and effectiveness.
of our Code Policies is obtained annually from Unilever management via We aim to maintain a single A credit rating on a long-term basis.
In addition, there are specialist awareness Our approach to risk management is designed to provide reasonable, and training programmes which are run throughout the year and vary but not absolute, assurance that our assets are safeguarded, the risks depending on the business priorities.
These specialist compliance facing the business are being assessed and mitigated and all information programmes supplement the Code declaration.
Our Corporate Audit that may be required to be disclosed is reported to Unilevers senior function plays a vital role in providing to both management and the management including, where appropriate, the Chief Executive Officer Boards an objective and independent review of the effectiveness of and Chief Financial Officer.
risk management and internal control systems throughout Unilever.
ORGANISATION The Boards assume overall accountability for the management of risk and for reviewing the effectiveness of Unilevers risk management and BOARDS ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH internal control systems.
THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORKS The Boards have established a clear organisational structure with well The Boards, advised by the Committees where appropriate, regularly defined accountabilities for the principal risks that Unilever faces in review the significant risks and decisions that could have a material the short, medium and long-term.
This organisational structure and impact on Unilever.
These reviews consider the level of risk that distribution of accountabilities and responsibilities ensure that every Unilever is prepared to take in pursuit of the business strategy and country in which we operate has specific resources and processes the effectiveness of the management controls in place to mitigate for risk review and risk mitigation.
This is supported by the Unilever the risk exposure.
Leadership Executive, which takes active responsibility for focusing on the principal areas of risk to Unilever.
The Boards regularly review The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the these risk areas, including consideration of environmental, social assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls and and governance matters, and retain responsibility for determining the procedures in operation within Unilever.
They have also considered nature and extent of the significant risks that Unilever is prepared to the effectiveness of any remedial actions taken for the year covered take to achieve its strategic objectives.
by this Annual Report and Accounts and up to the date of its approval by the Boards.
FOUNDATION AND PRINCIPLES Unilevers approach to doing business is framed by our Purpose Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to this can and values see page 1.
Our Code of Business Principles sets out be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 41 to 42. the standards of behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere Further statements on compliance with the specific risk to.
Day-to-day responsibility for ensuring these principles are management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate applied throughout Unilever rests with senior management across Governance Code, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US categories, geographies and functions.
A network of Business Securities Exchange Act 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley 2002 Act Integrity Officers and Committees supports the activities necessary can be found on pages 39 to 40. to communicate the Code, deliver training, maintain processes and procedures including support lines to report and respond to alleged breaches, and to capture and communicate learnings.
26 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 VIABILITY STATEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS The activities of Unilever, together with the factors likely to affect its Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties.
On the following future development, performance, the financial position of Unilever, pages we have identified the risks that we regard as the most relevant its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described to our business.
These are the risks that we see as most material to on pages 1 to 25.
In addition, we describe in notes 15 to 18 on pages Unilevers business and performance at this time.
There may be other 115 to 130 Unilevers objectives, policies and processes for managing risks that could emerge in the future.
its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its All the principal risks could impact our business within the next two financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to years i. e. short-term risks, or could impact our business over the credit and liquidity risk.
next three to five years i. e. medium-term risks.
Some principal risks, such as climate change, could also impact over the longer-term ASSESSMENT i. e. beyond 5 years.
In order to report on the long-term viability of Unilever, the Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Unilever, Our principal risks have not fundamentally changed this year.
We including those that would threaten its business model, future have updated the descriptions and mitigating actions of several of performance, solvency or liquidity.
This assessment included reviewing our principal risks to reflect the significant impact that technological and understanding the mitigation factors in respect of each of those risks.
changes are having on our consumers, customers and operations.
The risks and mitigating factors are summarised on pages 28 to 31.
In addition, we have made specific reference within our business transformation risk to the initiatives announced in April 2017 to The viability assessment has two parts: accelerate sustainable shareholder value creation.
First, the Directors considered the period over which they have a reasonable expectation that Unilever will continue to operate As well as identifying the most relevant risks for our business we and meet its liabilities: and reflect on whether we think the level of risk associated with each Second, they considered the potential impact of severe but plausible of our principal risks is increasing or decreasing.
There are four scenarios over this period, including: areas where we believe there is an increased level of risk which are: assessing scenarios for each individual principal risk, for example Brand Equity: our brand equity risk is increasing and changing in the termination of our relationships with the three largest global nature as technology impacts both the speed at which consumer customers: the loss of all material litigation cases: and the trends change and our brand communication models: destruction of three of our largest sourcing units: and Customer Relationships: technology is changing our channel assessing scenarios that involve more than one principal risk landscape and hence changing the nature of the relationships such as: with our traditional customers as well as requiring us to develop - a contamination issue with one of our products, leading to relationships with new customers who are driving e-commerce a fine equal to 1% of Unilevers turnover, lower sales of development: impacted products and temporary closure of our largest Systems and Information: the number of cybersecurity attacks are sourcing unit: increasing significantly, and incidents are becoming more - a major IT data breach resulting in a fine equal to 2% of sophisticated as technology further evolves: and Unilevers turnover along with an outage in a key system Business Transformation: this risk has increased as a result of the resulting in the temporary inability to sell products: and scale of the initiatives announced in April 2017 to further accelerate - a global economic downturn leading to an increase in shareholders value.
funding costs and the loss of our three largest customers.
We also comment below on certain mitigating actions that we believe help us to manage these risks.
However, we may not be successful in FINDINGS deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
If the circumstances A three-year period is considered appropriate for this assessment in these risks occur or are not successfully mitigated, our cash flow, because it is the period covered by Unilevers ongoing strategic operating results, financial position, business and reputation could planning: and it enables a high level of confidence in assessing be materially adversely affected.
In addition, risks and uncertainties viability, even in extreme adverse events, due to a number of factors could cause actual results to vary from those described, which may such as: include forward-looking statements, or could impact on our ability to Unilevers considerable financial resources together with established meet our targets or be detrimental to our profitability or reputation.
business relationships with many customers and suppliers in countries throughout the world: high cash generation by Unilevers operations: flexibility of cash outflow with respect to significant marketing programmes and capital expenditure projects which usually have a 2-3 year horizon: and Unilevers diverse product and geographical activities which are impacted by continuously evolving technology and innovation.
Taking into account Unilevers current position and plans, the Directors believe that there is no plausible scenario that would threaten our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity over the next three years.
CONCLUSION On the basis described above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Unilever will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 27 RISKS CONTINUED DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK BRAND PREFERENCE As a branded goods business, Unilevers success depends We monitor external market trends and collate consumer, customer on the value and relevance of our brands and products to and shopper insights in order to develop category and brand strategies.
consumers around the world and on our ability to innovate Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments which we and remain competitive.
identify as attractive because we have already built, or are confident Consumer tastes, preferences and behaviours are changing that we can build, competitive advantage.
more rapidly than ever before, and Unilevers ability to identify Our brand communication strategies are designed to optimise digital and respond to these changes is vital to our business success communication opportunities.
We develop and customise brand Technological change is disrupting our traditional brand messaging content specifically for each of our chosen communication communication models.
Our ability to develop and deploy the channels both traditional and digital to ensure that our brand messages right communication, both in terms of messaging content and reach our target consumers.
medium is critical to the continued strength of our brands.
Our Research and Development function actively searches for ways We are dependent on creating innovative products that continue in which to translate the trends in consumer preference and taste into to meet the needs of our consumers and getting these new new technologies for incorporation into future products.
products to market with speed.
If we are unable to innovate Our innovation management process converts category strategies into effectively, Unilevers sales or margins could be materially projects which deliver new products to market.
We develop product ideas adversely affected.
both in house and with selected partners to enable us to respond to rapidly changing consumer trends with speed.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Unilevers strategic investment choices will affect the Our strategy and our business plans are designed to ensure long-term growth and profits of our business.
that resources are prioritised towards those categories and markets having the greatest long-term potential for Unilever.
Unilevers growth and profitability are determined by our portfolio of categories, geographies and channels and how these evolve over time.
Our acquisition activity is driven by our portfolio strategy with a clear, If Unilever does not make optimal strategic investment decisions, then defined evaluation process.
opportunities for growth and improved margin could be missed.
SUSTAINABILITY The success of our business depends on finding sustainable The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan sets clear long-term commitments solutions to support long-term growth.
to improve health and wellbeing, reduce environmental impact and enhance livelihoods.
Underpinning these are targets in areas such as Unilevers Vision to grow our business, while decoupling our hygiene, nutrition, sustainable sourcing, fairness in the workplace, environmental footprint from our growth and increasing our positive social opportunities for women and inclusive business as well as greenhouse impact, will require more sustainable ways of doing business.
In a world gas emissions, water and waste.
These targets and more sustainable where resources are scarce and demand for them continues to increase, it ways of operating are being integrated into Unilevers day-to-day business is critical that we succeed in reducing our resource consumption and through initiatives such as efficient packaging design, waste reduction and converting to sustainably sourced supplies.
In doing this we are dependent recycling and converting to use of renewable energy.
on the efforts of partners and various certification bodies.
We are also committed to improving health and wellbeing and enhancing livelihoods Progress towards the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan is monitored around the world so Unilever and our communities grow successfully by the Unilever Leadership Executive and the Boards.
There can be no assurance that sustainable business solutions Sustainable Living Plan Council, comprising six external specialists will be developed and failure to do so could limit Unilevers growth in sustainability, guides and critiques the development of our strategy.
and profit potential and damage our corporate reputation.
CLIMATE CHANGE As part of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan we monitor climate change Climate changes and governmental actions to reduce such and are responding by developing operations and products with reduced changes may disrupt our operations and or reduce consumer environmental impact.
We seek to develop products that will require less water during Climate changes are occurring around the globe which may impact consumer use.
our business in various ways.
They could lead to water shortages which would reduce demand for those of our products that require We aim to minimise our impact on climate change through committing a significant amount of water during consumer use.
They could also to emission reduction targets and have developed a roadmap to be carbon lead to an increase in raw material and packaging prices or reduced positive by 2030. availability.
Governments may take action to reduce climate change We monitor trends in raw material availability and pricing, and proactively such as the introduction of a carbon tax or zero net deforestation reformulate our products where appropriate.
requirements which could impact our business through higher costs or reduced flexibility of operations.
We monitor governmental developments around actions to combat climate change and act to minimise the impact on our operations.
Increased frequency of extreme weather storms and floods could cause increased incidence of disruption to our manufacturing and distribution network.
Climate change could result therefore in making products less affordable or less available for our consumers resulting in reduced growth and profitability.
28 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Successful customer relationships are vital to our business We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad spectrum and continued growth.
of channels ranging from centrally managed multinational customers through to small traders accessed via distributors in many developing Maintaining strong relationships with our existing customers and countries.
We identify changing shopper habits and build relationships building relationships with new customers who have built new with new customers, such as those serving the e-commerce channel.
technology enabled business models to serve changing shopper habits are necessary to ensure our brands are well presented We develop joint business plans with our key customers that include to our consumers and available for purchase at all times.
detailed investment plans and customer service objectives and we regularly monitor progress.
The strength of our customer relationships also affects our ability to obtain pricing and competitive trade terms.
Failure to maintain We have developed capabilities for customer sales and outlet design strong relationships with customers could negatively impact which enable us to find new ways to improve customer performance our terms of business with affected customers and reduce the and enhance our customer relationships.
We invest in technology to availability of our products to consumers.
optimise order and stock management processes for our distributive trade customers.
TALENT A skilled workforce and agile ways of working are essential Resource committees have been established and implemented for the continued success of our business.
These committees have responsibility for identifying future skills and capability needs, developing career paths Our ability to attract, develop and retain the right number of and identifying the key talent and leaders of the future.
We have an appropriately qualified people is critical if we are to compete integrated management development process which includes regular and grow effectively.
performance reviews underpinned by a common set of leadership This is especially true in our key emerging markets where behaviours, skills and competencies.
there can be a high level of competition for a limited talent pool.
We have targeted programmes to attract and retain top talent and we The loss of management or other key personnel or the inability actively monitor our performance in retaining talent within Unilever.
to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel could make it difficult to manage the business and could adversely affect We regularly review our ways of working to drive speed and simplicity operations and financial results.
through our business in order to remain agile and responsive to market place trends.
SUPPLY CHAIN Our business depends on purchasing materials, efficient We have contingency plans designed to enable us to secure alternative manufacturing and the timely distribution of products to key material supplies at short notice, to transfer or share production our customers.
between manufacturing sites and to use substitute materials in our product formulations and recipes.
Our supply chain network is exposed to potentially adverse events such as physical disruptions, environmental and industrial accidents We have policies and procedures designed to ensure the health and or disruptions at a key supplier, which could impact our ability to safety of our employees and the products in our facilities, and to deal deliver orders to our customers.
with major incidents including business continuity and disaster recovery.
The cost of our products can be significantly affected by the cost Commodity price risk is actively managed through forward buying of the underlying commodities and materials from which they are of traded commodities and other hedging mechanisms.
Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed on are monitored and modelled regularly and integrated into our to the consumer through pricing.
SAFE AND HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS The quality and safety of our products are of paramount Our product quality processes and controls are comprehensive, importance for our brands and our reputation.
from product design to customer shelf.
They are verified annually and regularly monitored through performance indicators that drive The risk that raw materials are accidentally or maliciously improvement activities.
Our key suppliers are externally certified and contaminated throughout the supply chain or that other product the quality of material received is regularly monitored to ensure that defects occur due to human error, equipment failure or other factors it meets the rigorous quality standards that our products require.
In the event of an incident relating to the safety of our consumers or the quality of our products, incident management teams are activated in the affected markets under the direction of our product quality, science and communications experts, to ensure timely and effective market place action.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 29 RISKS CONTINUED DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION To reduce the impact of external cyber-attacks impacting our business Unilevers operations are increasingly dependent on IT systems we have firewalls and threat monitoring systems in place, complete and the management of information.
with immediate response capabilities to mitigate identified threats.
Increasing digital interactions with customers, suppliers and We also maintain a global system for the control and reporting of consumers place ever greater emphasis on the need for secure access to our critical IT systems.
This is supported by an annual and reliable IT systems and infrastructure and careful programme of testing of access controls.
management of the information that is in our possession.
We have policies covering the protection of both business and The cyber-attack threat of unauthorised access and misuse of personal information, as well as the use of IT systems and applications sensitive information or disruption to operations continues to by our employees.
Our employees are trained to understand these increase.
Such an attack could inhibit our business operations requirements.
We also have a set of IT security standards and closely in a number of ways, including disruption to sales, production monitor their operation to protect our systems and information.
and cash flows, ultimately impacting our results.
Hardware that runs and manages core operating data is fully backed up with separate contingency systems to provide real time back-up operations should they ever be required.
We have standardised ways of hosting information on our public websites and have systems in place to monitor compliance with appropriate privacy laws and regulations, and with our own policies.
BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION Successful execution of business transformation projects All acquisitions, disposals and global restructuring projects are sponsored is key to delivering their intended business benefits and by a member of the Unilever Leadership Executive.
All such projects have avoiding disruption to other business activities.
steering groups in place led by a senior executive and regular progress updates are provided to the Unilever Leadership Executive.
Unilever is continually engaged in major change projects, including acquisitions, disposals and organisational transformation, to A dedicated programme management team has been established drive continuous improvement in our business and to strengthen for the accelerating shareholder value creation transformation.
ULE our portfolio and capabilities.
A number of key projects were reviews progress on a monthly basis and the Boards receive regular announced in 2017 to accelerate sustainable shareholder value updates to ensure that this important programme remains on track creation.
Failure to execute such initiatives successfully could to deliver the expected transformation.
result in under-delivery of the expected benefits and there could Sound project disciplines are used in all acquisitions, disposals and be a significant impact on the value of the business.
organisational transformation projects and these projects are resourced by dedicated and appropriately qualified personnel.
Unilever also monitors the volume of change programmes under way in an effort to stagger the impact on current operations and to ensure minimal disruption.
ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL INSTABILITY Unilever operates around the globe and is exposed to economic The breadth of Unilevers portfolio and our geographic reach help and political instability that may reduce consumer demand for to mitigate our exposure to any particular localised risk.
Our flexible our products, disrupt sales operations and or impact the business model allows us to adapt our portfolio and respond quickly profitability of our operations.
to develop new offerings that suit consumers and customers changing needs during economic downturns.
Adverse economic conditions may affect one or more countries within a region, or may extend globally.
We regularly update our forecast of business results and cash flows and, where necessary, rebalance investment priorities.
Government actions such as foreign exchange or price controls can impact on the growth and profitability of our local operations.
We believe that many years of exposure to emerging markets have given us experience of operating and developing our business Unilever has more than half its turnover in emerging markets which successfully during periods of economic and political volatility.
can offer greater growth opportunities but also expose Unilever to related economic and political volatility.
30 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK TREASURY AND PENSIONS Currency exposures are managed within prescribed limits and by Unilever is exposed to a variety of external financial risks the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Further, operating in relation to Treasury and Pensions.
companies borrow in local currency except where inhibited by local The relative values of currencies can fluctuate widely and could regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions.
We also have a significant impact on business results.
Further, because hedge some of our exposures through the use of foreign currency Unilever consolidates its financial statements in euros it is subject borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
to exchange risks associated with the translation of the underlying Our interest rate management approach aims to achieve an optimal net assets and earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
balance between fixed and floating rate interest exposures on expected We are also subject to the imposition of exchange controls by net debt.
individual countries which could limit our ability to import materials We seek to manage our liquidity requirements by maintaining access paid in foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
to global debt markets through short-term and long-term debt Unilever may face liquidity risk, ie difficulty in meeting its obligations, programmes.
In addition, we have high committed credit facilities associated with its financial liabilities.
A material and sustained for general corporate purposes.
shortfall in our cash flow could undermine Unilevers credit rating, Group treasury regularly monitors exposure to our banks, tightening impair investor confidence and also restrict Unilevers ability to counter-party limits where appropriate.
Unilever actively manages its raise funds.
banking exposures on a daily basis.
We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating We regularly assess and monitor counter-party risk in our customers rate debt.
Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase and take appropriate action to manage our exposures.
the interest cost of our floating rate debt and increase the cost of future borrowings.
Our pension investment standards require us to invest across a range of equities, bonds, property, alternative assets and cash such that the In times of financial market volatility, we are also potentially exposed failure of any single investment will not have a material impact on the to counter-party risks with banks, suppliers and customers.
Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now The majority of our assets, including those held in our pooled closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in investment vehicle, Univest, are managed by external fund managers interest rates, fluctuating values of underlying investments and and are regularly monitored by pension trustees and central pensions increased life expectancy.
Changes in any or all of these inputs and investment teams.
could potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the schemes and therefore have an adverse impact on profitability Further information on financial instruments and capital and treasury and cash flow.
risk management is included in note 16 on pages 121 to 126.
ETHICAL Acting in an ethical manner, consistent with the expectations Our Code of Business Principles and our Code Policies govern the of customers, consumers and other stakeholders, is essential behaviour of our employees, suppliers, distributors and other third for the protection of the reputation of Unilever and its brands.
Unilevers brands and reputation are valuable assets and the way in Our processes for identifying and resolving breaches of our Code of which we operate, contribute to society and engage with the world Business Principles and our Code Policies are clearly defined and around us is always under scrutiny both internally and externally.
Data relating to such Despite the commitment of Unilever to ethical business and the steps breaches is reviewed by the Unilever Leadership Executive and by we take to adhere to this commitment, there remains a risk that activities relevant Board Committees and helps to determine the allocation or events cause us to fall short of our desired standard, resulting in of resources for future policy development, process improvement, damage to Unilevers corporate reputation and business results.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY Compliance with laws and regulations is an essential part Unilever is committed to complying with the laws and regulations of of Unilevers business operations.
the countries in which we operate.
In specialist areas the relevant teams at global, regional or local levels are responsible for setting detailed Unilever is subject to national and regional laws and regulations in such standards and ensuring that all employees are aware of and comply diverse areas as product safety, product claims, trademarks, copyright, with regulations and laws specific and relevant to their roles.
patents, competition, employee health and safety, the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, employment and taxes.
Our legal and regulatory specialists are heavily involved in monitoring and reviewing our practices to provide reasonable assurance that we Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose Unilever remain aware of and in line with all relevant laws and legal obligations.
to civil and or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and criminal sanctions against us and or our employees with possible Our Global Tax Principles provide overarching governance and we have consequences for our corporate reputation.
a Tax Risk Framework in place which sets out the controls established to assess and monitor tax risk for direct and indirect taxes.
We monitor Changes to laws and regulations could have a material impact on the proposed changes in taxation legislation and ensure these are taken cost of doing business.
Tax, in particular, is a complex area where laws into account when we consider our future business plans.
and their interpretation are changing regularly, leading to the risk of unexpected tax exposures.
International tax reform remains a key focus of attention with the OECDs Base Erosion & Profit Shifting project and further potential tax reform in the EU and Switzerland.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 31 RISKS CONTINUED The main impacts of the 2C scenario were as follows: IN FOCUS: CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS Carbon pricing is introduced in key countries and hence there are increases in both manufacturing costs and the costs of AND OPPORTUNITIES raw materials such as dairy ingredients and the metals used UNILEVER HAS PUBLICLY COMMITTED TO in packaging IMPLEMENTING THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE TASK Zero net deforestation requirements are introduced and a shift to sustainable agriculture puts pressure on agricultural FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES.
production, raising the price of certain raw materials As a growing number of investors demand more information on how companies are addressing the effects of climate change, The main impacts of the 4C scenario were as follows: Unilever recognises the importance of disclosing climate-related Chronic and acute water stress reduces agricultural risks and opportunities.
Adopting the Taskforce on Climate-Related productivity in some regions, raising prices of raw materials Financial Disclosures TCFD recommendations is an important Increased frequency of extreme weather storms and floods step forward in enabling market forces to drive efficient allocation causes increased incidence of disruption to our manufacturing of capital and support a smooth transition to a low-carbon economy.
and distribution networks In this Annual Report and Accounts, we continue to integrate Temperature increase and extreme weather events reduce climate-related disclosures throughout the Strategic Report economic activity, GDP growth and hence sales levels fall narrative.
However, in recognition of the growing significance of the impacts of climate change on our business, we have also Our analysis shows that, without action, both scenarios present summarised the risks and opportunities arising from climate financial risks to Unilever by 2030, predominantly due to increased change, and our response below.
However, while there are financial risks which would need to be managed, we would not have to materially change our business The Boards take overall accountability for the management of model.
The most significant impacts of both scenarios climate change risks and opportunities with support from the ULE are on our supply chain where costs of raw materials and and the USLP Steering Team see page 43.
Chaired by Keith Weed, packaging rise, due to carbon pricing and rapid shift to sustainable the USLP Steering Team includes nine members of the ULE and agriculture in a 2C scenario and due to chronic water stress and meets five times a year.
During 2017, there were numerous agenda extreme weather in a 4C scenario.
The impacts on sales and our items on topics related to climate change.
For 2,872 senior own manufacturing operations are relatively small.
management employees, incentives include fixed pay, a bonus as a percentage of fixed pay and a long-term management coThe results of this analysis confirm the importance of doing further investment plan MCIP linked to financial and USLP performance work to ensure that we understand the critical dependencies of including our climate change, water and sustainable sourcing targets climate change on our business and to ensure we have action plans see page 58.
The long-term MCIP will be rolled out to the remainder in place to help mitigate these risks and thus prepare the business of management employees in 2018. for the future environment in which we will operate.
We plan to conduct further analysis on the impact of climate change on our UNDERSTANDING IMPACT agricultural supply chain and the impact of changing weather Climate change has been identified as a principal risk to Unilever patterns including both persistent effects such as droughts and the see page 28.
To further understand the impact that climate temporary effects of storms on critical markets and manufacturing.
change could have on Unilevers business we performed a highlevel assessment of the impact of 2C and 4C global warming RESPONDING TO RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES scenarios.
The 2C and 4C scenarios are constructed on the basis We are taking action to address our climate change risks in line that average global temperatures will have increased by 2C and with the output from the scenario analysis, as well as benefiting 4C in the year 2100.
Between today and 2100 there will be gradual from any opportunities these changes could present across our changes towards these endpoints and we have looked at the value chain.
In 2018, we will launch the Sustainable Agriculture impact on our business in 2030 assuming we have the same Code SAC 2017 which gives Unilever, our farmers and suppliers business activities as we do today.
We also made the following a set of rigorous standards to drive sustainability improvements simplifying assumptions: across our supply chain.
The revised SAC incorporates standards In the 2C scenario, we assumed that in the period to 2030 on Climate Smart Agriculture.
Further risk assessment on society acts rapidly to limit greenhouse gas emissions and puts individual crops and countries of origin will allow us to focus in place measures to restrain deforestation and discourage efforts on implementation of Climate Smart Agriculture.
We are emissions for example implementing carbon pricing at $75- also committed to eliminating the deforestation associated with $100 per tonne, taken from the International Energy Agencys commodity supply chains, with a particular focus on sustainable 450 scenario.
We have assumed that there will be no significant palm oil production see pages 13 and 15. impact to our business from the physical ramifications of Our 2030 carbon positive target commits us to eliminating fossil climate change by 2030 ie from greater scarcity of water fuels from our manufacturing operations by using only energy from or increased impact of severe weather events.
The scenario renewable sources and supporting the generation of more renewable assesses the impact on our business from regulatory changes.
energy than we consume, making the surplus available to the In the 4C scenario, we assumed climate policy is less ambitious communities in which we operate see page 15.
Since 2008, our and emissions remain high so the physical manifestations of factories have avoided costs of over 490 million through cumulative climate change are increasingly apparent by 2030.
Given this we energy savings and in doing so minimising our exposure to future have not included impacts from regulatory restrictions but focus regulatory costs.
on those resulting from the physical impacts.
Climate change has the potential to impact our brands in different We identified the material impacts on Unilevers business arising ways depending on the raw materials used in the production of our from each of these scenarios based on existing internal and products and their end use.
We are developing product innovations external data.
The impacts were assessed without considering any with less greenhouse gases across the value chain and less water actions that Unilever might take to mitigate or adapt to the adverse in use see pages 11, 13 and 14.
Our categories response to impacts or to introduce new products which might offer new climate change has been guided by a review of the areas where we sources of revenue as consumers adjust to the new circumstances.
can have the biggest impact on mitigating climate risk or benefiting from climate opportunity.
32 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Personal Care category has identified several areas of focus MEASURING AND REPORTING to mitigate risks and benefit from opportunities.
These include The USLP includes a number of stretching commitments which the development of compressed deodorants which use 50% less relate to climate risks and opportunities across our value chain.
propellant gas and 25% less aluminium in their packaging than It includes a target to halve the greenhouse gas impact of our standard aerosol deodorants.
The category is also investing products across the lifecycle by 2030 and a commitment to become in water smart product innovations such as dry shampoo and carbon positive in our operations by 2030.
Our water targets cleansing conditioner which help consumers use less hot water include halving the water associated with the consumer use of our while also offering relevant benefits such as reduced colour products by 2020 and reducing water abstracted at manufacturing loss and damage which can arise from frequent washing.
Performance against these targets can be found on page 7.
Home Care has focused its efforts in several areas.
To mitigate We have been measuring and reporting on our energy and water risk, it has removed phosphates from all laundry powders consumption and carbon emissions since 1995.
Our website worldwide, resulting in lower greenhouse gas emissions of up to contains extensive reporting on our performance as well as more 50% per consumer use.
It is also combining insights in consumer detailed commentary on our USLP targets as well as actions we behaviour and water consumption with innovative technology are taking to achieve them.
to develop new market opportunities, launching products and For 2017, PwC assured our measurement of greenhouse gases formulations that address water scarcity and help our consumers across the value chain and water used by our consumers, as well save water.
Sunlight 2-in-1 Handwashing Laundry Powder, Rin as selected manufacturing environmental metrics including water Radiant detergent bar and Comfort One Rinse fabric conditioner abstraction per tonne of production, carbon emissions from energy are examples of successful innovations which are reducing water use and energy use per tonne of production.
FURTHER CLIMATE CHANGE DISCLOSURES Home Care is also home to three brands which are responding This Annual Report and Accounts contains additional disclosures directly to issues related to climate change.
Pureit and Qinyuan, on our climate change risks and opportunities: our water purification businesses, are providing safe drinking Governance and remuneration: pages 43 and 47 to 76 water to millions of people with a lower carbon footprint than Strategy for climate change: pages 14 and 15 alternatives.
Our detailed life cycle analysis shows that Pureits Risk management: page 28 total carbon footprint is at least 80% lower than boiled or bottled Metrics and targets: pages 7, 13 and 14 water.
Blueair, our indoor air purification business acquired in 2016, removes contaminants from the air, including hazardous Unilevers website also contains disclosures on our greenhouse sooty particles associated with the combustion of fossil fuels.
gases and water USLP targets.
Our Foods category continues to develop its response to the growing trend, and business opportunity, for natural and plantwww.
com sustainable-living our-sustainablebased food, thereby reducing emissions from livestock.
We have a living-report-hub range of vegan and vegetarian products and actively endorse plantbased lifestyles via positive, proactive consumer communication campaigns.
By the end of 2017, around 500 Unilever food products in Europe were endorsed by the European Vegetarian Union and our global brands Hellmanns, Flora Becel and Ben & Jerrys now offer vegan and vegetarian variants.
The category is also encouraging more consumers and chefs to cook plant-based meals via our Knorr and Unilever Food Solutions recipe hubs.
In Refreshment, we have prioritised reducing greenhouse gas emissions from ice cream freezers since 2008 see page 12.
As the worlds largest producer of ice cream, we have committed to accelerating the roll-out of freezer cabinets that use more climate-friendly natural hydrocarbon refrigerants.
By 2017 our total purchase of these cabinets had increased to around 2.6 million.
We are working on further innovations to make more improvements in freezer energy efficiency, including investigating the use of renewable energy, such as solar, to power our cabinets.
Unilever supports a number of policy measures to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy, including the pricing of carbon and removal of fossil fuel subsidies which act as negative carbon prices.
We believe that carbon pricing is a fundamental part of the global response to climate change and without it, the world is unlikely to meet its greenhouse gas reduction targets.
We have publicly supported calls for carbon pricing and are members of The Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, hosted by the World Bank.
In 2016, we implemented an internal price on carbon of 30 per tonne for significant capital expenditure projects as part of a clean-tech fund.
So far, 63 million has been raised by this fund for energy and water saving projects.
In January 2018 we increased the price of carbon to 40 per tonne.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 33
