Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management Managing risks to protect value.
The Board is ultimately responsible for determining our risk appetite and monitoring and reviewing the processes and We have a clear plan to deliver value for all our internal controls we operate to manage and mitigate the risks that could threaten our performance and reputation.
To achieve our strategic goals and information about the role and responsibilities of the Board is business objectives it is essential that we manage set out on pages 64 to 69.
The Audit and Risk Committee the risks that are inherent in our business and the supports the Board in monitoring and reviewing the adequacy markets where we operate.
and effectiveness of our risk management framework, which is embedded in all our operations around the world.
The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and a robust sensitivity analysis, as Our risk appetite described in this section.
Risk category Risk parameters Risk appetite Strategic We have a moderate to high risk appetite The Board considers the level of risk that is appropriate for us Moderate to high with regard to product innovation and exploring and adopting commercial to accept to achieve our strategic goals and business objectives strategies that bring enhanced value to on an ongoing basis.
our customers and that contribute to the delivery of a higher quality of care to Our risk appetite is summarised in the panel on the left.
ConvaTec Risk management framework Operational We maintain a low to moderate risk The risk register, which is the basis for the list of principal risks Low to moderate tolerance when assessing our suppliers and uncertainties, was developed using both a bottom up and and managing our overall production top down assessment of business and strategic risks.
We strive to operate as efficiently management process was implemented in conjunction with the as possible without compromising Groups initial public offering in October 2016.
In the period product quality or disturbing effective inventory management processes.
since the IPO, the risk management processes have continued to evolve and mature through application coupled with Financial We have a low risk tolerance in respect increased levels of oversight from senior management and Low of our financial processes.
We maintain regular review by the Audit and Risk Committee.
financial controls to help ensure that our financial processes are well designed, The bottom up exercise is conducted through discussions and controlled and support accurate reporting interviews in each of the Groups businesses.
The top down to management, the Board and external exercise includes meetings with senior executives.
We also have a low risk from the aggregated results of the top down and bottom up tolerance with respect to safeguarding exercises produces a list of principal risks that are reviewed our assets.
Our Treasury policies explicitly and agreed by the senior management team overseen by the focus on asset security as the principal concern in all Treasury transactions.
We Executive Committee, and reviewed and approved by the Audit aim to ensure that our Treasury policies and Risk Committee before being presented to, and discussed are always supportive of underlying by, the Board.
business activities while being prohibitive of speculation via financial instruments.
The risk register is reviewed and maintained on an ongoing basis by management, with the Board retaining oversight and Compliance and safety We have an extremely low risk tolerance responsibility over the risk register and the risk management Extremely low with respect to any activities or conduct process.
Depending on the nature of the risk involved, a variety that are not compliant with all antiof risk mitigation measures have been implemented including, corruption and anti-bribery laws.
We for example, insurance, standardised processes, delegation of promote the highest ethical standards authorities, auditing and monitoring, succession plans, and impose such standards on all diversification in business and revenue streams.
The Audit and employees, agents and contractors.
Similarly, we have an extremely low risk Risk Committee and the Board assess the effectiveness and tolerance with regard to conduct that may applicability of the risk mitigation measures through the internal compromise product quality or patient monitoring undertaken by various functions including Internal and employee safety.
Audit, Legal and Compliance, Finance and IT.
Our strategy Page 22 Our market environment Page 10 Key performance indicators Page 28 ConvaTec Group Plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Internal control Internal Audit The Board recognises its responsibilities to carry out a review Our Internal Audit function reports directly to the Audit and Risk of the Groups internal controls, financial position and prospects.
The Internal Audit function carries out work across The Board, including the Audit and Risk Committee, has the Group acting as a third line of defence following management accountability for reviewing and approving the effectiveness of controls and internal control measures first line of defence and internal controls operated by the Group, including operational the Group internal risk management and compliance functions and compliance controls, risk management and compliance the second line of defence.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
The risk management framework assists in the ongoing process of the The key responsibilities of Internal Audit are: Boards identification, evaluation, and management of the To review and evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of Groups principal risks.
company operations and activities, including business practices, IT and systems of internal control.
The Boards role in risk management involves: To review operations and programmes to ascertain if results Overseeing the Groups risk management programme.
are consistent with established objectives and goals and if the Regularly reviewing the principal risks of the Group.
operations or programmes are being carried out as planned.
To identify and recommend opportunities for improvement and to monitor the implementation of appropriate corrective Audit and Risk Committee action.
The Audit and Risk Committee has responsibility for overseeing To report to the Audit and Risk Committee on a quarterly the internal controls over the Groups financial reporting, for basis, provide a summary of audits completed, including any reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management related significant findings, and discuss audit directions, plans systems, for overseeing the activities and direction of the and priorities.
Internal Audit function, for maintaining an appropriate To conduct risk assessments independently and in relationship with the external auditor of the Group and for coordination with our corporate compliance department to reporting its findings and recommendations to the Board.
develop annual and long range audit plans.
Further information about the role and responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out on pages 73 to 77.
Operating management Our operating management, within our franchises or business Legal and Compliance units, identifies risks at an operational level, assesses those risks Our Legal and Compliance function works with the Audit and and, where necessary, escalates them through the channels up Risk Committee and the Board to assist with compliance with to the Board.
laws and regulations and to ensure that certain legal risks are identified on the risk register.
In this capacity, its role is to: The key responsibilities of operating management are: Evaluate alternative regulatory and non-regulatory responses To carry out day-to-day risk management activities.
To identify risk and provide risk assessment.
Provide legal awareness training or training on legal aspects To implement strategy and actions to address risk within of the business, including anti-bribery, money laundering, a business area.
To assign risk owners to lead mitigation actions.
Assess and monitor the Groups operations and processes to promote compliance with relevant laws and regulations and, where necessary, make recommendations for enhancements.
Make reports to the Audit and Risk Committee on particular areas of legal risk identified in the Group.
ConvaTec Group Plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Detailed here is an overview of the principal Risk category risks we believe could threaten our strategy, Operational and Supply Chain Risk performance and reputation and the actions we Inadequate operational and quality control procedures around are taking to respond and mitigate those risks.
manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet customer demand could result in operational disruptions, reputational damage and or financial loss.
Potential impact As we depend upon a limited group of suppliers and manufacturers for products essential to our business, we may incur significant product development costs and experience material delivery delays in the event of disruption to manufacturing sites or supply chains.
One or more of our suppliers may be unable to supply or decide to cease supplying us with raw materials and components for reasons beyond our control or they may increase prices significantly.
Any cessation, interruption or delay affecting our supply chain, including any delay in or termination of our operational agreements or relationships with suppliers of the various products and services that we rely upon may impair our ability to manufacture products within our budget, meet scheduled deliveries of products to our customers and or cause our customers to cancel orders.
Response to risk mitigation We maintain stock of certain products at alternative sites to reduce the risk that we are unable to meet customer demand.
As part of the MIP, we are reducing the SKUs held by franchises in order to reduce the risk of products becoming obsolete or unmarketable.
For product manufacturing that was transferred from one location to another, we have built additional inventory to cover the time for transfer, start-up and registration.
We have a programme of ongoing inventory review versus demand and regulatory timing to minimise risk of supply disruption and to ensure optimal levels of business continuity.
We have enacted special procedures to allow products to be shipped to the regional distribution centres at risk and stored at those locations.
We monitor customer contracts to ensure competitiveness and to maintain visibility to expiration terms in an effort to reduce the risk of customer loss.
We are focused on strengthening our commercial operations and marketing to prioritise production.
We have implemented a Sales Operation Planning Process that seeks to balance supply with demand and facilitates action being taken in relation to constrained lines.
We have business continuity plans in place for all facilities and key suppliers across our franchises.
Risk owner Global Operations: Global Franchises ConvaTec Group Plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Risk category Risk category Macroeconomic and Foreign Exchange Risk Governmental Social Health Care Policy Risk We could be exposed to negative global economic trends Certain of our products, which are sold to governmental social in certain of our geographic markets which could negatively health care services, could be negatively impacted by reductions impact our strategic growth.
in reimbursement spending, enhanced government audits and or unfavourable governmental reimbursement policies which Potential impact could negatively impact our strategic growth or hinder our Movements in exchange rates between foreign currencies ability to innovate.
and the US dollar our reporting currency could have a negative effect on the results of our operations and financial Potential impact conditions.
Unforeseen reductions in governmental budgets or other A negative economic climate in the key markets in which we changes to government reimbursement policy could sell our products could contribute to reduced demand for our adversely affect the demand for our products.
products and negatively impact revenue from those markets.
Failure to monitor changes in government payment Negative market conditions may reduce the number of policies in the countries in which we operate could result patients with access to care, resulting in decreased demand in financial losses.
Reductions in government spending and or individual income Response to risk mitigation could impact customers purchases of our products.
We engage with governments to encourage continued Disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our government investment in government health programmes.
suppliers and vendors and negatively impact our operations We continually monitor governmental policy changes and through increased purchasing costs.
reimbursement guidelines in order to anticipate and minimise The EU Referendum in the UK Brexit has created a period the impact of any policy revisions that may affect us.
of economic uncertainty for the UK and wider economic environment which may lead to a reduction of economic Risk owner activity, in particular: i our operations in the UK may be subject Global Franchises: Regional Presidents to increased taxes, duties and or tariffs following Brexit: ii our regulatory compliance costs may increase as a result of Brexit: and iii we may determine to reorganise our manufacturing and distribution channels to mitigate such duties and tariffs which could result in significant increased costs.
Response to risk mitigation We maintain a model that allows us to run sensitivity analyses based on foreign exchange FX movements in order to provide management with estimates of the impact of FX movements on our financial results.
We maintain an operational presence in a diverse range of geographic markets, reducing our economic exposure.
We have implemented economic forecasting and management reporting processes enabling us to detect the development of unfavourable trends and formulate mitigation strategies.
We have a robust strategic planning process that provides a vehicle for contemplating market and regulatory developments in a manner allowing for the development of economic mitigation strategies.
The Group has implemented appropriate oversight actions to assess the potential impact of Brexit and will establish mitigating actions as necessary.
We will also seek to mitigate any tariffs or compliance costs resulting from Brexit in a cost effective manner.
Risk owner Global Finance Department: Global Franchises ConvaTec Group Plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk category Risk category Intellectual Property and Product Innovation Risk Regulatory Risk We are dependent on our intellectual property and our We operate in intensive and diverse regulatory regimes which continued development of products and any negative impact are subject to change which could negatively impact our on this development could hinder our ability to innovate.
Potential impact Potential impact Our competitors may secure intellectual property rights Regulatory approval processes could delay, or otherwise that disrupt our ability to compete in certain markets.
negatively impact, the marketing and sale of our products.
Our proprietary intellectual property could be subject to Failure to obtain appropriate regulatory clearances upon a misappropriation by a competitor, thereby reducing our change to a product may result in negative regulatory action competitive advantage.
impacting our ability to market and sell products.
Governmental entities may require disclosure of our We are subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny around the intellectual property which may reduce our competitive globe which may delay product launches or otherwise advantage or otherwise negatively impact our negatively disrupt our operations.
We may be subject to litigation involving our intellectual Response to risk mitigation property rights which results in a negative impact to our We coordinate regulatory approvals on an ongoing basis, financial condition.
including scheduling appropriate review periods with Insufficient investment in R&D, or inadequate innovation, regulatory bodies in advance of certification requirements.
may adversely impact our ability to compete.
We maintain processes that aim to ensure that all regulatory and clinical trial requirements are considered and addressed Response to risk mitigation prior to the launch of a new product.
We pursue appropriate patent protection for our intellectual Relevant employees are trained on processes related to property developments.
regulatory clearances, marketing claims related to products We deploy internal protections against the improper and regulatory inspections.
dissemination of our confidential information, including IT We employ regional regulatory specialists with local expertise protections and confidentiality agreements.
in all our major markets to facilitate regulatory clearance.
We deploy resources to limit the scope of any mandatory We have implemented a process to ensure marketing disclosure of our proprietary information to governmental collateral receives thorough and adequate review prior to organisations.
We conduct IP assessments prior to product launches to reduce the risk of intellectual property litigation.
Risk owner We monitor market activity to determine whether violations Quality, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs of our intellectual property rights have taken place and to assess whether to assert our intellectual property rights.
We continue to invest in new product launches and product development drives to cultivate an adequate product pipeline.
Risk owner Legal & Compliance Department: Information Management ConvaTec Group Plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Risk category Risk category Product Quality and Safety Risk Ethics, Bribery and Corruption Risk Defects, failures or safety or quality issues associated with our Violations of anti-corruption laws could significantly impact our products could adversely impact our results of operations or financial position and reputation.
financial condition and which could negatively impact our ability to innovate.
Potential impact The health care industry is heavily scrutinised by Potential impact governmental bodies around the globe and bribery, or other Defects related to the design or manufacture of our products violations of anti-corruption laws, may result in enforcement may impact the quality of goods sold and harm our results of actions that may negatively impact our financial position operations or reputation.
Failure to manage adverse events appropriately could Enforcement actions related to bribery could result in result in reputational harm, regulatory enforcement and or an inability to participate in tenders or sell products to financial loss.
entities that are directly or indirectly reimbursed by a Defects in our products may result in recalls, safety alerts, governmental body.
product liability claims or negative publicity.
Violations of anti-corruption laws could result in criminal exposure for our employees and cause material disruption Response to risk mitigation to our operations.
We have processes throughout each phase of the product development process to monitor product manufacturing and Response to risk mitigation to implement timely corrective action where necessary.
We maintain top down leadership of compliance initiatives Relevant employees are trained on policies and procedures through a Compliance Steering Committee that is comprised related to manufacturing and adverse event handling.
We have processes in place for managing product complaints.
We operate ongoing training for all employees, including an We maintain records for all products containing evidence of annual attestation and annual live training for customer-facing development, testing, product and process qualification and employees.
We operate a global risk assessment team and an annual monitoring programme.
Risk owner We perform due diligence of third parties, require training Quality, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs modules for distributors, audit select distributors in high-risk markets and undertake internal audit reviews of relationships with certain third parties and employee adherence to our policies and procedures relating to ethics.
We maintain a confidential and anonymous compliance helpline which is available for all employees to report potential breaches of the Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.
Risk owner Legal & Compliance Department ConvaTec Group Plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk category Risk category Budget and Forecasting Risk Data Loss Mistreatment Risk Information and or assumptions used in the production of budgets Failure to comply with privacy and data protection laws and and forecasts if not updated in a timely manner when required regulations could impact our reputation and negatively impact could result in reputational damage and compliance issues.
our strategic growth and efficiency.
Potential impact Potential impact There is a risk that, if such information and or assumptions Inadequate protections related to the transfer of data stored are not so updated, inside information is not identified and on internal systems may result in our loss or theft of sensitive disclosed in a timely manner, which could result in reputational or confidential data.
An intentional attack on our IT systems may cause the loss of sensitive data.
Response to risk mitigation Failure to adhere to laws and regulations relating to the Our market disclosure policy, which outlines the Groups protection of patient and or employee data may result in processes with regard to classification and escalation of financial loss and or reputational damage.
information that may constitute inside information and The applicability of the General Data Protection Regulation require disclosure, is in place and available to all employees.
GDPR Regulation EU 2016 679 from 25 May 2018 will On an annual basis, the Group prepares a Guidance impose a higher compliance burden and introduce greater Memorandum that contains budgeting and forecasting penalties for data protection breaches.
This document includes guidance on product our data protection compliance costs and impact our costs, foreign exchange, new product launches, market share processing of data.
information, competitive activity, franchise strategies and operating expenses.
The Guidance Memorandum is used Response to risk mitigation in financial planning activities.
We have deployed internal and external resources towards Training has been provided to the Executive Committee, their addressing cyber security risks, including independent cyber direct reports and other key functions such as senior finance assessments.
A cross-functional steering committee has been personnel with regard to the identification of such information set up to assess and review new and emerging information and the need to escalate appropriately.
Refresher training to security and cyber risks and to assess measures designed to be delivered on an ongoing basis to the Executive Committee protect sensitive data and the Groups systems.
We conduct periodic reviews of our networks and stored data We have disseminated guidance pertaining to the annual to ensure highly sensitive data is maintained in secure locations.
operational planning AOP process and enhanced review We endeavour to ensure that all relevant employees are trained analytics.
on the maintenance and handling of sensitive personal data.
We have implemented an enhanced sensitivity exercise to We deploy processes in relevant segments of the business to the regular reforecasting process.
safeguard the security of employee and customer data.
We have implemented a restructured monthly operating We have assessed the Groups systems and the data stored review process led by the CFO with senior management and maintained therein to deploy effective strategies toward and global supply chain to drive improved communication achieving GDPR readiness.
and insight between the Regions, Franchises and Global Operations.
Risk owner We have established centralised business intelligence and Information Management data analytics expertise.
Risk owner Global Finance: Legal & Compliance Department ConvaTec Group Plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
