130 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Risk Management Report Emerging risks The Group considers the following to be key emerging risks the Group monitors its credit and liquidity positions, that have the potential to affect the performance of the Group.
operational capability and risk of disruption to payment and other systems, to ensure it remains responsive to changes in Macro-economic environment the macro-economic environment: The UK economy remained resilient through 2017 and performed better than markets had expected at the beginning the Group continues to review its capital plan in light of market of the year.
The economic outlook for 2018 has been conditions: and strengthened by global growth.
Whilst there continues to be retail funding is supplemented by a diversified wholesale no evidence of material changes in customer behaviour, the funding programme and the Group is planning its inaugural potential risks around inflation, a slowing housing market and Covered Bonds issuance in H1 2018. rising unemployment remain.
Macro-structural landscape The Bank of England increased interest rates from 0.25 There is a significant volume of regulatory change which will per cent to 0.50 per cent in November 2017, and there is impact the Group over the coming year.
These changes may the expectation that rates will continue to rise gradually also lead to increased competition.
over the next three years.
Low wage growth and higher Changes to capital requirements include an increase to the inflation may put pressure on some household budgets and countercyclical buffer, implementation of Structural Reform the Group remains alert to signs of customers in financial and the introduction of Minimum Requirements for Own distress.
The commercial performance of the credit card Funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL.
Further information portfolio is exposed to changes in consumer behaviour and regarding these changes can be found on page 183. the Group continues to monitor this closely.
In addition, changes to central bank rates can represent risk to future Open Banking and the second Payment Services Directive financial performance.
PSD2 came into force in January 2018, and General Data Protection Regulation GDPR is due to follow in May.
These The mortgage market saw heightened competition in the regulatory change programmes are aimed at protecting the second half of 2017 which may continue in 2018. consumer and introducing greater choice.
Consequently, they Political and economic uncertainty, including the impact are expected to have a material impact on the competitive of the UK leaving the European Union, could impact the environment in which the Group operates, with non-bank wholesale funding markets.
In addition, the closure of the firms potentially entering the market.
Bank of Englands Term Funding Scheme TFS has led to IFRS 9 is effective from 1 January 2018 and will result in cumulative refinancing risk across the industry.
The Groups new calculations of expected credit loss and additional drawings from the TFS will be refinanced in the medium term.
The Group has a well-diversified wholesale funding portfolio and further issuances of Residential Mortgage Backed The EUs Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II Securities, Global Medium Term Notes and Covered Bonds are reforms are effective from January 2018.
They are designed planned for 2018. to promote investor protection and increase market transparency and efficiency.
The Group is compliant with the Key mitigating actions new regulations.
there is an ongoing programme of stress testing to assess vulnerability to changing macro-economic conditions and to inform the strategic planning process: the Group continues to monitor key exposures in light of the prevailing and forecast economic outlook, and tests its readiness to respond to future changes in the economy: additional oversight activities have been implemented, alongside contingency plans, which are designed to respond to and mitigate the impact of adverse conditions that may emerge: Risk Management Report Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 131 I Key mitigating actions Cyber-crime and financial crime risk the Board is focused on responding effectively and efficiently The external threat of cyber-crime continues with reports to changes in the regulatory environment and overseeing the of data and security breaches increasing in frequency delivery of these regulatory changes: and severity across all industries.
Ongoing evidence of ransomware attacks emphasises the need for firms to remain the business planning process incorporates the Groups view of alert to the emerging threat environment with detective and emerging capital requirements: preventative processes and systems.
stress and scenario testing forms an integral part of the The FCA regards financial crime risk as a significant threat to Groups strategic and capital planning: realising their objective to promote and enhance the integrity the Group actively participates in regulatory developments, of the UK financial system and emphasises the need for firms engaging with HM Treasury, the PRA, the FCA and the Bank to ensure they have adequate and effective systems and of England onthe evolving UK regulatory framework and the controls to manage this.
impact ofEUdirectives: and Key mitigating actions new impairment models and business processes have been the Group has a Cyber Security Strategy to enhance its control developed and embedded to meet the requirements of IFRS 9. environment, IT resilience and information security capability, taking account of both the external threat environment and Balance sheet risk the changing risk profile of the business: Credit Low wage growth and higher inflation could cause a the Group remains responsive to newly identified external reduction in household real earnings.
In a rising interest rate vulnerabilities, increasing monitoring where required to environment, the cost of borrowing may increase.
Combined mitigate risk to the Group: and with potential concern around consumer indebtedness, these the Group has in place a strategic financial crime programme factors could lead to increases in defaults and impairments.
designed to enhance the Groups systems and controls.
In relation to the housing market, although the potential Supplier partnerships for the weakening of regional house prices exists, inflation, The Group works with mortgage intermediaries and manages low unemployment and record low mortgage rates support outsourced relationships with third parties who support consumer affordability while supply shortages continue to the credit card, investment and insurance business lines.
The Group has strategic suppliers for key components Key mitigating actions of its infrastructure.
Reliance on key corporate partners the Group has well-established early warning indicators to and strategic suppliers gives rise to risks in relation to highlight signs of regional stress in the housing market: operational continuity.
the Group has tightened credit card scorecard cut-offs and Key mitigating actions implemented policy restrictions during the year to protect the the Group develops its supplier partnership and oversight credit quality of new card lending: and capability to minimise the risk of service disruption caused by the failure of a third party: the Group will continue to protect asset quality.
the Group engages specialist third parties to undertake targeted reviews of supplier performance as required: and the Group outsources the administration of its unit trust and pension business to DST formerly IFDS.
During 2017, DST progressed a significant programme of remediation relating to compliance with client asset regulations which will continue into 2018.
The Group continues to strengthen its oversight of DST.
