Strategic report Directors report RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW Financial statements Supplementary information Principal risks We manage and control our Principal Risk Types through distinct risk type frameworks, policies and Board-approved Risk Appetite Credit risk The Group fide fines Credit risk Risk Appetite Statement as the potential for loss due The Group manages its credit exposures following the principle to the failure of a counterparty of diversi cation across products, geographies, client segments to meet its agreed obligations and industry sectors to pay the Group detailed and adapted to re ect the different protection achieved.
Risk mitigation bene ts Roles and responsibilities risk characteristics across customer may be reduced or removed where the The Credit Risk Framework for the Group segments.
Policies are regularly reviewed and collateral value is not supported by a recent is set by the Chief Risk Of cers for the monitored to ensure they remain effective independent valuation.
Corporate & Institutional Banking, and consistent with the risk environment and Commercial Banking and Private Banking, Documentation must be held to enable the Risk Appetite.
The Credit Group to realise the collateral without the The Group credit policies set out the key Risk function is the second line control cooperation of the obligor in the event that considerations for eligibility, enforceability function that performs independent this is necessary.
For certain types of lending, and effectiveness of credit risk mitigation challenge, monitoring and oversight of the typically mortgages or asset nancing where arrangements.
Potential credit losses from credit risk management practices of the a first charge over the risk mitigant must any given account, client or portfolio are business and functions engaged in or be attained, the right to take charge over mitigated using a range of tools such as supporting revenue generating activities physical assets is signi cant in terms of collateral, netting agreements, credit which constitute the first line of defence.
determining appropriate pricing and insurance, credit derivatives and guarantees.
The first and second lines of defence are recoverability in the event of default.
Physical The reliance that can be placed on risk supported by the organisation structure, collateral is required to be insured at all times mitigants is carefully assessed in light job descriptions and delegated authorities.
against risk of physical loss or damage.
of issues such as legal certainty and Additionally, to ensure that credit risks are Collateral values are, where appropriate, enforceability, market valuation, correlation properly assessed and are transparent, adjusted to re ect current market conditions, and counterparty risk of the protection credit decisions are controlled in accordance the probability of recovery and the period of provider.
The requirement for risk mitigation with the Groups Risk Appetite and credit time to realise the collateral in the event of is, however, not a substitute for the ability to policies and procedures.
Stress tests are performed on pay, which is the primary consideration for Of cers in Group, regional and country roles changes in collateral values for key portfolios any lending decisions.
are accountable to the segment Chief Risk to assist senior management in managing Of cers for credit risk management strategy, Collateral types that are eligible as risk the risks in those portfolios.
The Group also policy and performance.
mitigants include: cash: account receivables: seeks to diversify its collateral holdings across residential, commercial and industrial asset classes and markets.
Mitigation property: xed assets such as motor vehicles, Where guarantees, credit insurance, standby aircraft, plant and machinery: marketable Group-wide credit policies and standards letter of credit or credit derivatives are used securities: commodities: risk participations: are established and approved by the Group as credit risk mitigation, the creditworthiness guarantees: derivatives: credit insurance: Risk Committee or individuals with authority of the protection provider is assessed and and standby letters of credit.
Physical delegated by the Risk Authorities policy.
monitored using the same credit approval collateral, such as property, xed assets and The Group Risk Committee oversees the process applied to the obligor.
The main commodities, and financial collateral must delegation of credit approval and loan types of guarantors include banks, insurance be independently valued and an active impairment provisioning authorities.
The companies, parent companies, governments secondary resale market must exist.
The principles for the delegation, review and and export credit agencies.
collateral must be valued prior to drawdown maintenance of credit approval authorities and regularly thereafter as required.
The are fide ned in the Risk Authorities policy.
Governance Committee valuation frequency is at minimum annual, In addition, there are other Group-wide Oversight and more frequent valuations are driven by policies integral to credit risk management the level of price volatility of each type of such as those relating to stress testing, risk At a Board level, the Board Risk Committee collateral and the nature of the underlying measurement and impairment provisioning.
oversees the effective management of product or risk exposure.
For financial Credit risk and the Board Audit Committee Policies and procedures speci c to each collateral to be eligible for recognition, the approves the Group Impairment provisioning customer segment are established by collateral must be suf ciently liquid, and its policy and reviews judgements made by individuals authorised via the Risk Authorities value over time suf ciently stable, to provide Management on key accounting issues and policy.
These are consistent with our appropriate certainty as to the credit signi cant accounting estimates.
Group-wide credit policies, but are more 16 165 5 RISK REVIEW Risk management approach At the executive level, the Group Risk personal income or wealth for individual Credit rating and measurement Committee delegates the authority for borrowers.
The risk assessment gives due Risk measurement plays a central role, the management of credit risk to several consideration to the clients liquidity and along with judgement and experience, committees the Corporate & Institutional leverage position.
Where applicable, the in informing risk-taking and portfolio Banking Risk Committee, Private Banking assessment includes a detailed analysis of management decisions.
Risk Committee as well as the regional risk the credit risk mitigation arrangements to committees for Greater China and North determine the level of reliance on such Since 1 January 2008, we have used the Asia, ASEAN and South Asia and Africa and arrangements as the secondary source advanced internal ratings-based approach Middle East.
These committees are of repayment in the event of a signi cant under the Basel II regulatory framework to responsible for overseeing the credit risk deterioration in a clients credit quality calculate credit risk capital requirements.
pro le of the Group within the respective leading to default.
Lending activities that A standard alphanumeric credit risk grade business areas and regions.
Meetings are are considered as higher risk or nonsystem for Corporate & Institutional Banking held regularly and the committees monitor all standard are subjected to stricter minimum and Commercial Banking is used.
The material credit risk exposures, key internal requirements and require escalation to a numeric grades run from 1 to 14 and some of developments and external trends, and senior credit of cer or authorised body.
the grades are further sub-classi ed.
Lower ensure that appropriate action is taken.
numeric credit grades are indicative of a lower Monitoring In addition, there is a Credit Approval likelihood of default.
Credit grades 1 to 12 Committee and an Underwriting Committee.
We regularly monitor credit exposures, are assigned to performing customers, while The Credit Approval Committee, appointed portfolio performance, and external trends credit grade 13 and 14 are assigned to by the Group Risk Committee, reviews and that may impact risk management outcomes.
An approves major credit exposures to individual analysis by credit quality of those loans that Internal risk management reports that are counterparties, groups of connected are neither past due nor impaired is set out in presented to risk committees contain counterparties and portfolios of retail the Risk Pro le section pages 126 to 127. information on key political and economic exposures.
The Underwriting Committee, trends across major portfolios and countries: Retail Banking internal ratings-based appointed by the Corporate & Institutional portfolio delinquency and loan impairment portfolios use application and behaviour Banking Risk Committee, approves limits for performance.
credit scores that are calibrated to generate a the underwriting of securities to be held for probability of default and then mapped to the sale, and ensures effective risk management Credit risk committees meet regularly to standard alphanumeric credit risk grade of underwritten debt securities and assess the impact of external events and system.
We refer to external ratings from syndicated loans.
trends on the Groups credit risk portfolios credit bureaus where these are available : and to fide ne and implement our response in however, we do not rely solely on these to terms of the appropriate changes to portfolio Decision making authorities determine Retail Banking credit grades.
shape, portfolio and underwriting standards, and delegation risk policy and procedures.
Advanced internal ratings-based models Major credit exposures to individual cover a substantial majority of our exposures Clients or portfolios are subjected to counterparties, groups of connected and are used in assessing risks at a customer additional review when they display signs of counterparties and portfolios of retail and portfolio level, setting strategy and actual or potential weakness: for example, exposures are reviewed and approved optimising our risk return decisions.
Material where there is a decline in the clients position by the Credit Approval Committee.
internal ratings-based risk measurement within the industry, financial deterioration, a All other credit approval authorities are models are approved by the Stress Testing breach of covenants, non-performance of delegated by the Group Risk Committee to Committee on the recommendation of an obligation within the stipulated period, individuals based both on their judgement the Credit Model Assessment Committee.
or there are concerns relating to ownership and experience.
These individuals further The Credit Model Assessment Committee or management.
delegate credit authorities to individual credit approves all other internal ratings-based risk Such accounts and portfolios are subjected of cers by applying Group Risk Committee measurement models, with key decisions to a dedicated process overseen by the approved delegated Credit Authorities noted to the Stress Testing Committee.
Prior Credit Issues Committees in the relevant matrices by customer type or portfolio.
These to review by the Credit Model Assessment countries where client account strategies and matrices establish the maximum limits that Committee, all internal ratings-based models credit grades are re-evaluated.
In addition, the delegated credit of cers are authorised are validated in detail by a model validation remedial actions are agreed and monitored.
to approve, based on risk-adjusted scales team which is separate from the teams that Remedial actions include, but are not which take account of the estimated develop and maintain the models.
Models limited to, exposure reduction, security maximum expected loss from a given undergo annual validation by the model enhancement, exiting the account or customer or portfolio.
Reviews are also triggered immediate movement of the account into Institutional Banking, Commercial & Private if the performance of a model deteriorates the control of Group Special Assets Banking, the individuals delegating the credit materially against predetermined thresholds Management, our specialist recovery unit authorities perform oversight by reviewing during the ongoing model performance for Corporate & Institutional Banking, on a monthly basis a sample of the limit monitoring process which takes place Commercial Banking & Private Banking.
applications approved by the delegated credit between the annual validations.
In Retail Banking, credit decisions For Retail Banking exposures, portfolio are subject to periodic quality control Credit concentration risk delinquency trends are monitored assessment and assurance checks.
Individual Credit concentration risk may arise from a customer behaviour is also tracked and All credit proposals are subject to a robust single large exposure to a counterparty or a considered for lending decisions.
It includes a group of connected counterparties, or from that are past due or charged-off are subject comprehensive evaluation of the clients multiple exposures across the portfolio that to a collections or recovery process credit quality, including willingness, ability are closely correlated.
Large exposure respectively, and managed independently and capacity to repay.
The primary lending concentration risk is managed through by the Risk function.
In some countries, consideration is based on the clients credit concentration limits set by a counterparty or a aspects of collections and recovery activities quality and the repayment capacity from group of connected counterparties based on are outsourced.
operating cash ows for counterparties: and control and economic dependence criteria.
Standard Chartered 166 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW Financial statements Supplementary information Risk Appetite metrics are set at portfolio level ability of the counterparty to meet its The Groups loan loss provisions are and monitored to control concentrations, payment, margin call or collateral posting established to recognise incurred impairment where appropriate, by industry, speci c requirements.
The Group employs various losses either on speci c loan assets or within products, tenor, collateralisation level, top 20 policies and procedures to ensure that a portfolio of loans and advances.
Individually concentration and exposure to holding wrong-way risk exposures are identi ed, impaired loans are those loans against which companies.
Single name credit concentration measured and managed.
individual impairment provisions IIP have thresholds are set by a Client Group been raised.
depending on credit grade, and by customer Securities Provisions are taken in the form of: segment.
For concentrations that are material The limits for the underwriting of securities at a Group level, breaches and potential Individually impaired provisions IIP to be held for sale are approved by the breaches are monitored by the respective Portfolio impairment provisions PIP held Underwriting Committee, under the authority governance committees and reported to the to cover the inherent risk of losses which, of the Corporate & Institutional Banking Risk Group Risk and Board Risk Committees.
although not identi ed, are known through Committee.
The limits contain the overall size experience to be present in any loan of the securities inventory, the maximum Traded products portfolio holding period, the daily value at risk, the Credit risk from traded products derives sensitivity to interest rate and credit spread More information on the components of from the positive mark-to-market value of the moves.
The Underwriting Committee these calculations for Corporate & Institutional underlying instruments, and an additional approves individual proposals to underwrite Banking, Commercial Banking & Private component to cater for potential future new security issues for our clients.
Banking, as well as Retail Banking, can be market movements.
This counterparty credit found in note 8 of the financial statements.
Day-to-day credit risk management activities risk is managed within the Groups overall for traded securities are carried out by a Estimating the amount and timing of future credit Risk Appetite for corporate and specialist team within the Risk function recoveries involves signi cant judgement, and financial institutions.
In addition to analysing whose activities include oversight and considers the assessment of matters such as potential future movements, the Group uses approval within the levels delegated by the future economic conditions and the value of various single and multi-risk factor stress Underwriting Committee.
Issuer credit risk, collateral, for which there may not be a readily test scenarios to identify and manage including settlement and pre-settlement risk, accessible market.
counterparty credit risk across derivatives and price risks are controlled by the Risk and securities nancing transactions.
Loan losses that have been incurred but have function.
Where an underwritten security not been separately identi ed at the balance The Group uses bilateral and multilateral is held for a period longer than the target sheet date are determined by taking into netting to reduce pre-settlement and sell-down period, the final decision on account past loss experience as a result of settlement counterparty credit risk.
Prewhether to sell the position rests with the uncertainties arising from the economic settlement risk exposures are normally netted Risk function.
environment, and defaults based on portfolio using bilateral netting documentation in legally trends.
Actual losses identi ed could differ approved jurisdictions.
Settlement exposures Loan impairment signi cantly from the impairment provisions are generally netted using Delivery versus A loan is impaired when we assess that we reported, for example, as a result of Payments or Payment versus Payments will not recover a portion of the contractual uncertainties arising from the economic systems.
Master netting agreements are cash ows.
Impaired loans are classi ed environment.
generally enforced only in the event of as follows: default.
In line with International Accounting The total amount of the Groups impairment Standards IAS 32, derivative exposures In Corporate & Institutional Banking, provision is inherently uncertain, being are presented on a net basis in the financial Commercial Banking & Private Banking, sensitive to changes in economic and credit statements only if there is a legal right to a loan is considered impaired where conditions across the regions in which the offset and there is intent to settle on a net analysis and review indicate that full Group operates.
Economic and credit basis or realise the assets and liabilities payment of either interest or principal, conditions are interdependent within each simultaneously.
including the timeliness of such payment, geography and as a result there is no single is questionable, or as soon as payment of factor to which the Groups loan impairment In addition, the Group enters into credit interest or principal is 90 days overdue.
provisions as a whole are sensitive.
It is support annexes CSAs with counterparties Impaired accounts are managed by our possible that actual events over the next year where collateral is deemed a necessary or Group Special Assets Management will differ from the assumptions built into our desirable mitigant to the exposure.
Further recovery unit, GSAM, which is model, resulting in material adjustments to details on CSAs are set out in the Risk Pro le independent from our main businesses the carrying amount of loans and advances.
The netting and collateral enforceability status of previously approved In Retail Banking, a loan is considered Effective from 1 January 2018, the jurisdictions is periodically reviewed.
This is impaired when it meets certain fide ned impairment requirements of IFRS 9 Financial undertaken as and when industry opinions threshold conditions in terms of overdue Instruments are being adopted.
More are updated or where a change in the law or payments contractual impairment or information can be found in note 41 of the signi cant event in a relevant jurisdiction meets other objective conditions such as financial statements.
requires a re-assessment of the conclusions bankruptcy, debt restructuring, fraud or previously drawn under the existing opinion.
A loan is considered delinquent or past due, when the customer has failed Wrong-way risk occurs when an exposure to make a principal or interest payment in increase is coupled with a decrease in the accordance with the loan contract.
These credit quality of the obligor.
Speci cally, as the threshold conditions are fide ned in policy mark-to-market on a derivative contract or a and are set at the point where empirical repurchase agreement contract increases evidence suggests that the client is unlikely in favour of the Group, the driver of this to meet their contractual obligations or a mark-to-market change also reduces the loss of principal is expected 16 167 7 RISK REVIEW Risk management approach Country risk Risk Appetite Statement The Group fide fines Country risk as the potential for default The Group manages its country cross-border exposures following the or losses due to political or principle of diversi cation across geographies and controls the business economic events in a country activities in line with the level of jurisdiction risk material risk issues or themes that come to Roles and responsibilities the Committees attention that relate to The Global Head, Enterprise Risk Country risk.
The Group Risk Committee Management is responsible for the delegates the management of Country risk to management and control of Country Risk the Group Country Risk function.
At a country across the Group with the day-to-day level, the Country Risk Committee or management and control activities delegated Executive Risk Committee for subsidiaries is to the Global Head, Country Risk.
They are responsible for monitoring all risk issues for supported by the Regional Chief Risk Of cers their given country, including Country risk.
and Country Chief Risk Of cers who provide second line oversight and challenge to the Decision making authorities first line country risk management activities.
and delegation The first line ownership of country risk resides with the country CEOs who are responsible Decision making and approval authorities for the implementation of policy and allocation are guided by reference levels for countries.
of approved country risk limits across relevant Reference levels are guidelines to set country businesses and product lines, as well as the limits in respect of Country risk.
The reference identi cation and measurement of country levels are assessed by the Group Country risks and communication of these and any Risk function and are functionally derived non-compliance to policy to the second line.
from factors including: Group Tier 1 capital, sovereign risk grade, with adjustment for Mitigation transfer risk: Group strategy, through Country tiering: portfolio composition short and Policies and procedures are developed and medium-term and Countrys total foreign deployed to put in place standards and currency earnings.
controls that all countries must follow to ensure effective management of country risk.
Monitoring The policies include standards for the acceptance and effective management of Monitoring and reporting is included in the country risk in particular around identi cation, policy and procedures and covers the measurement, reporting and setting, and monitoring of exposures relative to Risk the calibration and allocation of country risk Appetite thresholds and limits, and the limits.
The procedures outline the process for reporting of material exposures to internal country risk limit setting, monitoring and committees and externally.
The Group Risk reporting exposures.
Committee monitors Risk Appetite thresholds on a traf c-light indicator basis which provide Governance Committee an early warning indicator of stress and concentration risk.
An escalation process to Oversight the Board Risk Committee is in place based At a Board level, the Board Risk Committee on the traf c-light indicators monitoring oversees the effective management of system.
In addition, the Group Risk Country risk.
At the executive level, the Group Committee and the Board Risk Committee Risk Committee is responsible for approving receive regular reports on exposures in policies and control risk parameters, excess of 1 per cent of total Group assets.
monitoring material risk exposures and directing appropriate action in response to Standard Chartered 168 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW Financial statements Supplementary information Market risk Risk Appetite Statement The Group fide fines Market risk as the potential for loss of The Group should control its trading portfolio and activities to ensure economic value due to that market risk losses financial or reputational do not cause material adverse changes in financial damage to the Groups franchise market rates or prices up to MTCRs Group-level reporting.
This Stress scenarios are regularly updated to Roles and responsibilities aggregation approach ensures that the limits re ect changes in risk pro le and economic The Market Risk Framework, which sets the structure across the Group is consistent with events.
The MTCR function reviews stress roles and responsibilities in respect of Market the Groups Risk Appetite.
testing results and, where necessary, risk for the Group, is owned by the Global enforces reductions in overall market risk The Market Risk Stress Testing Policy is Head, Market and Traded Credit Risk exposure.
The Group Risk Committee designed to ensure that adherence to Group MTCR.
The front of ce acting as first line considers the results of stress tests as part market risk stress appetite is achieved.
of defence is responsible for the effective of its supervision of Risk Appetite.
Stress testing aims at supplementing other management of market risks.
The Market risk metrics used within the bank by providing Regular stress test scenarios are applied Risk Function is the second line control a forward-looking view of positions and an to interest rates, credit spreads, exchange function that performs independent assessment of their resilience to stressed rates, commodity prices and equity prices.
challenge, monitoring and oversight of the market conditions.
Stress testing is This covers all asset classes in the Financial market risk management practices of the first performed on all Group businesses with Markets banking and trading books.
The first and second lines of market risk exposures, either where the risk is defence are supported by the organisation Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared, actively traded or where material risk remains.
structure, job descriptions and authorities re ecting speci c market conditions and for This additional information is used to inform delegated by market risk control owners.
particular concentrations of risk that arise the management of the market risks taken within the business.
The outcome of stress tests Mitigation is discussed across the various business The Group controls its trading portfolio and Governance Committee lines and management levels so that existing activities to ensure that market risk losses Oversight and potential risks can be reviewed and financial or reputational do not cause related management actions can be decided At a Board level, the Board Risk Committee material damage to the Groups franchise by upon where appropriate.
oversees the effective management of assessing the various market risk factors.
At the executive level, the Group Policies are reviewed and approved by the These are captured and analysed using Risk Committee delegates responsibilities to Global Head, MTCR annually to ensure their proprietary and custom built analytical tools, the Corporate & Institutional Banking Risk ongoing effectiveness and sustainability.
in addition to risk managers specialist market Committee CIBRC to act as the primary risk and product knowledge.
governance body for market risk and to the Stress testing MTCR has market risk policies and Stress Testing Committee for stress testing procedures in place ensuring that appropriate Losses beyond the 97.5 per cent con dence and model risk.
The Group Risk Committee market risk limits are implemented.
The interval are not captured by a VaR calculation, also delegates limit authority to the Global Groups market risk exposure is aligned with which therefore gives no indication of the size Head, MTCR who is responsible for the its appetite for market risk and assessing of losses in tail event situations.
potential losses that might be incurred by the The VaR measurement is complemented by Group as a consequence of extreme but Decision making authorities weekly stress testing of market risk plausible events.
and delegation exposures to highlight the potential risk that Market risk limits are applied as required by may arise from extreme market events that The Groups Risk Appetite Statement, along the Market Risk Limits Policy and related are deemed rare but plausible.
with the key associated Risk Appetite metrics, procedures.
All businesses incurring market is approved by the Board, and responsibility Stress testing is an integral part of the market risk must do so in compliance with the for market risk limits is then tiered accordingly.
risk management framework and considers Market Risk Limits Policy.
The Policy requires both historical market events and forwardSubject to the Groups Risk Appetite for that market risk limits are fide ned at a level looking scenarios.
A consistent stress testing market risk, the Group Risk Committee sets appropriate to ensure that the Group remains methodology is applied to trading and Group-level market risk limits and delegates within market Risk Appetite.
The market Risk non-trading books.
The stress testing authority for the supervision of all other Appetite metrics are fide ned in terms of VaR methodology assumes that scope for market risk limits to the CIBRC and Market & and stress loss, therefore all material market management action would be limited during Traded Credit Risk.
risks must be captured by these metrics.
All a stress event, re ecting the decrease in exposures throughout the Group that the market liquidity that often occurs.
MTCR function is responsible for aggregate 16 169 9 RISK REVIEW Risk management approach Major business limits are reviewed and VaR is calculated on our exposure as at approved by the CIBRC.
The committee is the close of business, generally UK time.
responsible for determining which major Intra-day risk levels may vary from those business limits meet the criteria for reported at the end of the day.
The CIBRC is appointed A small proportion of market risk generated by the Group Risk Committee.
by trading positions is not included in VaR or All other market risk limit approval authorities cannot be appropriately captured by VaR.
are delegated by the Global Head, MTCR to This is recognised through a Risks-not-in-VaR individual market risk managers.
Additional framework, which estimates these risks and limits are placed on speci c instruments and applies capital add-ons.
To assess their ongoing performance, VaR Sensitivity measures are used in addition to models are backtested against actual results.
VaR as risk management tools.
Authorities are reviewed at least annually to ensure they See an analysis of VaR and backtesting remain appropriate and to assess the quality results in 2017 in the Risk Pro le section of decisions taken by the authorised pages 147 to 148. individual.
Key risk-taking decisions are made only by certain individuals or committees Monitoring with the skills, judgement and perspective to MTCR monitors the overall portfolio risk and ensure that the Groups control standards ensures that it is within speci ed limits and and risk-return objectives are met.
The annual and Authority delegators are responsible for mid-year limit review processes provide monitoring the quality of the risk decisions opportunities for the business and MTCR taken by their delegates and the ongoing to review risk in light of performance.
Market risk exposures are monitored daily against approved limits.
Intra-day risk VaR exposures may vary from those reported at The Group applies VaR as a measure of the the end of the day.
Limit excess approval risk of losses arising from future potential decisions are informed by factors such as an adverse movements in market rates, prices assessment of the returns that will result from and volatilities.
VaR, in general, is a an incremental increase to the business risk quantitative measure of market risk that exposure.
Limits and excesses can only be applies recent historical market conditions to approved by a market risk manager with the estimate the potential future loss in market appropriate delegated authority.
value that will not be exceeded in a set time Stress testing is the basis for internal period at a set statistical con dence level.
economic capital and economic pro t VaR provides a consistent measure that can reporting for market risk.
Incremental Risk be applied across trading businesses and Charge is also used to re ect credit default products over time and can be set against and migration risk.
Financial Markets traders actual daily trading pro t and loss outcome.
may adjust their market risk exposures within VaR is calculated for expected movements approved limits and assess risk reward over a minimum of one business day and trade-offs according to market conditions.
to a con dence level of 97.5 per cent.
This In addition, stress scenario analysis is con dence level suggests that potential daily performed on all market risk exposures in losses in excess of the VaR measure are likely Financial Markets and in portfolios outside to be experienced six times per year.
Financial Markets such as Syndicated Loans The Group applies two VaR methodologies: and Principal Finance.
MTCR reports and monitors limits applied to stressed exposures.
Historical simulation: involves the Stress loss excesses are discussed with the revaluation of all existing positions to re ect business and approved where appropriate the effect of historically observed changes based on delegated authority levels.
Stress in market risk factors on the valuation of the loss excesses are reported to CIBRC.
This approach is applied required by local statute or regulation, for general market risk factors and the MTCRs Group and business-wide stress majority of speci c credit spread risk VaR: and scenario testing will be supplemented Monte Carlo simulation: this methodology by entity stress testing at a country level.
is similar to historical simulation but with This stress testing is coordinated at the considerably more input risk factor country level and subject to the relevant observations.
These are generated by local governance.
random sampling techniques, but the results retain the essential variability and correlations of historically observed risk factor changes.
This approach is applied for some of the speci c credit spread risk VaR in relation to idiosyncratic exposures in credit markets In both methods a historical observation period of one year is chosen and applied.
Standard Chartered 170 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW Financial statements Supplementary information Capital and liquidity risk Risk Appetite Statement The Group fide fines capital risk as the potential for insuf cient The Group maintains a strong capital position, including the level or composition of capital to maintenance of management buffers suf cient to support its strategic support our normal activities, aims, and holds an adequate buffer of high quality liquid assets to and liquidity risk as the potential survive extreme but plausible liquidity stress scenarios for at least for failure where we may not 60 days without recourse to extraordinary central bank support have suf cient stable or diverse sources of funding or financial resources to meet our obligations as they fall due Capital planning takes the following into Earnings Risk Roles and responsibilities account: Interest rate re-pricing risk is managed The Treasurer is responsible for developing centrally by Treasury Markets within market Current regulatory capital requirements a risk framework for capital and liquidity risk limits.
The governance of Earnings and our assessment of future standards risk and for complying with regulatory Risk will develop through 2018 in line with requirements at a Group level.
The Treasury Demand for capital due to the business regulatory guidelines for interest rate risk and Finance functions provide independent and loan impairment outlook and potential in the banking book.
This will focus on challenge and oversight of the first line risk market shocks or stresses implementing this risk type within the Groups management activities relating to capital Enterprise Risk Management Framework Available supply of capital and capital and liquidity risk.
In country, the Treasurer supported by formal delegations of authority, raising options is supported by Treasury and Finance in additional policies and methodologies, data implementing the capital and liquidity The Funding Plan is also developed to ensure and model governance, a broader suite of framework.
we have a credible plan to manage the future Risk Appetite metrics, limits, and ongoing demand and supply of funds in a prudent yet reporting and monitoring of exposures Mitigation commercially effective manner.
The Group develops policies to address Structural FX Risk material capital and liquidity risks and aims to Stress testing constrain its risk pro le within Risk Appetite.
The Groups structural position results from Stress testing and scenario analysis are an Risk Appetite is set for the Group and the Groups non-USD investment in the share integral part of the capital and liquidity cascaded down to the countries as limits.
capital and reserves of subsidiaries and framework, and are used to ensure that the The Group also maintains a Recovery Plan branches.
The FX translation gains or losses Groups internal assessment of capital and which is a live document to be used by are recorded in the Groups Translation liquidity consider the impact of extreme but management in a liquidity or solvency Reserves with a direct impact on the Groups plausible scenarios on its risk pro le.
The Recovery Plan includes a set of CET1 ratio.
provide an insight into the potential impact of Recovery Indicators, an escalation framework The Group contracts hedges to manage its signi cant adverse events on the Groups and a set of management actions that could structural FX position in accordance with a capital and liquidity position and how these be effectively implemented in a liquidity Board-approved Risk Appetite, and as a could be mitigated through appropriate stress.
A Recovery Plan is also maintained result the Group has taken net investment management actions to ensure the Group within each major country.
hedges using a combination of derivative remains within the approved Risk Appetite The approach to mitigation is detailed and non-derivative financial investments to and regulatory limits.
further below: partly cover its exposure to the Korean won, Chinese renminbi and Taiwanese dollar to Capital Planning mitigate the FX impact of such positions on its capital ratios.
On an annual basis, strategic business and capital plans are drawn up covering a Liquidity and Funding Risk five-year horizon and are approved by the Board.
The capital plan ensures that At Group and country level we implement adequate levels of capital and an ef cient various business-as-usual and stress risk mix of the different components of capital metrics and monitor these against limits.
are maintained to support our strategy and This ensures that the Group maintains an business plans.
Treasury is responsible for adequate and well-diversi ed liquidity buffer the ongoing assessment of the demand for and stable funding base.
The approach to capital and the updating of the Groups managing the risks and the Board-approved capital plan.
Risk Appetite metrics are assessed annually through the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
17 171 1 RISK REVIEW Risk management approach Governance Committee Monitoring Oversight On a day-to-day basis the management of capital and liquidity is performed by the At a Board level, the Board Risk Committee country Chief Executive Of cer and Treasury oversees the effective management of Capital Markets respectively.
The Group regularly and Liquidity risk.
At the executive level, the reports and monitors capital and liquidity Group Asset and Liability Committee informs risks inherent in its business activities and the Groups strategy on balance sheet those that arise from internal and external matters and ensures that the Group operates events.
The management of capital and within internally approved Risk Appetite and liquidity is monitored by Treasury for the regulatory requirements.
This relates to Group with appropriate escalation processes capital, loss absorbing capacity, liquidity, in place for any breach of limits.
leverage, earnings risk and structural foreign exchange risk.
The Group Asset and Liability Internal risk management reports covering Committee also ensures that the Group the balance sheet and the capital and liquidity meets internal and external recovery and position of the Group are presented to the resolution planning requirements.
The Group Operational Balance Sheet Committee and Asset and Liability Committee delegates the Group Asset and Liability Committee.
The responsibilities to the Operational Balance reports contain key information on balance Sheet Committee to ensure that, in executing sheet trends, exposures against Risk the Groups strategy, the Group operates Appetite and supporting risk measures which within internal and regulatory requirements, enable members to make informed decisions with a focus on ensuring alignment with around the overall management of the business objectives.
Oversight at a country level is provided by the country Asset Country oversight under the capital and and Liability Committee, with a focus on the liquidity framework resides with country Asset local capital and liquidity risks, local prudential and Liability Committees.
Countries must requirements and risks that arise from local ensure they remain in compliance with Group internal and external events.
capital and liquidity policies and practices, as well as local regulatory requirements.
The Stress Testing Committee ensures the effective management of capital and liquidity related enterprise-wide stress testing in line with the Groups enterprise-wide stress testing policy and applicable regulatory requirements.
The Stress Testing Committee reviews, challenges and approves stress scenarios, results and management actions as part of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, as well as assumptions and results as part of the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
Decision making authorities and delegation The Group Chief Financial Of cer has overall responsibility for determining the Groups approach to capital and liquidity risk management and delegates this authority to the Treasurer.
The Treasurer has the authority to delegate second line responsibilities to the Treasury and Finance functions to relevant and suitably quali ed individuals.
This includes the delegation of policy and metric development, implementation and limit setting, as well as oversight and challenge of first line processes and controls and is delegated to the most appropriate individuals.
Standard Chartered 172 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW Financial statements Supplementary information Operational risk Risk Appetite Statement The Group fide fines Operational Risk as the potential for loss The Group aims to control operational risks to ensure that operational resulting from inadequate or losses financial or reputational, including any related to conduct of failed internal processes and business matters, do not cause material damage to the Groups systems, human error, or from franchise the impact of external events Potential failures in processes are identi ed Roles and responsibilities Decision making authorities by process owners and risk framework and delegation The Operational Risk Framework ORF is set owners using their expert judgment.
These by the Group Head, Operational Risk and Authority to make risk-related decisions is potential failures are risk assessed against a approved by the Group Operational Risk delegated to individuals or committees pre-fide ned operational risk assessment Committee.
Group Operational Risk, in its with the requisite skills, judgement, and matrix which must be approved by individuals role as the second line of defence, develops perspective to ensure that the Groups delegated within the Risk Authorities policy.
the Operational Risk Framework and control standards and risk return objectives Risks that fall above the Groups Risk monitors its application across the Group.
The Group has prescribed policies Appetite levels require a time-bound The Operational Risk function challenges fide ning the scope and responsibility of the treatment plan to address the potential process owners in ensuring the Groups authorised individuals.
The authorities are failures, and are monitored until the risk is operational risk pro le is within Risk Appetite.
reviewed at least annually to ensure they reduced to within acceptable levels.
remain appropriate to assess the quality of Mitigation decisions taken by the authorised individual.
Stress testing The ORF sets out the Groups overall To ensure the appropriate infrastructure, As part of the operational risk management approach to the management of operational people, processes, and controls are in approach, the Group conducts stress testing risk in line with the Groups Risk Appetite.
The place to support change and product using scenario analysis.
Fifteen scenarios approach reinforces the three lines of defence management, including mitigation of all are identi ed that test the robustness of the and serves to continually improve the Groups operational risks within Risk Appetite, Groups processes, and assess the potential ability to anticipate and control material risks.
minimum governance standards are set at impact to the Group.
These scenarios include It also requires the need for clear ownership the Group and Country levels.
Signi cant anti-money laundering, sanctions, information and accountability for all processes across changes to internal and external and cyber security and external fraud.
Risk assessment is used to environments may give rise to operational determine the design strength and reliability In 2017, we also participated in the Bank risks.
Such changes with impact to client of each process to prevent risks.
of England stress test exercise and the segments, products and functions are annual Internal Capital Adequacy subject to process governance at a PGC or The operational risk management approach Assessment Process.
Standards for business products are requires: owned by Business Heads and Business All processes and risks to be identi ed, Governance Committee PGCs.
All products must be approved owned, and recorded in the Process to the standards set out in the policy, Oversight Universe including completion of an operational At a Board level, the Board Risk Committee risk assessment.
Control tolerance standards to be set for oversees the effective management of each control for quantity, materiality and Operational risk.
At the executive level, the Monitoring timeliness of detection and recti cation Group Operational Risk Committee GORC of defects oversees the operational risk pro le of the Operational Risk Appetite metrics are set Group within the boundaries of the Groups against each top risk.
These are included Monitoring of control performance against Risk Appetite and any limits and policies as part of the operational risk pro le which tolerance standards set by authorised bodies of the Group.
comprises the following elements: Residual risks to be assessed by process The GORC has the authority to challenge, Top Risk performance against Risk owners and approved by risk framework constrain and, if required, stop business Appetite owners activities where risks are not aligned with the Groups Risk Appetite.
Losses, near misses and related insights Prompt execution of treatment actions The GORC is supported by Business Changes to the internal or external The Group ful lls the requirements of the Process Governance Committees PGCs environment approach by fide ning and maintaining a and Function Operational Risk Committees process universe for all client segments, Results of audit and regulatory reviews, FORCs which provide global oversight of products, and functions.
The Process or other independent findings all operational risks arising from processes Universe is the complete set of processes within the Business and Function at the The operational risk pro le is aggregated that collectively describe the activities of the Group level.
In addition, the Country and reported at relevant committees fide ned Group and is the common reference for the Operational Risk Committees CORCs at Group, business, regional, country approach to operational risk management.
oversee the management of operational risks and function level.
This provides senior Each process is owned by a named at the country or entity level.
management with the relevant information to individual who is responsible for the inform their risk decisions.
The completeness outcomes of the process and the design, The GORC monitors the effectiveness of the of the operational risk pro le ensures monitoring and effectiveness of the control PGCs, FORCs and CORCs and challenges appropriate prioritisation and promptness of environment.
the risk decisions made within these risk decisions, including risk acceptances committees to remain within the Groups with treatment plans for risks that are beyond Risk Appetite.
17 173 3 RISK REVIEW Risk management approach Reputational risk Risk Appetite Statement The Group fide fines reputational risk as the potential for loss of The Group aims to protect the franchise from material damage to earnings or market capitalisation its reputation by ensuring that any business activity is satisfactorily as a result of stakeholders assessed and managed by the appropriate level of management taking a negative view of the and governance oversight organisation or its actions Roles and responsibilities Stress testing Decision making authorities and delegation In February 2017, second line ownership Reputational risk is incorporated into the of reputational risk was transferred from Groups stress testing scenarios.
For The Group Risk Committee provides the Group Head, Corporate Affairs to the example, the Group may consider what Group-wide oversight on reputational risk, Group Chief Risk Of cer, with responsibility impact a hypothetical event leading to loss approves policy and monitors material risks.
delegated to the Global Head, Enterprise of con dence among liquidity providers in The Group Reputational Risk Committee is Risk Management.
At country level, a particular market might have, or what the authorised to approve or decline reputational the responsibility of reputational risk implications might be for supporting part of risk aspects of any business transaction, management is delegated to Country the organisation in order to protect the brand.
counterparty, client, product, line of business Chief Risk Of cers.
Both the Global Head, and market within the boundaries of the Enterprise Risk Management and Country Governance Committee Groups Risk Appetite, and any limits Chief Risk Of cers constitute the second and policies set by authorised bodies of Oversight line of defence, overseeing and challenging the Group.
The Brand, Values and Conduct Committee the first line which resides with the CEOs, retains Board level oversight responsibility Business Heads and Product Heads in Monitoring for reputational risk.
Oversight from an respect of risk management activities of operational perspective falls under the remit Reputational risk policies and procedures reputational-related risks.
of the Group Risk Committee and the Board are applicable to all Group entities.
The Group Reputational local regulators in some markets may impose Mitigation Risk Committee appointed by the Group Risk additional requirements on how banks The Groups reputational risk policy sets Committee in May 2017 ensures the effective manage and track reputational risk.
In such out the principal sources of reputational risk management of Reputational Risk across cases, these are complied with in addition to and the responsibilities and procedures the Group.
The Group Reputational Risk Group policies and procedures.
Exposure to for identifying, assessing and escalating Committees remit is to: reputational risk is monitored through: reputational risks.
The policy also fide fines Challenge, constrain and if required, to A requirement that process owners the control and oversight standards to stop business activities where risks are not establish triggers to prompt consideration effectively manage reputational risk.
aligned with the Groups Risk Appetite of reputational risk and escalation The Group takes a structured approach to where necessary Make decisions on reputational risk the assessment of risks associated with matters assessed as high or very high The tracking of risk acceptance decisions how individual client, transaction, product based on the Groups reputational risk and strategic coverage decisions may affect The tracking of thematic trends in materiality assessment matrix, and perceptions of the organisation and its secondary risk arising from other matters escalated from the Regions activities.
Wherever a potential for stakeholder Principal Risk Types or Client Businesses concerns is identi ed, issues are subject to The analysis of prevailing stakeholder prior approval by a management authority Provide oversight of material reputational concerns commensurate with the materiality of matters risk and or thematic issues arising from the being considered.
Such authorities may potential failure of other risk types accept, decline the risk or impose conditions upon proposals, to protect the Groups reputation.
The Group recognises that there is also the potential for consequential reputational risk should it fail to control other Principal Risk Types.
Such secondary reputational risks are managed by the owners of each Principal Risk Type.
Standard Chartered 17 4 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW Financial statements Supplementary information Compliance risk Risk Appetite Statement The Group fide fines compliance risk as the The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations: whilst potential for regulatory recognising that regulatory non-compliance cannot be always entirely sanctions or loss from a avoided, the Group strives to reduce this to an absolute minimum failure on our part to comply with laws or regulations Roles and responsibilities Governance Committee Oversight The Group Head, Compliance sets standards for compliance, establishes and maintains Compliance risk and the risk of nonrisk-based compliance frameworks and a compliance with laws and regulations programme for monitoring compliance: resulting from failed processes and controls provides support to senior management are overseen by Process Governance on regulatory and compliance matters: Committees and Functional Operational and is the Risk Framework Owner for Risk Committees, and Country Operational Compliance Risk.
Risk Committees that are in place for each business, function and country.
The The Compliance Risk Framework sets out Compliance and Regulatory Risk Committee the roles and responsibilities in respect of has a consolidated view of these risks and compliance risk for the Group.
Businesses ensures that appropriate governance is in and functions acting as the first line of place for these.
In addition, the Committee defence are responsible for ensuring that their ensures that elevated levels of Compliance processes operate in a way that ensures Risk are reported to the Group Operational continued compliance with all applicable laws Risk Committee, Group Risk Committee and and regulations.
The compliance function is Board Audit Committee.
the second line that provides oversight and challenge of the first line risk management Decision making authorities activities that relate to compliance risk.
and delegation The Compliance Risk Framework fide fines risk Decision making and approval authorities sub-types and delegates these to the most follow the Enterprise Risk Management appropriate control function to ensure that Framework approach and risk thresholds.
the Compliance function as second line, can The Group Head, Compliance has the effectively provide oversight and challenge authority to delegate second line of the first line risk management activities.
responsibilities within the Compliance function to relevant and suitably quali ed Mitigation individuals.
In addition, second line responsibilities including policy development, The Compliance function develops and implementation and validation as well as deploys relevant policies and procedures oversight and challenge of first line processes setting out standards and controls for and controls are delegated based on the adherence by the Group to ensure continued most appropriate control function for certain compliance with applicable laws and compliance risk sub-types.
Through a combination of control monitoring and attestation, the Compliance Risk Framework Owner seeks to ensure Monitoring that all policies are operating as expected The monitoring of controls designed to to mitigate the risk that they cover.
mitigate the risk of regulatory non-compliance in processes is carried out in line with the Operational Risk Framework.
The Group has a monitoring and reporting process in place for compliance Risk Appetite metrics, which includes escalation and reporting to Compliance and Regulatory Risk Committee, Group Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee as appropriate.
In addition, there is a Group Regulatory Reform team set up to monitor regulatory reforms in key markets and establish a protocol for horizon scanning.
17 175 5 RISK REVIEW Risk management approach Conduct risk Risk Appetite Statement The Group fide fines Conduct Risk as the potential regulatory The Group strives to maintain the standards in our Code of sanctions or loss from a failure Conduct and outcomes of our Conduct Framework, by on our part to abide by the continuously demonstrating that we Do The Right Thing Groups Conduct Risk in the way we conduct business Management Framework Roles and responsibilities Governance Committee Oversight Conduct risk management and abiding by the Group Code of Conduct is the The Board Risk Committee, Brand Values responsibility of all employees in the Group.
and Conduct Committee, Group Risk The first line businesses and functions are Committee, Group Operational Risk responsible for reviewing their processes Committee and the Compliance Regulatory and identifying conduct-related outcomes Risk Committee are responsible for ensuring and ensuring controls are in place to mitigate that the Group remains within conduct Risk these risks.
The compliance function as Appetite.
As Risk Framework Owner for second line for conduct risk is responsible for conduct risk, compliance sets reporting providing oversight and challenge to the first thresholds for escalation of conduct risks line to ensure the adequacy of the conduct to the Group Operational Risk Committee risk management and that we remain within and Group Risk Committee.
Risk Committee and the Brand Values and Conduct Committee receive periodic Mitigation reports on conduct risk assurance against businesses and functions.
The Group Conduct Risk Management Framework is designed to enable dynamic Decision making authorities risk control implementation and risk-based and delegation decision making in line with the Groups Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
Conduct risk authority is delegated through The framework is supported by policies the Group ensuring appropriate spans of including the Group conduct management control and suitable persons holding roles.
policy and the Group code of conduct as well Responsibilities are clearly articulated as a range of other policies and procedures and ensure the split between doing which address conduct related aspects in and oversight.
The management of conduct risk includes the monitoring of Risk Monitoring Appetite metrics and limits that are reported The Group regularly monitors the to relevant governance committees.
effectiveness of mitigating controls and Conduct risk identi cation and mitigation performance against Risk Appetite.
Risk are embedded in businesses and functions Appetite metrics are fide ned at granular levels through an end-to-end review of the Banks and take into consideration measures such critical processes.
Controls are put in place as the outcome of speaking up cases in for conduct related risks that have been individual countries and collectively as a identi ed within these processes.
To further support managers with their workshops are conducted to assist CEOs responsibilities in respect of conduct risk, a and management teams to identify conduct conduct dashboard is in development which related risks in their businesses and country will provide managers with a snapshot of strategies while leader-led training on each respective business and function.
conduct issues and dilemmas are rolled out across businesses and functions as we seek to ensure conduct is seen in the broader context, as opposed to behavioural conduct.
Standard Chartered 176 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW Financial statements Supplementary information Information and cyber security risk Risk Appetite Statement The Group fide fines Information and cyber security risk as the The Group seeks to avoid risk and uncertainty for our critical information potential for loss from a breach assets and systems and has a low appetite for material incidents of con dentiality, integrity or affecting these or the wider operations and reputation of theGroup availability of the Groups information systems and assets through cyber attack, insider activity, error or control failure Delegation authority must be consistent Roles and responsibilities Stress testing with the Group Enterprise Risk In 2017 we introduced the Chief Information Stress testing of technical controls relating Management Framework, apply to IT and Security Of cer function in Risk & to information and cyber security risk non-IT processes impacting in-country Compliance and announced a revised are performed annually by an external information and cyber security risk, cover operating model to address information independent party.
Results of these stress local and Group processes impacting and cyber security as a business risk, tests are reported to the Chief Information in-country cyber risk incorporating this into our overall risk Security Of cer function for consideration Must consider the cost to the Group and management strategy.
The Chief Information and action.
Identi ed actions are overseen take into account any regulatory Security Of cer CISO has overall to appropriate conclusion by the Chief requirements responsibility for strategy, governance and Information Security Of cer function with oversight of information and cyber security progress reports provided to the Group Geographic resource span of control across the Group and operates as the Operational Risk Committee.
must be consistent with Group models second line of defence.
Governance Committee The CISO fide fines policy for information and Monitoring Oversight cyber security overseeing and challenging the Following the introduction of the Chief operational implementation of controls at the The information and cyber security risk within Information Security Of cer function in 2017, first line, which includes both technical and the bank is currently governed via the Board we are extending monitoring capability for business responsibilities.
The Technology Risk Committee who has responsibility for information and cyber security risk with Information Security Of ce TISO operate approving the fide nition of information and further enhancements planned to take place within the ITO function at the first line, cyber risk and the Group appetite.
Close and during 2018. ensuring security of the Groups technology continuous oversight of information and cyber applications and infrastructure.
We have a range of roles and activities in security risk in the Bank is performed by the both the Chief Information Security Of cer Technology Operations Risk Committee function and the TISO that look at monitoring Mitigation TORC and the Group Operational Risk information and cyber security risks.
Committee GORC, with the GORC being Information and cyber security risk is appointed by the Group Risk Committee.
managed through a structured framework CISO activities include: Escalation of risks which fall outside the comprised of a risk assessment methodology The Business Information Security Of cers fide ned appetite for the Group are and supporting policies, procedures and who support business activities relating to overseen by these committees to standards which are aligned to industry best information and cyber security at a country ensure effective mitigation.
or operation level The Chief Information Security Of cer Decision making authorities and Control testing e. g. phishing simulation function is responsible for the information and delegation exercises cyber security risk framework and associated Measurement and decision making relating policy documents.
The framework model Strategic assurance activities e. g. to the approval and or sign off of information and policy documents must be reviewed and enterprise-wide security risk assessment and cyber security risk follows the below updated at least biennially and or following Dispensation assessment and approval principles: material change to a control environment.
Deployment of the Third Party Security All first line and second line process owner Assessment model roles in Information and cyber security must be covered, leaving no gaps in risk TISO activities include: management and regulatory compliance Operation of technical controls e. g. email monitoring Security Incident response, etc.
17 177 7 RISK REVIEW Risk management approach Financial crime risk Risk Appetite Statement The Group fide fines Financial crime risk as the potential for The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations related legal or regulatory penalties, to Financial Crime, recognising that whilst incidents are unwanted, they material financial loss or cannot be entirely avoided reputational damage resulting from the failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to International Sanctions, Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Bribery and Corruption The Group operates risk-based controls in Roles and responsibilities Decision making authorities support of its Financial Crime programme, and delegation The Global Head, Financial Crime including but not limited to : Compliance has overall responsibility for The Global Head, Financial Crime Client Due Diligence, to meet Know Your financial crime risk and is responsible for the Compliance is the Risk Framework Owner for Customer requirements establishment and maintenance of effective financial crime under the Groups Enterprise systems and controls to meet legal and Risk Management Framework, and has Surveillance, including Transaction regulatory obligations in respect of Financial been allocated overall responsibility within Screening, Name Screening and Crime.
The Global Head, Financial Crime the Group for the establishment and Transaction Monitoring Compliance is the Groups Money maintenance of effective systems and Global Risk Assessment: to understand Laundering Reporting Of cer and performs controls to meet legal and regulatory and quantify the Inherent and Residual the Financial Conduct Authority controlled obligations in relation to Financial crime.
Financial Crime risk across the organisation function and senior management function in Certain aspects of Financial crime accordance with the requirements set out by compliance second line oversight and The strength of these controls are tested and 1 the Financial Conduct Authority, including challenge are delegated within the Financial assessed through the Groups Operational those set out in their Systems and Controls Crime Compliance function.
Risk Framework, in addition to oversight by Handbook.
the Financial Crime Compliance Assurance Approval frameworks are in place to allow for and Group Internal Audit functions.
As the first line, the business unit process risk-based decisions on client on-boarding, owners have responsibility for the application for potential breaches of Sanctions regulation of policy controls and the identi cation and Governance Committee or Policy, and for situations of potential measurement of risks relating to financial Money Laundering and Anti-Bribery and Oversight crime.
Business units must communicate Corruption concerns.
Financial crime risk within the Group is risks and any policy non-compliance to the governed by the Group Financial Crime second line for review and approval following Monitoring Risk Committee which is appointed by and the model for delegation of authority.
reports into the Group Risk Committee.
The Group monitors Financial crime The Group Financial Crime Risk Committee compliance risk against a set of Risk Appetite Mitigation is responsible for ensuring the effective metrics that are approved by the Board.
There are three Group policies in support management of operational risk relating to These metrics are reviewed periodically and of the Financial crime compliance Risk Financial crime compliance throughout the reported regularly to both the Group Financial Type Framework: Group in support of the Groups strategy Crime Risk Committee and Board Financial and in line with the Groups Risk Appetite, Crime Risk Committee.
Anti-bribery and corruption as set out in Enterprise Risk Management Framework the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption and Group Operational Risk Procedures.
Policy The Board Financial Crime Risk Committee is Anti-money laundering as set out in the appointed by the Board, to provide oversight Group Anti-Money Laundering and of the effectiveness of the Groups policies, Terrorist Financing Policy procedures, systems, controls and Sanctions as set out in the Group assurance mechanism designed to identify, Sanctions Policy.
assess, manage, monitor, detect or prevent money laundering, non-compliance with These policies are approved by the Global sanctions, bribery, corruption, and tax crime Head, Financial Crime Compliance.
1 MLRO is a controlled Senior Management function SMF 17 Money Laundering Reporting Function under Section 59 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA Standard Chartered 178 Annual Report 2017
