30 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Risk overview Risk management Effective risk management is a core part of our strategy.
Achievements in 2017 Our key achievements during 2017 included continued The Board-approved risk appetite reflects our tolerance for rigorous focus on credit quality, the strength of our capital and risk in pursuit of our strategic objectives.
It is designed to funding bases, significant programmes of work addressing key achieve an appropriate balance between risk and reward.
regulatory initiatives and further strengthening our framework Risk appetite is embedded in the business through delegation for the management of cyber-crime and financial crime risks.
of authority from the Board to the Executive.
Our risk management approach is fully aligned with Board risk appetite, Credit regulatory requirements and industry good practice.
Risks are The application of strict affordability requirements, robust identified, managed and mitigated using our risk management credit decisioning and prudent underwriting standards across framework see page 131.
Our risk-aware culture and strong, our mortgage and credit card portfolios ensured that asset independent Risk function help to ensure adherence to our risk quality performance was ahead of our expectations.
An effective governance structure, reflected in our low overall cost of risk of 0.13 per cent 2016: rapid escalation of threats and the sharing of information 0.13 per cent.
We are responsive to the changing macroacross the Group results in a timely response to emerging risks.
economic environment and regularly refine our credit risk management approaches.
We use a Three Lines of Defence model which describes clear accountabilities, appropriate segregation of duties and Mortgage lending grew by 13.2 per cent to 33.7 billion effective independent assurance.
The principal risks which during 2017, despite increased competition from incumbent could impact the delivery of our strategy are outlined on lenders and new entrants looking to enhance their market pages 36 to 37. share.
The mortgage portfolio represents 91.6 per cent 2016: 92.3 per cent of gross loans and advances to customers.
As a UK retail bank we are focused on serving domestic Prime residential lending grew to 27.3 billion during 2017, customers.
We are subject to risks arising from macrorepresenting 81.1 per cent 2016: 81.6 per cent of total economic conditions in the UK, geopolitical uncertainty, the secured loans.
competitive environment and new structural and regulatory changes which will come into force over the next few years.
The high quality of our mortgage business is reflected in our low arrears levels.
Secured 3 arrears levels were 0.12 per Our ongoing focus on maintaining a strong retail deposit cent at the end of 2017, compared to 0.15 per cent in 2016, franchise and high-quality lending portfolios is supported substantially below the latest UK Finance industry average of by our robust approach to both financial and non-financial 0.82 per cent.
Additionally, the proportion of secured assets risk management.
classified as neither past due nor impaired remained stable during 2017 at 99.0 per cent 2016: 99.1 per cent : The consistent application of our lending criteria and robust underwriting gives us confidence that our mortgage book would be resilient in the event of a downturn.
In 2017, we further strengthened our lending criteria in relation to buyto-let properties, which constitute 18.9 per cent 2016: 18.4 per cent of total secured loans: The indexed portfolio LTV remained stable at 55.8 per cent at the end of 2017 2016: 55.4 per cent : and Our low cost of risk for mortgages has remained stable at 0.01 per cent 2016: 0.01 per cent.
During 2017, our credit card book, net of impairments grew to 3.0 billion, representing a market share of 4.1 per cent.
The credit card portfolio accounts for 8.4 per cent 2016: 7.7 per cent of total loans and advances to customers.
Strategic Report Risk Management Report Financial Results Governance Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 31 I In February 2017, the Bank of England BoE noted that Our funding strategy is retail deposit-led.
We hold highunsecured lending standards had fallen across the market.
quality liquid assets HQLA to address the liquidity In contrast, the quality of our credit card lending has needs of the business and, in addition to retail deposits, remained strong.
Average credit card behavioural scores we diversify our funding through a number of wholesale have improved during the year as we continue to focus on funding programmes: monitoring customer behaviour and book performance Retail deposits increased by 9.6 per cent during the year to closely.
Application quality is strong and there is a growing 30.8 billion, with a lower cost of funds.
This was achieved gap between our benchmarked asset quality and market through close management of pricing and product mix.
However, we recognise the potential for economic The retail product mix included a higher proportion of headwinds and during the first half of 2017 further tightened fixed rate products, increasing overall contractual tenor.
Almost nine out of ten fixed rate savings customers opted Revised credit card scorecard cut-offs were implemented to stay with us at maturity, highlighting the strength of our in April 2017.
Policy restrictions were made in May 2017 to retention offering: reinforce our focus on the acquisition of customers with Our strong funding position is reflected in a liquidity low levels of indebtedness.
Growth in credit card balances coverage ratio of 203 per cent 2016: 154 per cent as at continues to be driven by targeting low risk customer 31 December 2017: segments.
For instance, in 2017 over 98 per cent of new Our loan-to-deposit ratio increased to 119.1 per cent balance transfer customers were booked at an expected during 2017, from 114.5 per cent at 31 December 2016, in loss rate of less than 1 per cent: line with internal limits of up to 120 per cent: Credit card book quality remained stable with 98.6 per In September, we successfully completed a further cent 2016: 98.7 per cent of the book currently classified issuance of Residential Mortgage Backed Securities as neither past due nor impaired.
Unsecured 2 arrears RMBS, raising 745.9 million in both USD and GBP levels remained low at 0.88 per cent 2016: 0.78 per tranches.
Wholesale funding supplements our core retail cent with the small increase during 2017 primarily deposit base and cost of funding.
Wholesale funding also due to expected increases in arrears levels on balances helps to extend tenor and ensures we have appropriate originated during 2015 and 2016 as these cohorts mature.
diversification in the funding base: Arrears levels remain well within our forecast position and compare favourably to industry benchmarks: and During the year, we made further drawings from the BoE Term Funding Scheme TFS taking overall drawings at Our low cost of risk for credit cards of 1.51 per cent 2016: 31 December 2017 to 4.2 billion.
In parallel, we repaid 1.70 per cent reflects a rigorous approach to underwriting, 650.2 million of Funding for Lending Scheme FLS account management and credit decisioning, supported by funding.
This low-cost funding creates additional lending the benign economic environment.
capacity and supports our overall funding plan: and Capital and funding In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Maintaining a well-capitalised business supports balance confirmed that our Covered Bonds application had sheet growth, credit ratings and regulatory requirements.
We expect to make our inaugural Our capital base is managed to ensure that the business issuance in 2018. is well placed to react to current and forecast economic, market and regulatory conditions, as well as any material downturn in the economy.
As at 31 December 2017, our Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio was 13.8 per cent 2016: 15.2 per cent, our total capital ratio was 18.1 per cent 2016: 20.4 per cent, and our leverage ratio was 3.9 per cent 2016: 4.4 per cent.
Movements in 2017 reflect the utilisation of capital to support further lending growth and investment in business development.
All capital ratios remain significantly above the regulatory minima.
32 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Risk overview Risk management Regulatory initiatives The FCA continues to emphasise the need for firms to ensure Our work during the year focused on the following they have adequate and effective systems and controls regulatory changes: to manage financial crime risk.
In 2017 we continued to develop our strategic financial crime programme.
This During 2017, the FCA published its approach to programme is designed to enhance our systems and implementing the revised Payment Services Directive controls and, during the year, delivered improvements to PSD2, which came into force on 13 January 2018.
As well client screening, transaction monitoring solutions and due as promoting innovation, PSD2 aims to improve consumer diligence procedures.
protection, increase the security of payments, and reduce the cost of payment services: In addition, we implemented our approach to the EUs Fourth Money Laundering Directive which was transposed into The General Data Protection Regulation GDPR provides UK law on 26 June 2017 as the Money Laundering, Terrorist an updated EU data protection framework to replace the Financing and Transfer of Funds Information on the Payer existing 1995 Data Protection Directive the Directive.
GDPR will come into force in May 2018: Outlook During 2017 we made significant investment in undertaking The macro-economic environment, strong credit the required preparatory work in relation to the above management of our lending portfolios, strength in capital change programmes.
and funding and proactive engagement with forthcoming On 3 April 2017, the FCA published a consultation paper macro-structural and regulatory change will be the key areas setting out proposals for new rules and guidance to of focus in 2018. address persistent credit card debt.
These proposals Macro-economic environment complement the remedies arising from the Credit Card The UK economy and housing market remained resilient Market Study published in 2016, which aim to reduce in 2017.
We continue to see strong customer demand and the number of customers with problem credit card debt.
no evidence of material changes in customer behaviour.
While we have very limited exposure to such customers, However, potential risks could crystallise if inflation remains we are working with the FCA to trial strategies relating higher than wage growth, causing a reduction in households' to the identification of and support for customers in real earnings.
Lower real earnings could in turn reduce persistent debt: and consumer spending which, combined with a potentially The final report in relation to the FCA Asset Management more uncertain macro environment, leads us to remain Market Study was published in June 2017.
The package cautious in our outlook.
We will continue to monitor key of remedies is focused on providing increased investor exposures in light of the prevailing economic outlook.
We protection, driving price transparency and improving have implemented additional oversight activities, alongside the effectiveness of intermediaries for both retail and contingency plans, which are designed to respond to and institutional investors.
We endorsed these and will mitigate the impact of adverse macro-economic conditions implement the limited changes required to achieve full that may emerge.
The Bank of England increased interest rates from 0.25 per Cyber-crime and financial crime risk cent to 0.50 per cent in November 2017.
Our expectation is We have a well-developed Cyber Security Strategy to manage for gradual further rate increases over the next three years.
the increasing risk of cyber-crime.
During 2017 we deployed Low wage growth, and higher inflation, may put pressure a security risk framework that enables us to manage on some household budgets and we remain alert to signs of exposures in line with internationally recognised security financial strains on our customers.
Changes to central bank standards.
We improved our network security controls to rates can represent a risk to future financial performance.
We protect us against emerging security threats and improved have an ongoing programme of stress testing to assess our security advice to colleagues.
resilience to changing macro-economic conditions.
Strategic Report Risk Management Report Financial Results Governance Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 33 I Virgin Money Lounge, Sheffield 34 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Risk overview Risk management Maintaining strong credit quality The commercial performance of our credit card portfolio Our focus on asset quality will continue in 2018. Credit policy is exposed to potential changes in expected consumer and decision systems are regularly reviewed and tested to behaviour.
We will monitor this closely and take timely ensure they respond to changes in customer and competitor action to respond to any observed or anticipated changes.
behaviours, maintaining the quality of the portfolios.
Capital and funding Management of the mortgage portfolio: Housing market We will continue to build on our core retail deposit base and changes play a crucial part in the development of our develop our SME offering which commenced in January 2018 business.
During 2017, UK house prices remained resilient.
with the launch of our Business Deposit Account.
We will also target new sources of funding following the launch of our Low unemployment and record low mortgage rates support digital bank which aims to increase our access to the current consumer affordability while supply shortages continue account and primary savings markets.
Although the potential for the weakening of regional house prices exists, we have wellAlthough we will remain a predominantly retail funded established early warning indicators and will continue to bank, we do also have a well-established wholesale funding monitor and manage our exposure to regional house price programme.
With the Bank of England funding schemes we variations and potential areas of weakness: have used coming to an end, we have put in place a carefully structured funding plan to avoid undue re-financing risk.
We A number of measures relating to the housing market were will continue to diversify and build out our funding sources in announced in the Autumn Budget, including a permanent the coming year in line with the long term aim of wholesale stamp duty land tax relief for first-time buyers.
We funding providing up to 20 per cent of total funding.
In July increased lending to first-time buyers by 20 per cent during 2017 we received authorisation from the FCA for a regulated 2017 and this will continue to be a focus in 2018: covered bonds programme, and expect that our inaugural The PRA introduced stricter stress testing for landlords with issuance will take place this year.
We also expect to access four or more mortgaged buy-to let properties, effective RMBS markets again during 2018.
As we work towards the from September 2017.
We have taken a conservative full implementation of minimum requirements for own funds approach to applying these minimum standards.
Further and eligible liabilities MREL on 1 January 2022, we will begin information can be found in the Risk Management Report to issue further unsecured funding through our established on page 135: and Global Medium Term Note programme.
The mortgage market saw heightened competition in We benefit from AIRB models in calculating Pillar 1 capital for the second half of 2017 and this may continue in 2018. the mortgage portfolio.
Ensuring that these models remain We will continue to focus on our competitive strengths well calibrated to portfolio performance and aligned to the and will manage volumes in order to protect asset most recent regulatory guidance will be key in 2018. quality and returns.
Macro-structural changes Management of the credit card portfolio: We will continue Our strategic planning addresses the new structural and to focus on strong credit management of our credit card regulatory changes which come into force in the coming years: exposures.
A rise in unemployment or pressure on customer A capital conservation buffer of 0.625 per cent was affordability could lead to increased impairments.
We will introduced on 1 January 2016, and increased to 1.25 per continue to monitor this closely in 2018. cent on 1 January 2017.
This will increase each year to a Our new co-branded partnership with Virgin Atlantic maximum of 2.5 per cent in 2019.
During 2017, the Bank Airways will encourage high-quality credit card growth.
It of England increased the countercyclical buffer from aims to materially increase retail spend and provide further 0percent to 0.5 per cent of risk-weighted assets.
This will diversification of the credit card customer base: come into force in June 2018.
A further increase of 0.5 per cent, to 1.0 per cent, will come into force in November 2018, We will continue to grow our credit card portfolio in a subject to review in the first half of 2018.
These changes are controlled manner, given our assessment of market fully reflected in our capital and funding plans: conditions and our view of risk and reward: and Strategic Report Risk Management Report Financial Results Governance Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 35 I Minimum Requirements for Own Funds and Eligible time, the impact will be most significant for the personal Liabilities MREL will be fully phased in by 1 January 2022. current account market, in which we are not currently a The Bank of England provided MREL guidance, including material participant: transitional arrangements, in late 2016.
Prior to FCA Strategic Review of Retail Banking Business Models: 31 December 2019 our MREL requirement will be equal The FCA are reviewing the business models used in the retail to our minimum regulatory capital requirements.
From banking sector and evaluating the impact of changes on 1 January 2020 until 31 December 2021, our MREL competition and conduct.
The FCA engaged with relevant requirement will be equal to 18 per cent of our riskfinancial service providers during 2017 and will provide an weighted assets.
This guidance has been fully reflected in update in the first half of 2018: our capital and funding plans: FCA Mortgage Market Study: In December 2016, the FCA The Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013 will published the terms of reference of their Mortgage Market result in the ring-fencing of retail banking operations to Study.
We responded to an information request in March separate them from investment banking activities.
We 2017 and await the findings of the interim report which is are in the process of agreeing our detailed ring-fence due to be published in March 2018: and compliance plans with the PRA and do not anticipate any FCA Interest Only Thematic Review: In January 2018 the material change to our structure or business model as FCA published the findings of their Thematic Review into a result.
We will, however, have to participate directly in Interest Only customers.
Their response acknowledged inter-bank payments systems and work is well advanced the progress that lenders had made and emphasised the to achieve this: need for customers to contact lenders for further support.
IFRS 9 will be implemented in 2018 and will result in a We were aware of all points raised by the FCA and are new approach to provisioning and additional disclosure addressing them within existing programmes of work.
We have developed new models and Cyber-crime business practices to meet these requirements.
Additional Cyber-crime remains a material risk for all banks and information regarding IFRS 9 can be found in note 37 to the we recognise the pace of change in the external threat financial statements: and environment.
We will continue to monitor the external threat The Basel Committee published their final Basel III landscape and develop our capability to protect against framework in December 2017.
A key objective of the cyber-crime through ongoing enhancement of our control revisions is to reduce excessive variability of risk-weighted environment and protections.
We will continue to develop assets RWAs and improve the comparability of banks our strategic financial crime programme in 2018 and further capital ratios.
Implementation dates range from 2022 to enhance our anti-money laundering capabilities.
2027 and transitional arrangements will be put in place Third party administration regarding the new standards.
Our initial analysis suggests Outsourced relationships with parties which support the that the impact of the new requirements will be broadly credit card, investment and insurance business lines, such neutral for us from a capital perspective.
as DST formerly IFDS for unit trust management and TSYS Regulatory change TMS for our credit card business, are fundamental to the The delivery of the following regulatory change programmes success of the business and remain a significant area of will be a core focus in 2018: management focus.
Reliance on key corporate partners and Open Banking, General Data Protection Regulation and strategic suppliers involves the potential risk of disruption Payment Services Directive: PSD2 and Open Banking will to service arising from the failure of a third party.
Thorough have a material impact on the competitive environment in risk assessment during the on-boarding process, and robust which we operate, with non-bank firms likely to enter the ongoing oversight, are key to managing these outsourced market by leveraging new payments regulation and data relationships.
Although this may intensify competition in the mortgage, credit card and savings markets over 36 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Risk overview Principal risks Key mitigating actions credit risk is managed through risk credit risk metrics are benchmarked Credit risk appetite and risk limits reflected in against competitors and industry Credit risk is the risk of loss resulting from a borrower or approved credit policy: averages: counterparty failing to pay amounts due.
a robust credit risk framework helps customer behaviour is closely We provide residential and buy-to-let mortgages and ensure that the credit quality and monitored with timely action taken in credit cards to customers across the UK.
There is a composition of the portfolios remain response to any adverse change: and risk that any adverse changes in the macro-economic within risk appetite limits.
This is credit risk arising from derivatives and environment and or the credit quality or behaviour monitored and reported through from securities financing transactions of borrowers results in additional impairment losses, governance committees regularly: is mitigated by collateralising thereby reducing profitability.
stress and scenario testing allows us to exposures on a daily basis.
Wholesale exposures arise through our liquid asset confirm portfolio resilience: portfolio and the use of derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk.
market risk is managed through stress and scenario testing focuses on Market risk Board-approved risk appetite limits the impacts of differing interest rate Market risk is the risk that unfavourable market and policies: environments.
movements lead to a reduction in earnings or value.
We do not trade or make markets.
Interest rate risk exposures are mitigated through the in the banking book is the only material category of use of natural offsets and derivatives: market risk.
and risk appetite is focused on maturing we will continue to invest in and Operational risk the control environment and therefore develop risk management frameworks, Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from managing operational risk: systems and processes which inadequate or failed internal processes, people and strengthen operational resilience: and systems or from external events, including legal risk.
an ongoing programme of investment The management of third party relationships, cyberin security infrastructure is in place to we monitor external events impacting crime and information security remains a key focus for mitigate threats including cyberother financial services companies to Virgin Money.
compliance is maintained through we continue to invest in and develop Conduct risk and compliance an effective and timely response risk management frameworks, Conduct and compliance risk is defined as the risk that to changes in the regulatory systems and processes: and our operating model, culture or actions result in unfair environment: outcomes for customers.
This could result in regulatory we focus on training to ensure sanction, material financial loss or reputational damage the customer is placed at the heart colleague performance is aligned with if we fail to design and implement effective operational of decision-making by ensuring fair the regulatory responsibilities and to processes, systems and controls which maintain outcomes through comprehensive risk enable an awareness of good customer compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements.
Strategic Report Risk Management Report Financial Results Governance Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 37 I Key risk indicators Commentary Future focus Impaired loans as a percentage We will continue to deliver of overall balances increased but strong asset quality aligned to 1.4% 0.4% 1.3% 0.3% remained at a low level in 2017. growth of the mortgage and credit card books.
Wholesale credit quality remains We will maintain our no loss strong with 100.0% of debt 2017 2016 2017 2016 position for the wholesale security counterparties rated AA Impaired as a % of total Impaired as a % of total credit portfolio.
secured balances unsecured balances Provisions as a percentage of impaired loans reduced reflecting growth in secured 40.0% 100.0% 97.0% 33.5% loans with expired terms which do not require increased impairment provisions given the high level of collateral cover on 2017 2016 2017 2016 these loans.
Expired term loans Provisions as a % of Debt securities % which are more than six months impaired balances AA or above past their maturity date have an average LTV of 25.8 per cent.
52.2 As a consequence of the We will look to refine our 34.2 increase in the size of the interest rate risk management balance sheet, Capital at Risk systems and approaches to has increased in a positive rate reflect the evolving regulatory 2017 2016 shock scenario.
IRRBB Capital at Risk risk exposure remains safely m within limits.
The absolute amount of We will continue to invest in 3.9 3.4 losses has developed in line cyber-crime defense, fraud with business growth, but has and anti-money laundering remained low.
2017 2016 Total operating losses m Complaints per 1,000 accounts We will focus on our 4.91 remained low at 4.91, compared Complaints Transformation 3.65 to 3.65 in 2016. project to continue to improve the volume of complaints resolved at first point of 2017 2016 contact.
Total complaints per 1,000 accounts 38 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Risk overview Principal risks Key mitigating actions Board focus is on ensuring alignment active focus is on asset origination Strategic and financial risk of business development and planning and portfolio management to manage Strategic risk is the risk of significant loss or damage with risk appetite: margins and eliminate inappropriate arising from business decisions that impact the longconcentration risk: term interests of stakeholders or from an inability to we invest in processes, systems, adapt to external developments.
recruitment and training to support we will maintain pricing discipline new business developments: across our product range, ensuring Financial risk is focused primarily on concentration that risk is appropriately rewarded risk.
Credit concentration risk is managed for retail and we use robust risk and project within our Board approved risk wholesale credit exposures at portfolio, product and management disciplines to ensure appetite: and counterparty levels.
that implementation is delivered Increased competition in our key lending markets safely: regular validation and review of is leading to a reduction in asset spreads, creating models is performed.
we continually monitor customer additional financial risk.
There is also the potential for behaviour metrics to identify adverse increased competition in the deposit taking market as trends: Bank of England funding schemes come to an end.
Financial performance can be impacted by adverse changes in customer behaviour.
Board-approved risk appetite and a prudent mix of funding sources is Funding and liquidity risk funding and liquidity policies define a maintained with a maturity profile set Liquidity risk represents the inability to accommodate limit structure: in risk appetite and policy limits: and liability maturities and withdrawals, fund asset growth, and otherwise meet contractual obligations to make liquid resources are maintained in stress and scenario testing considers payments as they fall due.
adequate quantity and quality to meet threats to funding plans and changes stressed outflows: in consumer behaviour.
Funding risk represents the inability to raise and maintain sufficient funding in quality and quantity to support the delivery of the business plan.
Board-approved risk appetite ensures capital procedures are subject to Capital risk we are holding sufficient capital within independent oversight: and Capital risk is defined as the risk that we have a subregulatory requirements: optimal amount or quality of capital or that capital is stress and scenario testing assesses deployed inefficiently across the Group.
the capital management policy sets capital adequacy under a range of out minimum standards for the severe market wide stress scenarios management of capital: and idiosyncratic stress events.
Strategic Report Risk Management Report Financial Results Governance Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 39 I Key risk indicators Commentary Future focus The development of the digital Focus will be on the bank and SME propositions development of the digital Greater London 28% 28% will ensure we provide services bank and SME propositions, 33% 33% South East that meet the future needs of in addition to the ongoing Scotland customers and further diversify development of wider South West 8% 8% our business and funding customer propositions and 25% 25% Other Regions 6% 6% franchises.
Mortgage concentration Mortgage concentration In order to manage Funding mix 2016 Funding mix 2015 2017 2016 concentration risk we seek to spread the risk in the areas 1.75% 1.72% in which we operate.
This is done through the controlled management of LTVs and the implementation of strict 2017 2016 counterparty limits to minimise Banking NIM wholesale industry exposures.
Our pricing discipline and management of the cost of funds enabled us to mitigate pressure on asset spreads, as the Banking NIM reduced to 172 basis points compared to 175 basis points for the prior year.
Improved diversity of funding We will continue to improve Customer accounts 4% 5% 10% 10% has been achieved through our balance sheet efficiency and Wholesale TFS 4% registration as a covered bonds resilience through measured 10% Wholesale Other issuer, and our entrance into the diversification of wholesale Total equity SME market.
funding and building of the 76% 81% SME deposit base.
Funding mix Funding mix 2017 2016 Our total capital and leverage We will continue to maintain a Capital metrics 2017 2016 ratios have remained in line with high-quality capital base with expectation and well in excess of ratios in excess of regulatory CET1 13.8% 15.2% regulatory requirements.
Total capital ratio 18.1% 20.4% Leverage ratio 3.9% 4.4%
