Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks The risks stated below are those which the directors of the group believe to be the most essential in assessing the prospects of the group.
It is not an exhaustive list but addresses the risks which are currently deemed to be potentially the most material to the group.
Risks relating to the group and its industry Link to business model Principal risk Mitigation In response to the developing issues in to reduce costs significantly to reflect the The group may be unsuccessful 4 5 the home credit business, in August 2017, expected smaller scale of the home credit in implementing its home credit 3 6 the group recruited Chris Gillespie as business going forward as a result of the recovery plan based on a revised Managing Director of CCD, returning to a reduced size of the receivables book by 2 7 operating model and restoring role that he had previously held until 2013, virtue of the reduced sales penetration customer service and collections to develop and implement a recovery plan and customer retention rates described 1 8 for the home credit business.
In addition, the recovery plan performance to acceptable levels.
plan is centred around a revised version seeks to address certain matters raised of the new operating model, retaining by the FCA relating to, among others: i the employed CEM approach and some inconsistent field practices resulting from of the new technology, but improving the new operating model introduced at the the ability of the home credit business home credit business: ii the inadequacy to connect with customers at the right of first line oversight of field staff and the time and place consistently, stabilising the procedures to monitor them: and iii the operation of the home credit business ineffectiveness of second line risk and and improving collections performance.
The recovery plan also includes actions Each of PPC and PFMSL submitted their matters may take some time, could Provident Personal Credit 4 5 respective applications to the FCA for require the group to incur costs, could Limited PPC and Provident 3 6 authorisation in May 2015.
In September have wide-ranging consequences on the Financial Management Services 2017, the FCA set out in writing to the way the group operates its business and 2 7 Limited PFMSL have each not group the home credit oversight and could significantly delay the timing of any received full FCA authorisation.
governance related matters that it decision by the FCA with respect to the 1 8 required to be addressed by the group.
authorisation of PPC and orPFMSL.
Any failure by PPC and Whilst the group has sought to address or PFMSL to obtain full these matters already by implementing authorisation by the FCA would certain measures in the recovery plan, have a material adverse effect no assurance can be given that such measures will successfully address the onthe groups business, financial FCAs concerns.
The implementation condition, results of operations, of remedial changes to address these cash flows andprospects.
The group is currently the subject of a documented income verification for new The groups home credit 4 5 risk mitigation programme RMP agreed and existing customers, the provision operations in the Republic of 3 6 with the CBI to address a large number of of appropriate training for its staff and Ireland are the subject of a risk concerns identified by the CBI in relation agents, levels of customer indebtedness, 2 7 mitigation programme agreed to the groups home credit operations the early settlement rebate process and with the Central Bank of Ireland in the Republic of Ireland.
These remuneration of its field staff and agents.
1 8 include, amongst others, its governance Implementation of the changes required CBI.
Failure to address the framework and the effectiveness of its by the RMP began in January 2017 and CBIs concerns may result in policies and procedures in particular, its is expected to be completed by July regulatory action including credit control policies and its fitness and 2018 with completion date milestones ultimately the revocation of its probity arrangements, its monitoring and expected on 30 March 2018 and 28 control over lending and agent behaviour, June 2018.
Actions taken by the group moneylending licence.
its creditworthiness and affordability in response to the RMP are subject to checks in particular, the lack of regular reviews by the CBI.
For further details on the groups risk management framework, please see page 80.
47 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued Risks relating to the group and its industry continued Link to business model Principal risk Mitigation The group uses internal and external extension.
The group is, however, likely The group is exposed to the credit 4 5 data, internally developed models and to have imperfect information about risk of its customers.
The group 3 6 other data analytics tools as well as, in the ability of customers to pay and the could fail to accurately assess the case of: i its home credit business, timeliness of such payments, all of which 2 7 customer credit risk through its assessments made by its CEMs in factors will affect the groups decisions order to analyse creditworthiness and regarding loan origination, credit line underwriting processes.
1 8 affordability, and assess a customers increases and impairments.
Furthermore, financial situation and ability to re-pay a the group has no control over the loan, and ii Vanquis Bank assessments accuracy of the data it receives from at both the time of origination of the thirdparties.
credit and at the time of any credit line The group is considering various options that CCDs technology applications and Historic underinvestment 4 5 to consolidate and simplify its IT estate databases, which will not be migrated in certain aspects of the 3 6 including, among other things, by to a managed service at the same time telecommunications and IT outsourcing CCDs IT infrastructure to a as CCDs infrastructure, remain current.
2 7 systems and technology used third party managed service.
The various Programmes to carry out any necessary options being considered are expected upgrades to, investments in, or the by the groups CCD businesses 1 8 to represent a saving over budgeted IT migration or outsourcing of any of the is likely to result in the need to costs for the next 5 years, along with a CCD businesss telecommunications and carry out investment and upgrade significant decrease in risk.
The group IT infrastructure, systems and technology programmes.
Such programmes estimates that a potential future transition are funded from internally generated may cost more than expected, of CCDs infrastructure to a managed cash flows and may require significant service will take between nine and investment, cost more than expected, take longer than expected, or 15months and that ongoing investment take longer than expected, or deliver less deliver less benefit than planned.
will still be required once the provider benefit than planned.
In addition, knowledge of arrangement is in full operation to ensure certain systems and platforms by personnel is concentrated and so the loss of any such personnel could lead to disruption to those systems and platforms.
Furthermore, the groups IT cost base is high as a result of its complex IT estate and high IT and technology related headcount and may remain so.
Despite the groups efforts to ensure the including third parties outside the group, The group is subject to material 4 5 integrity of its systems, the group may such as persons who are involved with cyber security risks, including 3 6 not be able to anticipate or to implement organised crime or associated with from the use of malware and effective preventive measures against external service providers or who may 2 7 ransomware and distributed all security breaches of these types, be linked to terrorist organisations or especially because the techniques used hostile foreign governments.
These risks denial of service attacks, and 1 8 change frequently or are not recognised are expected to increase in the future.
potential security breaches and until launched, and because cyberAs the group continues to increase its is likely to continue to incur attacks, including those relating to the mobile and other internet-based product increased costs in an effort use of malware and ransomware and offerings, and expand its internal usage to manage those risks and to distributed denial of service attacks, can of web-based products and applications, originate from a wide variety of sources, the risks to the group will increase.
48 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Link to business model Principal risk Mitigation To date, the group has successfully to be unsuccessful in defending any such The group has been, and may 4 5 defended all such claims brought claims, class actions or tax authority continue to be, subject to 3 6 against it by former agents.
However, challenge, it may be required to make claims challenging the historic no assurance can be given that any payments to former agents as well as 2 7 employment status of the groups future claims and or class actions will being liable to pay additional taxes, home credit agents in the UK be successfully defended by the group.
including PAYE and National Insurance 1 8 There is also a risk that the tax authorities contributions to the relevant authorities, and the employment status of its will challenge the self-employed status which could, in aggregate, be material.
agents in the Republic of Ireland.
of agents in the UK and the Republic Furthermore, were a class action or tax of Ireland particularly given recent authority challenge to be made against employment status cases reported in the the group, whether or not such action is press.
Whilst the group has previously successful, the group could suffer harm agreed the self-employed status of agents to its reputation by virtue of any press with the tax authorities in the UK and or media attention.
Any of the foregoing the Republic of Ireland, no assurance could have a material adverse effect on can be given that the tax authorities the groups business, financial condition, will reach the same conclusion in any results of operations, cash flows and subsequent challenge.
The groups business model relies on expected to continue to be, funds from If the availability of funding for 4 5 borrowing funds from external sources public and private debt financings, in the groups business becomes 3 6 and accepting UK retail deposits.
The addition to retail deposit funding at limited or funding becomes group lends to its customers at rates Vanquis Bank.
The group requires funds 2 7 more expensive, this may have substantially higher than its cost of in order to make credit products available a material adverse effect on its funds, and relies on this interest rate to its customers, meet its day-to-day 1 8 differential to generate substantially all operating expenses, make payments of business, cost of funding, financial of its earnings.
Historically the groups principal and interest on its borrowings condition, results of operations, primary sources of funding have been, and make payments on other obligations.
and following the rights issue they are Risks relating to the rights issue and the new ordinary shares Link to business model Principal risk Mitigation As a matter of English law, a company can As a consequence of the operational The company may not be able to 4 5 only pay dividends to the extent that it disruption, and deterioration in trading, pay dividends in the future.
3 6 has distributable reserves and sufficient at the groups home credit Business cash available for this purpose.
As a following implementation of its new 2 7 holding company, the companys ability operating model, and the then ongoing to pay dividends in the future is affected investigation into Vanquis Banks ROP, 1 8 by a number of factors, principally its the company withdrew its interim 2017 ability to receive funds for such purposes, dividend and determined that no final directly or indirectly, from its operating dividend for the year ending 31 December subsidiaries in a manner which creates 2017 would be declared or paid.
Based on distributable reserves for the company.
the target level of returns and maintaining The companys ability to pay dividends an appropriate capital structure, the to Shareholders is therefore a function groups dividend policy will be to maintain of its existing distributable reserves, a dividend cover ratio of at least 1.4 times future group profitability and the ability once the home credit Recovery Plan has to distribute or dividend profits from its been fully delivered during 2018.
The operating subsidiaries up from the group group will aim to restore dividends with structure to the company.
a nominal initial dividend for the financial year ending 31 December 2018 before adopting a progressive dividend, in line with its dividend policy, from the financial year commencing 1 January 2019.
49 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued Risks relating to the legal and regulatory environment in which the group operates Link to business model Principal risk Mitigation The non-standard finance sector and whether that firm will meet or continue Failure to comply with applicable 4 5 the broader consumer credit industry in to meet the required organisational and legislation or regulation of the 3 6 the UK is subject to extensive legislation suitability standards referred to as the non-standard finance sector and regulation.
The volume of regulation threshold conditions.
Failure to meet the 2 7 and the broader consumer and regulatory scrutiny and the burden threshold conditions may result in the FCA credit industry in the UK or the of regulatory compliance has increased refusing to grant authorisation and failure 1 8 since the regulation of consumer credit to meet such standards in the future Republic of Ireland could result activities was transferred from the OFT may result in the FCA taking disciplinary in the suspension, termination or to the FCA with effect from 1 April 2014. action, including varying, suspending impairment of the groups ability Consumer credit activities are now or withdrawing a firms authorisation.
to conduct business, harm the regulated in a manner similar to other Moneybarn received its full authorisation financial services in the UK, and many of from the FCA in 2016.
Vanquis Bank is groups reputation or result in the FCAs high level standards, including fully authorised and regulated by the PRA, substantial fines andlosses.
its Principles for Businesses, and high and regulated by the FCA for consumer level rules relating to organisational credit activities having successfully varied requirements, in addition to specific its existing permissions in 2016, having requirements relating to consumer credit, previously been regulated by the Financial now apply to all regulated consumer Services Authority FSA and the OFT.
Firms carrying on consumer Each of PPC the company which operates credit activities in the UK are required to the groups CCD business comprising obtain regulatory authorisation from the home credit and Satsuma and PFMSL FCA to operate their businesses.
Prior to the company which, among other things, granting authorisation for a firm to carry employs most of the staff of the home on regulated consumer credit activities, credit business continues to operate the FCA is required under the FSMA to under an interim permission awaiting carry out a thorough assessment of the fullauthorisation.
firms business model and to determine The group is subject to prudential The group and Vanquis Bank conduct an The group and Vanquis Bank 4 5 regulatory capital and liquidity Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment are each subject to prudential 3 6 requirements on a consolidated basis Process ICAAP on an annual basis.
The regulatory capital and liquidity imposed by the PRA as a result of Vanquis key output of the ICAAP is a document 2 7 requirements.
Bank being regulated by the PRA and which considers the risks faced by the accepting UK retail deposits.
Vanquis Bank group and the adequacy of internal 1 8 is also subject to prudential regulatory controls in place, ascertains the level capital and liquidity requirements of regulatory capital that should be imposed by the PRA on a solo entity held to cover these risks and performs basis.
The prudential regulatory capital stress testing on both regulatory capital and liquidity requirements applicable to and liquidity under severe downside banks and regulated firms have increased scenarios.
The ICAAP must be approved significantly over the last decade, largely in by the Boards of the group and Vanquis response to the financial crisis but also as Bank and is considered by the PRA in a result of continuing work undertaken by setting the groups and Vanquis Banks regulatory bodies in the financial sector respective TCR.
As part of the rights issue subject to certain global and national process, the Group and Vanquis Bank has mandates.
The prudential requirements prepared and updated a capital plan that are likely to increase further in the short has been shared with the PRA.
term, not least in connection with ongoing implementation issues as noted above, and it is possible that further regulatory changes may be implemented in this area in any event.
The group is subject to certain legislation impose new burdensome requirements, Failure by the group to comply 4 5 and regulation on data protection, and compliance with which may increase the with privacy and data protection 3 6 information, collection and storage, groups costs or require it to change the laws and regulations may lead some of which is yet to be implemented, way it conducts business.
2 7 to action being taken against including Payment Card Industry Data GDPR represents a significant increase in Security Standards and the GDPR which the group and could affect 1 8 compliance requirements and scope and is due to come into effect from May 2018. its operations and financial as a result it is not certain that the whole Data protection legislation and regulation performance.
of the group will be fully compliant with in the UK may change in the future and allof the requirements by May 2018.
