Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties outlined in this section reflect the inherent There may be additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks risks that could materially affect Rio Tinto or its ability to meet its strategic currently not believed to be material which could turn out to be objectives, either directly or by triggering a succession of events that in material.
A number of them, particularly those with longer-term aggregate become material to the Group.
potential impacts, are referred to in the sustainable development section of this Annual report on pages 28 to 37.
Rio Tintos business units and functions assess the potential economic and non-economic consequences of their respective risks using the framework The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in defined by the Groups Risk standard.
Once identified, each principal risk or connection with any forward-looking statements in this Annual uncertainty is reviewed and monitored by the relevant internal experts and by report and the cautionary statement on the inside front cover.
the Risk Management Committee, and as appropriate, by the relevant board committees and the board.
Inherent risk and Risk exposure Potential impact on viability, Potential upside uncertainty 2017 trend HSEC and reputation impact opportunities Market risks Rio Tinto operates in global markets and accepts the impact of exchange rate movements and market-driven prices for our commodities, seeking premiums where possible.
Commodity prices, driven by demand and supply Business model A rise in commodity prices, or for the Groups products, vary outside of Future performance favourable exchange rate expectations over time.
Solvency movement, generates more Liquidity cash flow from operations, Exchange rate variations and geopolitical issues Group reputation enabling the Group to pursue may offset or exacerbate this risk.
growth options or capital expansions, pay down debt Anticipating and responding to market and or increase returns to movements is inherently uncertain and outcomes shareholders.
Capturing above-planned returns from commercial insights would deliver additional cash flow to the Group.
Chinas growth pathway could impact demand for Business model Strong growth, positive policy the Groups products outside of expectations.
Future performance decisions and reforms drive demand for commodities, resulting in rising prices which may justify capital expansion and increased shareholder returns in the short to medium term.
Financial risks Rio Tinto maintains a strong balance sheet and liquidity position to preserve financial flexibility through the cycle.
External events and internal discipline may Favourable market conditions Future performance impact Group liquidity.
and strong internal discipline Solvency could increase Group liquidity Balance sheet strengthened by Liquidity and or balance sheet strength  cash Group reputation and allow it to pursue flows driven by higher investment or growth commodity prices and cash opportunities, pay down debt from divestments.
and enhance returns to shareholders.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Potential downside impact threats Mitigating actions include: Falling commodity prices, or adverse exchange rate movements, Pursue low cost production, allowing profitable supply throughout the reduce cash flow, limiting profitability and shareholder returns.
These may trigger impairments and or impact rating agency Maintain a diverse portfolio of commodities across a number of geographies.
Extended subdued prices may reflect a longer-term fall in Maintain global portfolio of customers and contracts.
demand for the Groups products, and consequently reduced Maintain a strong balance sheet.
revenue streams may limit investment and or growth Monitor multiple leading indicators and undertake detailed industry analysis to opportunities.
develop more accurate assumptions in our commodity price and exchange rate forecasting used for capital allocation and planning processes, and commercial insights.
Failure to deliver planned returns from commercial insights would negatively impact cash flows for the Group.
Comply with the Groups Treasury policy and standard, which outlines the fundamental principles that govern the Groups financial risk management practices.
Closely coordinate market-facing sales and marketing and trading resources in the Group.
Apply strong governance reflecting relevant regulatory frameworks and jurisdictions.
China is the largest market for our products by a long way, and Chinese demand is a strong driver, at times the dominant one, of the market price of the commodities we produce.
An economic slowdown in China, and or a material change in policy, could result in a slowdown in demand for our products and reduced revenues for the Group.
The Groups ability to raise sufficient funds for planned Comply with the Groups Treasury policy and standard, which outlines the fundamental principles that govern the Groups financial risk management expenditure, such as capital growth and or mergers and practices.
acquisitions, as well as the ability to weather a major economic Maintain a prudent gearing ratio and other financial metrics commensurate downturn, could be compromised by a weak balance sheet and or with a strong investment-grade credit rating.
Manage the liquidity and financing structure of the Group using forecasts and sensitivity analysis tools to actively monitor, determine and enable access to the appropriate level, sources and types of financing required.
Subject funds invested by the Group to credit limits and maturity profiles based on board-approved frameworks, to promote diversification and maintain appropriate liquidity.
Maintain accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Report financial performance monthly to senior management and the board.
Seek board approval of the financial strategy, long-term planning and cash flow forecasting.
Apply a dividend policy which allows shareholder returns to adjust with the cycle.
com 21 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Inherent risk and Risk exposure Potential impact on viability, Potential upside uncertainty 2017 trend HSEC and reputation impact opportunities Strategic risks Rio Tinto enforces disciplined capital allocation to the best returning opportunities organic and inorganic growth projects or returns to shareholders.
Rio Tintos ability to secure planned Business model Proceeds realised from divested assets are greater value by successfully executing Future performance than planned, allowing more capital to be returned divestments and acquisitions may vary.
Solvency to shareholders or redeployed into higher returning Liquidity or more productive uses.
The Group is successful in Group reputation acquiring businesses that provide cash flow and or future growth optionality.
The Groups ability to deliver projects Future performance An ability to develop projects on time and within successfully may vary.
HSEC budget enhances the Groups licence to operate Group reputation and investor confidence.
Solvency Strategic partnerships play a material role Business model Joint ventures and partnerships offer opportunities in delivering the Groups production, cash Future performance to access resources, increase shareholder returns, and market positioning, and these may HSEC and reduce political and operational risks.
not always develop as planned.
Group reputation Health, safety, environment and community HSEC risks Rio Tintos operations are inherently hazardous.
We lead responsibly to preserve our licence to operate and ensure our employees and contractors go home safe and healthy.
Our operations and projects are Future performance Delivering leading health, safety, environment and inherently hazardous with the potential communities performance is essential to our HSEC to cause illness or injury, damage to the business success.
Meeting or exceeding our Group reputation environment, disruption to a community commitments in these areas contributes to or a threat to personal security.
sustainable development and underpins our continued access to resources, capital and a diverse workforce to sustain the organisation.
Good performance in legacy management of closed sites and closure can enhance our reputation and enable us to maintain access to land, resources, people and capital, so we can continue to establish new projects with the support of local communities.
Resources risks Rio Tinto invests materially to accurately identify new deposits and develop orebody knowledge, underpinning our operations and projects.
The discovery of a new viable orebody can The success of the Groups exploration Business model significantly improve future growth options.
In addition, estimates Future performance of ore reserves are based on uncertain Group reputation The volume of ore is based on the available assumptions that, if changed, could geological, commercial and technical information, result in the need to restate ore which is by its nature, incomplete.
As new reserves and mine plans.
information comes to light the economic viability of some ore reserves and mine plans can be restated upwards.
As a result, projects may be more successful and of longer duration than initially anticipated.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Potential downside impact threats Mitigating actions include: Complete detailed, independent due diligence on all material divestments and Divestment and acquisition activity incurs transaction costs that acquisitions.
cannot be recouped, or may result in value destruction by Resource Business Development team appropriately, supported by external realising less than fair value for divestments or paying more than specialists as required.
This could result in unforeseen pressure on the Groups cash position or reduce the Groups ability to Involve business unit leaders early in process to recognise integration planning and synergies, or separation threats and opportunities.
The Group may also be liable for the past acts or omissions of assets it has acquired that were unforeseen or Undertake post-investment reviews on divestments and acquisitions, to greater than anticipated at the time of acquisition.
The Group may identify key learnings to embed into future initiatives.
also face liabilities for divested entities if the buyer fails to honour Consistently approach development of large-scale capital projects, through a commitments or the Group agrees to retain certain liabilities.
Follow rigorous project approval and stage-gating process, including monitoring A delay or overrun in the project schedule could negatively impact and status evaluation, as articulated in Project evaluation standard and guidance.
the Groups profitability, cash flows, ability to repay projectEnsure effective stakeholder management in project development.
specific indebtedness, asset carrying values, growth aspirations Approach investments and partnerships with a view to long-term development and relationships with key stakeholders.
of relationships rather than short-term transactional advantage.
Maintain strong focus on contractor management.
Joint venture partners may hinder growth by not agreeing to Actively participate within the governance structures of joint ventures to support investment decisions.
For non-managed operations, the promote, where possible, alignment with the Groups policies and strategic decisions of the controlling partners may cause adverse impacts priorities.
to the value of the Groups interest in the operation or to its Undertake rigorous third-party due diligence and assurance.
reputation and may expose it to unexpected financial liability.
Continue focus on HSEC as a core priority at all operations, and projects, Failure to manage our health, safety, environment or community overseen by the Sustainability Committee.
risks could result in a catastrophic event or other long-term Clearly define and ensure compliance with Group HSEC strategy, policy and damage which could in turn harm the Groups financial performance standards.
performance and licence to operate.
Regularly review and audit HSEC processes, training and controls to promote Recognised hazards and threats include, among others, and improve effectiveness, at managed and where practicable non-managed underground operations, aviation, pit slope instability, tailings operations.
facilities, process safety, infrastructure, vector-borne and Monitor HSEC performance measurement metrics at the Group level monthly.
pandemic disease, chemicals, gases, vehicles and machinery, Report, investigate and share learnings from HSEC incidents.
extreme natural environments, endangered flora or fauna, Build safety targets into personal performance metrics to incentivise safe areas of cultural heritage significance, water supply stress behaviour and effective risk management see Remuneration Implementation and climate change.
Develop mutually beneficial partnerships with local communities and establish appropriate social performance targets.
Report annually on performance on greenhouse gas emissions, water, land use and rehabilitation, among others.
Focus on fatality elimination through implementation of a programme to verify safety risk controls.
Comply with the Groups resources and reserves standard.
A failure to discover new viable orebodies could undermine future Recruit and retain skilled and experienced exploration and evaluation personnel.
Provide stable funding for exploration activities.
The risk that new information comes to light or operating Continually review the prospectivity of opportunities in the exploration conditions change means that the economic viability of some ore portfolio and prioritise spend accordingly.
reserves and mine plans can be restated downwards.
As a result, Utilise new technologies where appropriate.
projects may be less successful and of shorter duration than initially anticipated, and or the asset value may be impaired.
Develop, leverage and manage third-party partnerships.
Coordinate orebody knowledge through active Group-wide leadership forum.
com 23 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Inherent risk and Risk exposure Potential impact on viability, Potential upside uncertainty 2017 trend HSEC and reputation impact opportunities Operations, projects and people risks Rio Tinto seeks to achieve operational and commercial excellence, and to attract and retain the best people in the industry.
Operational excellence is derived from high Future performance Improved productivity and operational and human productivity, which Liquidity innovation from new systems can requires quality people, processes and systems.
HSEC decrease costs and increase output, Group reputation delivering additional cash flow.
Development and retention of talent enhances productivity, financial and HSEC outcomes.
Leveraging the evolving company Attracting and retaining talent as the company Business model and industry evolves presents a constant Future performance and market to attract a diverse and challenge.
Group reputation engaged workforce will deliver a competitive advantage to the Group.
Stakeholder risks Rio Tinto recognises positive engagement with a range of stakeholders, and seeks to develop collaborative and mutually beneficial partnerships though our partner to operate strategy.
The Groups operations are located across a Business model Proactive engagement with number of jurisdictions, which exposes the Future performance governments, communities and Group to a wide range of economic, political, Group reputation other stakeholders can increase societal and regulatory environments.
access to new resources, support stable and predictable investment frameworks and operational environments, and shape mutually beneficial policies and legal regulatory frameworks.
Governance risks Rio Tinto employees operate in compliance with The way we work our global code of business conduct, the Group delegation of authorities and all Group policies, standards and procedures.
The Groups reputation and regulatory licences Business model Good corporate citizens are are dependent upon appropriate business Future performance acknowledged to operate to a high conduct and are threatened by a public Group reputation ethical standard, thus attracting allegation of potential misbehaviour or by talent and securing access to regulatory investigation.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Potential downside impact threats Mitigating actions include: Preserve geographically diverse portfolio, limiting physical events disruptions Business interruption may arise from a number of circumstances, to a specific business, single infrastructure or logistical event.
including: Comply with slope geotechnical, tailings management, underground mining Operational difficulties such as extended industrial dispute, and process safety technical and safety standards, supported by subject delayed development, bottlenecks or interruptions to matter experts and audit protocols, reducing the risk likelihood and infrastructure for power, water and transportation, throughout consequence of operational failure.
Comply with the Acceptable use of information and electronic resources Operational failure such as a process safety incident, major pit standard, supported by periodic reviews of IT infrastructure and security slope, dump or tailings water impoundment failure, controls by dedicated in-house cyber-security team.
Operate under strong human resources and employee relations framework.
Cyber breach incident of commercial and operational systems.
Undertake business resilience planning and preparedness exercises for Natural disasters such as earthquakes, subsidence, drought, execution of plans, across all operations.
flood, fire and storm can impact mines, smelters, refineries and For certain risks involving higher-value losses the Group purchases insurance.
Some of these risks are likely to increase through the impact of climate change.
Risks not transferred to the external insurance market are retained within the business.
Any of these events could result in a significant HSEC incident, an interruption to operations, or the inability to deliver products and a commercial loss.
Improve HR processes in recruitment, development and leadership training.
The inability to attract or retain key talent will constrain the Groups ability to reach its goals within planned timeframes.
Continue employee engagement programme and metrics, to enhance engagement.
Enhance focus on inclusion and diversity, at all levels of the Group.
Refresh Group purpose and values statements.
Adverse actions by governments and others can result in Shape governance structures to ensure appropriate influence and engagement.
operational project delays or loss of licence to operate.
Other potential actions can include expropriation, changes in taxation, Participate in strategic partnerships or financing structures to moderate and export or foreign investment restrictions, which may threaten political risk.
the investment proposition, title, or carrying value of assets.
Legal Maintain geographically diverse portfolio to reduce concentration of exposure frameworks with respect to policies such as energy, climate to changes in the particular locations.
change and mineral law may also change in a way that increases Monitor jurisdictional, including sovereign, risks and take appropriate action.
Develop long-term relationships with a range of international and national stakeholders.
Comply with Group policies and standards which provide guidance concerning risk management, human rights, cyber threat, data privacy, business integrity and external communications.
Identify and meet our regulatory obligations and respond to emerging Fines may be imposed against Group companies for breaching antitrust rules, anti-corruption legislation, sanctions or human requirements.
rights violations or for other inappropriate business conduct.
Comply with Group policies, standards and procedures that provide guidance to our businesses and drive compliance with regulatory obligations.
A serious allegation or formal investigation by increasingly Dedicate legal and compliance teams to assist Group businesses in complying connected regulatory authorities regardless of ultimate finding with regulatory obligations and internal standards and procedures.
could result in a loss in share price value, and or loss of business.
Maintain appropriate oversight and reporting, supported by training and Other consequences could include the criminal prosecution of awareness, to drive compliance with regulatory obligations.
individuals, imprisonment and or personal fines, and fines, legal Continue to develop and deploy training across relevant sectors of the liabilities and reputational damage to the Group.
be considerable cost and disruption in responding to allegations or investigations and related litigation, and in taking remedial action.
