Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Assessment Risk management The board confirms that, in conjunction with the consideration of the Groups strategy and business plan, it has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks of the Group as detailed below and has The risk management environment also tested the financial plans of the Group for each of these principal 2017 was a year where external uncertainty continued and internal risks risks, and for a series of severe but plausible scenarios, made up of the required constant vigilance.
concurrence or close sequence of a number of principal and material risks.
The geopolitical context for global trade remained unsettled.
However, markets in general continued to grow.
This combination drove a focus on The Group will continue to monitor the potential impacts of the UKs external factors and the continuation of productivity initiatives in the departure from the European Union as a result of the referendum that Group to deliver our value-over-volume strategy.
Enhancements to took place in June 2016, but no material impacts are expected at this controls for managing operational risks particularly cyber security and time, irrespective of the path eventually followed or the outcome reached.
major hazards sought to maintain and build resilience.
Longer-term viability statement As stronger prices flowed through and supply was delivered in line with Current business planning processes within Rio Tinto require the expectations, Rio Tinto retained its strong capital allocation discipline, returning cash to shareholders, further strengthening the balance sheet preparation of detailed financial plans over a three-year time horizon.
The Groups strategy is developed, and capital investment decisions are and investing in high-quality long-term green and brownfield projects.
made, based on an assessment of cash flows over a multi-decade horizon, Principal joint operations, managed and non-managed, and particularly with financial investment capacity regularly tested to ensure capital those in jurisdictions with higher sovereign risk, continue to require close commitments can be funded in line with the Groups capital allocation monitoring and active management.
This multi-year planning approach reflects our business model of Changes to the risk profile of the Group during 2017 are illustrated in the investing in, and operating, long-life mining assets, whose outputs we sell summary table below.
Further detail on movements and monitoring of into commodity markets over which we have limited influence.
these exposures is provided in the relevant section of the Strategic report, The planning process requires modelling under macroeconomic scenarios including Market environment, Group strategy, product group overviews, and assumptions of both internal and external parameters.
Key the Directors report and the Notes to the 2017 financial statements.
assumptions include: projections of economic growth, and thus commodity demand in major markets, primarily China: commodity prices Emerging risks and exchange rates, often correlated: introduction of technological and Looking ahead, the external risk landscape continues to evolve.
In the productivity advancements: cost and supply parameters for major inputs: relatively near term, increased protectionism and geopolitical uncertainty and a series of assumptions around the schedule and cost of present risk and uncertainty to the operating environment.
In the medium implementation of organic and inorganic growth programmes.
term, technological disruption from increased automation in mining and Reflecting the speed and degree of change possible in a number of these processing to greater use of cognitive learning and artificial intelligence parameters, such as Chinese demand, commodity prices, and exchange provides both threats and opportunities as companies seek to secure rates, Rio Tinto has deemed a three-year period of assessment competitive advantage.
In the longer term, the societal imperative to appropriate for the longer-term viability statement, consistent with the manage areas of environmental risk is expected to increase at the macro Groups detailed planning horizon.
level, as concern about the ineffective management of global commons the oceans, atmosphere and climate system drives a search for Robust stress-testing has been undertaken, as part of the business sustainable solutions.
planning process, to further test and confirm the longer-term viability of the Group, beyond commodity price and exchange rate movements.
Internally, the strengthening of the commercial capability of the Group, Production and political and stakeholder risk related assumptions were through the appointment of a chief commercial officer and the also stressed, individually and collectively, to levels considered severe but development of a strong governance and risk framework to support plausible and well beyond those expected in the normal course of co-located commercial operations in Singapore, will ensure appropriately business.
rigorous management of this increasingly important part of the business.
In addition, the establishment of a dedicated closure team will provide The viability of the Group under these scenarios remained sound with the stronger planning and oversight of the growing activities associated with use of a suite of management actions available to redress material responsible future mine closure.
adverse changes, including accessing lines of credit and changing capital allocation levers.
Looking forward, managed and non-managed joint ventures as well as Therefore, taking into account the Groups current position and principal partnerships are likely to play a still larger role in the Groups portfolio.
risks, the directors have assessed the prospects of the Group, over the These mechanisms provide growth opportunities for the Group but will next three years, and have a reasonable expectation that the Group will also require the further development of the Groups capability and be able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over capacity to manage and participate in these arrangements effectively.
It is impossible to foresee all risks, and the combinations in which they could manifest, and there may be risks that currently or individually do not appear material that could turn out to be material, particularly if occurring in close sequence.
Principal risks and uncertainties exposure at a glance 2017 trend External Internal Internal and external a Sovereign risk Attracting and retaining talent Increasing risk or uncertainty No change Strategic partnerships Execution of acquisitions and Exploration and resources in risk or divestments Commodity prices Operational excellence uncertainty Capital project development China growth pathway Regulation and regulatory HSEC intervention Decreasing risk or Liquidity uncertainty a Sovereign risk includes both direct risk from actions of nation states and geopolitical uncertainty more broadly, and is present across all jurisdictions to which the Group has exposure.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Risk management framework Approach Rio Tinto is exposed to a variety of risks both threats and opportunities The Groups approach to risk management and internal control, that can have financial, operational and compliance impacts on our underpinned by the Risk policy and standards, is aimed at embedding a business performance, reputation and licence to operate.
The board risk-aware culture in all decision-making, and a commitment to managing recognises that creating shareholder value is the reward for taking and risk in a proactive and effective manner.
This includes the: accepting risk.
The effective management of risk is therefore critical to early identification and evaluation of threats and opportunities: supporting the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
management and mitigation of threats before they materialise and Rio Tintos risk management framework reflects this.
The responsibility effective response if they do materialise: and for identifying and managing risks lies with all of Rio Tintos employees active pursuit of opportunities to capture value, within agreed risk and business leaders.
They operate within the Group-wide framework to tolerances.
manage risks within approved limits.
Accountability for risk management is clear throughout the Group and is a The framework includes clearly defined oversight responsibilities for the key performance area for line managers.
board and the Executive Committee, who are supported by the Risk Management Committee and central support functions including Group To support risk understanding and management at all levels, the Group Risk and Group Internal Audit, to enable effective risk identification, Risk function provides the necessary infrastructure to support the evaluation and management across Rio Tinto.
management and reporting of material risks within the Group, and escalates key issues through the Executive Committee and ultimately to This approach reflects a three lines of defence model for the the board, where appropriate.
management of risks and controls: Group Risk also supports the Risk Management Committee in its First line of defence: ownership of risk by employees and business review of risk.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing material business Second line of defence: control of risk framework and systems of risks is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, threats and where internal control by central support functions and the Risk appropriate accept risk to generate returns.
Certain threats, for example Management Committee.
natural disasters, cannot be managed using internal controls.
Such major Third line of defence: assurance of systems of internal control by threats are transferred to third parties in the international insurance Group Internal Audit.
markets, to the extent considered appropriate or possible.
The key risk management responsibilities throughout the Group are The Group has material investments in a number of jointly controlled outlined below.
Where Rio Tinto does not have managerial control, it is usually unable to ensure that management will comply with all Rio Tinto policies and standards.
Risk management framework Determine the nature and extent of risk that is acceptable in pursuit of strategic objectives Board Confirm that managements risk limits reflect the level of risk the board is willing to accept in pursuit of strategic objectives Provide oversight across the risk management process Oversight Board The Audit Committee monitors and reviews at least annually the maturity and effectiveness of management processes and controls designed to identify, assess, monitor and manage committees risk The Audit and Sustainability Committees review periodic reports from management: identifying the Groups material business risks within the committees scope: and the risk management strategies and controls applied Third Group Internal Audit Provide independent and objective assurance that the systems of internal controls are adequate and effective line Executive Committee Set risk strategy and assess risks inherent in key investments and in strategic, business or annual plans Risk Management Committee Oversee the risk management framework to facilitate the identification of significant risks to Group-level objectives and ensure effective risk management processes are in place Group Risk Provide co-ordination and support of Group-level risk management activity and reporting Second Embed risk management into core business processes, such as planning and capital allocation line Build risk management capability and a risk culture throughout the Group Other central support functions and Provide targeted expertise and support to risk owners management committees Develop and maintain specific controls, including policies, standards and procedures, to support the effective management of material Group-level risk within the agreed limits Assure first line of defence compliance with controls Product groups and central functions, Monitor material risks and track activities to manage risk within their business activities, and executive audit forums escalate where appropriate First Consider risk and uncertainty in strategic and business planning and capital allocation proposals line Product groups and business units Identify, assess and manage risks in operations, functions and projects, utilising risk registers and our Group-wide risk data system Archer Risk managers and Risk Forum The Risk Forum risk managers across the Group supports alignment, consistency and continuous improvement of risk management 19 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
