ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC RISK FACTORS AND MANAGEMENT GROWING METRO BANK, SAFELY AND SUSTAINABLY We aim to manage the risks inherent in our business activities, ensuring that our operations are carried out in a safe and compliant way, balanced with the strong customer service that enables us to create FANS.
Given the nature of our activities, It is also responsible for maintaining the principal risks and uncertainties an appropriate control environment we face are: to manage the principal risks and for ensuring the capital, liquidity, and other resources are adequate to achieve our Strategic risk objectives within our risk appetite.
The Risk function provides specialist knowledge and support to colleagues Credit risk throughout the Bank and acts as a reference point for queries, while also Market risk, overseeing colleagues and the risks and including controls in place.
The function operates interest rate themed, targeted and ad-hoc reviews risk to provide assurance to the leadership Liquidity risk team and ultimately to the Board that risks are properly managed, controls are effective, and that were Aileen Gillan Chief Risk Officer not exceeding our risk appetite.
Conduct risk Risk strategy The Board has delegated responsibility We adopt best practice in corporate Compliance for reviewing the effectiveness of the governance, risk management and regulatory Banks internal controls to the Audit and control appropriate to the size risk Committee.
This Committee monitors and complexity of our business.
All and considers the internal control our colleagues are responsible for environment, focusing on operational managing risk as part of their day-toOperational risks, internal and external audits and day role.
Customer-facing colleagues risk credit assurance, and is assisted in its are at the forefront of risk management, oversight role by our Internal Audit along with their line managers.
The Risk Financial crime function.
Internal Audit carries out function, including the underwriting, both regular and ad-hoc reviews of risk credit risk and analytics, treasury risk, management controls and procedures, and enterprise risk teams, oversees and reports the results to the Audit the risk management activities.
The The Board has ultimate responsibility Committee.
The Director of Internal function also supports other colleagues for setting the Banks strategy, Audits reporting line is to the Chairman in their risk management work, for corporate objectives and risk appetite.
of the Audit Committee with a example by providing centralised The strategy and risk appetite dotted line to the CEO and therefore bump-up support contacts for consider the interests of customers, supports the functions independence.
more complex requirements, freeing shareholders and other stakeholders.
up customer-facing colleagues Taking into consideration the advice The Risk Oversight Committee to focus on creating FANS.
of the Risk Oversight Committee, helps the Board provide leadership, the Board specifically approves the direction and oversight of our risk level of risk acceptable under each governance and management.
It also category of risk, and ensures there is helps the Board foster a culture that an adequate framework in place for emphasises and demonstrates the reporting and managing those risks.
benefits of a risk-based approach to risk management and internal control when creating FANS.
30 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Weve established our risk management Committee structure and risk responsibilities policies to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Bank, to set appropriate Board of Directors risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
The Risk team regularly reviews these policies Nomination Audit Risk Oversight Remuneration and controls to verify compliance and Committee Committee Committee Committee to reflect changes in market conditions AC ROC NomCo RemCo and the Banks activities.
We use training and management standards Chief Executive Officer CEO and procedures to develop a robust and effective control environment Executive Committee ExCo one where all colleagues understand their roles and obligations.
Credit Risk Policy Our Chief Risk Officer CRO Asset and Liability Enterprise Risk and Appetite Committee Committee leads the Risk function, which Committee is independent from the Banks ALCO ERC CRPAC operational and commercial functions.
She is responsible for ensuring that appropriate risk management Provisions Credit Approval Model Governance Committee Committee Committee processes, policies and controls are in place, and that theyre sufficiently ProvCo CAC MGC robust ensuring that key risks are This graphic illustrates the key committees of the Bank with risk responsibility to identified, assessed, monitored and keep it simple, not all are shown.
The CRO is also responsible for providing assurance to the Board and Directors that the principal risks are appropriately managed and that Three lines of defence model we are operating within our risk appetite.
She is the Banks designated Board of Directors Money Laundering Reporting Officer MLRO.
The CRO has access, and a dotted reporting line, to the Chairman Board establishes risk appetite and risk strategy of the Risk Oversight Committee.
Approves frameworks, methodologies, policies and responsibilities Our model has three lines of defence for risk management: 1 2 3 Operational management, the Operational Risk Internal Audit colleagues who lead and manage our management management front line from day to day first line of defence second line of defence third line of defence Governance and oversight, which is Line management in each Independent risk Internal Audit function provided by the Risk function and business area management function Independent assurance and includes all significant risk categories, Primary responsibility for Provides specialist advice, reporting line such as credit risk, compliance and systems, controls and risk governance and oversight management Supports and challenges the conduct risk, operational risk, market Creates FANS first line risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk Internal Audit, which provides independent assurance through reviews and reports the results to the Audit Committee 31 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC RISK FACTORS AND MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Effective risk management lies at the heart of how we work.
The table below shows our strategic, credit, market, liquidity, conduct, compliance and regulatory, operational and financial crime risks and explains how we manage them.
Risk factor Change in year Management 1 Strategic risk Strategic risk is the risk that we do not achieve short and long-term As we grow, it remains important to maintain our unique We manage this risk by frequently considering a broad range of management information and key performance and risk indicators at Business Risk business objectives because we fail to either: maintain our unique culture while continuing to deliver the outcomes our Committees, the Executive Leadership Team and the Board.
We also carry out regular reviews of performance against the business plan also at the culture: maintain our differentiated model which delivers unparalleled stakeholders expect.
We also need to continually adapt Executive Leadership Team and these provide early warnings of where planned delivery maybe at risk.
Additionally, we look externally, both within levels of service and convenience: or develop the products, capabilities to developments in technology, the markets, the law and financial services and across other industries, for innovations and market developments with which we can improve the Bank.
and competitive position necessary to attract new customers, compete competition, and to respond to changes in the banking effectively and withstand market volatility.
Such failures could mean sector which affect the way we do business.
wedont create FANS or deliver outcomes expected by stakeholders customers, colleagues, shareholders, investors, communities andregulators.
2 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to a customers failure to meet Our fundamental approach to credit risk management The CRO is responsible for managing our credit risk by: the terms of any contract or failure to perform as agreed.
Our underwriting teams have Defining the Enterprise Risk Management structure and quantifying the Banks risk appetite lending policies ensure credit risk-taking is based on sound credit risk grown in size and scope as the Bank has grown, and our Formulating credit policies covering collateral requirements, credit assessment, risk grading and reporting, documentary and legal procedures and principles, including sector and concentration limits.
Credit risk is risk measurement has been enhanced by the work on compliance with regulatory and statutory requirements overseen by the CRO, Credit Sanctioning Committee, Credit Policy the AIRB models.
Establishing the authorisation structure for the approval and renewal of credit facilities andAppetite Committee and the Risk Oversight Committee.
Limiting concentrations of exposure to counterparties and industries for loans and advances and similar exposures and by issuer, credit rating and As the portfolio matures, the proportion of loans subject market liquidity for investment securities to enhanced oversight owing to deterioration in the borrowers credit quality has increased, albeit to a very We aim for a well-balanced loan portfolio, through the economic cycle, weighing risk and reward appropriately in lending decisions.
Our Business and Credit Support team, lending policies ensure that we base credit risk-taking on sound credit risk principles.
We set limits for each borrower, together with large exposure which is part of the Credit Underwriting function, limits consistent with prudential regulatory rules.
We also measure concentration risk, loan arrears and bad debts.
For quantification of credit risk, we manages these exposures closely and has a strong track currently use the Standardised approach assessed under Basel II, Pillars 1 and 2.
The first round of our AIRB application has been submitted and we record of obtaining recovery.
continue to work on modelling with a view to further extending our use of this approach.
Additional information about our credit risk exposures can be found in note 22 to the financial statements on page 115 3 Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates We remain focused on managing market risk within our Day-to-day management of market risk is the responsibility of the Treasury team, with oversight from Treasury Risk.
or prices of investment securities, will affect our income or the value of defined limits.
The Treasury and Treasury Risk functions our holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of our market risk work closely together and ensure that risks are managed We aim to minimise earnings shocks or surprises.
We dont undertake proprietary trading activities and only hold high-rated investment securities.
management strategy is to manage and control market risk exposures appropriately and that were well positioned to avoid Ourmanagement team regularly monitors exposures to price risk and movements in investment value through the Asset and Liability Management within acceptable parameters to ensure the Banks solvency while losses outside our appetite, in the event of unexpected Committee ALCO and regular Treasury reporting.
optimising the return on risk.
We do not sell derivatives or other complex products to customers.
We are mindful of upcoming regulatory changes, such as ring-fencing, as we shape the investment portfolio in 2018 and beyond.
Additional details of our market risk management are included in note 24 to the financial statements on page 121 4 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that we will encounter difficulty in meeting Our liquidity position has remained stable over the year We aim to hold a prudent level of liquidity to cover unexpected outflows, ensuring that we are able to meet financial commitments for an extended obligations associated with our financial liabilities that are settled by with our Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR remaining period.
We recognise the potential difficulties in monetising certain assets, so set higher-quality targets for liquid assets for the initial part of a stress delivering cash or another financial asset, or will incur a disproportionate strong at 141% 2016: 136% and we hold excess liquidity period.
We have assessed the level of liquidity necessary to cover both systemic and idiosyncratic risks and maintain an appropriate liquidity buffer at all cost in meeting these obligations.
Funding risks are well-managed: times.
Our LCR ensures that we comply with our own risk appetite as well as regulatory requirements.
In addition to cash and balances at the Bank of a number of factors, including the Bank of Englands England, we hold a range of marketable assets, including covered bonds and government debt, which are highly liquid assets.
We also maintain a Term Funding Scheme, have resulted in an easing of balance sheet structure that limits our reliance on potentially volatile sources of funding.
The Board sets our risk appetite and policy for managing liquidity risk, and delegates responsibility for oversight of this policy and its implementation to the Asset and Liability Committee ALCO.
The Treasury team manages our liquidity position on a day-to-day basis under the oversight of the Chief Financial Officer and ALCO.
The Treasury Risk team circulates detailed daily management information to the Treasury team and relevant members of the Executive Leadership Team, regarding the outcome of our combined stress-test scenario.
This is summarised to ALCO, ROC and the Board at each of their meetings.
Our approach is to ensure that we can both meet payments as they fall due and support asset growth in line with plan in both normal conditions and in the event of a liquidity stress and that we can survive a severe liquidity stress event and continue as a going concern.
Additional information on our liquidity position at year-end is available in note 23 to the financial statements on page 119 32 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Effective risk management lies at the heart of how we work.
The table below shows our No change strategic, credit, market, liquidity, conduct, compliance and regulatory, operational and Risk increased financial crime risks and explains how we manage them.
Risk decreased Risk factor Change in year Management 1 Strategic risk Strategic risk is the risk that we do not achieve short and long-term As we grow, it remains important to maintain our unique We manage this risk by frequently considering a broad range of management information and key performance and risk indicators at Business Risk business objectives because we fail to either: maintain our unique culture while continuing to deliver the outcomes our Committees, the Executive Leadership Team and the Board.
Additional information on our liquidity position at year-end is available in note 23 to the financial statements on page 119 33 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC RISK FACTORS AND MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk factor Change in year Management 5 Conduct risk Conduct risk is the risk that our operating model, culture or actions result Our simple, transparent product range and activities We have a range of controls in place to mitigate this risk and our service-led business model and absence of legacy issues give us inherent in unfair outcomes for customers.
Our priority is to effectively manage continue to ensure that customer outcomes are fair.
We dont offer sales-based incentives to store colleagues.
The simplicity of our product range, together with our culture of delivering risks that may impact our customers.
We manage conduct risk Ongoing work ensures that our communications are unparalleled levels of service and convenience to customers, help ensure that we consistently deliver fair customer outcomes.
This has resulted in a consistently with our overall risk appetite and aligned with our strategy of clear, fair and not misleading, and that sales incentives low level of reportable complaints, below the industry average.
We constantly analyse the root cause of complaints, as well as any underlying trends, creating fans.
Conduct risk may arise from any aspect of the way we in stores neither exist nor are perceived by colleagues toidentify opportunities to improve service provision while delivering consistently fair outcomes for customers.
conduct our business our aim is to avoid conduct that may result in to exist.
6 Compliance and regulatory risk Compliance and regulatory risk is the risk of financial loss or reputational The range and complexity of regulations with which we The Board is focused on responding effectively and in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory environment to ensure continued compliance with damage due to regulatory sanctions.
These include fines or penalties, are required to comply has increased.
During 2017, work regulatory requirements and we allocate appropriate resource to achieve this.
restriction or suspension of business, or the cost of mandatory corrective was ongoing on a number of projects relating to action as a result of failing to adhere to applicable laws, regulations and regulatory changes.
These included the 4th Money supervisory guidance Laundering Directive 4MLD, the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, and the second Payment Services Directive PSD2.
Regulatory appetite for non-compliance is negligible and sanctions for violations are increasing.
7 Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect impact from failed or Operational risk is a key focus area.
We remain vigilant We aim to maintain robust operational systems and controls and use rigorous planning and testing to make sure that we can respond to unexpected inadequate processes, people or systems, or exposure to external events.
regarding fraudulent actions, and have a range of events in an organised and timely manner.
Each business line undertakes an assessment of key risks and risk exposures.
Each risk exposure is assessed This impact could be financial or non-financial in nature.
Non-financial system, process and people improvements in place to to determine the appropriate controls.
In addition, the three lines of defence model is used: firstly, business owners own and manage risks and impact includes customer detriment, regulatory action or reputational minimise the impact on the Bank and our customers.
controls: the second line sets standards and defines tools to be used to manage risk: and the third line provides independent assurance over the other consequences.
In common with the industry at large, we continue to see increases in both the quantity and sophistication of The implementation of this approach requires the first line of defence to maintain a risk and control self-assessment for each business area.
We expanded and upskilled our records that areas risks rated by impact and likelihood, before and after taking into account any mitigating controls.
These controls are maintained Information Security team during 2017.
In conjunction inalibrary linking each risk to its appropriate controls.
The second line has responsibility for carrying out control testing and themed reviews.
with other firms, we share threat intelligence through industry forums and work closely with law enforcement We have continued to invest time and resources into improving operational resilience both in the context of day-to-day operations and responding to pre-emptively reduce the cyber security risks to which tospecific events.
8 Financial crime Financial crime is the risk of financial loss or reputational damage.
This Financial crime risk, which we assess as a key risk, We are required to have effective procedures, systems and controls in place to detect and prevent financial crime.
We are committed to complying could be due to regulatory fines or penalties, restriction or suspension of remained stable during 2017.
We have grown our with our legal and regulatory responsibilities in relation to financial crime, and have no appetite for non-compliance.
business or cost of mandatory corrective action as a result of failing to second-line AML team substantially, and also enhanced comply with prevailing legal and regulatory requirements relating to our assurance and oversight activity.
Further ongoing In order to support our growth plans, were dedicated to maintaining a robust control environment.
This enables us to respond effectively to emerging financial crime.
Such crime includes internal or external fraud, money enhancements to our systems and processes such as financial crime threats, which are becoming more frequent, more varied and more innovative.
The need to protect the Bank, our customers, assets and laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and corruption and sanctions machine learning and additional screening rules will society from the impact of financial crime has never been more challenging.
We constantly review our internal systems and processes to ensure they non-compliance.
enable us to remain on top of the constantly evolving provide adequate protection against new and emerging threats.
We hold induction and training programmes for colleagues covering all aspects of challenges in the area of financial crime.
financial crime and these help us to protect customers and assets.
Our robust framework assesses and monitors risks in relation to customers, relationships, transactions and payments.
The aim is to ensure that there are tailored, risk-based systems and controls in place to manage potential risks, and avoid losses, reputational impacts or degradation of customer experience.
Oversight and monitoring of our systems and controls is through the three lines of defence: i our risk and control self-assessment: ii dedicated, specialist colleagues operating the systems and controls in the first line of defence, overseen by the second line Anti-Money Laundering AML Risk team: and iii Internal Audit.
In addition, key risk indicators are in place with regular reports through the appropriate Bank Committees and the Board.
We have made significant investment to enhance systems, controls and people to support the execution of our business strategy, and to ensure that we have robust and sustainable models as we grow.
This includes continuously enhancing our transaction monitoring and surveillance system for anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing and sanctions.
34 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC No change Risk increased Risk decreased Risk factor Change in year Management 5 Conduct risk Conduct risk is the risk that our operating model, culture or actions result Our simple, transparent product range and activities We have a range of controls in place to mitigate this risk and our service-led business model and absence of legacy issues give us inherent in unfair outcomes for customers.
35 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC RISK FACTORS AND MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Emerging risks and mitigations We have identified a number of emerging risks that have the potential to adversely impact our activities.
These include: Emerging risks Mitigations Developments in conduct regulation As we continue to grow, were invited to participate in more market studies and and regulatory activity thematic reviews, with regulators proactively looking to pre-empt the next misselling scandal and limit customer detriment.
We continue to keep the customer at the heart of our business, and are confident that the absence of sales incentives for store colleagues alongside a values-first culture at every level of the organisation will ensure that we dont fall foul of system-wide high-profile scandals such asthose seen with payment protection insurance, packaged accounts and otherproducts.
The Second Payment Services Directive comes into effect in 2018, with expansion in the Senior Managers and Certification regimes also on the way.
Digital channels, cyber risk and systems infrastructure and resilience are likely to remain high on the regulatory agenda, as will changes to the macroeconomic environment.
The FCA has alerted retail banking firms about the risks to technology resilience and we expect that this will lead to additional activity in 2018 and beyond.
Cyber security With cyber-crime continuing to pose a significant threat to the financial services industry as a whole, weve invested in technology and expertise to strengthen our defences.
Our dedicated Information Security team is responsible for leading the work in this area, including anti-phishing, data loss prevention and overseeing patching of the IT estate.
We partner with industry-leading experts to ensure that any risk management approach is robust and proportionate, and evolves in line with developing threats.
We are a member of several industry forums, which enable us to keep abreast of external developments that carry the potential to affect our operations.
We also collect intelligence and assess our exposure, implementing preventative measures as appropriate, and continue to invest in cyber security.
Brexit The UK remains on course to exit the European Union in March 2019.
We dont have operations outside the UK, and less than 5% of accounts by balance are non-sterling denominated.
We note market concerns about the future post-Brexit.
Amongst other impacts, Brexit may affect the availability of skilled colleagues and contractors to support companies growth plans, reduce customer confidence, and increase operating costs, particularly where firms depend on suppliers domiciled outside the UK.
We continue to monitor this risk.
Financial crime prevention To tackle money laundering and corruption and recover the proceeds of crime and counter-terrorist financing, the Anti Money Laundering Directive IV took effect in July 2017, and legislative developments continue in this sector.
These include the Criminal Finances Bill, which is being considered by Parliament.
Prudential regulation The Bank of England will be phasing in the setting of a minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities MREL.
This is applicable to all UK banks and full compliance must be in place by 2022.
Regulation around ring-fencing will also affect us in the future, and while we currently do not expect to be in scope in the next three to four years, some decisions, including investments we make and products we launch, will have a long-term impact which may affect us at a later time when we have become subject to these regulations.
36 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Emerging risks Mitigations Growth Our pace of growth has the potential to increase operational risk and, as a result, we have invested heavily in people and infrastructure.
Our superior customerexperience is supported by an end-to-end technology infrastructure thatprovides a single customer view, enabling better customer service and moreefficient colleagues.
We continue to enhance our technology stack to enable customer-facing colleagues to focus on their core role of delivering amazing customer service, rather than struggling to operate systems.
Digital Internet and mobile technologies are changing the way banks interact with customers and increasing the industrys reliance on technology and infrastructure.
Were investing in our digital platforms and building resilient and secure technologies.
Technological evolution will require us to be continually vigilant froma security perspective, and also to assess and review our conduct approach on an ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting standards The new reporting requirements under IFRS 9 introduce new credit loss models and changes to the way in which firms must account for financial assets.
This report was approved by the Board and was signed on its behalf by: Vernon W. Hill, II Chairman 1 March 2018 Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of creating FANS through our unique taking account of the Groups current the revised UK Corporate Governance culture and integrated model of position, the Groups experience of Code, the Board has assessed the stores and technology, in order managing change and the impact prospects of the Group and Parent to raise low-cost, sticky deposits of a number of severe yet plausible Company over a longer period than the and low-risk diversified lending.
scenarios, based on the principal 12 months that has in practice been the risks outlined in the Risk factors and focus of the going concern provision.
Key assumptions included in the management section of this report model include store, deposit and page 30 to 37 of the Annual Report.
While the Bank prepares a forecast lending growth, as well as remaining spanning a seven-year period, the appropriately capitalised.
Over the Based on the results of this analysis, Directors concluded that a fourforecast period, we expect to raise the Directors have a reasonable year period was appropriate for the capital to fund our anticipated growth expectation that the Group will be assessment, as it is the period over and to meet regulatory requirements.
able to continue in operation and which the financial forecasts have meet its liabilities as they fall due over greatest certainty.
These forecasts Forecasts were subject to appropriate the period of their assessment.
are updated annually and reflect downside stress and sensitivity the Groups established strategy of analysis over the assessment period, 37 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
