PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Highlights for 2017: THE EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF OUR RISKS Refreshed the Group Risk Register, in light of the AND RELATED OPPORTUNITIES IS ESSENTIAL IN evolving Group strategy and SMARTLY AND PRUDENTLY ACHIEVING OUR external environment Deep dives across a range STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
of areas including principal risks and related key risk Overview indicators, specific business As a global industrial manufacturer we recognise that risk is inherent within our geographical areas, projects and acquisition footprint and activities.
The timely identification of risks and related opportunities, combined reviews with their appropriate mitigation and escalation, enables us effectively to run our business Ongoing implementation of and deliver our strategy in the knowledge that the likelihood and or impact associated with activities to reinforce ethical such risks is understood and managed within our risk tolerance.
compliance and culture Reinforcing the risk Governance structure management framework We operate a formal governance structure to manage risk across the Group.
The roles and and processes at individual responsibilities of the main stakeholders involved in this structure are set out below.
business unit and enabling function levels Priorities for 2018 Execution of the Connecting for Growth global strategic change programme Focus on key themes including data, innovation and people Continued focus on the use of key risk indicators and leveraging insights obtained from these While overall responsibility for reviewing the Groups risk profile and setting risk tolerance, as well as assessing the Groups principal risks, rests with the Board, the management of risk using our common risk management framework is embedded throughout our global manufacturing, distribution, sales and other business operations, as well as our enabling functions, with all our employees having an important role to play.
Local business units and enabling functions globally, as well as the Groups senior executive The management of risk using our leadership team, regularly review a broad range of individual current strategic and operational common risk management framework risks, as well as conducting broader horizon scanning reviews of emerging and potential is embedded throughout our global such risks.
They also monitor key risk indicators for a number of these risks, which provide manufacturing, distribution, sales early warning signals and assist with prompt and proactive risk management and mitigation.
Through these reviews and their appropriate escalation, the Board receives actionable information and updates which assist it in conducting its own such reviews, monitoring the Groups risk exposure, identifying the principal risks and determining an appropriate level of risk tolerance.
21 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Culture The Board is keenly aware that the The Board is keenly aware that the effectiveness of our risk management is dependent not effectiveness of our risk management only on systems and processes but also on behaviours.
is dependent not only on systems and During 2017 we continued to review and reinforce our Ethics Code and supporting policies, processes but also on behaviours.
training, communications and compliance activities -- this al - so included our comprehensive Supplier Code.
Our Board and senior executive management actively support, endorse and champion the values and behaviours expected of both internal colleagues and third parties with whom we work, all of which helps to strengthen our risk culture.
Identification and management of risk Our approach to identifying risks follows a dual approach 1 Top-down approach based on regular input and insights from, and deep dive discussions involving, the Board and the Group Risk Management Committee, drawing on a broad range of internal and external operational, commercial, economic and other perspectives and helping to establish the key risks, and potential future risks, which could threaten the Group and its ability to deliver its strategy.
This gives colleagues throughout the Group a clear direction and set of priorities in their ongoing discharge of their own risk management responsibilities.
We regularly review and, as 2 Bottom-up approach based on regular individual business unit function-level input appropriate, refine our risk which helps to identify the risks which could threaten local business or functional activities.
management and reporting processes While these risks are managed at the local level, they are also consolidated and escalated and activities, to enhance our ability as appropriate to the Group Risk Management Committee and the Board to help in the to identify issues promptly and to ongoing cycle of identification, testing and reviewing described below.
proactively manage any risks and related opportunities.
Our approach to risk management is based around a continuous process, which helps to ensure that we remain focused on the appropriate risks and that we are taking the appropriate actions to manage and mitigate those risks and to deliver our business strategy and objectives within agreed risk parameters as defined in our risk tolerance.
Through that process we operate an ongoing cycle of identifying risks: setting risk tolerance levels for those risks: testing those risks and risk tolerance levels through deep dive analysis into likelihood of occurrence including through the use of key risk indicators, impacts, mitigation plans, related opportunities and resource and capital expenditure implications: then reviewing those risks and risk tolerance levels accordingly.
We regularly review and, as appropriate, refine our risk management and reporting processes We assess risks through a standardised and activities, to enhance our ability to identify issues promptly and to proactively manage process which includes measuring likelihood and impact levels, with and any risks and related opportunities.
without controls, against a pre-defined Our risk assessment and risk tolerance scoring matrix.
We assess risks through a standardised process which includes measuring likelihood and impact levels, with and without controls, against a pre-defined scoring matrix.
This assessment process assists the Board in prioritising risks and determining its level of risk tolerance for each of the principal risks, as well as helping to evaluate the adequacy of existing controls and mitigating actions and the cost-benefit analysis of potential further such controls and actions.
Our risk tolerance is determined using four categories which are listed below: Very Risk Averse: where we are very cautious and seek to minimise the financial and reputational risk as far as possible.
Mitigation costs are accepted albeit that they might exceed potential loss: Risk Averse: where we are cautious and seek to reduce the financial and reputational risk.
Mitigation actions are proportional and based on cost effectiveness: Somewhat Risk Tolerant: where we are willing to take some financial and reputational risk to achieve our objectives.
Mitigation actions are again proportional and based on cost effectiveness: and High Degree of Risk Tolerance: where we are willing to take significant financial risk to achieve our objectives.
Mitigation involves an active management of risk-return trade-offs.
22 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Principal Risks overview During the year the Board, supported by the Group Risk Management Committee, undertook a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group along with the current levels of risk tolerance for each of those risks.
As a result of this process, the Directors created a refreshed Group Risk Register.
This included introducing a new risk category -- - External risk, arising from the macroeconomic climate, political events, regulatory issues and competitive pressures -- a - nd revising the contents of the Group Risk Register itself: NEW Connecting for Growth programme -- Added giv - en the launch of the global strategic change programme and in particular the implementation of the Groups digital offering and global functional model.
NEW Changing customer and end user expectations -- Added - given the importance of continuing to identify, understand and respond to these expectations.
Failure of critical infrastructure -- Mov - ed down and off the list of principal risks in light of the robust controls and effective mitigating actions demonstrated by the management team during 2017 including in response to the tornado which impacted the Albany Crafts distribution centre.
Amended Data controls and security -- Management o - f sensitive corporate and personal data and compliance with the General Data Protection Regulations has been moved down and off the list of principal risks in light of the robust controls and mitigating actions demonstrated by the management team during 2017.
IT security risks remain on the list of principal risks within Cyber Risk.
Currently the Board has identified ten principal risks, which fall into one of the following four categories: Strategic: Risks that could adversely impact the Groups ability to achieve its defined strategic objectives.
External: Risks arising from the macroeconomic climate, political events, regulatory issues and competitive pressures.
Operational: Risks inherent in our ongoing commercial operations and geographic footprint, which if not effectively managed, would be liable to cause significant commercial disruption.
Legacy: Risks relating to the Groups past operations and activities, including through historical mergers and acquisitions, which could create material financial exposure for the Group in its present form.
These principal risks, along with a summary of the measures in place to manage and mitigate them, are set out in the table below.
As stated above, the Board will continue to keep these principal risks, as well as the appropriateness of this list and the ever evolving broader risk environment, under ongoing review.
Principal risk Risk nature potential impact Action mitigation 1.
STRATEGIC: Execution of global strategic The Group is pursuing changes in its operating model to increase Connecting for Growth change programme -- in particular - productivity, promote efficiency in its supply chain and therefore speed implementation of digital offering of delivery to customers and to optimise its use of digital platforms programme and global functional model.
Trend on year: Leadership of the programme is provided by a Chief Transformation NEW Officer, supported by a team of project managers, and regular reviews, including through the use of key performance and risk indicators, are held at executive management and Board level.
Customer Risk of failure to identify, understand Our sales teams have over 1,000 interactions a day with brands, and respond to changing customer retailers and manufacturers and this informs our understanding of and end user expectations and end-user expectations e. g. different markets.
During the year we created a new customer insights spending patterns and impact of role and extended the use of our Customer Relationship Management online channel switch.
systems to gain more customer insights.
We also strengthened our Trend on year: commercial team to better service key and emerging markets.
In order NEW to ensure a firm understanding of emerging trends and technologies, we undertake regular competitor and media analysis, desktop research and attend external and industry-led events.
23 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Principal risk Risk nature potential impact Action mitigation Appropriate Risk of failure to attract and retain The Board and senior management remain very focused on talent talent and capability given business and capability development, as well as retention and succession capability development changes and growth in new areas.
2017 capability development actions included new cohorts on a range Trend on year: of management and senior leader development programmes and No move individual assessments and coaching for selected senior managers.
2017 also saw Board approval of a new People Strategy to support the changing roles and capabilities required by the business in the next three years.
EXTERNAL: Cyber risk Risk of cyber incidents leading to Throughout the year we implemented a range of policies, standards corruption of applications, critical and training programmes that focused on IT security and the need IT infrastructure, compromised to prevent leakage of data.
These were driven by the global Trend on year: networks, operational technology Technology function and led by the Cyber and Information Upwards and or loss of data.
In 2018 we are building on this approach by delivering a programme of automated training to targeted groups and the Group as a whole to reinforce the training on an ongoing basis.
Technology enhancements are also being put in place, including further firewall blocking of non-approved applications, the expanded deployment of multi-factor authentication, deployment of an email encryption solution, and centralisation of data into Azure which both protects the data and creates enhanced tracking capabilities.
Economic risk Economic risk arising from political As a global industrial manufacturing company with no UK and demand uncertainty -- inc - luding manufacturing facilities and minimal direct sales in the UK, Coats is risk to free trade conventions.
of the view that there would be limited direct adverse impacts on Trend on year: No move the Group from Brexit.
Both the UK and the EU, however, are significant markets for both Apparel and Footwear and Performance Materials.
Therefore any impact on sales and future growth expectations for these markets could have an indirect consequence on our business.
Whilst there continue to be a number of uncertainties in connection with the future of the UK and its relationship with the EU, there have been indirect factors which continue to have an impact on our results, primarily the effect of lower discount rates on the accounting valuation of pension liabilities and the depreciation of sterling on our UK costs.
We continually monitor and analyse economic and demand indicators to ensure that our supply chain remains flexible and our product portfolio remains relevant.
This analysis provides a key input to our product development, business planning and pricing strategies.
The Groups international footprint and comprehensive portfolio provide an increasing balance in our exposure to both EU and non-EU markets.
Environmental Environmental non-performance Our environmental policy applies across the Group.
Compliance non-performance risk given changing standards and with all environmental legal requirements is a minimum standard risk increased scrutiny resulting in disruption for the Group, and is monitored very closely at both a local and of existing business, fines and or Group level.
Trend on year: A Group-wide environmental management system EMS No move aligned to ISO 14001 will commence in 2018, which will further enhance our systematic management of these requirements and standards.
24 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Principal risk Risk nature potential impact Action mitigation 3.
OPERATIONAL: Products and services liability risk Products and Products and services are tested and measured against stringent quality arising in particular from Performance services liability standards.
Controls in the Performance Materials area specifically have Materials and software services.
been strengthened with enhanced batch by batch testing of safety risk critical products.
Coats global insurance programme includes product liability cover.
Trend on year: No move Actions and programmes developed during the year included: digital automation with direct Internet of Things linkage implemented between testing equipment and the SAP quality module in order to minimise the risk of human error: fail-safe restrictive programming to prevent the risk of sale of unapproved products to safety-critical customer sectors: introduction of new key risk indicators to track monthly and quarterly progress: and a zero defect communication programme to factory operators and associates working in safety critical areas.
Risk of breach of anti-corruption law or The Group continues to maintain clear and well publicised policies Bribery and competition law resulting in a material anti-competitive and processes, spanning bribery and anti-competitive behaviour fine and or reputational damage along with a number of other ethics issues, including in relation to behaviour risk partners, contractors and suppliers which are reinforced through a comprehensive Supplier Code covering initial due diligence processes, Trend on year: on-boarding, ongoing compliance and auditing.
These policies are No move reviewed annually.
There is extensive online and face-to-face training and regular communications through a range of channels including through our global ethical champions network.
A sub-committee of the Group Risk Management Committee comprising key business and functional leaders meets quarterly to consider a range of ethics risks including key risk indicators for those risks, legislative and regulatory developments and mitigation plans.
The Group actively maintains a whistle blower system, enabling employees and others who are aware of or suspect unethical behaviour to report it confidentially.
See page 52 for more details.
Legacy risks Risk of potential volatility in UK pension The funded pension schemes are overseen by their Trustees, who Pension scheme deficit funding gross liabilities and total assets leading are required to have the appropriate knowledge and understanding to increased annual cost of repair plan in this area.
Where appropriate, independent professional trustees risk to fund deficit which could impact are appointed to the schemes to provide additional expertise.
one or more of free cash flow and Trend on year: In particular, professional investment advice is taken as necessary: dividend payment.
No move and assets diversified by class and geography and currency exposures hedged where appropriate.
Interest rate and inflation exposures are hedged at appropriate levels.
Funding agreements are reviewed and agreed triennially.
The Group and the schemes trustees routinely review fide-risking of the schemes through liability management and investment strategies.
See note 9 on page 104 for more details.
Legacy Under the laws of certain countries, The Board continues to monitor the strategy and developments environmental Coats subsidiaries could potentially in relation to the Lower Passaic River proceedings, more detail of be deemed responsible for investigating which can be found in note 28 on page 127. risks and or remediating conditions alleged Beyond that the Group continues to refine its policies and procedures to be associated in whole or in part Trend on year: for managing and mitigating potential legacy risks associated with with former operations.
