STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGING RISK P rincipal risks and uncertainties The directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks are set out below including details of how they have been managed or mitigated.
Further details of the groups inherent risk exposures are set out at notes 8 and 16 to 18 of the financial statements.
Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation Reserves and our assessment of capital We regularly appraise the assumptions We undertake significant analysis of the requirements may require revision as a result of underpinning the business we write.
We variables associated with writing long-term changes in experience, regulation or legislation remain, however, inherently exposed to insurance business to ensure that a suitable The writing of long-term insurance business certain extreme events, that could require premium is charged for the risks we take on, requires the setting of assumptions for longus to adjust our reserves.
For example, in and that reserves continue to remain term trends in factors such as mortality, lapse our pensions risk transfer and annuities appropriate for factors including mortality, rates, valuation interest rates, expenses and business, while trend data suggests the rate lapse rates, valuation interest rates, credit defaults.
Actual experience may require of longevity improvement may be slowing, expenses and credit defaults.
In seeking a recalibration of these assumptions, impacting a dramatic advance in medical science comprehensive understanding of longevity profitability.
Management estimates are also beyond that anticipated may lead to an science we aim to anticipate long-term required in the derivation of Solvency II capital unexpected change in life expectancy, trends in mortality.
We continue to evolve metrics.
These include modelling simplifications requiring adjustment to reserves.
In our and develop our underwriting capabilities to reflect that it is not possible to perfectly protection businesses, a widespread for our protection business.
Our selective model the external environment, with increase in mortality morbidity may also use of reinsurance also acts to reduce the adjustment necessitated where new data require us to re-evaluate reserves.
We are impacts of significant variations in life emerges.
Forced changes in reserves can also also exposed to lapse risks if our US term expectancy and mortality.
The sensitivities arise from regulatory or legislative intervention policies are not continued in line with our of our business to selected scenarios are impacting capital requirements and profitability.
Investment market performance and conditions Whilst the global economic outlook remains Although we cannot fully eliminate the in the broader economy may adversely impact positive, we continue to monitor a range of downside impacts from these and other risk earnings, profitability or surplus capital risk factors that could trigger a reappraisal factors on our earnings, profitability or The performance and liquidity of investment of asset values or influence a change in surplus capital, as part of our strategic markets, interest rate movements and inflation broader central bank monetary policies.
In planning activity we seek to model our impact the value of investments we hold in particular, after a period of strong growth in business plans across a range of economic shareholders funds and those to meet the equity markets, 2018 has seen a return to scenarios to ensure they will be resilient.
obligations from insurance business, with the volatility as financial markets have Our ORSA process plays an integral part in movement in certain investments directly responded to potential changes in interest this process ensuring a clear link between impacting profitability.
Interest rate movements rate policies.
In the UK, a lengthy period of capital sufficiency and the nature of risks to and inflation can also change the value of our negotiation and an uncertain Brexit which we may be exposed, and confirming obligations.
We use a range of techniques to outcome has potential to create asset price that exposures are within our risk appetite.
manage mismatches between assets and volatility for specific sectors, as well as a As set out within the Strategic Report on liabilities.
However, loss can still arise from slowing in the broader UK economy in pages 1 to 53, we have sought to ensure adverse markets.
Interest rate expectations which we operate.
There also remain a focus upon those market segments that we leading to falls in the risk free yield curve can range of geopolitical events that could expect to be resilient in projected conditions.
also create a greater degree of inherent volatility cause shocks to global financial markets, We cannot, however, completely eliminate to be managed in the Solvency II balance sheet, and in stressed conditions a market risk.
Sensitivities to interest rates, exposure than the underlying economic position would correction may be significantly exaggerated to worldwide equity markets and currencies dictate, potentially impacting capital requirements from continued illiquidity in bond markets.
are set out on page 180, page 163 and and surplus capital.
In addition, significant falls page 167 to 170, respectively in investment values can reduce fee income to our investment management business.
In dealing with issuers of debt and other types Factors that could lead to a widespread We actively manage our exposure to default of counterparty the group is exposed to the risk default of the issuers of investment grade risks within our bond portfolios, setting of financial loss debt are currently considered to be more selection criteria and exposure limits, and Systemic corporate sector failures, or a major remote risks: however, we are closely using the capabilities of LGIMs global credit sovereign debt event, could, in extreme monitoring a number of factors that may team to ensure the risks are effectively scenarios, trigger defaults impacting the value lead to a widening of credit spreads controlled, and if appropriate trade out to of our bond portfolios.
Under Solvency II, a including the outlook for interest rates: and improve credit quality.
Within our property widespread widening of credit spreads and the potential economic impacts of an lending businesses, our loan criteria take downgrades can also result in a reduction in our unfavourable Brexit outcome for specific account of both the default risk of the Solvency II balance sheet surplus, despite industrial and service sectors.
The outlook borrower and the potential for adverse already setting aside significant capital for for aspects of the UK property market are movements in the value of secured credit risk.
We are also exposed to default risks also less certain, with recent housing data, property.
We seek to closely manage risks in dealing with banking, money market and whilst mixed, being indicative of slowing to our Solvency II balance sheet through reinsurance counterparties, as well as confidence, although prime commercial monitoring factors that could give rise to a settlement, custody and other bespoke business property remains in high demand.
Whilst heightened level of default risk.
A default by a counterparty could considered to be more extreme risk we can never completely eliminate default expose us to both financial loss and operational scenarios in the current environment, risks or their impacts to our Solvency II disruption of business processes.
Default risk factors that could increase the level of balance sheet, although we seek to hold a also arises where we undertake property default risk, if they were to occur, include a strong balance sheet that we believe to be lending, with exposure to loss if an accrued material deterioration in global economic prudent for a range of adverse scenarios.
debt exceeds the value of security taken.
conditions: a renewed banking crisis: and Details of our credit portfolios are on default on debt linked to emerging markets.
52 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation Changes in regulation or legislation may have The financial services sector continues to We are supportive of regulation in the a detrimental effect on our strategy see significant regulatory driven change, markets in which we operate where it Legislation and government fiscal policy both from the EU and from within the UK.
ensures trust and confidence and can be influence our product design, the period of We are progressing our responses to EU a positive force on business.
We seek to retention of products and required reserves for driven financial services regulation actively participate with government and future liabilities.
Regulation defines the overall including UCITS V, the IDD and PRIIPS, as regulatory bodies in the UK and Europe to framework for the design, marketing, taxation well as actions to meet the requirements assist in the evaluation of change so as to and distribution of our products: and the of the EU GDPR which comes into force develop outcomes that meet the needs of prudential capital that we hold.
As a predominantly UK and all stakeholders.
Internally, we evaluate changes in legislation or regulation may US focused business, the loss of EU change as part of our formal risk assessment increase our cost base, reduce our future passporting rights has limited direct processes, with material matters being revenues and impact profitability or require impact: however, we are establishing considered at the Group Risk Committee us to hold more capital.
The prominence of the businesses in Dublin to support our and the Group Board.
Our internal control risk increases where change is implemented European investment clients.
We are also framework seeks to ensure ongoing without prior engagement with the sector.
monitoring potential implications on market compliance with relevant legislation and The nature of long-term business can also infrastructure and contract continuity risks.
We cannot, however, completely result in some changes in regulation, and the Within the UK the FCA published its final eliminate the risks that controls may fail or re-interpretation of regulation over time, having report on the Asset Management Market that historic accepted practices may be a retrospective effect on in-force books of Study in June 2017 and continues with its reappraised by regulators, resulting in business, impacting future cash generation.
thematic review activities across the sector sanction against the group.
to ensure the fair treatment of customers.
The tax landscape continues to be subject to change, most recently on US tax reform in 2017 and the potential impact on the tax regime from the changing UK political environment.
New entrants may disrupt the landscape There is already strong competition in all Were building our digital businesses.
of the markets in which we operate our markets, and although we have had Alongside 1.5 million customers now using As has been seen in other business sectors, considerable past success at building scale My Account to manage their investments it is possible that alternative digitally enabled to offer low cost products, we recognise on line: our SmartQuote app for household providers of financial services products emerge that markets remain attractive to new insurance: and the use of technology to with lower cost business models or innovative entrants.
We are also cognisant of the transform our insurance product distribution service propositions and capital structures potential for entry by scale overseas reach in the US: we are investing in Fintech disrupting the current competitive landscape.
competitors who may have lower return on businesses to remain at the forefront of capital requirements and be unconstrained innovation in the markets we operate in.
A material failure in our business processes or Our plans for growth and the digitalisation Our risk governance model seeks to ensure IT security may result in unanticipated financial of our businesses, together with the that business management are actively loss or reputation damage regulatory change agenda, inherently engaged in maintaining an appropriate We have constructed our framework of internal increase the profile of operational risks control environment, supported by risk controls to minimise the risk of unanticipated across our businesses.
As we develop our functions led by the Group Chief Risk financial loss or damage to our reputation.
housing businesses we are also exposed to Officer, with independent assurance from However, no system of internal control can property construction and safety risks.
The work of the Group completely eliminate the risk of error, financial continue to invest in our system capabilities Audit Committee in the review of the loss, fraudulent actions or reputational damage.
and business processes to ensure that we internal control system is set out on We are also inherently exposed to the risk that meet the expectations of our customers: page 70.
We recognise, however, that third parties may seek to disrupt our online comply with regulatory, legal and financial residual risk will always remain and have business operations, steal customer data or reporting requirements: and mitigate the designed our risk governance framework perpetrate acts of fraud using digital media.
risks of loss or reputational damage from to ensure that when adverse events occur operational risk events.
we can deploy appropriate responses.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 53 Go v ern a n c e Contents Board of directors 56 Letter from the Chairman 60 Governance report 62 Nominations Committee report 68 Audit Committee report 70 Group Risk Committee report 76 Directors report on remuneration 78 54 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE LATER LIFE LIVING becoming more complex, and simple things such as a GP visit are becoming In 2017 we entered the retirement harder to obtain.
housing market through our acquisition and partnership with We are creating vibrant villages on Inspired Villages Group.
the edge of and within the UKs towns and cities, looking to build where Our development in Tattenhall, people want to live, close to family, Cheshire enables residents to friends and facilities.
continue to live independently, yet maintain that real sense of community.
More importantly, it WATCH THE VIDEO gives peace of mind and allows legalandgeneralgroup.
com individuals to make life as they media-centre videos want it.
It is a well-known fact that we are chronically underprepared for our ageing demographic we are living longer, our health needs are LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 55
