Risk Risks and uncertainties Operating in the pharmaceutical sector carries various inherent risks and uncertainties that may affect our business.
In this section, we describe the risks and uncertainties that we consider material to our business in that they may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and or reputation.
These risks are not listed in any particular order of priority and have been categorised consistently with the Principal Risks detailed from page 63, which are included below along with the other risks that we face.
We believe that the forward-looking statements about AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identified by words such as anticipates, believes, expects and intends, and that include, among other things, Future prospects in the Financial Review on page 78, are based on reasonable assumptions.
However, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties such as those summarised below.
They relate to events that may occur in the future, that may be influenced by factors beyond our control and that may have actual outcomes materially different from our expectations.
Therefore, other risks, unknown or not currently considered material, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
Product pipeline and IP risks Impact Failure or delay in delivery of pipeline or launch of new products Our continued success depends on the development and successful launch of Failure or delay in development of new product candidates that innovative new drugs.
achieve the expected commercial success could frustrate the achievement of development targets, adversely affect the reputation The development of pharmaceutical product candidates is a complex, risky and of our R&D capabilities, and is likely to materially adversely affect lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other resources.
A project our business and results of operations.
See also Failure to achieve may fail at any stage of the process due to various factors, including failure to strategic plans or meet targets and expectations on page 219. obtain the required regulatory or marketing approvals for the product candidate or for its manufacturing facilities, unfavourable clinical efficacy data, safety concerns, Since our business model and strategy rely on the success of relatively failure to demonstrate adequate cost-effective benefits to regulatory authorities and or few compounds, the failure of any compound in our late-stage pipeline payers and the emergence of competing products.
More details of projects that have or in-line products may have a significant negative effect on our suffered setbacks or failures during 2017 can be found in the Therapy Area Review.
business or results of operations.
The anticipated launch dates of major new products significantly affect our business, Significant delays to anticipated launch dates of new products could including investment in large clinical studies, the manufacture of pre-launch product have a material adverse effect on our financial position and or results stocks, investment in marketing materials pre-launch, sales force training and the of operations.
For example, for the launch of products that are timing of anticipated future revenue streams from new Product Sales.
Launch dates seasonal in nature, delays in regulatory approvals or manufacturing are primarily driven by our development programmes and the demands from difficulties may delay launch to the next season which, in turn, may various factors, including adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical studies, significantly reduce the return on costs incurred in preparing for the regulatory demands, price negotiation, competitor activity and technology transfer.
Furthermore, in immuno-oncology in particular, More complex and stringent regulations govern the manufacturing and supply of speed to market is critical given the large number of clinical trials biologics products, thus impacting the production and release schedules of such being conducted by other companies.
In addition, a delayed launch may lead to increased costs if, for In addition to developing products in-house, we also expand our product portfolio and example, marketing and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or geographical presence through licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations, performed for longer than expected.
which are key to growing and strengthening our business.
The success of such Failure to complete collaborative projects in a timely, cost-effective arrangements is largely dependent on the technology and other IP rights we acquire manner may limit our ability to access a greater portfolio of products, or license, and the resources, efforts and skills of our partners.
Disputes or difficulties IP technology and shared expertise.
Disputes and difficulties with in our relationship with our collaborators or partners may arise, for example, due to our partners may erode or eliminate the benefits of our alliances and conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest between parties.
In addition, failure to perform on the part of parties to In many cases we make milestone payments well in advance of the commercialisation externalisation transactions may diminish the future value of those of the products, with no assurance that we will recoup these payments.
transactions or, in some cases, allow a competitor to beat us to market with a similar or first-in-class product.
Delay of launch can also erode We experience strong competition from other pharmaceutical companies in respect the term of patent exclusivity.
of licensing arrangements, strategic collaborations, and acquisition targets.
Competition from other pharmaceutical companies means that we may be unsuccessful in implementing some of our intended projects or we may have to pay a significant premium over book or market values for our acquisitions.
210 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information Additional Information Product pipeline and IP risks Impact Difficulties in obtaining or maintaining regulatory drug approval for products We are subject to strict controls on the commercialisation processes for our Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals could delay our ability to pharmaceutical products, including their development, manufacture, distribution market our products and may adversely affect our revenue.
The criteria for establishing safety, efficacy and quality, which are post-approval requirements, including additional clinical trials, could essential for securing marketing approvals, may vary by country and by region.
result in increased costs, and may impact the labelling and approval Regulators can refuse to grant approval or may require additional data before approval status of currently marketed products.
is granted, even though the medicine may already be launched in other countries.
Factors, including advances in science and technology, evolving regulatory science, and different approaches to benefit risk tolerance by regulatory authorities, the general public, and other third party public interest groups influence the initial approvability of new drugs.
While we seek to manage many of these risks, unanticipated and unpredictable policymaking by governments and regulators, limited regulatory authority resources or conflicting priorities often lead to severe delays in regulatory approvals.
We may be required to conduct additional clinical trials after a drugs approval because a regulatory authority may have a concern that impacts the benefit risk profile of one of our marketed drugs or drugs currently in development.
For our marketed drugs, new data and meta-analyses have the potential to drive changes in the approval status or labelling.
In addition, recent years have seen an increase in post-marketing regulatory requirements and commitments, and an increased call for third-party access to regulatory and clinical trial data packages for independent analysis and interpretation, and broader data transparency.
Such transparency, while important, could lead to inappropriate or incorrect data analyses which may damage the integrity of our products and our Companys reputation.
Failure to obtain, defend and enforce effective IP protection and IP challenges by third parties A pharmaceutical product may be protected from being copied for a limited period Limitations on the availability of patent protection, the ability to of time under certain patent rights and or related IP rights, such as Regulatory obtain related IP rights or the use of compulsory licensing in certain Data Protection or Orphan Drug status.
Typically, products protected by such rights countries in which we operate, as well as our ability to defend and generate significantly higher revenues than those not protected.
Our ability to obtain, enforce our patents, could allow for earlier entry of generic or maintain, defend and enforce patents and other IP rights in relation to our products is biosimilar competitor products.
This could have a material adverse an important element in protecting and recouping our investment in R&D and creating effect on the pricing and sales of our products and, consequently, long-term value for the business.
Some countries in which we operate do not offer could materially adversely affect our revenues.
This may be because IP laws are still developing, the scope of Third parties may be awarded remedies for alleged infringement those laws is limited or the political environment does not support such legislation.
of their IP, for example injunctions and damages for alleged patent We may also face challenges early in the patent application process and throughout infringement.
In the US, courts may order enhanced ie up to treble a patents life.
The grounds for these challenges could be the validity of a patent damages for alleged wilful infringement of patents.
From time to and or its effective scope and are based on ever-evolving legal precedents.
We are time we may acquire licences, discontinue activities and or modify experiencing increased challenges in the US and elsewhere in the world and there processes to avoid claims of patent infringement.
These steps could can be no guarantee of success for either party in patent proceedings and litigation.
entail significant costs and our revenue and margins could be materially adversely affected.
We also bear the risk that our products may be found to infringe patents owned or licensed by third parties, including research-based and generic pharmaceutical More information about protecting our IP, the risk of patent litigation companies and individuals.
These third parties may seek remedies for patent and the early loss of IP rights is contained in the Intellectual Property infringement, including injunctions for example, preventing the marketing of one section on page 32, the Competitive pressures including expiry or of our products and damages for example, research-based competitors are alleging loss of IP rights and generic competition risk on page 212 and Note infringement of their patents and are seeking damages in relation to our marketing of 28 to the Financial Statements from page 182.
Details of material patent proceedings and litigation matters can be found in Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 182.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Risk 211 Risk continued Commercialisation risks Impact Competitive pressures including expiry or loss of IP rights, and generic competition A pharmaceutical product competes with other products marketed by research-based If we are not successful in obtaining, maintaining, defending or pharmaceutical companies and with generic or biosimilar drugs marketed by generic enforcing our exclusive rights to market our products, particularly drug manufacturers.
in the US where we achieve our highest Product Sales, our revenue and margins could be materially adversely affected.
In addition, Approval of competitive products for the same or similar indication as one of our unsuccessful assertion of our IP rights may lead to damages or products may result in immediate and significant decreases in our revenues.
other liabilities to third parties that could materially adversely affect our financial performance.
Generic versions of products, including biosimilars, are often sold at lower prices than branded products, as the manufacturer does not have to recoup the significant cost Unfavourable resolution of current and potential future patent litigation of R&D investment and market development.
Expiry or loss of IP rights can materially may require us to make significant provisions in our accounts relating adversely affect our revenues and financial condition due to the launch of cheaper to legal proceedings and or could materially adversely affect our generic copies of the product in the country where the rights have expired or been financial condition or results of operations.
lost see the table in the Patent Expiries of Key Marketed Products section from page 208.
For example in 2017, our US Product Sales of Crestor fell to $373 million 2016: $1,223 million, following the launch of generics.
Additionally, the expiry or loss of patents covering other innovator companies products may also lead to increased competition and pricing pressure for our own, still-patented products in the same product class due to the availability of lower priced generic products in that product class.
Generic manufacturers may also take advantage of the failure of certain countries to properly enforce Regulatory Data Protection or other related IP rights and may launch generics during this protected period.
This is a particular risk in some Emerging Markets where appropriate patent protection or other related IP rights may be difficult to obtain or enforce.
The biosimilars market has experienced notable growth in 2017, with approval of several monoclonal antibody biosimilars in the US and Europe.
This trend is expected to continue.
Increased regulatory and legal activity related to the launch and approval of these therapeutics is anticipated.
Regulatory authorities in other territories continue to implement or consider abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars, allowing quicker entry to market for such products and earlier than anticipated competition for patented biologics.
As well as facing generic competition upon expiry or loss of IP rights, we also face the risk that generic drug manufacturers seek to market generic versions of our products prior to expiries of our patents and or the Regulatory Exclusivity periods.
For example, we are currently facing challenges from numerous generic drug manufacturers regarding our patents relating to key products, including Brilinta, Faslodex, Byetta, Daliresp, Onglyza and Crestor.
IP rights protecting our products may be challenged by external parties.
We expect our most valuable products to receive the greatest number of challenges.
Despite our efforts to establish and defend robust patent protection for our products, we bear the risk that courts may decide that our IP rights are invalid and or that third parties do not infringe our asserted IP rights.
Where we assert our IP rights but are ultimately unsuccessful, third parties may seek damages, alleging, for example, that they have been inappropriately restrained from entering the market.
In such cases, we bear the risk that we incur liabilities to those third parties.
Details of material patent litigation matters can be found in Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 182.
212 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact Price controls and reductions Most of our key markets have experienced the implementation of various cost control Due to these pricing pressures, there can be no certainty that we will or reimbursement mechanisms for pharmaceutical products.
be able to charge prices for a product that, in a particular country or in the aggregate, enable us to earn an adequate return on our product In the US, there is significant pricing pressure driven by payer consolidation, restrictive investment.
These pressures, including the increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies, and cost control tools, such as exclusionary formularies and reimbursement policies to which we are subject, could materially price protection clauses.
Many formularies employ generic first strategies and or require adversely affect our business or results of operations.
physicians to obtain prior approval for the use of a branded medicine where a generic alternative exists.
These mechanisms can be used by payers to limit the use of branded We expect these pricing pressures will continue and may increase.
products and put pressure on manufacturers to reduce net prices.
In addition, patients The continued disparities in EU and US pricing systems could lead are seeing changes in the design of their health plan benefits and may experience to marked price differentials between regions, which, by way of the variation in how their plans cover their medications, including increases in the implementation of existing or new reference pricing mechanisms, out-of-pocket payments for their branded medications.
Patient out-of-pocket spending increases the pricing pressure affecting the industry.
The importation is generally in the form of a co-payment or co-insurance, but there is a growing trend of pharmaceutical products from countries where prices are low due towards high deductible health plans that require that patients pay the full list price to government price controls, or other market dynamics, to countries of their drugs and services until they meet certain out-of-pocket thresholds.
Ongoing where prices for those products are higher, is already prevalent and scrutiny of the US pharmaceutical industry, focused largely on pricing, is placing may increase.
Strengthened collaboration by governments may increased emphasis on the value of medications.
This scrutiny will likely continue accelerate the development of further cost-containment policies across many stakeholders, including policymakers and legislators.
Increased and simplified access to The new US political leadership continues to consider a range of legislative and national and regional prices in markets and the publication of regulatory proposals to address the high costs of prescription drugs as well as reforms these prices in centralised databases have facilitated the uptake to the US healthcare system.
These may include changes to the ACA, modifications and efficiency of price referencing across the world.
to Medicare and other government programmes, and policies aimed at reducing drug prices such as importation schemes.
For more information, please see Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section from page 12.
However, many of these proposals have not achieved broad support from policymakers and, in the near term, legislators have shifted focus away from healthcare reform.
It is difficult to predict what specific proposals could be enacted and to determine the implications for the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry.
However, healthcare reform remains a key campaign promise of the current administration and proposals that would significantly modify existing laws and regulations, including the ACA, government programmes and policies relating to drug pricing, could affect private health insurance, coverage through Medicaid and the health insurance exchange marketplaces, Medicare coverage and savings provisions, and other facets of the US healthcare market, with potentially significant impacts on the pharmaceutical industry.
In Europe, the industry continues to be exposed to various ad hoc cost-containment measures and reference pricing mechanisms, which impact prices.
There is a trend towards increasing transparency and comparison of prices among EU Member States which may eventually lead to a change in the overall pricing and reimbursement landscape.
In Emerging Markets, governments are increasingly controlling pricing in the self-pay sector and favouring locally manufactured drugs.
In addition, the emergence of price referencing has been seen in some markets combined with a call from authorities to provide greater global price transparency.
Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of Health Technology Assessment HTA to provide a rigorous evaluation of the clinical efficacy of a product at, or post, launch.
HTA evaluations are also increasingly being used to assess the clinical effect, as well as cost-effectiveness, of products in a particular health system.
This comes as payers and policymakers attempt to increase efficiencies in the use and choice of pharmaceutical products.
A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and how pricing pressures are affecting our business in our most important markets is set out in Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section from page 12 and on the next page in the following risk factor.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Risk 213 Risk continued Commercialisation risks Impact Economic, regulatory and political pressures Operating in over 100 countries, we are subject to political, socio-economic and Deterioration of, or failure to improve, socio-economic conditions, financial factors both globally and in individual countries.
and situations and or resulting events, depending on their severity, could adversely affect our supply and or distribution chain in the A sustained global economic downturn may further exacerbate pressure from affected countries and the ability of customers or ultimate payers governments and other healthcare payers on medicine prices and volumes of sales in to purchase our medicines.
This could adversely affect our business response to pressures on budgets, and may cause a slowdown or a decline in growth or results of operations.
Those most severely impacted by the economic downturn may seek alternative ways to settle their debts through, for example, the issuance of government While we have adopted cash management and treasury policies to bonds which might trade at a discount to the face value of the debt.
Other customers manage the risk of not being able to access a sustainable flow of may cease to trade, which may result in losses from writing off debts, or a reduction in liquid funds see the Financial risk management policies section of the demand for products.
Financial Review from page 79, we cannot be certain that these will be as effective as they are intended to be, in particular in the event of We are highly dependent on being able to access a sustainable flow of liquid funds a global liquidity crisis.
In addition, open positions where we are owed due to the high fixed costs of operating our business and the long and uncertain money and investments we have made in financial and non-financial development cycles of our products.
In a sustained economic downturn, financial institutions or money market funds cannot be guaranteed to be institutions with whom we deal may cease to trade and there can be no guarantee recoverable.
Additionally, if we need access to external sources that we will be able to access monies owed to us without a protracted, expensive of financing to sustain and or grow our business, such as the debt and uncertain process, if at all.
or equity capital financial markets, this may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a severe and or The majority of our cash investments are managed centrally and are invested in sustained economic downturn.
This may, for instance, be the case in collateralised bank deposits, fixed income securities in government, financial and the event of any default by the Company on its debt obligations, which non-financial securities and AAA credit-rated institutional money market funds.
may materially adversely affect our ability to secure debt funding in the Money market funds are backed by institutions in the US and the EU, which, in turn, future or our financial condition in general.
Further information on debt invest in other funds, including sovereign funds.
This means our credit exposure is funding arrangements is contained in the Financial risk management a mix of US and EU sovereign default risk, financial institution and non-financial policies section of the Financial Review from page 79. institution default risk.
It is still early to judge the impact of Brexit as it is unclear as to the On 23 June 2016, the UK held a referendum on the UKs continuing membership trading relationships the UK will be able to negotiate with the EU and of the EU, the outcome of which was a decision for the UK to leave the EU Brexit.
Any deterioration in market access On 29 March 2017, the UK Government formally notified the EU under Article 50 of the or trading terms including customs duties, VAT or other tariffs that UKs intention to leave the EU.
This notification began the process of negotiation that constitute real cost, delay or restrictions to the movement of goods will likely determine the future terms of the UKs relationship with the EU.
Absent a and increased administration may materially adversely impact our negotiated agreement, the UK will leave the EU on 29 March 2019 and relevant EU law financial performance.
and agreements will cease to apply.
Until the Brexit negotiation process is completed, it is difficult to anticipate the potential impact on AstraZenecas market share, sales, profitability and results of operations.
The Group operates from a global footprint and retains flexibility to adapt to changing circumstances.
The uncertainty during and after the period of negotiation is also expected to increase volatility and may have an economic impact on the countries in which we operate, particularly in the UK and Eurozone.
The Board reviews the potential impact of Brexit as an integral part of its Principal Risks as outlined from page 63 rather than as a stand-alone risk.
As the process of Brexit evolves, the Board will continue to assess its impact on the Company.
214 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact Failures or delays in the quality and execution of our commercial strategies Commercial success of our Growth Platforms is a critical factor in sustaining or Failure to execute our commercial strategies could materially adversely increasing global Product Sales and replacing lost Product Sales due to patent expiry.
impact our business or results of operations.
The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical product involves substantial investment If a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales in sales and marketing activities, launch stocks and other items.
We may ultimately growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we may be unable be unable to achieve commercial success for various reasons, including difficulties to fully recoup the costs incurred in launching it, which could materially in manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product candidate for development or adversely affect our business or results of operations.
commercialisation in a timely manner, the impact of price control measures imposed by governments and healthcare authorities, the outcome of negotiations with Due to the complexity of the commercialisation process for biologics, third-party payers, erosion of IP rights, including infringement by third parties, the methods of distributing and marketing biologics could materially failure to show a differentiated product profile and changes in prescribing habits.
adversely impact our revenues from the sales of biologics medicines, such as Synagis and FluMist Fluenz.
The commercialisation of biologics is often more complex than for small molecule pharmaceutical products, primarily due to differences in the mode of administration, The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in Emerging technical aspects of the product, and rapidly changing distribution and Markets or materialisation of the risks and challenges of doing reimbursement environments.
business in such markets, including inadequate protection against crime including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud or inadvertent We face particular challenges in Emerging Markets, including: breaches of local and international law may materially adversely affect More volatile economic conditions and or political environments.
our reputation, business or results of operations.
Competition from multinational and local companies with existing market presence.
Integration processes may also result in business disruption, diversion The need to identify and to leverage appropriate opportunities for sales and marketing.
of management resources, the loss of key employees and other issues, Poor IP protection.
such as a failure to integrate IT and other systems.
Inadequate protection against crime including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud.
The need to impose developed market compliance standards.
The incurrence of significant debt or liabilities due to the integration of The need to meet a more diverse range of national regulatory, clinical, manufacturing an acquired business could cause deterioration in our credit rating and and distribution requirements.
result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
We may Potential inadvertent breaches of local and international law.
issue additional shares to pay for acquired businesses, which would Not being able to recruit appropriately skilled and experienced personnel.
result in the dilution of our then existing shareholders.
Difficulty in identifying the most effective sales and marketing channels and routes to market.
Intervention by national governments or regulators restricting market access and or introducing adverse price controls.
Difficulty in managing local partnerships such as co-promotion and co-marketing: both driving performance and adhering to AstraZenecas compliance standards which are often higher than the market norm.
Difficulties in cash repatriation due to strict foreign currency controls and lack of hard currency reserves in some Emerging Markets.
Complexity inherent within a direct exports business from UK and Sweden operations to countries where we do not have a legal entity.
We may also seek to acquire complementary businesses or enter into other strategic transactions.
The integration of an acquired business could involve incurring significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities, as well as having a negative effect on our reported results of operations from acquisition-related charges, amortisation of expenses related to intangibles and charges for the implementation of long-term assets.
We may also experience difficulties in integrating geographically separated organisations, systems and facilities, and personnel with different organisational cultures.
Disputes or difficulties in our relationship with our collaborators or partners may also arise, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest between parties.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Risk 215 Risk continued Supply chain and business execution risks Impact Failure to maintain supply of compliant, quality products We may experience difficulties, delays and interruptions in the manufacturing Difficulties with manufacturing and supply, forecasting, distribution or and supply of our products for various reasons, including: third-party suppliers may result in product shortages, which may lead to lost Product Sales and materially adversely affect our reputation Demand significantly in excess of forecast demand, which may lead to supply and revenues.
Even slight variations in components or any part of the shortages this is particularly challenging before launch.
manufacturing process may lead to a product that is non-compliant Supply chain disruptions, including those due to natural or man-made disasters at and does not meet quality standards.
This could lead to recalls, one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor.
spoilage, product shortage, regulatory action and or reputational harm.
Delays in construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our products the complexities associated with biologics facilities, especially for drug substance, increase the probability of delay.
The inability to supply products due to a product quality failure or regulatory agency compliance action such as licence withdrawal, product recall or product seizure.
Other manufacturing or distribution problems, including changes in manufacturing production sites, limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced, or physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact continuous supply.
We increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply of goods, such as raw materials for example, the API in some of our medicines and drug substances and or finished drug products for some of our biologics medicines, equipment, formulated drugs and packaging, critical product components and services, all of which are key to our operations.
Many of these goods are difficult to substitute in a timely manner or at all.
We expect that external capacity for biologics drug substance production will remain constrained for the next few years and, accordingly, may not be readily available for supplementary production in the event that we experience an unforeseen need for such capacity.
Illegal trade in our products The illegal trade in pharmaceutical products is widely recognised by industry, Public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products non-governmental organisations and governmental authorities to be increasing.
as a result of illegal trade could materially adversely affect our Illegal trade includes counterfeiting, theft and illegal diversion that is, when our reputation and financial performance.
In addition, undue or misplaced products are found in a market where we did not send them and where they are not concern about this issue may cause some patients to stop taking their approved or not permitted allowed to be sold.
There is a risk to public health when medicines, with consequential risks to their health.
Authorities may illegally traded products enter the supply chain, as well as associated financial risk.
take action, financial or otherwise, if they believe we are liable for Authorities and the public expect us to help reduce opportunities for illegal trade breaches in our own supply chains.
in our products through securing our supply chains, surveillance, investigation There is also a direct financial loss when, for example, counterfeit and supporting legal action against those found to be engaged in illegal trade.
and or illegally diverted products replace sales of genuine products in a market or genuine products are recalled following discovery of counterfeit products.
Reliance on third-party goods and services AstraZeneca spends approximately $10 billion each year with trade suppliers.
The failure of outsource providers to deliver timely services, and to The spend supports the length of our value chain from discovery to manufacture the required level of quality, or the failure of outsource providers to and commercialisation of our medicines.
co-operate with each other, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
Moreover, the failure of Many of our business-critical operations, including certain R&D processes, IT systems, these third parties to operate in an ethical manner could adversely HR, finance, tax and accounting services have been outsourced to third party impact our reputation both internally and externally or even result providers.
We are therefore heavily reliant on these third parties not just to deliver in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
timely and high quality services, but also to comply with applicable laws and regulations and adhere to our ethical business expectations of third party providers.
Our business and financial results could also be materially adversely affected by disruptions caused by our failure to successfully manage either the integration of outsourced services or the transition process of insourcing services from third parties.
216 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information Additional Information Supply chain and business execution risks Impact Failure of information security, data protection and cybercrime We are dependent on effective IT systems.
These systems support key business Any significant disruption to these IT systems, including breaches of functions such as our R&D, manufacturing, supply chain and sales capabilities and data security or cyber security, failure to integrate new and existing are an important means of safeguarding and communicating data, including critical or IT systems or failure to prepare for emerging EU GDPR and other sensitive information, the confidentiality and integrity of which we rely on.
In addition, applicable laws, could harm our reputation and materially adversely we must ensure that the personal data which we, or third-party vendors operating on affect our financial condition or results of operations.
our behalf, hold and process is protected in a manner that complies with the EU GDPR While we invest heavily in the protection of our data and IT, we may be which was approved by the EU on 28 May 2016, and will enter into force in May 2018. unable to prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could Examples of sensitive information that we protect include clinical trial records patient result in disclosure of confidential or other sensitive information, damage names and treatments, personal information employee bank details, home address, to our reputation, regulatory penalties, financial losses and or other costs.
IP related to manufacturing process and compliance, key research science techniques, The inability to effectively back up and restore data could lead to AstraZeneca property theft and privileged access rights to perform IT tasks.
permanent loss of data that could result in non-compliance with The size and complexity of our IT systems, and those of our third-party vendors applicable laws and regulations, and otherwise harm our business.
including outsource providers with whom we contract, have significantly increased We and our vendors could be susceptible to third-party attacks on over the past decade and this makes such systems potentially vulnerable to service our information security systems.
Such attacks are of ever-increasing interruptions and security breaches from attacks by malicious third parties, or from levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with intentional or inadvertent actions by our employees or vendors.
a wide range of motives and expertise, including criminal groups, Significant changes in the business footprint and the implementation of the IT strategy, hacktivists and others.
From time to time we experience intrusions, including the creation and use of captive offshore Global Technology Centres, could including as a result of computer-related malware.
We may be lead to temporary loss of capability.
unable to ward off such attacks which could have an adverse affect on our business.
We increasingly use the internet, digital content, social media, mobile applications and other forms of new technology to communicate internally and externally.
The accessibility Inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could lead to the and instantaneous nature of interactions with such media may facilitate or exacerbate unauthorised or unintentional public disclosure of sensitive information the risk of unauthorised data loss from within AstraZeneca.
It may also lead to false such as personally identifiable information on employees, healthcare or misleading statements being made about AstraZeneca, which may damage our professionals or patients, such as those enrolled in our clinical trials, reputation.
As existing social media platforms expand and evolve, and new social which may damage our reputation, adversely affect our business or media platforms emerge, it becomes increasingly challenging to identify new points results of operations and expose us to legal risks and or additional of entry and to put structures in place to secure and protect sensitive information.
Similarly, the involuntary public disclosure of commercially sensitive information or an information loss could adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, negative posts or comments about us or, for example, the safety of our products on social media websites or other digital channels could harm our reputation.
Failure of critical processes Unexpected events and or events beyond our control could result in the failure of Failure of critical processes may result in an inability to research, critical processes within the Company or at third parties on whom we are reliant.
manufacture or supply products to patients.
AstraZeneca has developed a Business Resilience framework which is designed The business faces threats to business continuity from many directions.
Examples to mitigate such risks.
However, there is no guarantee that these of material threats include: measures will be sufficient to prevent business interruption.
Disruption to our business if there is instability in a particular geographic region, This may expose the Company to litigation and or regulatory action including as a result of war, terrorism, riots, unstable governments, civil insurrection which may result in fines, loss of revenue and adversely affect the or social unrest.
Natural disasters in areas of the world prone to extreme weather events and earthquakes.
Cyber threats similar to those detailed in the Failure of information security, data protection and cybercrime section above.
Any expected gains from productivity initiatives are uncertain We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and restructuring Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost-reduction programmes with the aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency of the business.
measures, either through the successful implementation of employee However, anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these programmes are relations processes including consultation, engagement, talent based on estimates and the actual savings may vary significantly or may not be management, recruitment and retention, or the possibility that these achieved at all.
In particular, these cost-reduction measures are often based on efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could current conditions and cannot always take into account any future changes to the materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
pharmaceutical industry or our operations, including new business developments or wage or price increases.
Failure to attract and retain key personnel, and engage successfully with our employees We rely heavily on recruiting and retaining talented employees with a diverse range The inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may of skills and capabilities to meet our strategic objectives.
weaken our succession plans for critical positions in the medium term, may materially adversely affect the implementation of our We face intense competition for well-qualified individuals, as the supply of people with strategic objectives and could ultimately impact our business specific skills and significant leadership potential or in specific geographic regions may or results of operations.
be limited and in the UK the added uncertainty created by Brexit could impact the hiring and retention of staff in some business-critical areas.
Failure to engage effectively with our employees could lead to business disruption in our day-to-day operations, reduce levels of The successful delivery of our business objectives is dependent on high levels productivity and or increase levels of voluntary turnover, all of which of engagement, commitment and motivation of the workforce.
could ultimately materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Risk 217 Risk continued Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Impact Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations Our many business operations are subject to a wide range of laws, rules and Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations: manage regulations from governmental and non-governmental bodies around the world.
our liabilities: or to adequately anticipate or proactively manage emerging policy and legal developments could materially adversely Any failure to comply with these applicable laws, rules and regulations may result in affect our licence to operate, or results of operations: adversely affect us being investigated by relevant agencies and authorities and or in legal proceedings our reputation: cause harm to people or the environment: and or lead being filed against us.
Such investigations or proceedings could result in us becoming to fines or other penalties.
For example, once a product has been subject to civil or criminal sanctions and or being forced to pay fines or damages.
approved for marketing by the regulatory authorities, it is subject to Relevant authorities have wide-ranging administrative powers to deal with any failure continuing control and regulation, such as the manner of its manufacture, to comply with continuing regulatory oversight and this could affect us, whether such distribution, marketing and safety surveillance.
If regulatory failure is our own or that of our contractors or external partners.
issues concerning compliance with environmental, current Good Manufacturing Practice or safety monitoring regulations for Material examples of statutes, rules and regulations impacting business operations pharmaceutical products often referred to as pharmacovigilance include: arise, this could lead to loss of product approvals, product recalls Compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice.
and seizures, and interruption of production, which could create Local, national and international environment or occupational health and safety laws product shortages and delays in new product approvals, and and regulations.
Trade control laws governing our imports and exports including nationally and internationally recognised trade agreements, embargoes, trade and economic sanctions and anti-boycott requirements.
Competition laws and regulations, including challenges from competition authorities and private damages actions.
Rules and regulations established to promote ethical supply chain management.
Financial regulations including, but not limited to, external financial reporting, taxation and money laundering.
Disclosure of payments to healthcare professionals under the Sunshine Act and EFPIA legislation.
Appropriate disclosure of community support, patient group support and product donations.
We have environmental and or occupational health and safety-related liabilities at some current, formerly owned, leased and third-party sites.
For more information on the most significant of these and for details on other significant litigation matters, please refer to Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 182.
Safety and efficacy of marketed products is questioned Our ability to accurately assess, prior to launch, the eventual efficacy or safety of a new Serious safety concerns or adverse events relating to our products product once in broader clinical use can only be based on data available at that time, could lead to product recalls, seizures, loss of product approvals and which is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and interruption of supply and could materially adversely impact patient relatively small clinical study patient samples.
access, our reputation and financial revenues.
Any unforeseen safety concerns or adverse events relating to our products or failure Significant product liability claims could also arise which could be to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating to provision of appropriate warnings costly, divert management attention or damage our reputation and concerning the dangers and risks of our products that result in injuries could expose demand for our products.
us to large product liability damages claims, settlements and awards, particularly in Unfavourable resolution of such current and similar future product the US.
Adverse publicity relating to the safety of a product or of other competing liability claims could subject us to enhanced damages, require products may increase the risk of product liability claims.
us to make significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal Details of material product liability litigation matters can be found in Note 28 to the proceedings and could materially adversely affect our financial Financial Statements from page 182. condition or results of operations, particularly where such circumstances are not covered by insurance.
For more information, see the limited third party insurance coverage risk on page 219.
Adverse outcome of litigation and or governmental investigations We may be subject to various product liability, consumer, commercial, anti-trust, Governmental investigations, for example under the US Foreign environmental, employment or tax litigation or other legal proceedings and Corrupt Practices Act or federal or state False Claims Acts or other governmental investigations.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently types of legal proceedings, regardless of their outcome, could be unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards for damages can result from an adverse costly, divert management attention, or damage our reputation and verdict.
In many cases, plaintiffs may claim enhanced damages in extremely high demand for our products.
Unfavourable resolution of current and amounts.
In particular, the marketing, promotional, clinical and pricing practices of similar future proceedings against us could subject us to criminal pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact liability, fines, penalties or other monetary or non-monetary remedies, with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject to extensive regulation, litigation including enhanced damages, require us to make significant provisions and governmental investigation.
Many companies, including AstraZeneca, have been in our accounts relating to legal proceedings and could materially subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental adversely affect our business or results of operations.
authorities and private payers and consumers, which have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences.
Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 182 describes the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved.
218 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information Additional Information Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Impact Failure to adhere to increasingly stringent anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation There is an increasing global focus on the implementation and enforcement of Despite taking measures to prevent breaches of applicable antianti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation.
bribery and anti-corruption laws by our personnel and associated third parties, breaches may still occur, potentially resulting in the imposition Two relevant pieces of legislation include the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign of significant penalties, such as fines, the requirement to comply with Corrupt Practices Act, and many other countries where we operate are also enforcing monitoring or self-reporting obligations, or debarment or exclusion their own laws more aggressively and or adopting tougher new measures.
There has from government sales or reimbursement programmes, any of which also been an increase in co-operation and co-ordination between regulators across could materially adversely affect our reputation, business or results countries with respect to investigation and enforcement.
We have been the subject of anti-corruption investigations and there can be no assurance that we will not, from time to time, be subject to informal enquiries and formal investigations from governmental agencies.
In the context of our business, governmental officials interact with us in various roles that are important to our operations, such as in the capacity of a regulator, partner or healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, among others.
To the extent we are the subject of any such pending and material matters, details are included in Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 182.
Economic and financial risks Impact Failure to achieve strategic plans or meet targets and expectations From time to time, we communicate our business strategy or our targets or expectations There can be no guarantee that our financial targets or expectations regarding our future financial or other performance for example, the expectations will materialise on the expected timeline or at all.
Actual results may described in Future prospects in the Financial Review on page 78.
All such statements deviate materially and adversely from any such target or expectation, are of a forward-looking nature and are based on assumptions and judgements we including if one or more of the assumptions or judgements underlying make, all of which are subject to significant inherent risks and uncertainties, including any such target or expectation proves to be incorrect in whole or in part.
those that we are unaware of and or that are beyond our control.
Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy, whether determined by internal or external risk factors, may frustrate the achievement of our financial or other targets or expectations and, in turn, materially damage our brand and materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.
Unexpected deterioration in the Companys financial position A wide range of financial risks could result in a material deterioration in the Companys Movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies financial position.
into US dollars may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
Some of our subsidiaries import and export As a global business, currency fluctuations can significantly affect our results of goods and services in currencies other than their own functional operations, which are reported in US dollars.
Approximately 31% of our global 2017 currency, and so the financial results of such subsidiaries could be Product Sales were in the US, which is expected to remain our largest single market for affected by currency fluctuations arising between the transaction and the foreseeable future.
Product Sales in other countries are predominantly in currencies settlement dates.
In addition, there are foreign exchange differences other than the US dollar, including the euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi and arising on the translation of investments in subsidiaries.
We have significant investments in goodwill and intangible assets as Our consolidated balance sheet contains significant investments in intangible assets, a result of our acquisitions of various businesses and our purchases including goodwill.
The nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high risk and of certain assets, such as product development and marketing rights.
requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to develop a successful Impairment losses may materially adversely affect our financial portfolio of approved products.
Our ability to realise value on these significant condition or results of operations.
Details of the carrying values of investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals, goodwill and intangible assets, and the estimates and assumptions market acceptance, competition and legal developments.
As such, in the course we make in our impairment testing, are included in Notes 8 and 9 to of our many acquisitions and R&D activities, we expect that some of our intangible the Financial Statements from page 154. assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future.
Financial liabilities arising due to product liability or other litigation, in Inherent variability of biologics manufacturing increases the risk of write-offs of respect of which we do not have insurance coverage, or if an insurers these product batches.
Due to the value of the materials used, the carrying amount denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, could require us to make of biologic products is much higher than that of small molecule products.
As we significant provisions relating to legal proceedings and could materially continue to grow our biologics business, we also increase the risk of potential adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
For more information, please see the Adverse outcome of litigation The costs associated with product liability litigation have increased the cost of, and or governmental investigations risk on page 218. and narrowed the coverage afforded by, pharmaceutical companies product liability insurance.
To contain insurance costs, as of February 2006, we adjusted our product The resolution of tax disputes regarding the profits to be taxed in liability coverage profile, accepting uninsured exposure above $100 million.
In addition, individual territories can result in a reallocation of profits between where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny jurisdictions and an increase or decrease in related tax costs, and coverage on various grounds.
For example, product liability litigation cases relating to has the potential to affect our cash flows, EPS and post-tax earnings.
Farxiga and Nexium in the US are not covered by third-party product liability insurance.
Claims, regardless of their merits or their outcome, are costly, See Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 182 for details.
divert management attention and may adversely affect our reputation.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Risk 219 Risk continued Economic and financial risks Impact Unexpected deterioration in the Companys financial position continued The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce conflicting claims from If any double tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, especially revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual countries.
The majority in a territory where a member of the AstraZeneca Group is involved of the jurisdictions in which we operate have double tax treaties with other foreign in a taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border jurisdictions, which provide a framework for mitigating the incidence of double taxation transactions, such withdrawal or amendment, could materially on our revenues and capital gains.
adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax dispute or a failure by tax authorities The Companys worldwide operations are taxed under laws in the jurisdictions in which to agree through competent authority proceedings.
Changes to the they operate.
International standards governing the global tax environment regularly application of double tax treaties, as a result of the parent company change.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD has of the Group no longer being an EU entity following Brexit, could also proposed a number of changes under the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS result in adverse consequences such as those described above.
See Action Plans which are now being progressively implemented by tax authorities the Financial risk management policies section of the Financial Review around the world.
on page 79 for tax risk management policies and Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 182 for details of current tax disputes.
Our defined benefit pension obligations are largely backed by assets invested across the broad investment market.
Our most significant obligations relate to defined benefit Changes in tax regimes, such as the recently announced changes to pension funds in the UK, Sweden and the US.
The largest obligation is in the UK.
the US federal tax regime effective 1 January 2018, could result in a material impact on the Companys cash tax liabilities and tax charge, resulting in either an increase or a reduction in financial results depending upon the nature of the change.
We represent views to the OECD, governments and tax authorities through public consultations to ensure international institutions and governments understand the business implications of proposed law changes.
Specific OECD BEPS recommendations that we expect to impact the Company include changes to patent box regimes, restrictions of interest deductibility and revised transfer pricing guidelines.
Sustained falls in asset values could reduce pension fund solvency levels, which may result in requirements for additional cash, restricting the cash available for our business.
Changes to funding regulations for defined benefit pensions may also result in a requirement for additional cash contributions by the Company.
If the present value of the liabilities increases due to a sustained low interest rate environment, an increase in expectations of future inflation, or an improvement in member longevity above that already assumed, this could also reduce pension fund solvency ratios.
The likely increase in the IAS 19 accounting deficit generated by any of these factors may cause the credit rating agencies to review our credit rating, with the potential to negatively affect our ability to raise debt and the price of new debt issuances.
See Note 20 to the Financial Statements from page 164 for further details of the Groups pension obligations.
Failure in financial control or the occurrence of fraud Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports Significant resources may be required to remediate any lapse or and are designed to prevent and detect fraud.
Lapses in controls and procedures deficiency in internal controls.
could undermine the ability to prevent fraud or provide accurate disclosure of Any such deficiency may also trigger investigations by a number of financial information on a timely basis.
Testing of our internal controls can provide organisations, for example, the SEC, the DOJ or the UK Serious Fraud only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of Office and may result in fines being levied against the Company or financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements or fraud.
Serious fraud may lead to potential prosecution or even imprisonment of senior management.
220 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information
