Principal Risks Principal Risks and Futur and Future Pr e Prospects ospects Each year the Board carries out a comprehensive robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that could threaten Foreign & Colonials success.
The consequences for its business model, liquidity, future prospects and viability form an integral part of this assessment.
The principal risks, both perceived and observed, together with as most relevant to the assessment of the Companys future their mitigations are set out in the table below.
The Boards prospects and viability were those relating to potential investment processes for monitoring them are set out on pages 46 and portfolio under-performance and its effect on share price discount 47 and in note 25 on the accounts.
The risks are unchanged and dividends, as well as threats to security over the Companys from those reported in the prior year.
The principal risks identified assets.
Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken in the year Inappropriate business strategy in relation to The Board assesses investor needs through targeted research and marketing, the effectiveness In continuing to apply the discount control mechanism, the Board bought back fewer shares investor needs leading to significant pressure on of which is kept under continuous review.
Overall business strategy is formally discussed than in 2016.
Marketing campaigns continued throughout the year, including promotion across the share price.
annually with the Manager and is monitored by the Board throughout the year against their own financial and other relevant websites and publications.
A discount control mechanism has operated over many years.
Unchanged throughout the year The Companys discount is a KPI measured by the Board on an ongoing basis.
under review Unfavourable markets or inappropriate asset Underlying investment strategies, performance, gearing and income forecasts are reviewed with The Board continuously measures the Managers investment performance against the Key allocation, sector and stock selection, currency the Fund Manager at each Board meeting.
Cash, borrowing and derivative limits, as well as Performance Indicators set out on page 15 and is satisfied that the Managers long-term exposure and use of gearing and derivatives may dividend paying capacity, are monitored.
F&Cs Performance and Risk Oversight team provides performance remains in line with expectations.
give rise to investment under-performance as independent oversight on investment risk management for the directly managed portfolios.
well as impacting capacity to pay dividends to The portfolio is diversified and the Companys structure enables it to take a long-term view of investors.
Political risk factors could also impact countries, markets and currencies.
The Company has a Revenue Reserve which can be used to performance.
pay growing dividends in years when income receipts fall as a result of poor market conditions.
The performance of the Company relative to its Market Benchmark, its peers and Unchanged throughout the year inflation is a KPI measured by the Board on an ongoing basis.
under review Failure of F&C as the Companys main service The Board regularly reviews the strength of the Managers investment management and client services The Board has reviewed F&Cs controls and risk management structure as part of its annual provider to continue to operate effectively, resources and meets their risk management team to review internal control and risk reports.
The Board met senior management as part of the reappointment process including the loss of key staff, and within Managers appointment can be terminated at six months notice.
A business continuity plan is in described on page 38.
The viability, systems and staffing capabilities of the Manager were regulations.
The Manager structures its recruitment and remuneration packages in order to retain key staff fully reviewed by the Board and a decision was taken to continue with the Managers services.
and works closely with the Board on any significant management changes.
Thorough review and challenge of the Manager were provided through the Audit Committee, the Unchanged throughout the year Management Engagement Committee and the Board.
Performance KPIs and Manager errors are monitored by the Board for indications of under review continuity or other Manager issues.
Errors, fraud or control failures at service The Board receives regular control reports from F&C covering risk and compliance, including The Audit Committee regularly reviews the Companys risk management framework with the providers or loss of data through business oversight of third party service providers.
The Board has access to F&Cs Head of Business Risk assistance of the Manager.
Supervision of third party service providers has been maintained by continuity failure or cyber attacks could damage and BMOs Group Information Security Officer, International and requires any significant issues F&C and includes assurances regarding IT security and increasing cyber-threats.
The Board reputation or investors interests or result in loss.
directly relevant to the Company to be reported immediately.
The Depositary is specifically liable received a presentation during the year from the Custodian on its own cyber-security controls.
for loss of any of the Companys securities and cash held in custody.
The Depositary maintained oversight of custody of investments and cash and its regular reports The Board additionally monitors efficiency of service providers processes through to the Board indicated no matters of concern.
The Board has engaged with the Manager and Unchanged throughout the year efficiency KPIs.
Registrar to ensure that the new General Data Protection Regulations will be properly and fully under review implemented for the safeguarding of all personal data held by the Company.
16 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Ten Year Horizon Through a series of connected stress tests In concluding that ten years is a reasonable based on historical information, but forwardperiod over which to assess future prospects looking over the ten years commencing of the Company, the Board considers that Based on its assessment and evaluation 1 January 2018, the Board assessed the this approximates the periods relating to: of the Companys future prospects, the Board has a reasonable expectation that effects of: its private equity commitments: the Company will be able to continue in its borrowings, repayable by June 2031: operation and meet its liabilities as they Potential illiquidity of the Companys and fall due over the coming ten years: the portfolio during substantial market falls the Corporate Governance rules relating Companys business model, strategy when needing to fund private equity to the Directors tenure.
and the embedded characteristics listed commitments.
below have helped define and maintain the stability of Foreign & Colonial over Substantial falls in investment values on The Board also took into consideration the many decades.
The Board expects this to the ability to maintain loan covenants and perceived viability of its principal service continue over many more years to come.
to repay and re-negotiate funding.
providers, potential effects of anticipated Significant falls in income on the ability to regulatory changes and the potential threat The Company has a long-term continue paying steadily-rising dividends and from competition.
investment strategy under which it invests mainly in readily realisable, maintaining adequate revenue reserves.
publicly listed securities and which Constraints on the Boards ability to The Boards conclusions are set out under restricts the level of borrowings.
control the discount including those the Ten Year Horizon.
The Companys business model and concerning the funding of buybacks strategy are not time limited and, as during periods of high volatility in the a global investment trust, are unlikely share price.
to be adversely impacted as a direct result of Brexit and other political uncertainties.
Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken in the year The Company is inherently structured Inappropriate business strategy in relation to The Board assesses investor needs through targeted research and marketing, the effectiveness In continuing to apply the discount control mechanism, the Board bought back fewer shares for long-term outperformance, rather than short-term opportunities, with ten investor needs leading to significant pressure on of which is kept under continuous review.
Marketing campaigns continued throughout the year, including promotion across years considered as a sensible timethe share price.
frame for measuring and assessing objectives.
The Companys discount is a KPI measured by the Board on an ongoing basis.
The Company is able to take advantage of its closed-ended investment trust Unfavourable markets or inappropriate asset Underlying investment strategies, performance, gearing and income forecasts are reviewed with The Board continuously measures the Managers investment performance against the Key structure.
allocation, sector and stock selection, currency the Fund Manager at each Board meeting.
Cash, borrowing and derivative limits, as well as Performance Indicators set out on page 15 and is satisfied that the Managers long-term The Company has the ability to exposure and use of gearing and derivatives may dividend paying capacity, are monitored.
hold a proportion of long-term less give rise to investment under-performance as independent oversight on investment risk management for the directly managed portfolios.
liquid private equity investments with well as impacting capacity to pay dividends to The portfolio is diversified and the Companys structure enables it to take a long-term view of ten years typically being the period investors.
The Company has a Revenue Reserve which can be used to over which commitments are made and realisations are expected to be performance.
The performance of the Company relative to its Market Benchmark, its peers and inflation is a KPI measured by the Board on an ongoing basis.
The Company has put in place longterm borrowing arrangements and has the ability to secure additional finance in Failure of F&C as the Companys main service The Board regularly reviews the strength of the Managers investment management and client services The Board has reviewed F&Cs controls and risk management structure as part of its annual excess of ten years.
provider to continue to operate effectively, resources and meets their risk management team to review internal control and risk reports.
The Board met senior management as part of the reappointment process There is rigid monitoring of the including the loss of key staff, and within Managers appointment can be terminated at six months notice.
The viability, systems and staffing capabilities of the Manager were headroom under the Companys bank regulations.
Thorough review and challenge of the Manager were provided through the Audit Committee, the Regular and robust review of revenue Management Engagement Committee and the Board.
Performance KPIs and Manager errors are monitored by the Board for indications of and expenditure forecasts is undertaken continuity or other Manager issues.
throughout the year against a backdrop of large revenue and capital reserves.
Supervision of third party service providers has been maintained by The Company retains title to all assets held by the Custodian which are continuity failure or cyber attacks could damage and BMOs Group Information Security Officer, International and requires any significant issues F&C and includes assurances regarding IT security and increasing cyber-threats.
The Board subject to further safeguards imposed reputation or investors interests or result in loss.
The Board has engaged with the Manager and The Company maintains a business efficiency KPIs.
Registrar to ensure that the new General Data Protection Regulations will be properly and fully continuity plan.
implemented for the safeguarding of all personal data held by the Company.
