40 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RISK REPORT OUR APPROACH TO RISK OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Our Enterprise Risk Management process is based on a holistic approach to risk management, leveraging the best risk identification and risk treatments already in place throughout our Business Areas and Product Groups whilst incorporating the same risk processes into the strategic planning process.
Our belief is that the strategic and operational benefits of managing risk are achieved when Enterprise Risk Management is aligned with the strategic and operational goals of the organisation and our process and governance structure firmly aligns to this approach.
In carrying out our business we face many risks and uncertainties and our Risk Management Policy and Enterprise Risk Management Manual ensure that our Risk Community can identify, review and report risks at every level of our business.
At the very top of our structure is our Board, setting our risk appetite and monitoring the application of our risk framework through strategy, execution and practically through the outputs of regular risk deep dives by the business and Group Risk Team.
The Board cascades our risk appetite throughout our organisation through the Risk Committee, Risk Owner Community and our Management Group with a formal bottom up process ensuring that risks are escalated back through the process to our Board and form our Principal Risks as appropriate.
Providing rigour and independence across this process is our Executive Committee and the Group Risk Team.
At the third line of defence is our Internal Audit Function, providing an annual opinion on the effectiveness ofour Risk Management process to the Group Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and then to the Board and its committees.
Roles Responsibilities Responsible for regular oversight of risk management and for our annual strategicrisk review Monitors risks through Board processes Strategy Review, Disclosures, M&A, Investments, Disposals and Committees Audit and Ethics & Compliance, management reports and deep dives of selected risk areas Board of Directors and Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring oversight of the process by which Board Committees risks relating to the Company and its operations are managed and for viewing the operating effectiveness of the Groups Risk Management process Reviews external internal environment for emerging risks Reviews risk register updates from Business Areas Group Identifies significant risks and assesses effectiveness of mitigating actions Risk Committee Business Area Product Group Risk champion provides support to ensure aframework is designed and implemented for alignment to the requirements of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework Carry out day-to-day risk management activities Business area Identify and assess risk Product Risk Groups Implement strategy and mitigating actions to treat risk within Business Product Risk Groups Risk Champions lead regular risk register updates Manage implementation of all aspects of the Groups approach to Enterprise Risk Management including implementation of processes, tools and systems to identify, assess, measure, manage, monitor and report risks Facilitates implementation and coordination through Risk Champions Group Risk Team Provides resources and training to support process Prepares Board and Group Risk Committee reports based on Business Area and Product Group updates Annual assessment of effectiveness Internal audit and control functions RISK 41 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RISK REPORT continued RISK MANAGEMENT LIFE CYCLE OUR SEVEN-STEP PROCESS Our risk management life cycle was refreshed and updated in 2017 to align with our new approach to include Product Groups within our risk portfolio.
Our Risk Management Policy was launched in May with sponsorship from the Chief Executive Officer and a revised manual aligning to the new structure was launched shortly after.
Risks continue to be managed through a bottom up and top down process, with monthly oversight from the Executive Committee and quarterly reports to the Board Committees.
An overview of our seven step process can be found below: An overview of the Risk Management and Reporting Process 1 Risk Identification IDENTIFYING risks associated to achievement of our objectives 7 2 by function and product and Monitoring Gross inherent at the Group level.
Early and and review Risk assessment continuous risk identification including existing and MONITORING of risks and actions ASSESSING the level of horizon risks.
by management, the accountable inherent gross risk.
Coordinated and ongoing monitoring of the internal and external risk environment to respond to emerging and horizon risks.
6 3 Risk Current Control Reporting identification REPORTING the status of IDENTIFYING existing controls our most significant risks through the to mitigate risks.
bottom up business area processes and the top down Executive Committee and Board process.
Demonstrating appropriate management of, and response to, our risk profile.
5 4 Risk Response Net residual Risk Planning ASSESSING the level of residual net risk after mitigation so that IDENTIFYING additional actions risk levels are managed within required to meet our expected risk defined tolerance thresholds without tolerance level and ASSIGNING being over controlled or foregoing risk owners, timeframes and desirable opportunities.
actions for ongoing management and reporting.
42 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RISK REPORT continued 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS We assess our Principal Risks in terms of their potential impact on our ability to deliver our Strategic Priorities.
These links are highlighted across the following pages and further information on the Strategic Priorities is found on page 10.
LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Our global remit results in heavy regulation across multiple jurisdictions.
There is increasing public scrutiny of ethics in business and doing the right thing has become part of our licence to operate.
National regulatory authorities enforce a complex pattern of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare products.
Operating across this increasingly complex and dynamic legal and compliance environment, including regulations on bribery and corruption, with poor legal and compliance practices can lead to fines, penalties, reputational risk and competitive disadvantage.
We have adopted aproactive, holistic approach, which guides the Company towards a culture of compliance and turns the resolution of legal and compliance issues into a source of competitive advantage.
Risk Tolerance Link to strategy Oversight In complying with legal and compliance requirements, Compliance with applicable laws and regulations and Ethics & Compliance Committee wehave an extremely low tolerance.
doing the right thing is part of our licence to operate and underlies all our Strategic Priorities.
Change from 2016 No Change STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PAGE 10 Examples of risks Actions taken by management Failure to act in an ethical manner consistent with our Ethics & Compliance Committee oversees our ethical and compliance practices.
All employees are required to undertake annual training and to certify compliance Violation of anti-corruption or healthcare laws, breach by on an annual basis with our Code of Conduct and Business Principles.
employee or third party representative.
Group monitoring and auditing programmes in place.
Failure to respond adequately to changes in legislation Confidential independent reporting channels for employees and third parties regulation.
Misuse or loss of personal information of patients, employees, research subjects, consumers or customers results in violations of data privacy laws, including General Data Protection Regulations.
CYBER SECURITY High profile incidents coupled with increasing government focus has resulted in raised awareness of the extent and potential impact of cyber security breaches.
Our increasing business dependence on networked systems and the Internet, the design of new products, connectable products and embedded software and the rapidly evolving cyber security threat landscape provides us with risk exposure not experienced in prior years.
In response to this we have undertaken an exercise to understand our threats and vulnerabilities to target cyber security investment in the right places.
Risk Tolerance Link to strategy Oversight In managing our cyber risk and the possible disruption and Given our strategic priority Innovate for value and an Audit Committee reputational impact we have a low to moderate tolerance for increasing focus on connected products we must deliver Cyber Security Risk.
our technology solutions in compliance with laws and regulations and in a way that protects any vulnerability Change from 2016 to Cyber Risk.
Included as other risk in 2016 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PAGE 10 Examples of risks Actions taken by management Loss of Intellectual Property major data privacy breach or Security information and event management SIEM in place providing real-time analysis significant impact on business operations from Malware of security alerts generated by applications and network hardware.
Annual Penetration Testing, endpoint protection and Intrusion detection prevention.
Cyber Security is not considered in the design of new Annual Mandatory training and continuous awareness training for end-users.
products with more products being connectable having Security Governance structure in place including a Cyber Security Steering Committee.
43 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RISK REPORT continued NEW PRODUCT INNOVATION, DESIGN & DEVELOPMENT INCLUDING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our product portfolio is becoming increasingly complex, especially as we move to more innovative connected product technologies and our strategy of owning the disease.
Our success relies on investing in safe products and platforms and aligned internal and external design and development innovation in order to compete effectively.
The need to be nimble and considered in our approach to protecting our products, process and Intellectual Property is essential.
Risk Tolerance Link to strategy Oversight In pursuit of our strategy to be innovative but safe in our Our Strategic Priority to Innovate for Value depends Board product offering we have a moderate to high tolerance heavily on our ability to continue to develop new innovative for risk.
products and bring them to market.
Change from 2016 No Change STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PAGE 10 Examples of risks Actions taken by management Insufficient long-term planning to respond to competitor Newly created Global Research & Development R&D organisation and governance disruptive entries into marketspace.
framework providing strategic direction for allocation of R&D investments across all businesses.
Inadequate innovation due to low R&D investment, R&D skills gap or poor product development execution.
R&D charter to transform our Innovation pipeline and drive our corporate strategy to Innovate for Value.
Lower value business segment investment, such as product maintenance and line extension projects.
Strengthened Clinical Affairs programme integrated with Global Marketing.
Competitors may assert patents or other intellectual property Cross functional New Product Design and R&D processes focused on identifying new rights against the Company, or fail to respect the Companys products and potentially disruptive technologies and solutions.
Monitoring of external market trends and collation of customer insights to develop product strategies.
Careful attention to intellectual property considerations.
QUALITY AND REGULATORY Global regulatory bodies continue to increase their expectations on manufacturers and distributors of medical devices.
Our products are implanted into human bodies and therefore Patient Safety is of paramount importance.
The European Medical Device Regulations, launch of ISO13485-2016, the MedicalDevice Single Audit Programme and the tightening of the Chinese YY standards have increased the focus on clinical and technical evidence, supplier controls and continual product risk reduction.
Risk Tolerance Link to strategy Oversight Our response to this risk continues to be critical and our ability Our Strategic Priority to Simplify and Improve our Business Board Ethics & to align and exceed the standards required to ensure safe and Model requires us to operate effectively and efficiently and Compliance Committee compliant products is the key driver for our extremely low to produce compliant products of the highest quality to tolerance for risk in this area.
Change from 2016 Modified Principal Risk in 2017 formerly included as Operational Risk Quality and Business Continuity STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PAGE 10 Examples of risks Actions taken by management Defects in design or manufacturing of products supplied to, Comprehensive product quality processes and controls from design to customer supply and sold by, the Company could lead to product recalls or arein place.
product removal or result in loss of life or major injury.
Significant non-compliance with policy, regulations or Standardised monitoring and compliance with quality management practices through our standards governing products and operations regarding Global Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs organisation.
registration, manufacturing, distribution, sales or marketing.
Incident management teams in place to respond immediately in the event of an incident Failure to obtain proper approvals for new or changed relating to patient safety.
Governance framework in place for reporting, investigating and responding to instances of product safety and complaints.
44 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RISK REPORT continued PRICING AND REIMBURSEMENT Our success depends on our ability to sell our products profitably in spite of increasing pricing pressures from customers, and governments providing adequate funding to meet increasing demands arising from demographic trends.
The prices we charge are therefore impacted by budgetary constraints and our ability to persuade customers and governments of the economic value of our products, based on clinical data, cost, patient outcomes and comparative effectiveness.
We further face challenging market dynamics, such as consolidation of customers into buying groups, increasing professionalisation of procurement departments and the commoditisation of entire product groups, which continue to challenge prices.
Risk Tolerance Link to strategy Oversight In implementing innovative pricing strategies, we have a Our Strategic Priorities to Build a Strong Position in Board moderate to high tolerance for risk and are willing to accept Established Markets and to Focus on Emerging Markets certain risks in pursuit of new business opportunities.
depends on our ability to sell our products profitably in spite of increased pricing pressures from governments.
Change from 2016 No Change STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PAGE 10 Examples of risks Actions taken by management Reduced reimbursement levels and increasing Development of innovative economic product and service solutions for both Established and pricing pressures.
Systemic challenge on number of elective procedures.
Appropriate breadth of portfolio and geographic spread to mitigate exposure to localised risks.
Lack of compelling health economics data to support Incorporating health economic components into the design and development of new products.
Emphasising value propositions tailored to specific stakeholders and geographies through Risk of adverse trading margins due to fluctuating foreign strategic investment and marketing programmes.
currency exchange rates across our main manufacturing Holding prices within acceptable ranges through global pricing corridors.
countries US, UK, Costa Rica and China and where our products are sold.
BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND BUSINESS CHANGE Operating with a Global Remit, increased outsourcing and more sophisticated materials and product technology has made our manufacturing and supply chain process far more complex, leading to a greater potential for disruptive events.
Ensuring our ability to continually execute and operate key sites and facilities in order to develop, manufacture and sell our products within this environment is a key strategic priority of the organisation.
In addition, the pace and scope of our business change initiatives increases the execution risk that benefits may not be fully realised, costs of these changes may increase, or that our business as usual activities may not perform in line with our plans.
Risk Tolerance Link to strategy Oversight In operating our business, executing our change programmes Our Strategic Priority to Simplify and Improve our Business Board and in managing our suppliers and facilities we have a Model requires us to operate effectively and efficiently and low to medium tolerance for this risk.
to ensure continuity of supply of products and services to customers.
Change from 2016 Modified Principal Risk in 2017 formerly included as Operational Risk Quality and Business Continuity STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PAGE 10 Examples of risks Actions taken by management Failure or significant performance issues experienced at Comprehensive product quality processes and controls are in place from design to critical single source facilities.
Disruption to manufacturing at single or sole source facility Emergency and incident management and business recovery plans are in place at major lack of manufacturing redundancy.
facilities and for key products and key suppliers.
Supplier failure impacts ability to meet customer demand Second source suppliers identified for critical components or products.
Undertaking risk based review programmes for critical suppliers.
Natural disaster impacts ability to meet customer demand.
Project Management Governance and toolkits and project Steering Committee Oversight to Significant change prevents our projects and programmes support successful execution of programme and projects.
Executive Committee and Audit such as APEX achieving the intended benefits and disrupts Committee oversight of Risks to change programmes.
Brexit Steering Group regularly monitors the evolving impact of Brexit and oversees Political and economic uncertainty in the countries in our response.
which we operate, e. g. Brexit.
45 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RISK REPORT continued MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS As the Company grows to meet the needs of our customers and patients, we recognise that we are not able to develop all the products and services required using internal resources and therefore need to undertake mergers and acquisitions in order to expand our offering and to complement our existing business.
In other areas, we may divest businesses which are no longer core to our activities.
It is crucial for our long-term success that we make the right choices around acquisitions and divestments.
We have a well-defined cross-functional process for managing risks associated with mergers and acquisitions that is subject to scrutiny from executive management and the Board of Directors.
Risk Tolerance Link to strategy Oversight In acquiring new businesses and business models, we have Our Strategic Priority to Supplement Organic Growth with Board a moderate to high tolerance for commercial risk and are Acquisitions depends on our ability to identify the right willing to accept certain risks in pursuit of new business.
acquisitions, to conduct thorough due diligence and to integrate acquisitions effectively.
Change from 2016 No Change STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PAGE 10 Examples of risks Actions taken by management Failure to identify appropriate acquisitions or to conduct Acquisition activity is aligned with corporate strategy and prioritised towards products, effective acquisition due diligence.
franchises and markets identified to have the greatest long-term potential.
Failure to integrate newly acquired businesses Clearly defined investment appraisal process based on return on capital, in accordance with effectively, including Company standards, policies and Capital Allocation Framework and comprehensive post-acquisition review programme.
Undertaking detailed and comprehensive cross-functional due diligence prior to acquisitions.
Compliance risks included as part of due diligence reviews, integration plans and reporting for acquisitions.
TALENT MANAGEMENT We recognise that people management, effective succession planning and the ability to attract and retain talent is of great importance to the success of our Company.
In the current economic environment of strong competition and reduced spending, retention of top talent is acritical risk which requires a strong process in relation to retention and engagement.
Failure to do so can result in risks in our ability to execute Company strategy and achieve business objectives in relevant functions and to be effective in the chosen market discipline and leadership ofnewer workforce which may impact the Companys future success.
Risk Tolerance Link to strategy Oversight We have a moderate tolerance for this risk.
All our strategic priorities rely on ensuring we have the Board right talent within our organisation to deliver maximum Change from 2016 efficiency in everything we do and to build strong leaders for the future.
Included as other risk in 2016 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PAGE 10 Examples of risks Actions taken by management Loss of key talent and lack of appropriate succession Formal Talent Review process where the Executive Team has accountability for planning in context of required skill sets for future managing talent.
Identification of high performing individuals and practices to plan for the succession Loss of competitive advantage due to an inability to attract of key roles.
Consistent and robust performance Management process.
Loss of intellectual capital due to poor retention of talent.
Development of strategic skills resourcing plan by functional areas.
46 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RISK REPORT continued COMMERCIAL EXECUTION We continue to make good and strong progress delivering our priorities and are proud of the pace with which our strategic and operational decisions are quickly translated into actions.
Effective communication and engagement with our customers are critical to the long-term success of our business.
We are confident that we have the right priorities, structures and capabilities across the Group and we acknowledge that only strong and continued execution will keep us ahead of our competitors and best placed to serve our customers.
Failure to execute our priorities will impact our ability to continue to grow our business and serve our customers.
Risk Tolerance Link to strategy Oversight In continuing to execute our priorities in an innovative, safe, All Strategic Priorities Board profitable and compliant way we have a low to moderate tolerance level.
Change from 2016 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PAGE 10 Modified Principal Risk in 2017 previously incorporated into other principal risks Examples of risks Actions taken by management Failure to adequately execute our strategy from high-level Strengthened our commercial platform by creating a global commercial organisation with ambition to specific actions to make the ambition a reality.
aremit to drive commercial performance across the Group through sales force excellence and pricing discipline.
Inability to keep pace with significant product innovation and technical advances to develop commercially Newly created Global Research & Development organisation and supporting viable products.
Failure to appropriately adapt our priorities and execution Improved Market Development and Launch Execution Commitment to win profitably when conditions change meaning that transformational inourtarget markets.
programmes do not deliver the expected outcomes.
Strategic planning process clearly linked to business and Group Risk.
Failure to engage effectively with our key stakeholders to Global transformational programmes in place providing agile opportunities meet their evolving needs leading to loss of customers.
forefficiencies, growth and a strengthened competitive position.
DEEP DIVES COMPLETED IN THE YEAR Group Risk Team Board and Audit Committee Reviews During the year, the risks identified through the bottom up and top down processes were mapped against each other with the most significant risks forming our Principal Risks.
These risks and our tolerance levels were discussed with each member of Executive Committee separately and collectively in August and were presented to the Board during the Strategy Review in September 2017.
A further bottom up exercise was carried out in November to validate that the risk profile had not significantly changed since the initial exercise in June.
No changes were required to our risk profile as a result of this exercise, which was also formally validated by each Accountable Executive.
Throughout 2017, a number of different risk topics were presented to the Board and its Committee and specific Deep Dive reviews were also completed by the Group Risk Team as follows.
Board and Audit Committee Deep Dives Legal, Compliance and Quality Functional Oversight During the year the Ethics & Compliance Committee meetings considers The Board and Audit Committee receive regular updates throughout the year papers from the quality and regulatory, legal and compliance teams.
In 2017, from functions such as IT, Tax, Treasury and Financial operations.
The Audit the meetings have covered topics including preparation for General Data Committee also receives an update three times during the year on progress of Protection Regulation GDPR in EU, Medical Device Regulations MDR, FDA risk management across the organisation.
& Notified Body Inspection Activities, the Global Quality and Compliance Audit programme, Transactions with Compliance Risks and the outcome of IT Cyber significant Investigations.
The Audit Committee received reports on IT and Cyber security, including an assessment of the existing risks and benchmarking against industry standards.
Strategic: Research and Development and M&A The Board has considered a report from the R&D team covering topics risks in HR relation to execution, driving high value Innovation Projects and investment in Annual discussion at the Board in relation to talent succession, culture Clinical Evidence and associated strategies to manage these risks.
For 2017, this has focused on the lead up to, and our acquisition of, Rotation Medical.
Retrospective reviews Group Risk Team Deep Dives have also happened during the year on previous acquisitions compared to the expectations in the deal models.
A series of planned Deep Dives have been completed in the year across our Business and Product Group Risk Areas, including PICO, Total Knees and ALLEVYN product Groups, Compliance and Europe Canada Business Areas.
Manufacturing Operations These reviews have been newly introduced in 2017 to supplement reports Throughout the year, the Board has received presentations from the global provided to the Board and primarily cover an independent assessment of operations team with oversight of operational matters, particularly relating to the compliance to the expected Risk Management Framework and in particular the manufacturing footprint and the risks associated with the current footprint and adequacy of stated mitigating activities.
The results are reported through the the proposals to mitigate these risks.
Risk Champions and Accountable Executives to the Audit Committee and are tracked and monitored to resolution by the Group Risk Team.
47 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RISK REPORT continued 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN Our work will continue in 2018 to evolve and strengthen our approach to managing risks across the organisation, including our business areas and product groups.
We will continue to ensure a truly collaborative approach to risk management with risk accountability sitting squarely with management and a proactive Group Risk Function influencing decision making through effective challenge and timely consultation.
2018 will see innovation further driven through a new Global Enterprise Risk Management tool, more regular and sophisticated risk reporting across the organisation and further embedding Risk Appetite into decision making.
2018 RISK MANAGEMENT TIMELINE Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Q3 2018 Q4 2018 Q1 2019 Internal Audit 2019 Risk Based Internal Risk Management Audit Plan Preparation Effectiveness Review report to the next Audit Committee Deep dive risk reviews Group Risk Team Refresh Enterprise Risk Risk Champion Facilitate top down Prepare 2019 Enterprise management Policy Owner training review process Risk Management Strategy and process Report to Audit Committee One to Ones with Executive Prepare Review of Monthly reports to Committee and Board Principal Risks Monthly reports to Executive Committee Executive Committee Monthly reports to Report to Audit Committee Executive Committee Business Product Risk Areas Quarterly Risk Review by Quarterly Risk Review by Quarterly Risk Review by Quarterly Risk Review by Senior Leadership Team Senior Leadership Team Senior Leadership Team Senior Leadership Team Risk Register refresh and Risk Register refresh and submission to Group submission to Group Risk Risk Team Team annual certification Executive Committee Top Down Review of Approve Principal Risks Principal Significant Risks Board Review of significant risks Audit Committee Review and approval Receive report from the Receive report from the Review and approve ofthe Groups 2017 Risk Group Risk Team and Group Risk Team and Principal Risks Management Process and review Enterprise Risk review Enterprise Risk Viability Statement Management process Management process 48 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RISK REPORT continued OUR VIABILITY STATEMENT HOW WE ASSESS OUR PROSPECTS During the year, the Board has carried out a robust assessment of the As part of the annual Strategy Review in September, the Board Principal Risks affecting the Company, particularly those which could considered and discussed the principal risks which could impact threaten the business model.
These risks and the actions being taken the business model over the next three years and discussed with to manage or mitigate them are explained in detail on pages 4246 the management team how these risks were being managed of this Annual Report.
Throughout the year, a number of deep dives into different risks In reaching our Viability Statement conclusion, we have undertaken were conducted by the Board, the Audit Committee and the Ethics & the following process: Compliance Committee looking into the nature of the risks and how The Audit Committee reviewed the Risk Management process at they were mitigated, as detailed on page 46 of this Annual Report.
their meetings in February, April, July and November, receiving Throughout the year, a number of deep dives into specific risk areas presentations from the Group Risk function, explaining the processes were conducted by the Group Risk Team, the results of which were followed by management in identifying and managing risk throughout presented to and discussed by the Audit Committee.
In the summer, a series of detailed one-to-one discussions were held ASSESSMENT PERIOD with each member of the Executive Committee and the Group Risk The Board have determined that the three-year period to December Team.
In these discussions, the Executives were asked to consider 2020 is an appropriate period over which to provide its Viability the significant risks which they believed could seriously impact the Statement.
This period is aligned to the Groups Strategic Planning profitability and future prospects of the Company and the principal process and reflects the Boards best estimate of the future viability risks that would threaten its business model, future performance, of the business.
2017 SCENARIOS MODELLED Scenario 1 Pricing Link to Strategy Link to Principal Risks Pricing and reimbursement pressures or currency exchange volatility Pricing and Principal Risk leading to a major loss of revenues and profits.
Reimbursement Action taken: We have modelled a 1% reduction in annual price growth decline for each year from 2018.
Scenario 2 Operational risk Execution risk our inability to launch new products losing significant market New Product share to the competition.
Innovation, Design & Action taken: We have modelled a 1% reduction in annual volume growth rates Development including each year from 2018.
Intellectual property Product liability claims giving rise to significant claims and legal fees.
Commercial Execution Action taken: We have modelled a one-off significant product liability claim in 2019.
Temporary loss of key production capability resulting in our inability to manufacture a key product for a period of time.
Action taken: We have modelled the loss of a factory, resulting in the loss of production and sales of a key product for two years from 2019.
Scenario 3 Legal regulatory and compliance risks Regulatory measures impacting our ability to continue to sell key products.
Legal and Compliance Action taken: We have modelled the complete loss of revenue from a key product Quality and Regulatory for each year from 2018.
Bribery and corruption claims giving rise to significant fines.
Action taken: We have assumed a one-off significant fine in 2019.
Scenario 4 Cyber security Inability to issue invoices or collect money for a period of time.
Cyber Security Action taken: We have modelled one of our key regions being unable to invoice sales and collect cash for one month in 2019.
Other Political and economic forces for example political upheaval, which could Business Continuity cause us to withdraw from a major market for a period of time.
and Business Change Action taken: We have modelled the loss of revenue and profits from a medium sized business due to withdrawal from a market from 2019.
49 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RISK REPORT continued SCENARIO TESTING VIABILITY STATEMENT For the purpose of testing the viability of the Company, we have Having assessed the principal risks, the Board has determined that undertaken a robust scenario assessment of the principal risks we have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to and some other risks, which could threaten the viability or existence continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a ofthe Company.
These have been modelled as follows: period of three years from 1 January 2018.
In our long-term planning we consider horizons of both five and ten years.
However, as most of In carrying out scenario modelling of the principal and significant risks our efforts are focused on the coming three years, we have chosen this on the previous page we have also evaluated the impact of a severe but period when considering our viability.
plausible combination of these risks actually occurring over the threeyear period.
We have considered and discussed a report setting out the Our conclusion is based on our current Strategic Plan approved by terms of our current financing arrangements and potential capacity for the Board in January 2018, having regard to longer-term strategic additional financing should this be required in the event of one of the intentions, yet to be formulated in detail.
However, we operate in a scenarios modelled occurring.
changing marketplace, which might cause us to adapt our Strategic Plans.
In responding to changing external conditions, we will continue We are satisfied that we have robust mitigating actions in place as to evaluate any additional risks involved which might impact the detailed on pages 4246 of this Annual Report.
We recognise, however, business model.
that the long-term viability of the Company could also be impacted by other, as yet unforeseen, risks or that the mitigating actions we have put in place could turn out to be less effective than intended.
By order of the Board, on 22 February 2018 Susan Swabey Company Secretary
