STRATEGIC REPORT | GROUP CHIEF RISK OFFICER LETTER Managing risk Overview Our risk management framework Understanding the risks that we may supports informed risk taking by our be exposed to and deploying strategies businesses, setting out those rewarded to ensure residual exposures remain risks that we are prepared to be within acceptable parameters is an exposed to: and the risks that we want integral part of our business.
to avoid: together with risk limits and standards of internal control to ensure We seek to deeply embed the exposures remain within our overall necessary capabilities to assess risk appetite.
and price for those risks that we believe offer sustainable returns Our straightforward, collaborative and within each of our operating purposeful behaviours underpin the SIMON GADD businesses: as well as ensuring the operation of our risk framework, Group Chief Risk Officer skill sets to closely manage those providing a culture of openness and risk factors which could otherwise transparency in how we make lead to unexpected outcomes.
decisions and manage risks, and balancing performance with principles to do whats right for the business and our customers.
Risk appetite The groups overall attitude to risk and the ranges and limits of acceptable risk taking We seek to deeply Risk taking authorities The formal cascade of our risk appetite to managers, embed strong risk empowering them to make decisions within clearly defined parameters management in each of our businesses.
Risk policies Our strategies for managing the risks in the environments in which we operate, so as to ensure residual risk exposures are Simon Gadd only those within appetite Group Chief Risk Officer, Legal & General Risk identification and Tools that help managers identify and evaluate the risks to assessment which we may be exposed so that they can be managed in line with our policies Risk management How we report and review ongoing and emerging risks, information and assess actual risk positions relative to the risk targets and limits that we set Risk oversight Review and challenge, by the Group and divisional Chief Risk Officer teams, of how we identify and manage risk.
FINDING WHAT YOU NEED ONLINE Risk committees Group level committees oversee the management of risks Detailed information can be found and challenge how the risk framework is working.
The role in our risk management supplement.
of the Group Risk Committee is set out at page 76.
com investors Culture and Reward Performance measures that focus on the delivery of reporting-centre effective risk management, business and customer strategy, and culture 48 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Our risk landscape Customer We treat our customers Our second line of defence is our The risks that we are exposed to fall with integrity and act in a manner that risk oversight function under the into the broad categories of: protects or enhances the group direction of our Group Chief Risk franchise.
The team of 150 risk Longevity, mortality, morbidity risk dashboard.
professionals provides our businesses and household insurance risks that with expert advice and guidance are transferred to us by the customers Liquidity We expect to be able to on risk and capital management, of our pension risk transfer and meet our payment and collateral alongside ensuring risk taking annuities, protection and general obligations under extreme, but remains within acceptable insurance businesses.
The period plausible, liquidity scenarios.
that customers continue their policies liquidity coverage ratio.
The third line of defence is our is also important for profitability.
The metrics we use to assess Group Internal Audit function, Investment and counterparty risks acceptable risk taking include Solvency which provides independent from holding portfolios of assets II measures of capital usage, return on assurance on the effectiveness to meet our obligations to our capital, and surplus emerging.
of business risk management customers and to deliver returns and the overall operation of our We set further risk tolerances covering to shareholders.
our specific exposures to credit, Operational risks in respect of market, insurance and operational risks Rewarding the right behaviours our business processes and IT including, where appropriate, limits on The Groups Remuneration Committee systems, as well as broader concentrations and significant in its consideration of directors regulatory and legislative risks aggregation of risks.
remuneration receives a that can arise in the environments comprehensive report by the Group in which we operate.
Further information on our appetite Chief Risk Officer, assessing whether for specific risks and our approach to Where we directly engage in house executive directors have achieved managing them can be found in the building activities, we are also exposed objectives whilst at the same time Risk management supplement: to risks associated with the operating within agreed risk appetite.
com management of construction projects.
In 2017, the objectives of the directors Risk appetite also included a specific risk Our risk management framework Our risk appetite sets the ranges and management component within the We operate a three lines of defence limits of acceptable risktaking for the overall annual variable bonus scheme.
We express our The criteria, if successfully delivered, overall attitude to risk using the Our first line of defence is our contribute positively to the groups following statements and measures.
operating businesses, which are overall risk position, focusing on the responsible for risk taking within the more significant risk exposures for the Strategy We manage a diversified parameters of our risk appetite and group, and reward the right behaviours portfolio in which we accept risk in accountable for managing risks in in managing risk exposures.
the normal course of business and line with risk policies.
aim to deliver sustainable returns on The skills to assess and price for risk riskbased capital in excess of cost of form part of our first line business capital.
Minimum return on capital management activity.
For example, over the planning cycle.
in our pension risk transfer and Strategy We have an appetite for risks annuities businesses we have a we understand and are rewarded for, deep understanding of longevity risk and which are consistent with delivery and the science of life expectancy.
Maximum LGIM as one of the worlds largest riskbased capital to be deployed over asset managers, has extensive the planning cycle.
business expertise in managing credit risk: and within our Insurance Capital We aim to maintain an business, as the UKs largest appropriate buffer of capital resources provider of individual life cover, over the minimum regulatory capital we have extensive knowledge requirements.
Minimum capital of mortality and morbidity risks.
Earnings We have a low appetite for volatility of earnings: in particular volatility arising from risks where Legal & General has more exposure than the wider market.
Maximum acceptable variance in earnings compared to plan.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 49 STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGING RISK Our largest risk exposures are Managing longevity risk Planning for uncertainty credit and longevity In our pension risk transfer and annuities businesses, we are Managing credit risk Risk outlook exposed to longevity risk, the risk Our exposure to credit risk largely An assessment of principal risks that those we insure live longer than arises in our portfolio of corporate and uncertainties, along with the we assume in our product pricing.
bonds held to back the liabilities associated trends and outlooks and of our pension risk transfer and Over the years we have built the steps we take in mitigation, is on annuities business.
significant expertise in understanding pages 52 and 53.
A more detailed and pricing for longevity risks.
Our review of the groups inherent risk We are also exposed to credit risk intellectual property covers a wide exposures and high level control where we provide longterm funding range of disciplines including processes are set out in notes 8 and within our direct investment portfolio, actuarial, medical, public health, 16 to 18 of the financial statements.
with the risk of default by a borrower, statistical analysis and modelling.
although we seek to protect our Political events look set to continue We also work with the Longevity interests by taking security over to dominate the risk outlook, with Science Advisory Panel and underlying assets.
potential for shocks to financial University College of London, markets as they seek to evaluate the As an investor for the long term, enabling us to access the most impacts for global trade and growth.
assessing and managing credit risk advanced data, techniques and Brexit negotiations may also present is a core competency within our knowledge to understand and new risks that are idiosyncratic to the investment businesses.
To manage inform our longevity risk UK.
Central bank responses to our exposure to default risks, we set management strategies.
changing economic indicators and the a range of tolerances to diversify our Our diversified business model, reactions of financial markets will also portfolios using: offering a range of corporate pension be a key area to watch.
Cyber crime issuer limits to minimise the risk transfer products, as well as also continues to be a risk for the impacts to us from single name individual annuities, acts to mitigate financial services sector as a whole, failure events.
concentrations of risks in business and the regulatory change agenda is sectors and cohorts of lives, and our sector and country limits to set to continue.
In particular, the expansion into the US PRT market control the effects of an adverse General Data Protection Regulation further adds to the diversification shock to a particular business GDPR which will bring regulation characteristics of the lives we sector, or an event impacting a of data privacy up to date, comes have insured.
into operation in May 2018. portfolio level Weighted Average Under Solvency II, the risk margin Own Risk and Solvency Risk Factors designed to target requirements mean that longevity Assessment ORSA an overall level of resilience to can be unattractive to add new risk to Our ORSA process is an ongoing global cyclical downgrades our balance sheet, and for new UK analysis of the groups risk profile and and defaults.
PRT business we work closely with a the sufficiency of capital resources to number of strongly rated reinsurers sustain our business strategy over the We use both internal and external to transfer certain longevity risks plan horizon.
The process, which covers credit rating data to set these limits.
Currently, the whole group, considers how the Our internal credit rating however, we retain US longevity risk risks to which we are exposed may methodology is consistent with the as it diversifies well against US evolve over the planning cycle: the public rating agencies methodologies, mortality risk and back book UK impacts of a range of more extreme and used by our credit risk analysts to longevity risk.
stresses and scenarios on those risks: propose ratings to our independent and the consequential impacts on the internal Credit Rating Committee.
Our Future trends in mortality are groups solvency position.
The ORSA second line risk team closely monitors generally slow to emerge due to process is integrated into our business the methodologies and performance of the pace of medical and health risk and capital management activities our internal ratings, and commissions development, and, whilst were living and aligned with the strategic planning external credit assessments to longer, we have seen a slowing in the process to inform forward looking validate our internal view.
rate of this improvement compared decision making.
As such, it is a key to our assumptions.
But we remain For direct investments, as part of our business management tool for vigilant to emerging trends and, underwriting decision, we also evaluate the group.
alongside continuous investigation the quality of the security that we will into causes of death, we consider take under the transaction.
a wide range of scenarios when We seek to continuously track a wide assessing our capital requirements range of risk factors that could including significant advances in adversely impact credit markets, and medical science.
we undertake scenario analysis across our portfolio to test its robustness to potential events.
50 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Group Board viability statement Capital management The group strategy is developed, and the plan continues to be reflective of Our riskbased capital model seeks to economic decisions are made, based changes in macroeconomic trends.
provide a quantitative assessment of on longterm expected assumptions.
The latest annual review process was the groups risk exposures.
It forms This reflects the groups business and approved in January 2018 resulting in part of the suite of tools that we use to investment models which combine the business plan for 20182022. evaluate our strategic plans, set risk managing credit, longevity and mortality The business plan includes a number appetite, allocate capital and evaluate risks over longterm relationships.
The of assumptions in line with the overall product pricing.
We also use our capital group is subject to external regulation group strategy including: model to assess significant including the Prudential Regulatory transactions, including large pension Regime for Insurers which requires growth in the international asset risk transfer deals.
The key output from the group to manage and monitor management insurance our capital model is the generation of these longerterm risks to ensure businesses capital requirements.
We calibrate our that it can continue to meet its growth in the investment in real model to a 99.5% value at risk policyholder obligations.
assets direct investments confidence level over one year, Against this background, the Directors continued optimisation of capital equivalent to ensuring that we hold have made an assessment of the strategies for Solvency II sufficient capital to survive our viability of the company in accordance formal transfer of Mature Savings assessment of a worse case 1in200 with the provisions of the UK business to Swiss Re, expected year event.
In terms of capital Corporate Governance Code with to be completed in 2019 requirement, credit and insurance reference to the current position and longevity risks remain our most The Board receives regular updates the potential impact of the principal significant risks.
Market risk, which from the business units and risk risks identified, the execution of the includes equity, property and interest committee in the normal course of groups strategy, the risk appetite of rate risks, are also more material risks business to perform ongoing the board and the processes and for which we hold capital.
monitoring of performance across all controls in place to mitigate the metrics and to consider changes in principal risks and uncertainties as macroeconomic trends or strategy.
detailed in this strategic report.
Whilst the business plan represents This assessment covers a threeyear the Boards best estimate of the timeframe which is underpinned by the groups future prospects, stress and detailed business plan for 20182020 scenario testing is carried out on the which includes all of the groups key plan as part of the groups ORSA, metrics across performance, capital, considering the potential impact of solvency and liquidity.
The directors aspects of the principal risks facing the have no reason to believe that the business.
These stresses included a group will not be viable over a longer severe global shock, based on the period.
Given the inherent uncertainty Bank of England Annually Cyclical which increases as longer timeframes Scenario, but assuming widespread are considered, the directors consider credit downgrades, and removing two three years to be an appropriate elements of the scenario which would timeframe to report on with a if included benefit Legal & General, reasonable degree of confidence.
that is a sharp increase in interest rates and the depreciation of sterling against The business plan, which is the US dollar.
The results of these underpinned by the groups strategy stresses showed that the group would and reflects the principal risks detailed be able to withstand the impact, over on pages 52 and 53 respectively, is the forecast period, by making built from the ground up on a divisional adjustments in its operating activity basis.
The directors use the plan to in the normal course of business.
assess the prospects of the group through the strategic planning process.
Based upon this assessment the The strategic planning process includes directors confirm that they have a an annual review of the ongoing plan reasonable expectation that the group with full Board participation as part of will continue in operation and meet its the Group Board strategy day.
Part of liabilities, as they fall due, over the next the Boards role is to consider whether three years.
MANAGING RISK LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 51
