Strategic Report Risk Overview We face a diverse range of risks and uncertainties.
The Board defines those risks which have a potential to have a material impact on our business or results of operations as our Principal Risks.
The Board has carried out a robust and opportunities identified through the and SET function level.
The plan is used to assessment of the Principal Risks facing business planning process and integrate perform central net debt and headroom profile the Group, including those that threaten its our findings into the overall risk management analysis.
This analysis contemplates a severe business model, future performance, solvency reporting.
Line managers are accountable downside scenario reflecting the Principal or liquidity.
The table overleaf provides insight for identifying and managing risks and for Risks including market pricing and access, into the Principal Risks, outlining why effective delivering business objectives in accordance delivery of pipeline, unexpected loss of patent management of these risks is important and with the Groups risk appetite.
protection and the need to meet pension fund relevant to the business, how we are managing obligations.
The Board has considered more them and which risks are rising, falling or have The SET is required by the Board to oversee stressed scenarios including restrictions remained static during the past 12 months.
and monitor the effectiveness of the risk on debt factoring and no access to capital management processes implemented by markets to raise new debt.
In each scenario the Our approach to risk management is designed management.
Within each SET function, Group is able to rely on its committed credit to encourage clear decision making on leadership teams discuss the risks the business facilities, leverage its cost base, reduce capital which risks we take and how we manage faces.
Every year, we map these risks to expenditure and take other cash management these risks.
Fundamental to this process is a AstraZenecas risk taxonomy.
This process measures to mitigate the impacts and still have sound understanding of every risks potential provides a Group-wide assessment for the residual capacity to absorb further shocks.
strategic, commercial, financial, compliance, Board, Audit Committee and SET.
Quarterly, Based on the results of this analysis, the legal and reputational implications.
each SET function assesses changes to these Directors have a reasonable expectation that the risks, new and emerging risks, and mitigation Company will be able to continue in operation Further information on our key risk plans.
These are assimilated into a Group Risk and meet its liabilities as they fall due over management and assurance processes can Report for the Board, Audit Committee and SET.
the three-year period of their assessment.
be found in Risk from pages 210 to 220 which Supporting tools are in place to assist risk also includes a description of circumstances leaders and managers in managing, monitoring Brexit under which principal and other risks and and planning for risk and we continue to work On 23 June 2016, the UK held a referendum uncertainties might arise in the course of on developing our risk management standards on the UKs continuing membership of the EU, our business and their potential impact.
Global Compliance, Finance and the outcome of which was a decision for the Internal Audit Services support SET by advising UK to leave the EU Brexit.
The progress Managing risk on policy and standard setting, monitoring and of current negotiations between the UK We work to ensure that we have effective risk auditing, communication and training, as well as Government and the EU will likely determine management processes in place to support the reporting on the adequacy of line management the future terms of the UKs relationship with delivery of our strategic priorities.
This enables processes as they apply to risk management.
the EU, as well as to what extent the UK will us to meet the expectations of our stakeholders be able to continue to benefit from the EUs and upholds our Values.
We monitor our We have a business resilience framework which single market and other arrangements.
Until business activities and external and internal governs our ability to prevent or quickly adapt to the Brexit negotiation process is completed, environments for new, emerging and changing situations while maintaining continuous business it is difficult to anticipate the potential risks to ensure that these are managed operations and safeguarding our people, impact on AstraZenecas market share, appropriately.
The Board believes that existing processes and reputation.
Within this we have sales, profitability and results of operations.
processes provide it with adequate information business continuity plans to address situations The Group operates from a global footprint on the risks and uncertainties we face.
Details of in which specific risks have the potential to and retains flexibility to adapt to changing these risks and the potential impacts on our severely impact our business.
The uncertainty during and business are contained on pages 210 to 220. include training and crisis simulation activities after the period of negotiation is also expected for business managers.
to increase volatility and may have an Risk management embedded economic impact, particularly in the UK M ore information about our Global Compliance in business processes and Eurozone.
The Group has responded function and the Code of Ethics can be found in We strive to embed sound risk management by engaging proactively with key external the Corporate Governance Report page 97. in our strategy, planning, budgeting and stakeholders and establishing a crossperformance management processes.
functional internal steering committee to Viability statement understand, assess, plan and implement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the The Board defines the Groups risk appetite, operational actions that may be required.
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, enabling the Group, in both quantitative and Some of these actions are being implemented the Board has determined that a three-year qualitative terms, to judge the level of risk based on assumptions rather than defined period to 31 December 2020 constitutes an it is prepared to take in achieving its overall positions so that the Company is able to appropriate period over which to provide its objectives.
The Board expresses the acceptable mitigate the risks arising from variable external viability statement.
levels of risk for the Group using three key outcomes.
Currently, a number of areas dimensions.
These are: i earnings and cash for action have been identified including The Board considers annually and on a rolling flow: ii return on investment: and iii ethics and duplication of release testing and procedures basis, a three-year bottom-up detailed business reputation.
Annually, the Group develops a for products based in the EU27 and the UK, plan.
The Board also considers a 10-year detailed three-year bottom-up business plan transfer of regulatory licences, customs and long-range projection but, given the inherent and 10-year long-range projection to support duties set up for introduction or amendment uncertainty involved, believes that the three-year the delivery of its strategy.
The Board considers of existing tariffs or processes and associated statement presents readers of the Annual these in the context of the Groups risk appetite.
The Board reviews the Report with a reasonable degree of assurance Adjustments are made to the plan or risk potential impact of Brexit as an integral part while still providing a longer-term perspective.
appetite to ensure they remain aligned.
of its Principal Risks as outlined overleaf Our risk management approach is aligned rather than as a stand-alone risk.
As the The three-year detailed business plan captures to our strategy and business planning process of Brexit evolves, the Board will risks to the sales and cost forecasts at a market processes.
We cross-check financial risks continue to assess its impact.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Risk Overview 63 Risk Overview continued Principal Risks Strategy key Trend key Achieve Scientific Leadership Increasing risk Return to Growth Decreasing risk Be a Great Place to Work Unchanged Achieve Group Financial Targets Risk category and Principal Risks Context potential impact Management actions Trend versus prior year Product pipeline and intellectual property Delivery of The development of any pharmaceutical product Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline pipeline and candidate is a complex, risky and lengthy process Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, new products involving significant financial, R&D and other resources.
licensing and collaborations A project may fail or be delayed at any stage of the Focus on innovative science in process due to a number of factors, which could three main therapy areas reduce our long-term growth, revenue and profit Meet quality, Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals impact Quality management systems incorporating regulatory and patients and market access, and can materially affect monitoring, training and assurance activities ethical drug our business or financial results Collaborating with regulatory bodies and approval and advocacy groups to monitor and respond disclosure to changes in the regulatory environment, requirements including revised process, timelines and guidance Secure Discovering and developing medicines requires a Active management of IP rights and IP litigation Increased number of patent and protect significant investment of resources.
For this to be a viable litigation suits alleging product IP investment, new medicines must be safeguarded from patent infringement filed being copied for a reasonable amount of time.
If we are against AstraZeneca not successful in obtaining, maintaining, defending or by research-based enforcing our IP rights, our revenues could be materially pharmaceutical competitors.
adversely affected Details of material patent litigation matters can be Third parties may allege infringement of their IP, found in Note 28 to the and may seek injunctions and or damages, which, Financial Statements if ultimately awarded, could adversely impact our from page 182 commercial and financial performance Commercialisation Externally Operating in over 100 countries, we are subject to political, Focus on Growth Platforms Global economic and driven demand, socioeconomic and financial factors both globally and in Demonstrating value of political conditions placing pricing, access individual countries.
There can be additional pressure from medicines health economics downwards pressure on and competitive governments and other healthcare payers on medicine Global footprint healthcare pricing and pressures prices and sales in response to recessionary pressures, Diversified portfolio spending, and therefore reducing our revenue, profits and cash flow on revenue Quality and If commercialisation of a product does not succeed Focus on Growth Platforms The number of new product execution of as anticipated, or its rate of sales growth is slower than Accelerate and risk share through business launches is increasing.
commercial anticipated, there is a risk that we may not be able to development and strategic collaborations Maximising the commercial strategies fully recoup the costs in launching it and alliances potential of these new products underpins the success of our strategy and the delivery of our shortand medium-term targets Supply chain and business execution Maintain supply Delays or interruptions in supply can lead to recalls, Establishment of new manufacturing of compliant, product shortages, regulatory action, reputational facilities, creating capacity and technical quality product harm and lost sales capability to support new product launches, particularly biologics Business continuity and resilience initiatives, disaster and data recovery and emergency response plans Contingency plans including dual sourcing, multiple suppliers and stock levels Quality management systems 64 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk category and Principal Risks Context potential impact Management actions Trend versus prior year Supply chain and business execution continued Information Significant disruption to our IT systems, cyber security Cyber security framework and dashboard Growing multi-faceted cyber technology and incidents including breaches of data security, or failure to Privacy office established to oversee threat and introduction of data security prepare for emerging EU Global Data Privacy Regulations compliance with EU GDPR legislation new EU GDPR regulation and privacy GDPR, could harm our reputation and materially affect Disaster and data recovery plans effective May 2018 our financial condition or results of operations.
This could Strategies to secure critical systems lead to regulatory penalties or non-compliance with laws and processes and regulations Regular cybersecurity and privacy training for employees Delivery of gains Inappropriately managed initiatives could lead to low Appropriate project governance structure from productivity employee engagement and reduced productivity, increased and oversight initiatives absence and attrition levels, or even industrial action.
Regular review of strategic initiatives by All could adversely impact the value of the initiative appropriate senior executive and Board level committees Attract, develop, Failure to attract and retain highly-skilled personnel may Targeted recruitment and retention Increasingly competitive engage and weaken our succession plans for critical positions in the strategies deployed labour markets, with retain talented medium term.
Failure to engage our employees could Support of staff impacted by Brexit particular focus in specific and capable impact productivity and turnover.
Both could adversely Development of our employees locations and capability sets, employees at affect the achievement of our strategic objectives Evolve our culture and in the UK the added all levels Focus on simplification uncertainty created by Brexit, could impact the hiring and retention of staff in some business-critical areas Legal, regulatory and compliance Safety and Patient safety is very important to us and we strive to Robust processes and systems in place to The number of new products efficacy of minimise the risks and maximise the benefits of our manage patient safety and efficacy trends in our marketed portfolio is marketed medicines.
Failure to do this could adversely impact our as well as externally reported risks through growing and is anticipated products reputation, our business and the results of operations, regulatory agencies and other parties.
This to increase further as our and could lead to product liability claims includes a comprehensive pharmacovigilance pipeline develops.
Our ability programme supplemented by close monitoring to accurately assess the and review of adverse events safety and efficacy of new products is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and relatively small clinical study patient samples Defence of Investigations or legal proceedings could be costly, Combined internal and external product, pricing divert management attention or damage our reputation counsel management and practices and demand for our products.
Unfavourable resolutions litigation could subject us to criminal liability, fines, penalties or other monetary or non-monetary remedies, adversely affecting our financial results Meet regulatory Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules Strong ethical and compliance culture Increasing government and ethical and regulations, including bribery and corruption Established compliance framework in place and regulatory scrutiny expectations legislation, may result in civil and or criminal legal including annual Code of Ethics training for and evolving compliance on commercial proceedings and or regulatory sanctions, fines or all employees challenges as complexity practices, penalties, impacting financial results Focus on due diligence and oversight of of business relationships including bribery third-party engagements increases and corruption, and scientific exchanges Economic and financial Achieve strategic Failure to successfully implement our business strategy Focus on Growth Platforms and innovative Increasing challenge plans and meet may frustrate the achievement of our financial or other science in three main therapy areas to balance longand targets and targets or expectations.
This failure could, in turn, Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, short-term investments as expectations damage our reputation and materially affect our business, licensing and collaborations we navigate a period of loss financial position or results of operations Appropriate capital structure and balance sheet of exclusivity on key brands Portfolio-driven decision making process while seeking to maximise governed by senior executive-led committees the commercial potential of new product launches AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Risk Overview 65
