I d e n t i Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements f y i f f u r t y s h k e s g r i r P r o c e s o e l s n d o o t o r i r g n o v p l y s f l h o i e n t c n e r e a e d u P e T Q d s S Q k s u h i a r n y a t f i i r FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT For our providers, it offers an efficient and cost-effective way to reach a The Directors also considered possible mitigating circumstances and How we mitigate risk Governance and oversight large volume of informed customers who are actively looking for a actions in the event of such scenarios occurring, including the A governance and oversight structure is in place, with clearly Risk management approach product.
For the majority of our services, we receive a success-based availability of the Groups banking facilities, reduction of future special defined lines of responsibility, accountability and delegation In common with many businesses, the Group faces risk in all areas dividends share buybacks or the slowdown of capital expenditure.
marketing fee from the providers.
This business model operates along of authority.
The Group seeks to understand its risks and manage the following principles: them appropriately.
Effective risk management is vital in enabling The Board manages risks across the Group through a formal risk the Group relies on customer transactions for its revenues and The Board is ultimately responsible for the overall effectiveness of the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to secure the does not have long-term contracted revenue streams the Group identification and management framework, designed to ensure that risk management across the business, supported by the Risk business for the long term, whilst ensuring the desired outcomes risks are properly identified, prioritised, evaluated and mitigated to makes money when its customers find the product they want, Committee.
The Board delegates day to day responsibility to for consumers.
Risk management is a key element of the Groups the extent possible.
Key aspects of this framework include: switch to it, and save themselves money: executive management.
Executive management owns the Group decision-making processes and, alongside its governance a Risk Appetite Statement expressing the amount and type of risk customers will continue to see value in shopping around for risks, is responsible for ensuring that the business effectively structure and system of internal control, gives the Board the Board is willing to accept to achieve its strategic objectives: products and services and will aim to save money by doing so: and manages risk and takes appropriate and timely action where assurance that risks are being appropriately identified and regular assessments of current and emerging risks being faced providers will have strategies of new customer acquisition and issues are identified.
The Risk Committee oversees executive managed, in line with its risk appetite.
by the Group including internal control effectiveness and develop products and services to fulfil that strategy.
management on behalf of the Board in the management of risks.
mitigating actions: risk metrics and thresholds which are monitored as potential As noted in the Strategic Report, the Group has revised its strategic The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the Principal indicators of risk: priorities for 2018.
These priorities are: leading trusted brands, Risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its scenario planning based on the Principal Risks: and leading provider offer, customer experience optimisation and new business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Our oversight from the Risk and Compliance and Internal market growth including personalising MoneySuperMarket, Principal Risks and uncertainties are outlined on pages 32 and 33, Audit functions.
extending price comparison to new platforms and enhancing along with a description of how they are being managed.
The Board has set new KPIs to monitor As indicated above, the Board carried out a review of its strategic the delivery of these strategic priorities.
priorities in 2017 and we have set out in the Strategic Report how the Risk management Board intends to serve its customers better in a mobile-led The Strategic Report also sets out the Groups performance on the environment and how it will be optimising our current model and main KPIs which the Board monitored for the year ended 31 governance and reinventing price comparison.
This review is a clear demonstration December 2017.
The Board monitors and reviews progress against oversight Lorem ipsum of how the Board considers and seeks to mitigate risks.
three time horizons quarterly to review and reforecast performance against the Annual Plan and Budget: annually to Framework, policy and establish a clear Annual Plan and Budget that will deliver against the Viability assessment procedures In making its assessment of viability, the Board has considered the Strategic Plan: and a three-year Strategic Plan re-assessed annually, to determine the strategy of the Group.
resilience of the Group using scenario-planning based on the Roles and responsibilities Principal Risks to test the Groups planned earnings, cash flows and Appetite and tolerance The Board believes that a three-year cycle is the right time period to viability over the three-year period.
Using its judgement on the likelihood of the Principal Risks and the probability of them being plan the business as this links to the expected life-cycle of most of the Risk registers and risk Groups technology and reflects the frequent changes in the way that interrelated, the Board assessed the risks separately and in certain assessment combinations of stressed scenarios.
In arriving at its conclusion, the consumers choose to use technology.
Therefore, the Board is using a three-year period to make this viability assessment.
Board is making the assumption that the key aspects of customer and provider behaviour set out above which underpin the business model will continue.
It is also assuming that customers and Risk management providers will continue to want to transact online.
As part of the review of the strategic priorities, the Board identified Sustainable the Groups Principal Risks around delivering these priorities, which Based on the Companys current position and Principal Risks, growth represent a risk or combination of risks in severe but reasonable together with the results of this robust assessment and the scenarios that can seriously affect the future prospects or Companys ongoing risk management processes, the Directors have reputation of the Group through threatening its business model, RISK a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue future performance, solvency or liquidity.
These include competitive in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year environment and consumer demands, brand strength and Risk management MANAGEMENT period of their assessment.
reputation, data processing and protection, data security and cyber, culture business transformation and relevance to partners.
In addition, the Going concern Directors believe that the Group faces risks around regulation and Values, behaviours and PROCESS Having reassessed the Principal Risks, the Directors are satisfied that economic conditions including, in particular, the impact of the communication the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the terms negotiated in relation to the departure of the UK from the EU foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date especially as that may influence the availability of attractive products Training, education and of this Report.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going for customers.
The changes in the Principal Risks are outlined on awareness concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Embedding in decision-making The risks described above were assessed in a range of scenarios, Investment proposition Continuous improvement encompassing: The Group is a data-driven online marketplace, providing marketcompetition taking significant market share: leading exclusive products to customers, value to our providers and f changes in customer habits as they continue to shift to mobile as a track record of returns to investors.
It is a Group with leading their preferred way to access the Groups services: brands, a diversified provider base and a large number of customers increased reliance on paid search as a means of attracting as well as core strengths in marketing, publishing and provider customers: relationships.
The Group operates in a wide set of markets, each sizeable reduction in significant product categories: with significant headroom and growth opportunities.
The new loss of trust in data, for example due to a data breach or data technology platform is now in place which means we are able to set errors, leading to a fall in visitor volumes: out our new strategy to accelerate growth and lead innovation in significant slowdown in growth rates or new competitors entering the sector.
Investors benefit from investing in a highly cash the market: and generative business with a progressive ordinary dividend policy.
regulatory changes impacting our energy channel.
Stress scenarios were then combined into one combined scenario for those scenarios with impacts of medium or higher likelihood and moderate or higher residual risk.
com Group PLC 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 t y n e n e e d h t I r y i o l s t o l k r i d t l B n I i d e o r b e c n r a d a t s n i n f l a y a d r e o c x s t i i S s r n t i o n e M g r m i s k o m t i t s i g u a t i C o n Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Role Responsibilities Risk identification and assessment Future developments Board Approval of Risk Appetite Framework and Statement for the Group.
The Group adopts formal risk identification and management We will continue to embed a risk aware culture within our strategic Carry out a robust assessment at least annually of Principal Risks and effectiveness of risk management processes which are designed to ensure that risks are properly initiatives where risk management is part of everyday business and internal control policies: and report to shareholders on such matters.
identified and evaluated, in line with risk appetite.
At least decision-making and is understood by our wider business.
Assessment of the effectiveness of Risk Appetite Framework and system of internal control.
quarterly, the identification of significant risks is informed using a We continue to develop our management information and risk bottom up and top down approach with each business area metrics in the light of our strategic initiatives and ensure that identifying new risks as well as re-assessing those already being specialist risk knowledge is readily available to each of our brands monitored.
To aid in the identification of risks and development of to enable them to take and be fully accountable for risk-based Risk Committee Advise the Board on Risk Appetite Framework and Statement for the Group.
associated mitigating actions, risks are categorised into strategic, decisions, whilst providing an effective level of risk and compliance Review and oversight of Risk Register.
financial and operational conduct risks.
During 2017 we oversight for the Group.
Assessment of identification and measurement of risks.
restructured and resourced our Risk & Compliance team to be Oversight of executive management in management of risks.
business partners embedded across the business.
In addition, We will further enhance our risk management and governance robust risk and control assessments are carried out at least arrangements in preparation for upcoming regulatory change bi-annually across all areas of the business, in order to understand including of the Insurance Distribution Directive, the Senior the strength and performance of the controls in place, and Managers & Certification Regime and the General Data Protection Executive Ensure risk management is an integral part of implementing the business strategy.
Management Operate the business within set risk appetite and tolerances.
1st Line of Defence Responsibility for managing risks and implementing effective controls.
Management reporting Changes to Principal Risks Ensure that appropriate policies are implemented to identify and evaluate risks.
Timely and accurate management information is provided to the Following a review of the risks associated with the revised right people to support management decisions and manage risk strategic priorities, we have made changes to our Principal Risks.
Competition, Changing consumer behaviour and Product offering have been combined due to their overlap and are now Risk & Compliance Monitor against Risk Appetite Framework and Statement, risk profile, control effectiveness and Reporting enables management: to have clear visibility of the most described as Competitive environment and consumer demands.
2nd Line of Defence management actions.
relevant risks: to identify areas of concern and or priority: to have Brand strength, Data errors and inaccuracies, Customer trust Monitor and update the Risk Register.
access to detailed information to enable root cause analysis and including cyber and Economic uncertainty have been re-named Co-ordinate appropriate and timely delivery of risk management information to executive management underlying trends: and to identify, escalate and potentially mitigate Brand strength and reputation, Data processing and protection, and the Risk Committee.
the impact of new operational risk concerns in a timely manner.
Data security and cyber and Economic conditions respectively, Maintain and implement risk policies.
with the descriptions being revised.
We have also added a new Implement appropriate risk management processes and methodologies.
Where risk exposures are identified as being outside appetite, this is principal risk Business transformation reflecting the significance Advise and challenge management on risk management and internal control processes.
escalated and reported to the Risk Committee, alongside clear action of managing the implementation of the new strategic priorities.
Develop tools, techniques, methodologies, risk framework, analysis, reporting, communication plans to bring the risk within tolerance, with appropriate timescales.
The type and extent of any mitigating actions will be determined by the level and nature of the risk and the Groups risk appetite.
Internal Audit Monitor effectiveness of risk management processes.
Our Principal Risks as of 31 December 2017 3rd Line of Defence Perform tests of controls effectiveness.
Outlined here are our most significant risks that may affect our future.
We assess the probability of the risk materialising Identify and agree corrective actions with management.
and the impact of the risk on a residual basis taking into account the benefit of mitigating controls.
Liaise with Risk & Compliance function, including in relation to mapping of assurance activities to the Groups significant risks.
Strategic Priority Report to the Audit Committee.
Competitive environment and 1 consumer demands In addition, the Audit Committee performs an annual assessment of the risk management and internal control framework, covering 2 Brand strength and reputation 5 financial, operational and compliance controls including the: assessment of the risk management framework for identifying and monitoring risks, with consideration of the integration with 8 3 Data processing and protection strategic and business planning processes.
This is supported by independent reporting on risk management and internal controls by the Internal Audit function or independent third parties, including the external auditor: 4 assessment of the extent, frequency and quality of risk management and internal control reporting: Data security and cyber 2 review of the resolution of issues arising from internal control failings or weaknesses: and 1 5 Business transformation review of the effectiveness of the financial reporting processes.
2 The Audit Committee makes a recommendation to the Board on effectiveness which the Board considers, together with reports from 6 Relevance to partners 6 the Risk Committee, in forming its own view on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
7 Economic conditions 4 Risk management framework During 2017, we further enhanced the Group Risk Appetite Framework and Statement following scenario analysis and consideration by 3 8 Regulation 7 executive management.
We also reviewed the proposed revisions to the Group strategy against the Risk Appetite Framework and Statement and advised the Board on risks associated with the proposals.
Risk appetite Risk appetite defines the level and type of risk the Group is able and willing to accept in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Strategic Priority: Groups risk appetite influences the business culture and operating decisions, and is reflected in the way risk is managed.
The Group Leading trusted brands Probability Risk Appetite Statement is reviewed at least annually, in line with the strategic direction of the Group, recent experience and the Leading provider offer regulatory environment, and is subject to Board approval.
Customer experience optimisation New market growth There are certain risk areas where we have a very low appetite such as complying with applicable laws, including applicable regulatory requirements.
This means that we take actions to try and avoid or eliminate this risk as far as possible.
In other areas, such as strategy, we recognise the importance of managed risk-taking in order to achieve business objectives and goals.
com Group PLC 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Impact Strategic, operational conduct
