Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES The table below summarises the Boards view of the material financial and operational risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to Risk Strategic mitigate them.
Risk area and trend Description type Priority Mitigating activities Developments in 2017 Business The Group must manage OR Clear management structures We have executive sponsorship of the Risk Strategic transformation the implementation of the SR which provide clear and transformation programme and have Risk area and trend Description type Priority Mitigating activities Developments in 2017 new new strategic priorities straightforward responsibilities created a transformation office to Competitive The Group operates in a SR Continuous innovation of new We have developed plans for regulatory appropriately, without our and accountabilities in the oversee implementation.
This will be environment dynamic and highly services and ongoing evolution changes such as PSD2 Open Banking focus being disrupted, in delivery of our strategic supported by experienced resource and consumer competitive marketplace of existing propositions.
order to get where we priorities.
Effective governance from within the Group and externally demands and must continually need to be.
We must arrangements to oversee as required.
Regular engagement with We transformed our customer innovate to keep ahead of retain and recruit implementation of consumers to understand proposition in life insurance to enable competitors and changing We have invested in our management colleagues with great strategic priorities.
changes in how they use customers to access fully underwritten consumer demands.
development and mentoring industry, technology and our services.
premiums from multiple insurers at the Structured approach to programmes and re-organised our marketing expertise.
same time and complete the application recruitment and retention recruitment agency relationships.
Investment in our technology process on the MoneySuperMarket.
com of high quality talent platforms to improve customer website.
combined with learning and experience and make development activities for comparing products easier.
We completed our replatforming project existing colleagues.
and have now migrated all our major channels to our new fusion technology platform.
Relevance to The Group relies on its SR Working closely with partners We have worked closely with partners in Brand strength The Group must maintain SR Investment in marketing In MoneySuperMarket, our marketing Partners partners to access to ensure high quality and launching exclusive deals and offers for and reputation consumer awareness of across a range of media to and pricing initiatives performed well competitive products and appropriate products and to our customers.
and engagement with its maintain the Groups brands in with a growing insurance market share technological integration maximise the opportunities for key brands.
and we were able to enhance our core We have enhanced our customer insights to provide a seamless partners to acquire customers energy switching proposition within the and data analysis for partners to help customer experience.
Arrangement of exclusive and year.
them understand how they can further competitive deals to offer improve their products.
consumers market-leading In MoneySavingExpert, our editorial and products and prices.
campaigning activities contributed to the Economic Weaknesses in the UK SR Maintaining a diversified The diversity of the Group across a brand which was the highest rated brand conditions economy including as a business across a range portfolio of brands and channels offers for advocacy in 2017 YouGov Advocacy of products.
the Group protection from cyclical result of Brexit, may lead Rating 2017. to more challenging economic changes.
Regular monitoring of market Data processing The Group must OR Understanding and Our GDPR project is progressing to conditions for the Group conditions and environment.
and reduced financial and protection appropriately process assessment of the data we timescale.
We have performed detailed performance.
and control the data our collect from our customers data mapping activities across our Focusing on maintained customers share and and how we use it.
operations and have strengthened our controls of our cost base.
ensure data is transferred processes for the collection and use of Specialist data protection accurately and completely marketing consents.
Regulation The Group must SR We maintain regular and We have monitored and responded knowledge within our Data to partners.
understand and comply ongoing dialogue with key to new and emerging regulatory Analytics, Technology and We have invested in quality assurance with existing and new regulatory bodies.
We have proactively Legal teams.
Annual data and testing within technology release regulatory requirements.
engaged with regulators including FCA, protection training for processes and strengthened controls in Our Risk & Compliance Ofgem and CMA in respect of its Digital all colleagues.
team works across the Comparison Tools market study.
Group to ensure it remains Rigorous controls and compliant with new and monitoring of internal existing regulation.
Regular ongoing quality assurance procedures.
Data security The Group must protect OR Rigorous monitoring and Our technology investments have and cyber itself from security testing of the Groups systems improved the robustness of our Risk type: Strategic Priority: breaches or successful and infrastructure.
Our Data Strategic risk SR Leading trusted brands cyber-attacks which could and Cyber Security project is progressing Operational conduct risk OR Leading provider offer Robust access controls to our impact our ability to to plan and we have recruited additional data and systems.
operate our websites data security expertise into our Customer experience optimisation Risk trend: and services.
New market growth Increasing Decreasing Stable Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
