STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Implementation and compliance responsibility RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES An integrated approach to risk management The effective integration of risk management underpins our operating, financial and governance activities.
Our approach to risk management will support the acquisition of intu properties plc and its effective integration.
This approach is supported by the relatively Risk overview low headcount across the Group which enables effective Effective risk management supports the successful delivery of our communication and collaboration.
Also, our management structure strategy as outlined on pages 16 and 17 and underpins our business means that the senior team is actively involved in designing, model see pages 6 and 7.
Our risk management policies and monitoring and ensuring adherence to the Groups risk management procedures are designed to reduce the chances of financial loss, policies and procedures, including the identification of new and protect our reputation and improve efficiency across our business.
The Board determines the Groups risk appetite and assesses Chart 43 illustrates the key roles and responsibilities in relation to risk theresidual risk for each of the Groups principal risks and this process management and demonstrates the interaction between the Board and is supported by the use of our Risk Management Framework RMF the various management teams and sub-committees in ensuring and Risk Dashboard.
effective risk management is applied across the Groups activities.
Given the work undertaken the Board is able to confirm that it has Risk review process carried out a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks during 2017, which are presented in this section of the Annual Report.
TheRMF is structured around our principal risks, although it also contains a number of other less material operational risks.
For each Risk management responsibilities risk area, the RMF details mitigating factors and actions, management The responsibility for risk management ultimately rests with the responsibility and recent internal and external audit reviews and is Board.
However, it is imperative that the approach to risk is integrated summarised on pages 63 to 68. across the business and is instilled in the Groups culture and values Chart 43 Key roles and responsibilities for the Groups risk management strategy Overall responsibility for corporate strategy, governance, performance, Board internal controls and risk management Defines the Groups appetite for risk and monitors risks to ensure these are effectively managed, including agreeing actions where necessary Reviews effectiveness of the RMF and internal controls on behalf of Audit Committee the Board Ensures compliance with relevant legislation, rules and regulations Oversees effectiveness of the Groups internal audit arrangements Manages the business and delivery of strategy Group Executive Reviews the RMF and prioritises actions and allocates resources to Committee effectively manage risk Oversees Health and Safety Responsible for integration of the RMF throughout the business Risk and Controls Committee Monitors compliance with the Groups internal control systems Manages the internal audit arrangements Responsible for implementation of risk mitigation and monitoring Divisional management compliance with internal controls and procedures at the operational UK, France, Ireland and level of the business Premium outlets and Reviews the RMF to identify risk trends and recommend actions other committees Oversees divisional, project and other specific risk management activities HAMMERSON.
COM 61 Monitoring and reporting responsibility Risks and uncertainties continued As well as being regularly reviewed by management, the RMF is available In addition to the integration impact of the acquisition on the Groups to all staff via the Groups intranet.
We also produce a quarterly Risk existing risks, we have created a new principal risk Acquisition Dashboard which contains both current and forward-looking risk completion solely associated with the completion of the transaction, metrics for each of the principal risks.
expected in Q4 2018, which reflects the following risks: To further integrate risk management across the Group, we undertake the failure to obtain shareholder or regulatory approval a formal six-monthly management review of the RMF, with feedback the adverse financial and reputational impact if the enlarged group from each management committee beingcollated and reported to the fails to deliver the forecast performance or identified synergies Audit Committee.
A key change to our risk reporting during 2017 was the organisational stress associated with completing the to increase the number of principal risks from nine to 11, with the transaction and integrating the two businesses inclusion of new risks for Environmental following the Groups Net the risk of retaining and motivating key employees and teams Positive commitment announced in March and Acquisition during and after the acquisition process completion in relation to the intu acquisition announced in December see below for further details.
These risks are mitigated by the due diligence work undertaken prior to announcing the acquisition, the immediate and on-going investor The RMF is also used to determine the annual internal audit plan see relations programme and the continued efforts of experienced page 86, which is structured to ensure an appropriate coverage of the internal teams and specialist external advisors to support the Groups principal risks, as well as review areas of change within the wider acquisition, approval process and prepare the future integration plans.
business and risks which have not been subjected to recent audit review.
An Integration Committee has been formed, chaired by David Atkins, Risk appetite and assessment and supported by external advisors.
We have also appointed an As part of its risk management activities, theBoard assesses the Integration Director, who is an existing employee, to lead the residual risk for each of the Groups 11 principal risks.
This is done by integration project.
The committee will plan and prioritise tasks and assessing the overall level of risk and impact of specified mitigating allocate resources to manage the organisational stress, particularly factors and actions.
The level of residual risk is then considered within from employee and systems perspectives.
the context of theBoards risk appetite, which reflects its combined Chart 44 attitude to financial, operational and reputational risks.
Risk Heat Map The residual risk levels at 31 December 2017 are shown on the Risk Heat Map on Chart 44, with the red-coloured area in the top right-hand corner of the diagram being an assessment which would exceed the Boards risk appetite.
The heat map also shows the 1 movement in the residual risk level during 2017.
The heat map shows that the general risk environment in which the Group operates has 5 2 increased over the course of 2017, with a number of the Groups 11 3 principal risks moving towards the top right of the map.
These 8 movements reflect the continued level of uncertainty associated with the future impact of the UKs exit from the EU, the dynamic nature of 7 the retail market, and the inclusion of risks associated with the intu acquisition explained below.
As adverse risk events rarely occur in isolation, this increased general 4 level of risk was discussed at the 2017 Board Strategy Day in October 10 and factored into the Groups 2018 five-year Business Plan.
Key 9 actions agreed at the Strategy Day and incorporated into the Business 6 Plan include further medium term disposals consistent with the Groups recycling strategy and additional investment in our Product Experience Framework to enhance the customer experience across our portfolio, particularly from a digital perspective.
Acquisition of intu properties plc Low Medium High On 6 December 2017, we announced an all-share offer for intu properties plc.
The benefits and strategic rationale for this acquisition Probability are explained in the Chief Executives Review on page 12.
1 Macro-economic 5 Treasury 9 People The significant scale and effort required to integrate and complete the Environmental acquisition impacts a number of the Groups principal risks and these 2 Retail market 6 Partnerships 10 NEW factors were assessed by the Board prior to approving the transaction.
Acquisition 3 Property investment 7 Tax and regulatory 11 completion NEW The key risks impacted are: Macro-economic: Property investment: Treasury: and People.
The Board was satisfied that these risks remain 4 Property development 8 Catastrophic event within the Groups risk appetite.
Risk appetite Exceeds Groups In line with Groups Lower than Groups risk appetite risk appetite risk appetite 62 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Impact Low Medium High STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Management Framework Further details of the Groups 11 principal risks as extracted from the Groups Risk Management Framework and their alignment to the Groups strategy see pages 16 to 17 are shown below.
Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2017 and outlook Impact Probability 1.
Macro-economic Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Medium High We own and operate retail Diversified portfolio sectors, geography and Economic growth prospects have generally improved property in a number of property tenants across Europe during 2017.
The exception to this sectors and European countries.
trend is in the UK which continues to suffer from the Monitoring of macro-economic research uncertainty associated with the UKs exit from the EU Our financial performance is Economic review at annual Board Strategy Day and growth forecasts remain subdued.
directly impacted by the Business Plan projections stress tested macro-economic environment in Inflationary pressures have increased and interest Resilient business model and financial position these countries.
Key factors rates may rise in 2018 which could have a dampening impacting our retailers and Low level of capital commitments effect on economic growth.
Foreign exchange markets shoppers are GDP and disposable Application of our Product Experience have been less volatile during 2017, although remain income growth, employment Framework to ensure our portfolio attracts sensitive to external shocks.
levels, inflation, business and retailers and shoppers The intu acquisition will increase the Groups consumer confidence, interest exposure to the UK but we believe that the rates and foreign exchange combination of the high-quality property portfolio movements.
and our management expertise will act to deliver Link to strategy value for stakeholders.
We are also committed to retaining operational and financial flexibility in case of macro-economic weakness.
See Letter from the Chairman on pages 4 to 5.
Retail market Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Medium High We own and operate retail High-quality retail portfolio which appeals to 2017 has been a record year for leasing across the property in a dynamic both retailers and consumers business.
This demand demonstrates that our marketplace.
Failure to anticipate portfolios are able to support retailers evolving The application of our Product Experience and address developments in multichannel strategies, for example through Framework to ensure the relevance of our consumer and occupational accommodating flagship stores in our shopping portfolio markets, such as multichannel centres and click & collect at our retail parks.
Bespoke leasing strategies to enhance tenant retailing and digital technology, mix We continue to enhance our properties to ensure will result in financial they meet customer requirements and offer both a Increasing catering, leisure and events offer underperformance and future shopping and leisure experience with an increased obsolescence.
Favourable tourist trends to Europe support focus on catering and events.
further premium outlet sales growth Retailer profitability is under This strategy, delivered through our Product pressure due to increased costs Our people have a wealth of retail experience Experience Framework, is key to continuing to attract and weak retail sales.
Digital strategy to allow us to gain detailed both retailers and shoppers in an evolving retail market.
consumer insight and communicate with Link to strategy our shoppers See Overview of our Market on pages 13 to 15.
COM 63 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2017 and outlook 3.
Property investment Impact Probability Executive responsibility: David Atkins Peter Cole Residual risk assessment: Medium High Poor investment decisions Board approval for all significant investment Property investment markets have remained broadly involving acquisitions and decisions stable in 2017 and whilst investors remain selective disposals result in suboptimal we have successfully completed our planned Thorough due diligence, research and risk returns.
assessment to support investment decisions Property valuations fall, Properties held ready for sale All our recent Irish loan acquisitions have also been adversely impacting the Groups converted to direct property ownership and are Diversification of portfolio by sector and financial position and delivery of performing well.
geography limits impact of downturn in future plans.
singlemarket Property valuations are forecast to be broadly stable Opportunities to divest of Twice yearly independent valuations in 2018.
Valuations should be supported by the properties are missed, or are continuing low interest rate environment and Stress tests included in annual Business Plan limited by market conditions, investor demand for the secure income yield provided which reduce financial returns by high-quality retail property.
and adversely impact the Groups funding strategy.
As announced at the time of the intu acquisition we plan to dispose of at least 2 billion of property in the Link to strategy short to medium term to strengthen the enlarged groups balance sheet and provide liquidity for reinvestment opportunities.
See Property Portfolio Review on pages 49 to 52.
Property development Executive responsibility: Peter Cole Residual risk assessment: Low Property development is complex Proven track record of developing iconic The completion of our two shopping centre schemes and inherently risky.
Major destinations in Leeds and Southampton in late 2016 has reduced projects have long delivery times our short term development exposure.
Development plans and exposure included in with multiple milestones and are business planning process At 31 December 2017 committed capital expenditure management intensive.
Board approves all major commitments was 89 million 2016: 68 million and our Unsuccessful projects result in development portfolio represented only 5% Regular management project reviews including adverse financial and 2016:4% of our total property portfolio.
project risk reporting reputational outcomes.
Clear project ownership and resourcing plans During 2017 we continued to progress with our Over-exposure to developments major development schemes and have recently increases the potential financial We regularly use fixed price contracts and started on-site with the extension to Les 3 Fontaines impact of an economic downturn projects have appropriate contingencies in Paris.
There are still a number of further milestones and construction price inflation Post-completion reviews undertaken to to achieve in terms of planning and leasing before we which could overstretch the identify future improvements can commence our other schemes.
We also need to Groups financial capacity.
ensure the financial viability of the schemes is Link to strategy appropriate to reflect the risks associated with the macro-economic and retail market conditions at the time of commitment.
See Business Review on pages 36 and 37.
64 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2017 and outlook 5.
Treasury Impact Probability Executive responsibility: Timon Drakesmith Residual risk assessment: Medium High Poor treasury planning or Treasury planning to ensure appropriate At 31 December 2017 our balance sheet and key external factors, including liquidity levels are maintained financing metrics remained robust, with liquidity of failures in the banking market, 958 million, loan to value of 36% and gearing of 58%.
Board approves and monitors key financing may lead to the Group having metrics During 2017 we have completed significant insufficient liquidity.
Annual Business Plan includes a financing plan refinancing which has increased the average debt The Groups financial position is and associated stress tests maturity to 5.6 years, reduced the weighted average unable to support the delivery of cost of debt to 2.9% and there are no significant debt Capital provided by a diverse range of our strategy, particularly major maturities in the next two years.
counterparties banks, bond investors and developments.
JVpartners Interest rates are forecast to increase slightly over the Deterioration in our financial All major investment approvals supported by a short to medium term but remain low by historic position due to property financing plan standards.
The financial markets remain supportive valuation declines could result in for companies in a strong financial position.
At 31 December 2017 we estimate that property a breach of borrowing covenants.
values including premium outlets could fall Whilst the intu acquisition will initially act to increase Significant fluctuations in by 35% and net rental income by 49% before leverage, the 2 billion disposal programme in the sterling or euro or a significant our most stringent borrowing covenants would short to medium term will support our commitment increase in interest rates could be exceeded to maintaining a strong financial position.
Interest rate and currency hedging programme Link to strategy used to mitigate market volatility See Financial Review on pages 58 to 60.
Partnerships Impact Probability Executive responsibility: Peter Cole Timon Drakesmith Residual risk assessment: Low A significant proportion of the Proven track record of working successfully Our partners provide capital to support our strategy of Groups properties are held in with diverse range of partners owning high-quality retail property, particularly major conjunction with third parties.
At 31 December 2017 58% 2016: Contracts provide liquidity for partners whilst These structures can limit the 53% of the Groups portfolio is held with third parties.
protecting Group interests Groups control and may reduce Annual joint venture business plans ensure The increase in 2017 was due to the strong valuation liquidity.
operational and strategic alignment growth from our premium outlets and 400million of Operational effectiveness may disposals which were all wholly-owned.
VIA Outlets, whilst externally managed, is a also be adversely impacted if joint venture which enables effective We remain comfortable that our third-party partners are not strategically governance ownership structures do not adversely impact aligned.
Board representation for both Value Retail and performance or liquidity with a number of joint Our premium outlet investments VIA Outlets venture stakes successfully traded in the investment are externally managed and this market over recent years.
Value Retail and VIA Outlets are both subject reduces control and transparency to external audit and the properties are valued over performance and The intu acquisition will act to reduce the proportion by Cushman & Wakefield governance.
of the portfolio held with third parties to approximately 40%.
Link to strategy See notes 12 and 13 to the financial statements on pages 149 to 157.
COM 65 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2017 and outlook 7.
Tax and regulatory Impact Probability Executive responsibility: Timon Drakesmith Residual risk assessment: Medium There is an increasing burden Maintenance of ourlow-risk tax status in There continues to be uncertainty over future from compliance and regulatory theUK regulatory and tax matters associated with the UKs requirements which can act to exit from the EU.
Regular meetings with key officials including impede operational and financial from HMRC and government In addition, the recent 4% increase in Irish stamp performance.
Participation in policy consultations and in duty reduced the valuation of our portfolio by The real estate sector has industry-led dialogue with policy makers 46million.
suffered a rising tax burden through bodies such as REVO, BPF, EPRA etc.
We believe the Group is appropriately structured to through recent increases in Regular tax compliance reviews mitigate the impact of future tax changes and stamp duty and business rates.
Advance planning for future regulatory and continue to reviewall new legislation.
These adversely impact financial taxchanges performance.
Also, the implementation in the UK of the living wage, The UKs future exit from the EU the apprenticeship levy and increases in business creates uncertainty over the rates, whilst not having a significant direct impact on future UK tax and regulatory the Group, have an adverse financial impact on the environment.
Link to strategy See Note 8 to the financial statements on pages 144 to 145.
Catastrophic event Impact Probability Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Medium High Our operations, shopper safety, Continuity plans at both corporate and There have been a number of terrorist incidents at reputation or financial individual property levels public venues during 2017 and the current threat level performance could be across Europe remains very high.
Core crisis group for dealing with major incidents significantly affected by a major Enhanced physical security measures The wider use of digital technology across the Group event such as a terrorist or implemented increases the risks associated with cyber security.
cyber-attack, power shortage or Regular dialogue with security agencies to civil unrest.
We regularly review and continue to implement assess threat levels and best practice improvements to our processes and procedures to Link to strategy Mock terrorist incident staged in Bullring in counter the threat of a major incident.
However, it is late 2017 not possible to fully mitigate these risks and the related impacts.
Recent internal audits for business continuity and cyber security Insurance cover for terrorism and property damage Third-party support and testing for IT security Internal communications to enhance cyber security awareness 66 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2017 and outlook 9.
People Impact Probability Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Low The Group has a relatively small Annual Business Plan contains a human People are a key factor in the Groups performance.
headcount which can act to resources plan, covering team structures, Wecontinue to encourage and support their training curtail the achievement of training and talent management initiatives and development and launched a new e-learning business objectives, particularly platform in 2017.
Succession planning undertaken across the in times of significantactivity.
senior management team During the year, staff turnover has remained low at A failure to recruit and retain key Board approval required for significant 12.0% and we have again undertaken an all-staff executives and staff with management changes Great Place to Work survey.
The results show high appropriate skills would also levels of employee engagement and satisfaction.
Annual employee appraisal process undertaken adversely impact corporate Staff training and development supported and We are acutely aware that the intu acquisition may performance.
encouraged adversely impact staff motivation and heighten job Link to strategy security concerns.
We are planning revised team Staff turnover and employee engagement structures which will provide new opportunities and monitored will ensure all staff are treated fairly throughout the integration process.
See People section on pages 46 to 48.
Environmental NEW Impact n a Probability n a Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Low The Groups operations could be Experienced sustainability team is empowered In March 2017 we launched our Net Positive targets adversely impacted by an to design and implement the Groups within our existing Positive Places sustainability environmental incident such as environmental and corporate responsibility framework.
extreme weather, flooding or strategy in conjunction with the wider business To achieve these ambitious targets we need to energy supply issues.
Detailed environmental risk framework collaborate with our retailers to reduce the The Groups reputation and maintained environmental impact of our existing portfolio.
financial performance are Green energy contracts in place acrossportfolio Wealso need to ensure our new developments are adversely impacted by the failure designed to deliver environmental excellence and Core crisis group for dealing with major incidents to achieve our Net Positive reduce the Groups carbon footprint.
Annual Board review of sustainability targets or other environmental performance and future strategy We made further progress to reduce our environmental objectives.
Key achievements were a 9% External assurance of environmental reporting Emerging environmental like-for-like emissions reduction and the installation regulations and legislation may of new clean energy generation.
act to increase costs or make properties obsolete.
Link to strategy See Sustainability Review on pages 41 to 45 and www.
COM 67 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation factors actions Change during 2017 and outlook 11.
Acquisition completion NEW Impact n a Probability n a Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Medium The acquisition fails to obtain Significant Board involvement and oversight The all-share intu acquisition was announced in shareholder or regulatory throughout the acquisition process December 2017.
Work to support the approval approval.
process and integration has commenced.
Due diligence exercise completed with support The enlarged groups reputation from experienced advisory team Management are committed to maximising the and financial position are Financial modelling of the combined group opportunities from the acquisition whilst effectively adversely impacted by the failure included sensitivity analysis managing the risks associated with the transaction.
to achieve the forecast financial 2018 will involve significant work to complete the Comprehensive investor roadshow post performance or deliver the transaction, and to plan and implement the effective announcement with over 60 individual identified synergies.
integration of the two businesses.
meetings There is significant organisational Competition clearance work commenced with stress associated with completing experienced internal and advisory teams the transaction and integrating Detailed synergies assessment supported by the two businesses.
PwC opinion See Chief Executives Review on page 12.
The acquisition may result in Proactive staff communications staff retention and motivational issues for key employees and teams.
Link to strategy 68 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Assessment of viability Viability statement The Combined Plan was assessed against a number of scenarios, The Directors have considered the future viability of the Group taking into account its current position, strategy, principal risks and future including modelling changes in property values, rental income and disposal and reinvestment assumptions.
These are consistent with prospects.
The Groups strategy and business model are explained on pages 16 to 17 and 6 to 7 respectively.
These are designed in response adverse changes to the Groups principal risks which are most likely to impact the viability of the Group being: Macro-economic, Retail to the evolving trends in retail property markets, as explained on pages 13 to 15, to create long term value for our stakeholders.
market, Property investment and Treasury risks.
These scenarios, when combined with mitigation actions available to management Assessment of prospects associated with flexibility over future capital expenditure and As explained on page 78, the Board held its annual Strategy Day in disposals plans, supported the Groups predicted ability to overcome October 2017 at which it reviewed the Groups strategy and future these adverse economic and property market conditions over the performance, taking into account macro-economic and retail market forecast period.
The Board were also comfortable that the viability projections from a number of external commentators including assessment was valid on a stand-alone basis.
Oxford Economics, Cushman & Wakefield, PMA, Bank of England and In addition, stress tests were undertaken on the Combined Plan to the Companys banking advisors.
The proposed intu acquisition was understand how far values and rental income would have to decline also reviewed.
to breach the Groups existing gearing and interest cover financial The output from this event was incorporated into the Groups 2018 covenants.
The calculations for the 2017 year-end position are Business Plan which was initially prepared on a stand-alone basis, disclosed in the explanation of the Groups Treasury principal risk excluding the intu acquisition.
This plan was updated to incorporate on page 65. the financial projections of the intu acquisition sourced from the due Conclusion diligence exercise to produce a Combined Plan.
Both of these Based on the assessment of the prospects and viability of the Group, five-year plans were reviewed and approved by the Board in late 2017. the Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation The plans were both structured around the Groups strategy and that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its include income and balance sheet projections, funding plans and liabilities as they fall due over a five-year period to 31 December 2022. portfolio strategies, including acquisitions, disposals and This five-year period is unchanged from theperiod adopted for the developments.
There were compiled on a property-by-property basis 2016 Viability Statement.
and the key base case assumptions included: Forecast economic conditions, including broadly stable GDP Going Concern Statement growth and future interest and foreign exchange rates The Directors have reviewed the current and projected financial Stable property market conditions, including modest yield and position of the Group, making reasonable assumptions about future ERV movements trading performance, property valuations and capital expenditure plans.
The review considered the Groups current liquidity position, Financial markets remaining available to the Group to refinance its debt maturity profile, future commitments and forecast cash flows.
maturing facilities and bonds Based on this review the Directors are able to conclude that they The ability to complete disposal plans broadly in line with forecast have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group values have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at In addition to the business planning process, the Board also considers least the next 12 months and continue to adopt the going concern the long term prospects of the Group when approving capital basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended expenditure requests for major development schemes.
The Board 31December 2017. receives twice yearly updates on the Groups development schemes, including the future pipeline projects many of which have forecast 2017 Strategic Report completion dates outside of the five-year business planning period.
Pages 1 to 69 of this Annual Report constitute the Strategic Report.
It has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board on Assessment of period 23 February 2018.
There are a number of factors which influence the period of assessment: David Atkins The Groups annual Business Plan covers a five-year period Director The Group has a stable, diverse, secure income stream with the majority of leases containing five-year, upward only, rent reviews with an average unexpired lease term of six years at Timon Drakesmith 31December 2017 Director The time-scale for the delivery of the Groups major development schemes is approximately five years and currently extends beyond2022 The Group has diverse sources of funding with an average maturity of 5.6 years HAMMERSON.
