Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT An integrated approach Risk management is an essential component of our approach, both to the management of investment funds on behalf of investors, and the management of Man Groups business on behalf of shareholders.
Ultimate responsibility for risk management Our counterparty risk exposures at corporate Our operating model is reliant on technology rests with Man Groups Board, however, and fund level are closely monitored.
The risk to therefore the heightened threat from cybercrime accountability is embedded throughout the the Groups balance sheet from counterparty requires increased focus for the Group.
Our risk management framework defaults remains low.
We are conscious, requires that the business operates within however, of the continued risk of individual Our ICAAP was submitted in August and the acceptable risk tolerances, as defined by events or downturns in market sentiment and Financial Conduct Authority FCA informed us the Boards risk appetite.
Our governance continue to take a conservative approach to it will not be reviewed at this time.
We continue structure provides a foundation for ongoing counterparty selection.
to seek the most efficient ways to fund our oversight in a dynamic environment.
regulatory capital and liquidity requirements.
Independent fund boards are responsible for Man Group is regulated globally: the In September we completed the share protecting the interests of fund investors.
Group focuses on ensuring our operational repurchase programme announced in 2016. and risk management frameworks are In October, we began a new share repurchase Developments in 2017 appropriate for our evolving global business.
programme which will return $100 million of Investment underperformance continues to In the Principal risks section on pages 33 capital to shareholders.
As at 31 December be the biggest risk facing the Group.
This to 35 we have noted a number of regulatory 2017, the programme was 27% complete.
is mitigated by diversification of product developments.
Regulation continues to offerings, including the integration in 2017 of evolve at different paces across the world.
Performance fees rose by 257% compared to 2016, as described on page 27.
The Group has continued to bolster its range of investment styles and products in key markets.
Funds under management FUM Man Groups governance grew by 35% in 2017, as described on page 25.
The committees below have been given a mandate by the Board and the CEO to oversee the risk management framework.
These committees provide assurance to the Board that risk has been The expansion of our product offering is managed according to the risk appetite statements.
supported by our balance sheet, which we have Board utilised to continue the Groups seeding programme.
2017 saw the launch of several new CEO Audit and Risk Committee quantitative and discretionary funds.
Whilst the Group is exposed to a decline in the value of The Audit and Risk Committee ARCom is a seed investments, supporting the development committee of the Board which has oversight Senior Management of new products is an important way to increase oftheassurance functions see page 56 for Executive Committee and diversify revenues.
The Senior Management Executive Committee is assess whether seeding positions continue to accountable for all risks assumed in the business support the business - a large position in a US and is responsible for the execution of appropriate distressed credit strategy is being redeemed risk management discipline.
because strong performance since inception Risk and Finance Committee has not resulted in investor subscriptions.
The Risk and Finance Committee RAF oversees the operational, regulatory and reputational risks facedby Markets in 2017 were characterised by low the Group and the internal control environment.
It also monitors the adequacy of economic capital and volatility and growth across most asset classes liquiditybuffers.
The RAF is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
and several potentially disruptive political events in Europe were avoided.
30 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Mans risk appetite statements The directors confirm that they have a The risk appetite statements are set by the reasonable expectation that the Group will Brexit Board and cover all significant risk categories.
continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as The UKs decision to invoke Article 50 of They apply to both the investment management they fall due, for the next three years.
A three the Treaty on European Union in March functions and Man Group itself.
The statements year period was selected as this is consistent 2017 triggered a withdrawal process express the Boards appetite for risk, promote a with the Groups business planning horizon.
which is expected to result in the UK risk aware culture and set out objectives and leaving the European Union EU by boundaries for Man Groups business.
The directors assessment has been made with April 2019.
This withdrawal process has reference to the Groups current position and political, legal and tax implications for The primary goal of risk management is to prospects, the Groups strategy, the Boards risk the UK and may impact general support the achievement of the Groups appetite and the Groups principal risks and how economic conditions in the UK and objectives by encouraging an appropriate these are managed, as described later on in this other European countries.
balance between risk and benefit, in a controlled section of the Annual Report.
The principal risks and regulatory compliant context.
are linked to each of the Groups strategic The EU has mandated a three-phase priorities, as shown on page 9. approach to Brexit negotiations The governance framework and control Withdrawal, Future Relationship and environment within the Group have been The strategy and associated principal risks form Transition, with the second phase designed to manage risks in accordance with the basis of the Groups Medium-Term Plan.
Whilst it is risk appetite.
The Board and ARCom receive This covers a three year period, and includes anticipated that the second phase will regular reporting on the Groups risk profile and downside scenario testing.
provide more certainty on the future adherence with risk appetite.
In the event that regulations pertaining to UK investment breaches to risk appetite occur, these would be The Groups Medium-Term Plan is built managers, it is not yet clear the extent resolved in line with the Groups procedures and by aggregating the expected business to which Brexit may impact their ability processes.
The statements are reviewed performance across the Group, and then to access markets, make investments periodically by the Board.
stressing key business assumptions particularly or enter into legal agreements within those regarding investment performance and the EU.
It is also uncertain whether the The risk appetite statements were reviewed fund flows.
UK and the EU will agree a transition during the year.
There were no material changes arrangement from April 2019 and if so, to the risk tolerances of the business resulting The plan is also stress tested in a number of for how long and on what terms.
A summary of the risk appetite downside scenarios as part of the Groups statements is available at www.
com Internal Adequacy Assessment Process Man will continue to take the necessary ICAAP.
The Board receives regular updates steps to ensure that, post-Brexit, it Viability statement throughout the year of the internally assessed remains able to service its existing The directors believe that there continues to be level of economic capital requirement, relative European clients and to access new robust global demand for asset management to available capital supply.
Man has a number firms, such as Man Group, to provide fund of licensed entities in the EU, based in management services and make investment The Medium-Term Plan and ICAAP Ireland and the Netherlands, as well as decisions on behalf of their clients in order to assessments are augmented throughout in Liechtenstein European Economic manage their capital.
Mans value-adding services the year by regular briefings at the Audit Area.
However, Man may need to form the basis of a sustainable business model.
and Risk Committee on strategy, risk and enhance its EU footprint as regulations controls, as well as dashboards across become clearer.
A failure to deliver superior performance is the risk, compliance, finance and internal audit.
main risk to the Groups ability to maintain a The principal risks are considered within capital and liquidity surplus, but is mitigated the Boards risk appetite framework.
Three lines of defence 1st 2nd 3rd The overall risk management framework at Man Group is based on the three lines of defence model, and is overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee as delegated by the Board.
Business The framework instils the principles of direct responsibility for risk Management management in each business unit.
Embedding accountability at Compliance thebusiness level is the first line of defence.
The business units are monitored by the Risk and Compliance control functions which form the second line of defence.
In Business Risk Internal External Management Audit Audit The independent review and oversight provided by Internal Audit is the third line of defence, which independently evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management, control and governance processes.
Risk Operational Although Man Group and the investors in its products are 1 Management susceptible to losses, we believe ourrisk management framework supports long term value through the process of risk-aware decision making.
1 Includes the Groups financial controls framework Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 31 Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Board oversight of risk management and safeguarding the Groups assets.
This Assessment of principal risks internal controls framework is managed through a process Our comprehensive risk framework includes The Board oversees and monitors the Groups whereby control owners certify that key business, credit, liquidity, market, operational risk management and internal control systems preventative and detective controls have been and reputational risks to both Man Group and on an ongoing basis and, at least annually, performed and are operating effectively.
carries out a review of their effectiveness.
A include balance sheet reconciliations and the summary of the Groups risk management and financial statements preparation process.
During The Groups risk profile has not changed internal control systems, including those relating the year senior management monitored the materially in 2017. Business risks continue to to the financial reporting process is given below.
results of the certification process and a sample represent the biggest risks to the Group, of of the certifications was independently spot these investment underperformance, is the Objectives and governance framework checked each month to provide assurance single biggest risk facing the Group.
The Groups risk management framework and that they had been correctly certified.
internal control systems aim to safeguard Given its increasingly wide range of investment assets, maintain proper accounting records and Ongoing risk reporting products and strategies the Group has to provide assurance that the financial information The Board receives regular reports from manage a wide array of operational risks.
used in the business and published externally is the Chairman of the ARCom, business robust and reliable.
The framework is designed management and Group Risk on the risks to The breadth and complexity of the regulations to manage key risks, but cannot eliminate the the achievement of the Groups operational and that Man and its funds are subject to across risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and financial objectives, together with assurance multiple jurisdictions represent significant can only provide reasonable and not absolute that the level of risk taken is consistent with and operational risks should the Group fail to assurance against material misstatement or being managed in accordance with the Boards comply with these regulations.
The risk management framework and risk appetite and with business planning.
These supports proportionate and thoughtful internal control systems, which have been in reports include a summary risk dashboard regulation and initiatives that develop the place throughout the year and up to the date of and current and forward looking assessments regulatory environment.
However, regulatory this Annual Report, comply with the FRCs of capital and liquidity adequacy.
The Board change can also result in increased Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control also discussed a list of specific commercial operational complexity and costs.
and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
risks relating to Mans current business mix and model, along with relative revenue impacts, The directors confirm that they have carried out During the year the Board reviewed and that could have a material impact at Group a robust assessment of the principal risks facing approved the output from the annual refresh level.
The Board also noted and considered an the Company, including those that would of Mans Risk Governance and Appetite analysis of trends in underlying risk drivers which threaten its business model, future performance, Framework.
This included changes to had been identified through the Groups Risk solvency or liquidity.
the quantitative tolerances and qualitative & Control Self-Assessment RCSA process.
statements and the adoption of a new The directors have described and assessed assessment grid for operational and other Specific annual review of risk management these principal risks on pages 33 to 35 and risks to reflect the development of the risk and internal controls explained how they are being managed control environment.
There was no material In addition to its ongoing monitoring of the or mitigated.
change to the Board risk appetite.
Groups risk management and internal controls, the Board has conducted a specific annual Whilst the Board retains overall responsibility review of their effectiveness in respect of 2017 for the Groups risk management and internal and up to the date of this Annual Report.
This control systems, it has delegated oversight to review included a robust assessment of the the Audit and Risk Committee ARCom.
The Groups principal risks see details on pages 33 to report from the Chairman of the ARCom on 35 and all significant operational risk events and pages 56 to 61 provides further information Internal Audit findings raised during the period.
on how the ARCom has discharged its risk The Board also considered the potential impact oversight responsibilities during the year.
of certain risks identified by the business, the outcome of the RCSA process performed by Financial reporting controls business management and the quality of the The Groups financial controls framework is controls in place to mitigate these risks.
Following designed to provide assurance that proper this review, the Board concluded that the Groups accounting records are adequately maintained risk management processes were effective and and that financial information used within the that there were no significant weaknesses or business and for external publication is reliable failings in the system of internal controls.
and free from material misstatement, thereby 32 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements PRINCIPAL RISKS The trend of the risk in 2017 is shown as: increased, unchanged or decreased.
Risks Mitigants Status and Trend Business risks Investment underperformance Man Groups investment businesses each 2017 saw broad based performance Fund underperformance on an absolute basis, have clearly defined investment processes across many of Mans funds along with the relative to a benchmark or relative to peer groups designed to target and deliver on the generation of performance fees.
Weaker would reduce FUM and may result in lower investment mandate of each product.
We performance of some strategies highlights subscriptions and higher redemptions.
This risk is focus on hiring and retaining highly skilled the diversification across Mans product exacerbated at times of volatile markets.
This may professionals who are incentivised to perform offerings which reduces the overall risk.
also result in dissatisfied clients, negative press within the parameters of their mandate.
The discussion of Man Groups and reputational damage.
Man Groups diversified range of products performance is on pages 10 to 11. and strategies across the alternatives Lower FUM results in lower management fees marketplace limits the risk to the business and underperformance results in lower from underperformance of any particular performance fees, if any.
Key person risk Business and investment processes are Man Group has continued to be able to A key person to the business leaves or is unable designed with a view to minimise the impact attract and retain an array of talented to perform their role.
of losing any key individuals.
Diversification of individuals across the Group.
Voluntary strategies reduces the overall risk to Man.
The Retention risk increases in years of poor departure of a senior credit portfolio performance.
Succession plans and deferred manager was managed through a compensation schemes are in place to succession plan of internal promotion and support the retention of senior investment resulted in low voluntary redemptions.
Credit risks A counterparty with which the funds or Man Man Group diversifies its deposits across a Increased regulatory scrutiny and capital Group have financial transactions, directly or number of strong financial counterparties, requirements for investment banks has indirectly, becomes distressed or defaults.
each of which is approved and regularly improved the overall stability of Mans reviewed for creditworthiness by the counterparties.
Shareholders and investors in Man funds and Counterparty Monitoring Committee CMC.
products are exposed to credit risk of prime There were no periods of heightened The CMC also oversees contingency brokers, custodians, clearing houses, depository concern about individual names in 2017, planning ahead of significant market or banks and guarantee providers.
but European elections were closely political events.
Man Group also provides loans to guaranteed The Group Risk function monitors credit products, and so is subject to counterparty risk to metrics, such as CDS spreads and ratings, of certain investor funds.
the approved counterparties on a daily basis.
Guaranteed products are closely monitored, and leverage is actively adjusted such that the risk of default on balance sheet loans to funds is small.
Liquidity risks Volatile markets can place additional, often Man Group has access to a revolving credit A reduced guaranteed products portfolio shortterm, demands on the balance sheet.
Man facility and maintains a liquidity surplus.
and illiquid funds assets within portfolios Group is exposed to having insufficient liquidity has reduced potential demands for Man Group conducts regular liquidity tests resources to meet its obligations.
on its funds and endeavours to manage Adverse market moves and high volatility may resources in such a way as to meet all The asset liquidity distribution across sharply increase the demands on the liquid demands for fund redemptions according to funds has remained broadly unchanged.
resources in Man Groups funds.
and increased redemptions could result in the deterioration of fund liquidity and in the severest cases this could lead to the gating of funds.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 33 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED The trend of the risk in 2017 is shown as: increased, unchanged or decreased.
Risks Mitigants Status and Trend Market risks Investment book A disciplined framework ensures that each Seeding book risks reduced in 2017 with Man Group uses capital to seed new funds to request for seed capital is assessed on how net redemptions, particularly from a large build our fund offering and expand product it facilitates its risk and return on capital.
concentrated position in a US distressed distribution.
Man Group is therefore exposed to a credit fund.
Overall seeding book returns Approvals are granted by the Seed decline in value of the seeding book.
have been strong and the long only funds Investment Committee SIC, which is out-performed their benchmark hedges.
comprised of senior management, Risk and Treasury.
Investments are subject to risk limits, an exit strategy and are hedged to a benchmark where appropriate.
The positions are monitored regularly by Group Risk and reviewed by the SIC.
Pension risk The UK pension plan has a low net exposure The plan maintained a stable surplus Man Group underwrites the risks related to the to equities and UK interest rates following throughout the year.
A trienial valuation of UK defined benefit pension plan which closed to asset reallocations by the trustees in the scheme is underway.
The fund will new members in 1999 and future accrual in 2011.
Longevity risk remains, but is directly own additional assets after the The plan is well funded, but is exposed to uncorrelated to Man Groups other risks.
Reservoir Trust maturity in March 2018 changes in net asset versus liability values.
see page 131, and is expected to maintain a low-risk growth portfolio.
Operational risks External process failures Man Groups operations team has The Group has been concentrating its Man Group continues to outsource a number of implemented a methodology including outsourcing into a smaller number of functions that were previously performed ongoing third party due diligence and KPI carefully selected and proven outsource internally as well as managing outsourcing monitoring to confirm that outsourced providers with which it has established arrangements on behalf of its funds.
The risk is service providers are delivering as required.
working relationships allowing for greater that the outsourced service providers do not process consolidation and rationalisation.
perform as required, resulting in knock-on implications for our business as a whole.
Information security and cybercrime security We continue to invest and improve the Cybercrime attacks are growing in terms The risk of loss resulting from cybercrime, Groups diligence across all IT layers of scale and complexity as hackers malicious disruption to our networks or from the perimeter, network, endpoint, applications continuously seek to circumvent software theft, misplacing, interception, corruption or and data.
advanced solutions applying artificial The fast pace of innovation by intelligence and machine learning to detect cybercriminals makes it particularly vulnerabilities and insider threats monitoring.
challenging to assess the effectiveness of The Group is also increasing the use of our defences and deliver protection automated remediation to allow for swifter against this increasing threat.
and more effective incident response.
The Group has a cyber-risk training programme However, the Group has responded by and has commissioned independent threat improving its resilience against these and security assessments, including threats.
The information security and simulated staged attacks on our network to cybercrime risks remain under scrutiny at test our detection and response capability.
Information technology The Group recognises the fundamental role The technology of the Group has been Risk of losses incurred by IT software and of technology in delivering the Groups significantly improved in 2017 with the hardware failures resulting in system downtime, objectives.
The Technology Group is focused delivery of new platforms, software, severely degraded performance or limited system on delivering five key themes: improving data infrastructure and integration of Cloud functionality.
management, improving the digital services.
This trend will continue to ensure experience across the Group, improving the that the Group can continue to position operating model by consolidating technology, itself to be able to leverage further investing in the control and security advances in technology.
framework and innovating in the right technology at the right time.
34 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements The trend of the risk in 2017 is shown as: increased, unchanged or decreased.
Risks Mitigants Status and Trend Operational risks continued Integration risk Our Risk and Compliance teams There have been no new acquisitions Acquisitions into the Group introduce short-term independently review the businesses risk since Aalto.
assessments including integration risks and the appropriateness of risk mitigation plans.
Internal Audit evaluates the effectiveness of the Groups risk management, control and governance processes.
Regulatory breach Man Group operates a global legal and Man is experiencing an increase in the The global nature of Man Groups business, the compliance framework which underpins all breadth and complexity of regulations expansion of its investment businesses and the aspects of its business and is resourced by globally including Markets in Financial acquisition of new investment businesses, with experienced teams.
These teams are Instruments Directive MiFID II, the General corporate and fund entities located in multiple physically located in Man Groups key Data Protection Regulation GDPR and jurisdictions and a diverse investor base makes it jurisdictions helping them to understand the the Senior Managers Certification Regime subject to a wide range of laws and regulations.
context and impact of any requirements.
Preparation for MiFID II has been Failure to comply with these laws and regulations a priority in 2017 and was successfully Emphasis is placed on proactively analysing may put Man Group at risk of fines, lawsuits or implemented by 3 January 2018. new legal and regulatory developments to reputational damage.
assess likely impacts and mitigate risks.
These new regulations may result in an Changes in laws and regulations can materially increase in regulatory risk in the short-term Man Group continues to liaise directly and impact Man Group or the sectors or the market as the regulator starts to review indirectly with competent authorities e. g. within which it operates.
implementation and understand their FCA, IOSCO, ESMA, HMT, NFA, DFSA and effect on investment markets.
The FCA in the UK is Man Groups lead regulator.
Reputational risks The risk that an incident or negative publicity Our reputation is dependent on both our Man continues to enjoy a good reputation undermines our reputation as a leading operational and fund performance.
Our and this risk is assessed as stable.
Reputational damage could governance and control structure mitigates result in significant redemptions from our funds, operational concerns, and our attention to and could lead to issues with external financing, people and investment processes are credit ratings and relations with outsourcing designed to comply with accepted standards providers.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 35
