257 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Similarly, our global business exposes us to litigation and government relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation, that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives.
patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
The risks below are those that we believe could cause our actual Litigation and government investigations, including related provisions results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
we may make for unfavourable outcomes and increases in related costs such as insurance premiums, could materially and adversely We must adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and affect our financial results.
These requirements apply to research and development, manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in our Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products and significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in affect not only the cost of product development but also the time Note 45, Legal proceedings, on pages 227 to 232. required to reach the market and the likelihood of doing so UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities a successfully.
company takes to address principal risks and uncertainties.
A Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental summary of the activities that the Group takes to manage each of interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of our principal risks accompanies the description of each principal a particular risk may change.
Changes to certain regulatory regimes risk below.
The principal risks and uncertainties are not listed in may be substantial.
Any change in, and any failure to comply with, order of significance.
applicable law and regulations could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Patient safety Risk definition Individual Medical Officers within the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse Consumer Healthcare businesses and our substantial Safety and events from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse issues in a timely manner.
reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
Once a Group product is approved for marketing, we have an extensive Risk impact post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system.
Information The risk impact has the potential to compromise our ability to on possible side effects of products is received from several sources conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to including unsolicited reports from healthcare professionals HCPs ensure that appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the risk and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and scientific literature, benefit profile of our products, including the completeness and traditional media and social media.
It is our policy that employees are accuracy of product labels and the pursuit of additional studies required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or analyses, as appropriate.
This could lead to potential harm to quality of our products.
Each of our country managers is responsible patients, reputational damage, product liability claims or other for monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as fines, collection of safety information and reporting the information to the penalties or loss of product authorisation.
relevant central safety department, in accordance with policy and Context legal requirements.
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development Information that changes the risk benefit profile of one of our of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate products to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for use and minimise the risk.
Proposed actions are discussed with by humans.
Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the regulatory authorities and can include modifying the prescribing safety of our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical information, communications to physicians and other healthcare trials, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when providers, restrictions on product prescribing availability to help products are widely introduced into the marketplace.
Questions assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
about the safety of our products may be raised not only by our In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to ongoing safety surveillance and post-marketing studies but also by withdraw the medicine from the market.
governmental agencies and third parties that may analyse publicly Our Global Safety Board GSB, comprising senior physicians and available clinical trial results.
representatives of supporting functions, is an integral component of The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability the system.
The GSB including subsidiary boards dedicated to lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for Consumer Healthcare products and Vaccines reviews the safety of damages related to our products.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is investigational and our marketed products and has the authority to inherently unpredictable.
Class actions that seek to sweep together stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such trial is not ethically or all persons who take our products increase the potential liability.
scientifically justified in light of information that has emerged since Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently the start of the trial.
asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially and In addition to the medical governance framework as described adversely affect the Groups financial results.
above, we use several mechanisms to foster the early evaluation, mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they arise and of potential Mitigating activities claims even before they occur.
The goal of the programmes is to The Chief Medical Officer CMO, who is also the Medical Officer create a culture of early identification and evaluation of risks and for Pharmaceuticals, is responsible for medical governance under a claims actual or potential, in order to minimise liability and litigation.
Under that policy, safeguarding human subjects in our clinical trials and patients who take our products is of paramount importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating and addressing matters of human safety.
258 GSK Annual Report 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Product quality Risk definition This is an industry standard which incorporates quality concepts Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices throughout the product lifecycle.
The GSK PQS is augmented by a cGMP or inadequate controls and governance of quality in the consolidation of the numerous regulatory requirements defined by supply chain covering supplier standards, manufacturing and markets across the world, which assures that it meets external distribution of products.
expectations for product quality in the markets supplied.
The PQS is routinely updated to ensure that it keeps pace with the evolving Risk impact external regulatory environment and with new scientific A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching understanding of our products and processes.
As part of our drive to implications in terms of patient and consumer safety resulting in continually improve the operational deployment of our PQS, we are product launch delays, supply interruptions and product recalls.
making our policies and procedures simpler to understand and This would have the potential to do damage to our reputation, as implement, as well as adopting innovative tools to give a more well as result in other regulatory, legal and financial consequences.
Context An extensive global network of quality and compliance professionals Patients, consumers and HCPs trust the quality of our products.
is aligned with each business unit to provide oversight and assist Product quality may be influenced by many factors including with the delivery of quality performance and operational compliance, product and process understanding, consistency of manufacturing from site level to senior management level.
Management oversight of components, compliance with GMP, accuracy of labelling, reliability those activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of Quality of the external supply chain, and the embodiment of an overarching Councils and through an independent Chief Product Quality Officer quality culture.
The internal and external environment continues to and Global Product Quality Office.
We provide the Corporate evolve as new products and new legislation are introduced.
Executive Team & Risk Oversight and Compliance Council with an Critically, we are addressing the impact of Brexit on our supply integrated assessment of Regulated Quality GxP performance.
The chain management and quality oversight between the UK and the defined key performance indicators cover manufacturing practice, EU and are developing and deploying appropriate contingency clinical practice, pharmacovigilance practice, regulatory practice, plans to avoid interruption of supply to patients.
drug safety assessment, and animal welfare.
Mitigating activities We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and We have developed and implemented a single Pharmaceutical managing third party suppliers that provide materials which are used Quality System PQS that defines the quality standards and systems in finished products.
Contract manufacturers making our products for our businesses associated with Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and are expected to comply with GSK standards and are regularly Consumer Healthcare products and clinical trial materials.
This audited to provide assurance that standards are met.
system has a broad scope and is applicable throughout the product lifecycle from R&D to mature commercial supply.
All staff members are regularly trained to ensure that cGMP standards and behaviours based on our values are followed.
There is no single external quality standard or system that governs Additionally, advocacy and communication programmes are routinely the detailed global regulatory expectations for the quality of medicinal deployed to ensure consistent messages are conveyed across the products.
Requirements are often complex and fragmented across organisation, whether they originate from changes in regulation, national and regional boundaries.
Consequently, we have adopted learnings from inspections, or regulatory submissions.
There is a the internationally recognised principles from the ICH Q10: continued emphasis on the value of quality performance metrics to Pharmaceutical Quality Systems framework as the basis for the facilitate improvement and foster a culture of right first time.
Financial controls and reporting Risk definition Any changes in the substance or application of the governing tax Failure to comply with current tax laws or incurring significant laws, failure to comply with such tax laws or significant losses due losses due to treasury activities: failure to report accurate financial to treasury activities could materially and adversely affect our information in compliance with accounting standards and applicable financial results.
Context Risk impact The Group is required by the laws of various jurisdictions to disclose Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and publicly its financial results and events that could materially affect disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income the financial results of the Group.
Regulators routinely review the and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action and financial statements of listed companies for compliance with new, could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Changes revised or existing accounting and regulatory requirements.
The in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters such as Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax requirements concerning our financial statements and disclosure of credits, taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in tax relief material information including any transactions relating to business allowed on the interest on debt funding, could impact our effective restructuring such as acquisitions and divestitures.
Significant losses may arise from inconsistent application of we be subject to an investigation into potential non-compliance treasury policies, transactional or settlement errors, or counterparty with accounting and disclosure requirements, this may lead to defaults.
restatements of previously reported results and significant penalties.
259 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Financial controls and reporting continued Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly foreign There is shared accountability for financial results across our exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis.
Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional These transactions involve market volatility and counterparty risk.
management and then reviewed with the Financial Controller and the The Groups effective tax rate reflects rates of tax in the jurisdictions Chief Financial Officer CFO.
This allows our Financial Controller in which the Group operates that are both higher and lower than the and our CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and UK rate and takes into account regimes that encourage innovation to evaluate performance to plan.
Significant judgments are reviewed and investment in science by providing tax incentives which, if and confirmed by senior management.
Business reorganisations and changed, could affect the Groups tax rate.
In addition, the worldwide newly acquired activities are integrated into risk assessments and nature of our operations means that our intellectual property, R&D appropriate controls and reviews are applied.
and manufacturing operations are centred in a number of key The Disclosure Committee reporting to the Board, reviews the locations.
A consequence of this is that our cross-border supply Groups quarterly results and Annual Report and determines routes, necessary to ensure supplies of medicines into numerous throughout the year, in consultation with its legal advisors, whether end markets, can be complex and result in conflicting claims from tax it is necessary to disclose publicly information about the Group authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual countries.
Tax through Stock Exchange announcements.
The Treasury Management legislation itself is also complex and differs across the countries in Group meets on a regular basis to seek to ensure that liquidity, which we operate.
As such, tax risk can also arise due to differences interest rate, counterparty, foreign currency transaction and foreign in the interpretation of such legislation.
The tax charge included in our currency translation risks are all managed in line with the conservative financial statements is our best estimate of tax liability pending audits approach as detailed in the associated risk strategies and policies by tax authorities.
which have been adopted by the Board.
We expect there to be continued focus on tax reform in 2018 and Counterparty exposure is subject to defined limits approved by the future years driven by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation Board for both credit rating and individual counterparties.
Oversight & Developments Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project and of Treasurys role in managing counterparty risk in line with agreed European Commission initiatives including the use of fiscal state aid policy is performed by a Corporate Compliance Officer, who investigations.
Together with domestic initiatives around the world, operates independently of Treasury.
Further details on mitigation these may result in significant changes to established tax principles of Treasury risks can be found on pages 213 and 214, Note 42, and an increase in tax authority disputes.
These, regardless of their Financial instruments and related disclosures.
Tax risk is managed merit or outcomes, can be costly, divert management attention through robust internal policies, processes, training and compliance and may adversely impact our reputation and relationship with key programmes to ensure we have alignment across our business and stakeholders.
We seek to maintain open, positive Mitigating activities relationships with governments and tax authorities worldwide and we We maintain a control environment designed to identify material welcome constructive debate on taxation policy.
We monitor errors in financial reporting and disclosure.
The design and operating government debate on tax policy in our key jurisdictions to deal effectiveness of key financial reporting controls are regularly tested proactively with any potential future changes in tax law.
We engage by management and via Independent Business Monitoring.
This advisors and legal counsel to confirm the implications for our provides us with the assurance that controls over key financial business of tax legislation such as the recently enacted US Tax Cuts reporting and disclosure processes have operated effectively.
Where appropriate we are active in providing relevant minimum standard control set has been implemented, whereby all business input to tax policy makers.
Significant decisions are Finance personnel, irrespective of size or geographical location, are submitted for consideration to the Tax Governance Board which required to apply and ensure they are monitored.
Our Global Finance meets quarterly and comprises senior personnel from across the Risk Management and Controls Centre of Excellence provides extra GSKs Finance division.
support to large Group organisations undergoing transformation Our tax affairs are managed on a global basis through a co-ordinated such as system deployment or significant business transformation.
team of tax professionals led by the Global Head of Tax who works We have also added operational resources to ensure processes and closely with the business.
They are suitably qualified for the roles they controls are maintained during business transformation, the upgrade perform and we support their training needs in order that they of our financial systems and processes.
Additional risk mitigation continue to be able to provide up to date technical advice.
We submit has been introduced by amending the programme timelines of tax returns according to statutory time limits and engage with tax system upgrades.
authorities to seek to ensure our tax affairs are current, entering We keep up-to-date with the latest developments in financial arrangements such as Continuous Audit Programmes and Advance reporting requirements by working with our external auditors and Pricing Agreements where appropriate.
These agreements provide legal advisors.
long-term certainty for both tax authorities and for us over the tax treatment of our business.
In exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement with tax authorities, we may have to resolve disputes through formal appeals or other proceedings.
260 GSK Annual Report 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Anti-bribery and corruption Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure of GSK employees, consultants and third parties to comply Our Code of Conduct, values and behaviours and commitment to with our Anti-bribery & corruption ABAC principles and standards, zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk.
In light of the as well as with all applicable legislation.
complexity and geographic breadth of this risk, we constantly evolve our oversight of activities and data, reinforce to our workforce clear Risk impact expectations regarding acceptable behaviours, and maintain regular Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and associated communications between the centre and local markets.
persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action and civil and We have an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to ensure criminal liability and may compromise the Groups ability to supply its compliance with our ABAC policies and mitigate the risk of bribery products under certain government contracts.
In addition to legal and corruption.
It builds on our values and business standards to penalties, a failure to prevent bribery through complying with ABAC form a comprehensive and practical approach to compliance, and is legislation and regulations could have substantial implications for the flexible to the evolving nature of our business.
reputation of the company, the credibility of senior leaders, and an erosion of investor confidence in our governance and risk Our ABAC programme is built on best in class principles and is management.
subject to ongoing review and development.
It provides us with the Context basis from which we seek to manage the risk from top down and We are exposed to bribery and corruption risk through our global bottom up.
For example, the programme comprises top-level business operations.
In some markets, the government structure and commitment from the Board of Directors and leadership and a global the rule of law are less developed, and this has a bearing on our risk assessment to enable targeted intervention and compliance bribery and corruption risk exposure.
In addition to the global nature monitoring activities.
The programme is underpinned by a global of our business, the healthcare sector by its very nature maintains ABAC policy and written standards that address commercial and relationships with government bodies, is highly competitive and other practices that give rise to ABAC risk and ongoing training and subject to regulation.
This increases the instances where we are communications.
In addition, the programme mandates enhanced exposed to activities and interactions with bribery and corruption risk.
controls over interactions with government officials and during business development transactions.
We provide mandatory periodic The Group has been subject to a number of ABAC inquiries.
We ABAC training to our staff and relevant third parties in accordance reached a resolution with the US authorities in 2016 regarding their with their roles, responsibilities and the risks they face.
ABAC inquiry, following which we are subject to a self-monitoring arrangement until September 2018.
Government investigations Programme governance is provided by the ABAC Governance regarding our China and other business operations are ongoing.
Board which includes representation from key functional areas and These investigations are discussed further in Note 45, Legal business units.
We have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for proceedings.
the implementation and evolution of the programme in response to developments in the internal and external environment.
This is complemented with independent oversight and assurance undertaken by the Audit & Assurance and Independent Business Monitoring teams.
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other large multinational companies and use external expertise to drive improvements in the programme.
261 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Commercial practices Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to engage in commercial activities that are consistent with the Our strategic objectives are designed to ensure we achieve our letter and spirit of legal, industry, or the Groups requirements relating mission of helping people do more, feel better and live longer.
to marketing and communications about our medicines and We continue to strive for new product launches that are competitive associated therapeutic areas: appropriate interactions with HCPs and resourced effectively.
We also strive to have a healthy proportion and patients: and legitimate and transparent transfer of value.
of the Groups sales ratio attributable to new product or innovation sales.
Risk impact This innovation helps us defray the effect, for example, of downward Failure to manage risks related to commercial practices could price pressure in major markets, declining emerging market growth materially and adversely affect our ability to grow a diversified global and negative foreign exchange impact.
Establishing new products business and deliver more products of value for patients and that are priced to balance expectations of patients and consumers, consumers.
Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and HCPs, payers, shareholders, and the community enables us to regulations may result in governmental investigation, regulatory action maintain a strong global business and remain relevant to the needs of and legal proceedings brought against the Group by governmental patients and consumers.
Our values and behaviours provide a guide and private plaintiffs which could result in government sanctions, and for how we lead and make decisions.
We constantly strive to do the criminal and or financial penalties.
Failure to provide accurate and right thing and deliver quality products and ensure supply is complete information related to our products may result in incomplete sustained to meet customer needs and demand requirements, awareness of the risk benefit profile of our products and possibly seeking to ensure our actions reflect our values, behaviours and the suboptimal treatment of patients and consumers.
Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values could also result in reputational harm and dilute trust established with We have taken action to enhance and improve standards and external stakeholders.
procedures for promotional interactions including an increased focus on digital marketing, based on our values of transparency, respect, Context integrity and patient focus.
We have policies and standards We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly governing promotional activities undertaken by us or on our behalf.
Our competitors may make All of these activities we conduct worldwide must conform to high significant product innovations and technical advances and may ethical, regulatory, and industry standards.
Where local standards intensify price competition.
In light of this competitive environment, differ from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
continued development of commercially viable new products and the We have harmonised policies and procedures to guide above development of additional uses for existing products that reflect country commercial practices processes as well as clarified insights which help ensure those products address the needs of applicable standards for operations in the various markets in which patients consumers, HCPs, and payers are critical to achieve our we operate.
Each business unit has adopted the Internal Control strategic objectives.
Framework to support the assessment and management of its risks.
As do other pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer companies, we Commercial practices activities have appropriate monitoring face downward price pressure in major markets, declining emerging programmes and oversight from both business unit Risk market growth, and negative foreign exchange impact.
Management and Compliance Boards and Country Executive Boards that manage risks across in-country business activities.
Developing new Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare Where in the past we have fallen below our own or any other products is a costly, lengthy and an uncertain process.
A product regulatory or industry standards, we have sought to improve both the candidate may fail at any stage, including after significant economic framework and culture for our compliance processes.
and human resources have been invested.
Our competitors products or pricing strategies or any failure on our part to develop All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and commercially successful products, or to develop additional uses for approved according to our policies and standards, and conducted in existing products, could materially and adversely affect our ability to accordance with local laws and regulations, to seek to ensure that achieve our strategic objectives.
these materials and activities fairly represent the products or services of the Group.
When necessary, we have disciplined up to and We are committed to the ethical and responsible commercialisation including termination employees who have engaged in misconduct of our products to support our mission to improve the quality of and have broadened our ability to claw back remuneration from human life by enabling people to do more, feel better, and live longer.
senior management in the event of misconduct.
To accomplish this mission, we engage the healthcare community in various ways to provide important information about our medicines.
We have evolved our commercial operating model, embedding Promotion of approved products seeks to ensure that HCPs globally industry leading changes in the compensation model for sales have access to information they need, that patients and consumers professionals and their managers who interact with HCPs.
These have access to the information and products they need and that changes eliminated rewards based on individual sales or market products are prescribed, recommended or used in a manner that share of prescription products in individuals territories in favour of provides the maximum healthcare benefit to patients and consumers.
rewards based on the quality of the individuals interactions with We are committed to communicating information related to our HCPs.
We now allow fair market value payments to be made by approved products in a responsible, legal, and ethical manner.
GSK to expert researchers and practitioners to speak about the science behind our products, disease and clinical practice in a limited number of GSK sponsored, medical-led meetings.
262 GSK Annual Report 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Research practices Risk definition Scientific engagement SE, defined as the interaction and Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound preclinical and exchange of information between GSK and external communities to clinical research.
In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities advance scientific and medical understanding, including the that are consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or appropriate development and use of our products, is an essential the Groups requirements, and failure to secure adequate patent part of scientific discourse.
Such non-promotional engagement with protection for GSKs products.
external stakeholder groups is vital to GSKs mission and necessary for scientific and medical advance.
SE activities are essential but Risk impact present legal, regulatory, and reputational risk if the sharing of data, The impacts of the risk include harm to human subjects, reputational invited media coverage or payments to HCPs have, or are perceived damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our to have, promotional intent.
products, governmental investigation, legal proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and private plaintiffs product A wide variety of biological materials are used by GSK in discovery, liability suits and claims for damages, loss of revenue due to research and development phases.
Through the Convention on inadequate patent protection or inability to supply GSK products, Biological Diversity CBD and the Nagoya Protocol, the and regulatory action such as fines, penalties, or loss of product international community has established a global framework authorisation.
Any of these consequences could materially and regulating access to, and use of, genetic resources of non-human adversely affect our financial results and cause loss of trust from our origin in R&D.
We support the principles of access and benefit customers and patients.
sharing to genetic resources as outlined in the CBD and the Nagoya Protocol, recognising the importance of appropriate, effective and Context proportionate implementation measures at national and regional Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns.
attempt to address this proactively, animal studies remain a vital part of our research.
In many cases, they are the only method that can be In addition, any loss of patent protection in a market for GSKs used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living products developed through our R&D, including reducing the body before it is tested in humans, and they are generally mandated availability or scope of patent rights or compulsory licensing in by regulators and ethically imperative.
Animal research can provide which a government forces a manufacturer to license its patents for critical information about the causes of diseases and how they specific products to a competitor, could materially and adversely develop.
Nonetheless, we are continually seeking ways in which we affect our financial results in that market.
Absence of adequate can minimise our use of animals in research, whilst complying with patent or data exclusivity protection, which could lead to, for regulatory requirements.
example, competition from manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products, could limit the opportunity to rely on such markets for Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess future sales growth for our products, which could also materially and and demonstrate an investigational products efficacy and safety or adversely impact our financial results.
Following expiration of certain further evaluate the product once it has been approved for intellectual property rights, a generic manufacturer may lawfully marketing.
We also work with human biological samples.
These produce a generic version of a product, and generic drug samples are fundamental to the discovery, development and safety manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to market generic monitoring of our products.
versions of many of our most important products prior to the The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages of the expiration of our patents.
Introduction of generic products typically research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording and leads to a rapid and dramatic loss of sales and reduces our management, analysis, reporting and storage and retrieval.
Our revenues and margins for our proprietary products.
Moreover, in the research data is governed by legislation and regulatory US, it has become common for patent infringement actions to requirements.
Research data and supporting documents are core prompt claims that anti-trust laws have been violated during the components at various stages of pipeline progression decisionprosecution of the patent or during litigation involving the defence of making and form the content of regulatory submissions.
integrity can compromise our research efforts and negatively impact company reputation.
There are innate complexities and interdependencies required for regulatory filings, particularly given our global research and development footprint.
Continually changing and increasingly stringent submission requirements continue to increase the complexity of worldwide product registration.
263 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Research practices continued Mitigating activities We established an Access and Benefit Sharing Centre of We have an established Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Excellence to oversee applicable requirements and enforcement Strategy OAWES, led by the Chief of Animal Welfare, Ethics and measures for the acquisition and use of genetic material of nonStrategy, that ensures the humane and responsible care of animals human origin in scope of the Nagoya Protocol.
and increases the knowledge and application of non-animal R&D maintains and controls pre-publication procedures to guard alternatives.
The OAWES provides a framework of animal welfare against public disclosure in advance of filing patent applications.
In governance, promotes application of 3Rs replacement, refinement addition, because loss of patent protection can occur due to lack of and reduction of animals in research, conducts quality assessments data integrity in preparing patent application data and information, and develops and deploys strategies on animal model reproducibility legal experts collaborate with R&D to support the review process for and translatability.
The Chief Medical Officer oversees the following enterprise Medical The Research Practices risk is now aligned with a new Enterprise Governance Boards: framework that seeks to ensure strengthened governance across The Human Subject Research Board is in place to provide the R&D businesses in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer oversight for the management of clinical trials sponsored and Healthcare.
Under the leadership of the Chief Research Practices supported by us to ensure they conform to ethical, medical and Officer, management of the risk takes a pragmatic approach to scientific standards.
information sharing, streamlining risk identification and escalation while ensuring ownership stays at the business unit level and allows The Data Disclosure Board provides oversight for disclosure of our for a proportional risk treatment.
sponsored and supported clinical trials.
We make information available on our clinical studies, including summaries of the results whether positive or negative.
We were the first company to publish clinical study reports that form the basis of submissions to regulatory agencies and we have publicly posted more than 2,300 clinical study reports in addition to more than 6,300 study result summaries.
Detailed and appropriately protected patient-level data from approximately 2,000 clinical studies can be requested and accessed through .
Specific accountability and authorisation for SE is overseen by the Scientific Engagement and Promotional Practices Board.
This Board is responsible for oversight of applicable policies and seeking to ensure the highest level of integrity and continuous development of SE.
We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management HBSM governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful acquisition and management of human biological samples.
Our global HBSM network champions HBSM activities and provides an experienced group to support internal sample custodians on best practice.
It remains an important priority to enhance our data integrity controls.
Data Integrity Committees are in place to provide oversight and a Data Integrity Quality Assurance team conducts assessments to provide independent business monitoring of our internal controls for R&D activities.
The Chief Regulatory Officer chairs the Regulatory Governance Board which serves as the global regulatory risk management and compliance board, promoting compliance with regulatory requirements and procedures and oversees Group-wide written standards for cross business regulatory processes.
264 GSK Annual Report 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Third party oversight risk Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight over third Each business unit leadership team retains ultimate accountability for party relationships and failure of third parties to meet their managing third party interactions and risks.
When working with third contractual, regulatory, confidentiality or other obligations.
parties, our employees are expected to manage external interactions and commitments responsibly.
This expectation is embedded in our Risk impact values and Code of Conduct.
It is our responsibility that all activities Failure to adequately manage third party relationships could result in carried out on our behalf are performed safely and in compliance with business disruption and exposure to risks ranging from sub-optimal applicable laws and our values, standards and Code of Conduct.
contractual terms and conditions, to severe business and legal To guide and enforce our global principles for interactions with third sanctions and or significant reputational damage.
Any of these parties we have in place a policy framework applicable to buying consequences could materially and adversely affect our business goods and services, managing our external spend, paying and operations and financial results.
working with our third parties.
This policy framework applies to all Context employees and complementary workers worldwide.
The framework is Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an integral complemented by technical and local standards designed to ensure part of the solution to meeting our business objectives.
We rely on alignment with the nature of third party interactions, such as good third parties, including suppliers, advisors, distributors, individual manufacturing practice and adherence to local laws and regulations.
contractors, licensees, and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology Independent Business Monitoring of key financial and operational collaboration partners for discovery, manufacture, and marketing of controls is in place and is supplemented by periodic checks from the our products and for supporting other important business processes.
companys independent Audit & Assurance function.
These business relationships present a material risk.
For example, we Continuous monitoring and performance of third parties is enhanced share critical and sensitive information such as marketing plans, clinical through the Third Party Oversight Programme managed through the data, and employee data with specific third parties who are conducting Global Ethics and Compliance organisation.
The programme takes the relevant outsourced business activities.
Inadequate protection or an enterprise-wide view of third party related risks, has strengthened misuse of this information by third parties could have significant risk assessment, contractual terms and due diligence efforts on third business impact.
Similarly, we use distributors and agents in a range of parties and improved the overall management of our third party risks activities such as promotion and tendering which have inherent risks through the lifecycle of the third party engagement.
such as inappropriate promotion or corruption.
Insufficient internal compliance and controls by the distributors could affect our reputation.
These risks are further increased by the complexities of working with large numbers of third parties across a diverse geographical spread.
Environment, health & safety and sustainability Mitigating activities Risk definition The Corporate Executive Team CET is responsible for EHS&S Failure to manage environment, health & safety and sustainability governance under a global policy.
Under that policy, the CET seeks EHS&S risks in line with our objectives and policies and with relevant laws and regulations.
to ensure there is a control framework in place to manage the risks, impacts and legal compliance issues that relate to EHS&S and for Risk impact assigning responsibility to senior managers for providing and Failure to manage EHS&S risks could lead to significant harm to maintaining those controls.
Individual managers seek to ensure that people, the environment and communities in which we operate, fines, the EHS&S control framework is effective and well implemented in failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory requirements, their respective business area and that it is fully compliant with all litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the Groups reputation, applicable laws and regulations, adequately resourced, maintained, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Additionally, each employee is Context personally responsible for ensuring that all applicable local standard We are subject to health, safety and environmental laws of various operating procedures are followed by them and expected to take jurisdictions.
These laws impose duties to protect people, the responsibility for EHS&S matters.
environment, and the communities in which we operate, as well as Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our refreshed potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites.
We have also Global EHS&S standard which supports our EHS&S policy and our been identified as a potentially responsible party under the US objective to discover, develop, manufacture, supply and sell our Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and products without harming people or the environment.
In addition to Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to our the design and provision of safe facilities, plant and equipment, we use or ownership of such sites in the US.
Failure to manage these operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards where environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory practicable and protect employees health and well-being.
Through action and additional remedial costs that may materially and our continuing efforts to improve environmental sustainability we adversely affect our financial results.
See Note 45 to the financial have reduced our value chain carbon intensity per pack, water statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of the consumption and waste generation.
We actively manage our environmental related proceedings in which we are involved.
We environmental remediation obligations and seek to ensure practices routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for such matters.
are environmentally sustainable and compliant.
Our EHS&S performance results are shared externally each year in our Responsible Business Supplement.
265 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Information protection Risk definition We aim to apply industry best practices as part of our information The risk to GSK business activities if information becomes disclosed security policies, processes and technologies and invest in strategies to those not authorised to see it, or if information or systems fail to be that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security threat available or are corrupted, typically because of cybersecurity threats, landscape.
This will include suitable levels of cyber-risk insurance although accident or malicious insider action may be contributory cover in future.
Nevertheless, cyber threats are growing and evolving.
They increasingly involve highly-resourced threat actors such as nationThis also includes the risk of failure to collect, secure, and use states and organised criminals.
Combined with the size and personal information in accordance with data privacy laws.
complexity of our IT systems and those of our supply chain partners Risk impact including outsourced operations, this means that our systems Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems and and information have been and are expected to continue to be, information may result in loss of commercial or strategic advantage the subject of cyber-attacks of various types.
and could materially affect our ongoing business operations, such as scientific research, clinical trials and manufacturing and supply We are enhancing our approach to data privacy compliance, in part chain activities.
Failure to comply with data privacy laws could lead to comply with the new EU General Data Protection Regulation to adverse impact on individuals for example financial loss, distress GDPR, by deploying an enterprise-wide privacy programme, or prejudice.
In both cases, damage to our reputation, litigation, or launched in 2017 and scheduled for deployment in 2018. other business disruption including regulatory sanction could occur, This will involve greater standardisation and additional expert which could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
resources to support the business.
New standards and controls Context will enable us to better to address data privacy at the outset of We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as corporate any business process.
These changes also prepare us for the strategic plans, intellectual property, manufacturing systems and introduction of GDPR in May 2018. trade secrets.
There is the potential that our computer systems or All employees are required to complete training on privacy and information may be exposed to misuse or unauthorised disclosure.
the appropriate handling and maintaining of personal information.
We believe that the cyber security incidents that we have Programme governance is provided by the Privacy Governance experienced to date have not resulted in significant disruptions to Board, which includes representation from key functional areas.
our operations, and have not had a significant adverse effect on our We have a dedicated Privacy team, responsible for the results of operations, or on third parties.
However, as the threats implementation and evolution of the programme in response evolve we cannot provide assurance that our significant efforts in to developments in the internal and external environment.
protecting and monitoring our systems and information will always be successful in preventing compromise or disruption in future.
All parts of our business process personal information.
The use of this information is critical to our operations and innovation, including the development and sale of our products, as well as management of our employees.
New and evolving laws and regulations, such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, are likely to bring increased scrutiny of our data management.
Mitigating activities We have a global information protection policy and accompanying information technology standards and processes that are supported through a dedicated team and programme of activity.
Our Information Protection function provides strategy, direction, and oversight, including active monitoring of cyber security, while enhancing our global information security capabilities, through an ongoing programme of investment that is in its fifth year.
We assess changes in our information protection risk environment through briefings by government agencies, subscription to commercial threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing with other pharmaceutical businesses and cross-industry bodies.
Such changes are regularly reviewed by our Executive team and our Board and suitable adjustments agreed.
266 GSK Annual Report 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Supply continuity and crisis management Risk definition Mitigating activities Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product: Our supply chain model is designed to ensure the supply, quality and inability to respond effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner to security of our products globally, as far as possible.
We closely recover and sustain critical operations, including key supply chains.
monitor, through the Supply Chain Governance Committees, the inventory status and delivery of our products with the aim to ensure Risk impact that customers have the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer We recognise that failure to supply our products can adversely Healthcare products they need.
Improved links between commercial impact consumers and patients who rely on them.
A material forecasting and manufacturing made possible by our core interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes commercial cycle should, over time, reduce the risk associated with could expose us to litigation or regulatory action and financial demand fluctuations and any impact on our ability to supply or the penalties that could adversely affect the Groups financial results.
cost of write-offs where products exceed their expiry date.
Each The Groups international operations, and those of its partners, node of the supply chain is periodically reviewed to ensure adequate expose our workforce, facilities, operations and information safety stock, while balancing working capital in our end-to-end technology to potential disruption from natural events e. g. storm or supply chain.
Particular attention is placed on mitigating supply risks earthquake, man-made events e. g. civil unrest, terrorism, and global associated with medically critical and high-revenue products.
emergencies e. g. Ebola outbreak, Flu pandemic.
It is important that We routinely monitor the compliance of manufacturing external we have robust crisis management and recovery plans in place to suppliers to identify and manage risks in our supply base.
practical, we minimise our dependence on single sources of supply Context for critical items.
Where alternative sourcing arrangements are not Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by possible, our inventory strategy aims to protect the supply chain from various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our licence to unanticipated disruption.
Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or by suppliers of key services and materials could lead to litigation or We continue to implement anti-counterfeit systems such as product regulatory action such as product recalls and seizures, interruption of serialisation in accordance with emerging supply chain requirements supply, delays in the approval of new products, and suspension of around the world.
manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing or A corporate policy requires each business unit and functional area logistics issues.
head to ensure effective crisis management and business continuity We rely on materials and services provided by third party suppliers to plans are in place that include authorised response and recovery make our products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear communication API, antigens, intermediates, commodities, and components for the routes, before any business disruption occurs.
manufacture and packaging of Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Corporate Security supports the business by: coordinating crisis Consumer Healthcare products.
Some of the third party services management and business continuity training: facilitating simulation procured, such as services provided by contract manufacturing and exercises: assessing our preparedness and recovery capability: and clinical research organisations to support development of key providing assurance oversight of our central repository of plans products, are important to ensure continuous operation of our supporting our critical business processes.
Each business unit has a businesses.
governance board which performs risk oversight and monitoring Although we undertake risk mitigation we recognise that certain including identifying new and emerging threats.
We have a events could nevertheless still result in delays or service interruptions.
coordinated approach to evaluate and manage the implications for We use effective crisis management and business continuity our business arising from Brexit.
Our approach to Brexit is set out planning to provide for the health and safety of our people and to on page 55. minimise impact to us, by maintaining functional operations following These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness and a natural or man-made disaster, or a public health emergency.
We also develop and maintain partnerships with external bodies like the Business Continuity Institute and the UN International Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction, which helps improve our business continuity initiatives in disaster-prone areas and supports the development of community resilience to disasters.
