20 GSK Annual Report 2017 How we manage risk How we create long-term value Industry trends Our long-term priorities How we measure success 1 2 3 4 Our principal risks are regularly reviewed by the CET.
Below we list the principal risks managed across the Group in 2017, including our assessment of any change in the risk during the year due to macro events or mitigating GSK activities.
GSK exposure Macro post Risk description Assessment and mitigating activities environment mitigation The macro environment remained unchanged, with patient Patient safety safety regulation and Good Pharmacovigilance Practices Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow remaining consistent.
up, or report adverse events from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings The GSK exposure level remained unchanged.
The risk has in a timely manner.
been maintained at an appropriate level through continued strong oversight, by further developing our capabilities to detect safety issues, and by making key safety processes and standards simpler and more effective.
Product quality The macro risk level remained unchanged, with continuing industry-level regulatory scrutiny of data integrity, drug Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing shortages, and an expectation of timely communication Practices or inadequate controls and governance of quality in the supply chain covering supplier of issues with authorities.
standards, manufacturing and distribution of The GSK exposure level remained unchanged.
been maintained at an appropriate level through our effective response to external inspections in 2017 and continuous improvement in data integrity programmes and our quality management system.
The macro risk level remained unchanged, due to no material Financial controls & reporting increase in financial reporting requirements.
Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring significant losses due to treasury activities: The GSK exposure level reduced due to our strong risk failure to report accurate financial information management and governance approach and further in compliance with accounting standards and embedding of system changes, controls standardisation applicable legislation.
The macro risk level increased due to more stringent ABAC Anti-bribery & corruption ABAC laws and a rise in enforcement by regulators.
Failure of GSK employees, complementary workers and third parties to comply with our The GSK exposure level remained unchanged as we enhanced ABAC principles and standards, as well as our use of data to better inform business decisions, strengthened with all applicable legislation.
our management of ABAC risk in our third party network and introduced an improved ABAC standard further clarifying our stance on expected behaviours.
Government investigations regarding our China and other business operations are ongoing see page 230.
The macro risk level increased due to greater competitive Commercial practices pressure, increased regulatory enforcement and an expansion Failure to engage in commercial activities of digital marketing, where laws and regulations are still evolving.
that are consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or the Groups requirements The GSK exposure level remained unchanged as we continued relating to marketing and communications to develop robust controls over mature commercial practices in about our medicines and associated therapeutic order to apply appropriate oversight and assurance across areas: appropriate interactions with healthcare markets.
In 2017, as we increased digital capability across GSK, professionals HCPs and patients: and legitimate we enhanced our internal controls to mitigate risk.
and transparent transfer of value.
21 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 5 Arrows key Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk GSK exposure Macro post Risk description Assessment and mitigating activities environment mitigation The macro risk level remained unchanged despite evolving Research practices regulation, and continuing industry-level regulatory scrutiny Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound of data integrity.
In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities that are consistent The GSK exposure level remained unchanged.
The risk with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or has been maintained at an appropriate level through our the Groups requirements, and failure to secure strengthened governance structure, which includes enterpriseadequate patent protection for GSKs products.
wide management of risk and enables better information sharing, and an increased focus on IT systems, data and analytics.
Third party oversight TPO The macro environment has remained unchanged as the industry continues to be vigilant about third-party risks in global sourcing Failure to maintain adequate governance and and supply, and consumer and investor expectations mature.
oversight over third-party relationships and failure of third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, The GSK exposure level reduced following the roll-out of our confidentiality or other obligations.
TPO programme, which risk assessed over 95% of our third parties with whom we directly engage.
This will enable us to identify and manage risks consistently and proportionately.
Improvement plans are in place where required and the insights from the programme have informed sourcing processes to further mitigate risk.
The macro risk level increased due to greater emphasis on Environment, health & safety the environment and antimicrobial resistance, increasing and sustainability EHS&S emerging market regulation, the potential impact of EU chemicals Failure to manage environment, health and safety legislation and the greater use of third parties to develop and sustainability risks in line with our objectives pipeline assets.
and policies and with relevant laws and regulations.
The GSK exposure level remained unchanged due to continued execution of our enterprise strategy and our strengthening of EHS&S controls.
The macro risk level continued to increase as the threat against Information protection the pharmaceutical business and industry generally became The risk to GSK business activities if information more sophisticated and targeted, as evidenced by the Wannacry becomes disclosed to those not authorised to see it, or if information or systems fail to be available or and NotPetya global incidents, and new regulations were are corrupted, typically because of cybersecurity introduced, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
threats, although accident or malicious insider Despite this, the GSK exposure level remained unchanged action may be contributory causes.
This also due to further development of our programme to safeguard includes the risk of failure to collect, secure, and against cyber-attacks and protect critical information and use personal information in accordance with data privacy laws.
systems, and our ability to balance the demands of regulation with our digital transformation, which involves increased data collection and analysis.
The macro risk level remained unchanged with ongoing stringent Supply chain & crisis regulation, a continued US focus on contract manufacturers management outside the US EU, and increasing data integrity expectations.
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished products: inability to respond effectively The GSK exposure level reduced due to improved risk to a crisis incident in a timely manner to recover management of our supplier portfolio, progress in completing and sustain critical operations, including key supply remediation programmes, and improvements to our supply chains.
crisis and continuity management framework.
For more information see pages 257 to 266 See page 57 for our viability statement 22 GSK Annual Report 2017 Oncology Immune system T-cells attacking a cancer cell
