STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES THE BOARD HAS DEFINED RISK MANAGEMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES AS ILLUSTRATED BELOW.
Board Determines the Groups risk appetite and culture Sets the risk management framework Ensures the risk management processes and internal controls are effective Audit Committee Controls the Groups risk management processes Reviews business risks Gains assurance that the risk management processes and controls are effective Assurance Internal Audit Huntings internal audit department reviews internal controls and risk management processes for their existence, relevance and effectiveness.
Actions are recommended and graded in Central and Regional Management terms of importance and timeliness Establishes detailed Group policies and procedures for change.
Manages centrally controlled risks Reviews local business risks Local Management Ensures Group policies and procedures are applied Manages locally controlled risks HUNTING PLC 47 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Introduction central management or to the Board.
Included within the Group The oil and gas industry is highly regulated and demands high Manual are policies covering a range of areas including general specification products, which meet stringent quality criteria, finance requirements, taxation responsibilities, information on given the challenging environments in which these products are Huntings internal control and risk management framework and used.
Huntings risk management and internal control processes governance.
Compliance is also monitored and subject to are therefore designed to appropriately mitigate the operating scrutiny by the Internal Audit function.
risks inherent in this sector, while allowing the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and deliver value to shareholders.
Central and regional management are responsible for ensuring the risk management processes established by the Audit The Board Committee are implemented across the Group.
Central The Board of Hunting has responsibility for developing and management is also responsible for managing Group-wide maintaining a robust risk management framework and for treasury-related risks such as currency and interest rate monitoring the Groups system of internal control to ensure it exposures and managing the global insurance programme.
remains effective and fit for purpose.
The Board is also responsible for developing the Groups strategic objectives.
The balance Local Management between the Boards desire to meet these strategic objectives The management of each business unit has the responsibility and its appetite for risk creates the risk culture within the Group.
of establishing an effective system of controls and processes for their business which, at a minimum, meet the requirements set The Boards appetite for risk is key to establishing effective out in the Group Manual and complies with any additional local systems of internal control and risk management processes.
Local management is empowered under Huntings By reviewing and debating the relevant evidence, the Board fide-centralised philosophy to manage the risks in their market.
develops an appreciation of the contributory factors that generate a particular risk.
Subsequently, through delegation, Assurance the Board establishes the extent to which the risk should be The Board uses a number of functions and reporting procedures mitigated and at what cost to the Group.
The Board, for example, to provide assurance that the risks identified by management are has little appetite for high levels of exposure to geopolitical risk appropriate and proportionate for the Group as a whole.
and consequently the Groups expansion strategy has avoided Huntings Internal Audit function covers the Groups businesses countries that are considered to be significantly unstable or too addressing the following operational areas, raising control high risk to maintain a physical presence, notwithstanding the improvement recommendations where necessary: potential benefits that may be generated.
inventory management: Advice on risk management is sought by the Board from both purchasing supply chain: internal and external sources.
The risk management processes large project risk: are further supported by: IT controls: customer credit risk: and understanding the current and evolving market environment: ethics compliance, including bribery and corruption.
challenging executive management on new growth opportunities: and The Groups risk management processes are further supported reviewing proposed new product developments and capital by an internal Quality Assurance department that is headed by a HSE and Quality Assurance Director who reports directly to the investment projects.
This department also undertakes periodic audits that monitor quality control within the Groups product lines.
Audit Committee Local management establishes and undertakes risk management Hunting also receives guidance from a number of external processes that are relevant to the distinct risk profile of each advisers.
In particular, guidance from the Groups principal business unit.
These are reported to central management three insurance broker, which arranges worldwide credit insurance times a year from which a Group Risk Register is maintained for the Group, has been implemented throughout the business covering the key risks to the Group, including all financial, units with respect to, for example, vetting new customers and operational and compliance matters.
On behalf of the Board, maintaining appropriate creditworthiness data that further the Audit Committee seeks to ensure that risk management strengthens the Groups credit management processes.
processes are established within the framework set out by the Huntings external auditors provide assurance to the Board Board and, as part of this assessment, it conducts a formal of the accuracy and probity of Huntings financial statements.
review of the Groups Risk Register three times a year.
The The auditor also reads all of Huntings non-financial statements, Groups Principal Risks are disclosed on pages 51 to 54.
In including governance disclosures included in the Annual Report, addition, once a year, the Audit Committee seeks assurance with and provides recommendations on the financial controls in regard to the effectiveness of the internal financial controls based operation across the Group, based on the external audit.
on a self-assessment exercise carried out by local management.
The appropriateness of the self assessments is checked by Huntings legal advisers assist in ensuring that Hunting is Internal Audit, on a sample basis, following its programme of work.
compliant with the UKLAs Listing Rules, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook and UK Company Law, and The Internal Audit department reports directly to the Audit that there is an understanding across the Group of its obligations Committee.
The relationship with external audit is also controlled by under current sanctions legislation.
Additionally, Hunting relies on the Audit Committee, including the annual review of effectiveness.
market and investor advice from its corporate brokers and financial advisers.
Refer also to the Audit Committee Report on pages 66 to 70.
The Board is satisfied that the above sources of assurance have Central and Regional Management sufficient authority, independence and expertise to enable them Hunting requires that all Group business units operate in to provide objective advice and information to the Board and also accordance with the Hunting Group Manual, which sets out takes this into account when assessing the robustness of the risk Group policies and procedures, together with related authority management and control process.
levels, and identifies matters requiring approval or notification to HUNTING PLC 48 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Reporting and Consolidation RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES All subsidiaries submit detailed financial information in accordance with a pre-set reporting timetable.
This includes weekly, bi-monthly and quarterly treasury reports, annual THE BOARD HAS REVIEWED ITS RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL budgets, monthly management accounts, periodic extended CONTROL PROCEDURES AND CONFIRMS THAT THE PROCEDURES IN PLACE ARE ROBUST AND PROPORTIONATE TO HUNTINGS GLOBAL forecasts giving a medium-term view, together with half-year OPERATIONS AND POSITION IN ITS CHOSEN MARKET.
The Groups consolidation process is maintained and regularly Huntings internal control system, which has been in place updated, including distribution of a Group Manual to all reporting throughout 2017 and up to the date of approval of these units.
All data is subject to review and assessment by accounts, is an ongoing evolutionary process designed to management through the monitoring of key performance ratios identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to which the and comparison to targets and budgets.
The Group monitors Group is exposed.
and reviews new UK Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook, accounting standards, This system of internal control is designed to manage rather than interpretations and amendments, legislation and other statutory eliminate risks, therefore it can only provide reasonable, but not requirements.
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss in the financial statements and of meeting internal control objectives.
Strategic Planning and Budgeting Strategic plans, annual budgets and long-term viability financial The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups projections are formally presented to the Board for adoption and system of internal control and have taken into account feedback approval and form the basis for monitoring performance.
These from the Audit Committee for the period covered by the financial are supported by regularly updated forecasts that project for statements.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified a 12-month period beyond the date of preparation.
Quality Assurance The key elements to understanding, establishing and assessing Most of the business sectors in which the Group operates are Huntings internal control system are as follows: highly regulated and subsidiaries are invariably required to be accredited, by the customer or an industry regulator, to national Business Risk Reporting or international quality organisations.
These organisations Three times a year, local management formally reviews the undertake regular audits and checks on subsidiary procedures specific risks faced by their businesses, based on current and practices, ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements.
trading, future prospects and the local market environment.
The Board monitors compliance by receiving Quality Assurance The review is a qualitative assessment of the likelihood of a risk reports at each meeting from the Director of Quality Assurance materialising and the probable financial impact if such an event who also reports directly to the Chief Executive.
The Group has were to arise.
All assessments are performed on a preand received accreditations from many organisations including the post-controls basis, which allows management to continually American Petroleum Institute for example API Spec 5CT and assess the effectiveness of its internal controls with separate API Spec Q1 certifications, the International Organisation for regard to mitigating the likelihood of occurrence and the probable Standardisation for example ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 financial impact.
The risks are reported to central management.
certifications and the Occupational Health and Safety The local risks that have the greatest potential impact on the Assessment Series for example OHSAS 18001 certification.
Group are identified from these assessments and incorporated into the Group Risk Register, which is also reviewed by the Audit Health, Safety and Environment HSE Committee three times a year.
An appropriate Director, together All facilities have designated HSE personnel appointed to ensure with local management, is allocated responsibility for managing the Groups policies and procedures are adopted and adhered each separate risk identified in the Group Risk Register.
All local HSE personnel report to the Groups HSE and Quality Assurance Director, who in turn reports to the Chief Executive.
Financial Controls Self-assessment All facilities arrange regular training and review sessions to Local management completes an annual self-assessment of ensure day-to-day risks are managed and shared with the the financial controls in place at their business units.
assessment is qualitative and is undertaken in context with the recommended controls identified within the Group Manual.
Gaps Expenditure Assessment and Approval Limits between the recommended controls and those in place are All significant capital investment business acquisitions and asset assessed and improvements are actioned within a targeted time purchases and capital divestments must be approved by the frame when these are identified as a necessary requirement.
Major capital expenditures or divestments Results of the assessments are summarised and presented to require approval by the Board.
Detailed compliance and the Audit Committee.
assurance procedures are completed during a capital investment programme and project reviews and appraisals are completed to ensure each capital investment has delivered the forecast value for the Group.
Updates to the Groups policies and procedures are communicated to the relevant personnel by way of periodic revisions to the Group Manual, which is issued to all business units.
HUNTING PLC 49 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED MOVEMENT IN RISKS POST-CONTROLS DURING THE YEAR MOVEMENT IN RISKS POST-CONTROLS DURING THE YEAR CURRENT STATUS OF THE GROUPS PRINCIPAL RISKS 6 1 1 2 2 3 The status of Huntings exposure to each of its principal risks, the movement in these risks post-controls during the year and the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in mitigating risks 4 are summarised in the accompanying two graphs.
5 The extent of Huntings exposure to any one risk may increase or decrease over a period of time.
This movement is due either to a shift in the extent of the risk arising from external influences, 7 or is due to a change in the effectiveness of the Groups internal control processes in mitigating the risk.
Detailed descriptions of each principal risk, the controls and actions in place and the movement in the year are given in the following section.
UK Leaving the European Union The Board has continued to consider the consequences to the Group of the United Kingdoms decision to withdraw from the Low Probability High European Union and remains of the opinion that, given its limited exposure to this market, Brexit will not have a material impact on Current status Prior year status the business.
Consequently, this is not a principal risk to the Group.
1 Commodity prices 3 Competition 5 Geopolitics 7 Product quality 2 Shale drilling 4 Key executives 6 HSE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS 1 2 6 6 3 1 7 2 3 4 4 5 5 7 Low Probability High Post-control status Pre-control status HUNTING PLC 50 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Low Financial Impact High Low Financial Impact High STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS THE GROUPS PRINCIPAL RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED BELOW.
WHILE No movement in risk WE HAVE PRESENTED THESE AS SEPARATELY IDENTIFIED RISKS, Increase in risk DISCRETE EVENTS WILL OFTEN AFFECT MULTIPLE RISKS AND THIS Decrease in risk IS CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD WHEN ASSESSING THE IMPACT ON THE GROUP.
1 COMMODITY PRICES 2 SHALE DRILLING Nature of the risk Nature of the risk Hunting is exposed to the influence of oil and gas prices as the The Group provides products to the oil and gas shale drilling supply and demand for energy is a key driver of demand for industry.
Although shale drilling is now an established activity in the Huntings products.
US, significant sections of the public continue to view it as high risk.
Any consequent moratorium or new laws may unfavourably impact Oil and gas exploration companies may reduce or curtail shale drilling activity levels and subsequently reduce demand for operations if prices become, or are expected to become, the Groups products that service the operators in this industry.
uneconomical and therefore continuation of prices above these In addition, oil and gas produced from shale remains a relatively levels is critical to the industry and the financial viability of the expensive source of hydrocarbons, despite recent advances in Hunting Group.
technology that have reduced these costs.
Consequently, shale drilling is more sensitive to a decline in commodity prices Adverse movements in commodity prices may also heighten compared with conventional sources so it is more likely to be the Groups exposure to the risks associated with shale drilling curtailed and therefore negatively impact what has become a see the risks associated with shale drilling.
steadily increasing revenue stream for the Group see the risks associated with commodity prices.
Movement in the year Movement in the year Huntings exposure to this risk has reduced due to the recent Huntings exposure to this risk has reduced from last year due improvement in spot oil prices.
Although they remain volatile, to the recent improvement in commodity prices that has driven prices are expected to be maintained by OPECs production an increase in completion activity within the US shale basins.
cuts that are due to continue until the end of 2018.
Controls and actions Controls and actions Working capital, and in particular inventory levels, are closely The Board monitors public and political opinion and maintains an managed to ensure the Group remains sufficiently adaptable awareness of the potential for changes to legislation, especially to meet changes in demand.
with regard to the US where the Group is mainly exposed.
The Groups products are used throughout the life cycle of the The Group maintains a diverse portfolio of products that wellbore and each phase within the life cycle generates demand extends beyond supplying the shale drilling industry, including for a different range of products and services.
The Board and products for conventional drilling and the manufacture of high management closely monitor market reports on current and precision and advanced technology components for both the forecast activity levels associated with the various phases of the onshore and offshore markets.
life cycle of the wellbore in order to plan for and predict improvements or declines in activity levels.
Many of the Groups facilities have the flexibility to re-configure their manufacturing processes to meet a change in the pattern In addition, management has reduced production costs and of demand.
developed new technologies that would help mitigate the impact of any further downturn in commodity prices in the future.
FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE MOVEMENT IN COMMODITY THE GROUPS OPERATING ACTIVITIES ARE DESCRIBED IN DETAIL PRICES DURING THE YEAR IS DETAILED ON PAGE 8.
HUNTING PLC 51 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS THE GROUPS PRINCIPAL RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED BELOW.
3 COMPETITION 4 KEY EXECUTIVES Nature of the risk Nature of the risk The provision of goods and services to oil and gas drilling The Group is highly reliant on the continued service of its companies is highly competitive.
In current market conditions, key executives and senior management, who possess pricing pressures remain a feature of the current trading commercial, engineering, technical and financial skills that environment.
Competitors may also be customers and or are critical to the success of the Group.
suppliers, which can increase the risk of any potential impact.
Technological advancements in the oil and gas industry continue at pace and failure to keep ahead will result in lost revenues and market share.
Looking further ahead, advancements in alternative energy sources are considered a possible risk to the oil and gas market in the long-term.
Movement in the year Movement in the year During the year, the competitive environment within the markets This risk is unchanged from last year.
The risk was that Hunting serves remained strong and therefore Huntings heightened in 2016 in response to the Group-wide pay exposure to this risk is unchanged since last year.
Although this policy has now been moderated, downward pressure on prices, combined with reduced activity the risk has not fully abated.
levels, particularly in offshore markets, has maintained competition risk at a high level.
Controls and actions Controls and actions Hunting has a number of high specification proprietary products Remuneration packages are regularly reviewed to ensure that offer operational advantages to its customers.
The Group that key executives are remunerated in line with market rates.
continually invests in research and development that enables it External consultants are engaged to provide guidance on to provide technological advancement and a strong, ever best practice.
Hunting continues to maintain its standards of delivering high quality products, which has gone Senior management regularly reviews the availability of the some way in sheltering the pricing pressure impact on margins.
necessary skills within the Group and seek to engage suitable staff where they feel there is vulnerability.
Huntings operations are established close to their markets, which enables the Group to offer reduced lead times and a focused product range appropriate to each region.
Local management maintains an awareness of competitor pricing and product offering.
In addition, senior management maintains close relationships with key customers and seeks to maintain the highest level of service to preserve Huntings reputation for quality.
The Group has a wide customer base that includes many of the major oil and gas service providers and no one customer represents an overly significant portion of Group revenue.
Alternative energy sources have been considered but are not believed to be a threat within the short-term.
THE GROUPS OPERATING ACTIVITIES ARE DESCRIBED IN DETAIL DETAILS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION ARE PROVIDED ON PAGES 20 TO 27.
IN THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT ON PAGES 71 TO 92.
HUNTING PLC 52 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 5 GEOPOLITICS 6 HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT HSE Nature of the risk Nature of the risk The locations of the Groups markets are determined by the location Due to the wide nature of the Groups activities, it is subject to a of Huntings customers drill sites Huntings products must go relatively high number of HSE risks and the laws and regulations where the drilling companies choose to operate.
To compete issued by each of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
effectively, Hunting often establishes a local operation in those regions, however, significantly volatile environments are avoided.
The Groups exposure to risk therefore includes the potential for the occurrence of a reportable incident, the financial risk The Board has a strategy to develop its global presence and of a breach of HSE regulations, and the risk of unexpected diversify geographically.
compliance expenditure whenever a law or regulation is renewed or enhanced.
Operations have been established in key geographic regions around the world, recognising the high growth potential these territories offer.
The Group carefully selects which countries to operate from, taking into account the differing economic and geopolitical risks associated with each geographic territory.
Movement in the year Movement in the year Geopolitical issues remain a feature of the modern world in The Groups manufacturing and other operating processes which the Hunting Group operates.
The Board monitors have not materially changed during the year.
Consequently, geopolitical events around the world through media channels the Groups potential exposure to HSE incidents remains and assesses these relative to Huntings operations.
The Group experienced a small number of minor HSE incidents in the year, which is significantly below The Group has relatively little exposure to the European market the industry average and is similar to the Groups record in and consequently the Board believes that the economic prior years.
uncertainties associated with Brexit will not have a material adverse impact on the Groups trading activities.
Consequently, the Board has concluded that there has been no reportable movement in the Groups geopolitical risk.
Controls and actions Controls and actions Areas exposed to high political risk are noted by the Board and The Board targets to achieve a record of nil incidents and full are strategically avoided.
Management and the Board closely compliance with the laws and regulations in each jurisdiction monitor projected economic trends in order to match capacity in which the Group operates.
Every Group facility is overseen by a health and safety officer with the responsibility for ensuring compliance with current and newly issued HSE standards.
The Board receives a Group HSE compliance report at every Board meeting.
THE DIVERSITY OF THE GROUPS EXPOSURE TO DIFFERENT THE GROUPS HSE PERFORMANCE IS DETAILED ON PAGE 11.
GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS IS DESCRIBED ON PAGE 2.
FURTHER COMMENT ON HSE IS PROVIDED ON PAGES 40 AND 41.
HUNTING PLC 53 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS THE GROUPS PRINCIPAL RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED BELOW.
7 PRODUCT QUALITY Nature of the risk The Group has an established reputation for producing high quality products capable of withstanding the hostile and corrosive environments encountered in the wellbore.
A failure of any one of these products could adversely impact the Groups reputation and demand for the Groups entire range of products and services.
Movement in the year The risk of poor product quality or reliability has remained unchanged during the year with no significant issues raised by the Groups customers or during the Boards internal monitoring process.
Controls and actions Quality assurance standards are monitored, measured and regulated within the Group under the authority of a Quality Assurance Director, who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
THE GROUPS COMMITMENT TO PRODUCT QUALITY IS DETAILED ON PAGE 11.
FURTHER COMMENT ON THE GROUPS COMMITMENT TO PRODUCT QUALITY IS PROVIDED ON PAGE 41.
HUNTING PLC 54 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION North American onshore well completion activity levels, VIABILITY ASSESSMENT AND particularly those requiring Hunting perforating systems, continue to improve.
GOING CONCERN BASIS The Group will continue to have a medium to low exposure to higher risk countries given the proportion of its current revenues and profits derived from politically stable regions such as North America, Europe and South East Asia.
In addition, the three-year financial projections were stress tested Viability Assessment to simulate a further deterioration in market conditions.
Hunting has a wide global customer base underpinned by strong, long-term relationships.
The Group provides a large range of Conclusion products and services through its manufacturing and distribution The Board believes that the Groups strategy for growth, its facilities, which are located in a number of countries across diverse customer and product base, and the improving outlook the globe.
for the oil and gas industry in the medium-term provide Hunting with a strong platform on which to continue in business.
The In considering the Groups long-term viability, the Board regularly Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that Hunting assesses the risks to its business model, strategy, future will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they performance, solvency and liquidity.
These assessments are fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
supported by the risk management processes described on pages 48 and 49 and include a review of the Groups exposure Going Concern Basis to the oil and gas industry, competitor action, customer plans The Groups principal cash outflows include capital investment, and the robustness of the supply chain.
labour costs and inventory purchases.
The timing and extent of these cash flows are controlled by local management and the Assessment Period Board.
The Groups principal cash inflows are generated from the The Groups customers are principally involved in the exploration sale of its products and services, the level of which is dependent for and production of oil and gas.
Given the nature of the industry on the variety of its products and ability to retain strong customer and the planning cycles involved, these activities can cover relationships.
Cash inflows are further supported by the Groups periods of no more than several weeks up to several years credit insurance cover against customer default that, at from start to end.
Huntings management works closely with its 31 December 2017, covered the majority of its trade receivables, customers over this period, discussing their operational plans subject to certain limits.
Current and forecast cash debt balances and reviewing their longer-term capital expenditure programmes.
are reported on a weekly basis by each of the business units to a centralised treasury function that uses the information to manage The outlook for the Group beyond this period is generated from the Groups day-to-day liquidity and longer-term funding needs managements assessment of industrial data and projections through effective cash management programmes.
published by industry commentators and analysts, including statistics on exploration and production expenditure, footage The Group continues to have access to sufficient financial drilled and rig activity.
The Board believes that a three-year resources including the $200m secured committed bank forward looking period, commencing on the date the annual borrowing facility which was undrawn at 31 December 2017.
The accounts are approved by the Board, is the appropriate length Groups internal financial projections indicate that the Group will of time to reasonably assess the Groups viability.
The Groups retain sufficient liquidity to meet its funding requirements over the annual budget process and mid-term projections cover this next 12 months.
period and help to support the Boards assessment.
Review Consideration of Principal Risks In conducting its review of the Groups ability to remain as a The nature of the Groups operations expose the business to a going concern, the Board assessed the Groups recent trading variety of risks, which are noted on pages 51 to 54 The Board performance and its latest forecasts, and took account of regularly reviews the principal risks and assesses the appropriate reasonably predictable changes in future trading performance.
controls and further actions as described on pages 48 and 49.
The Board also considered the potential financial impact of the The Board has further considered their potential impact within estimates, judgements and assumptions that were used to the context of the Groups viability.
The Board is satisfied that all material uncertainties have been identified.
Assumptions In assessing the long-term viability of the Group, the Board Conclusion made the following assumptions: The Board is satisfied that it has conducted a robust review of the Groups going concern and has a high level of confidence Demand for energy service products improves in the that the Group has the necessary liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Consequently, the Board considered medium to long-term, given the global outlook for oil and it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting gas demand, which is driven by growth within emerging in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
markets and sustained demand from developed markets.
These are the fundamental drivers of Huntings core business of manufacturing, supplying and distributing products and services that enable the extraction of oil and gas.
Actions taken to reduce the Groups cost base enable the business to remain competitive given the continued weakness within the global energy markets, particularly within the offshore and international markets.
HUNTING PLC 55 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
