Risk management PLANNING FORWARD Continuously reviewing and building on our procedures, Managing our risks in a professional and processes and frameworks to prevent risks from impacting consistent way allows us to operate with our business, or to enable us to respond promptly and peace of mind.
decisively when they do, gives us confidence in our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and support the INCHCAPE PEACE OF MIND long-term sustainable growth of our business.
OUR APPROACH TO RISK During 2017 the Group iPOM Committee has reviewed Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM is our Group-wide risk the risk management framework and structure and has management and governance framework which focuses made several key improvements designed to: on empowering each and every one of our colleagues to clarify expectations of our leadership and employees: consider the risks associated with the decisions they take.
reduce the reporting burden: Led by the Group iPOM Committee, market and regional enhance leadership focus on quality and depth of risk level iPOM Committees in each of our territories perform assessment: and ongoing risk assessments which form the basis of the principal risk evaluations undertaken by the Group build consistency of approach across the Group.
Executive Committee and functional heads.
RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Internal Audit BOARD Direction & Review of internal controls, Responsible for determining the Group risk appetite and oversight Oversight monitoring risk capture and of principal risks to the Groups strategic objectives Policy, mitigating actions Framework, Tools AUDIT COMMITTEE Delegated responsibility from the Board for risk management, Internal Controls, compliance and whistleblowing Corporate Assurance Leading continuous EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE improvement in our risk Day-to-day management responsibility for management practices and execution of the Group strategy risk mitigation techniques GROUP IPOM COMMITTEE Risk management oversight sits with the Group iPOM Committee Regional Risk Champions Market-based co-ordinators who collate regional risk management activity, REGIONAL IPOM FUNCTIONAL LEADERS including risk reports COMMITTEE Provide expert assessment and co-ordinated input into Day-to-day regional risk the risk process management sits with the iPOM Committee Risk Finance Information Leadership team Identification, MARKET IPOM COMMITTEES Provide independent Evaluation, challenge to the risk In each market, a Market iPOM Committee ensures that Management, footprint at least annually risk management remains a management priority.
Meetings and Mitigation, outputs are aligned with the Group iPOM Committee, Audit Monitoring Committee, regional iPOM Committees and iPOM Board meetings Market Management Teams Risk Owners Denotes new process for 2018 30 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Review and Challenge STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Aligned risk management to the regional management structure INCIDENT MANAGEMENT The iPOM framework has been aligned with the new During the year the central risk function refreshed regional management structure of the Group.
Regional the Groups approach to responding to a major iPOM Committees now oversee risk management activity incident which affects our people, our reputation across their own region and support the existing market or our continuity of operations.
The ability to iPOM Committees with risk evaluations and mitigating respond to a major crisis effectively and with action tracking.
pace has been identified as a key capability Operating under common, clearly defined terms which underpins our efforts to address many of reference, and administered through designated of our key risks.
regional risk champions, the regional committees are With input from the Group Communications, responsible for the oversight and delivery of risk agenda HR, Legal, Risk and IT departments, the review and consolidation of regional risk registers which will form built upon our existing business continuity the basis of the Group risk assessment.
plansand focused on the key principles of Better leveraged functional expertise crisisresponse, defining and clarifying We have introduced the requirement for Group responsibilities and authorities and, most functions to formally maintain their own functional risk importantly, the actions that can be taken to registers.
Functional and department leads at Group plan and prepare in advance our response to level will record and monitor the principal risks within arange of given scenarios.
their particular areas of expertise.
These function level risk The team also developed detailed guidance registers act as a further check of completeness of our and templates to enable each of our regional bottom-up risk assessment and ensure a more rounded and market management teams to plan and evaluation with consistent, moderated action plans.
prepare locally, with clear escalation protocols Reduced the reporting processes, but increased the for Group level issues, while remaining consistent focus on quality with the Group approach.
The Group iPOM Committee has streamlined the In addition to planning and preparation, reporting requirements for risk management by detailed Response Action Plan documents mandating that the frequency of both market and tailored to individual core functions were regional meetings will reduce to quarterly from six times developed to describe and enable the detailed per year.
The formal reporting burden to the Group has actions and decisions to be taken in the first been reduced further in that each region will only be few hours and days of an incident.
These are required to oversee and submit a full risk assessment maintained in multiple formats both in physical and evaluation twice per year.
copy and online to allow ease and speed of Streamlining the annual agenda in this way will reduce access when needed.
the reporting burden across operational teams, allowing for a greater focus on the quality of risk assessment and follow through of appropriate mitigating actions.
Consolidated internal guidance and policies We have consolidated the various risk management policies, procedures, templates and forms which are in existence into a single Enterprise Risk Management ERM Manual.
Delivered interactively through iConnect, the ERM Manual will enable our market and regional iPOM Committees, and leadership teams, to deliver high quality, well-articulated risk evaluations and mitigating action plans to address the key risks in line with Group expectations, corporate governance requirements and accepted standards.
com 31 Risk management continued as identified by our comprehensive risk management INCHCAPE PRINCIPAL RISK FOOTPRINT process, but these are deemed less material than the The principal risk footprint comprises the most significant 17 principal risk factors noted on the footprint.
risks that could cause the greatest damage to the reputation or financial strength of the Company if not Given the size and geographical diversity of our business, effectively evaluated, understood and managed.
The we understand there may be additional risks not currently risk footprint is distilled from Group-wide risk registers and known to management and we continuously improve iPOM Committee discussions and is regularly reviewed our iPOM processes to identify, evaluate and mitigate by the Group Executive Committee, the Group iPOM these risks.
As a Group, we continue to experience an everThe key risks, which are given in further detail on pages changing, dynamic risk environment where economic, 34 to 36, are a subset of our principal risks which we political, environmental, social, legal and technological believe could have the most immediate and damaging changes present a complex risk landscape which impact and therefore are of particular focus to the Group threatens our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.
iPOM and Executive Committees, under oversight of However, we believe that our diversity of brand portfolio the Board.
and geographic spread, combined with our strong balance sheet, cost control and risk-aware decisionWe recognise, and are actively managing, further risks making processes, make us resilient to all but the both at Group level and within individual business units most significant and persistent risks.
PRINCIPAL RISKS The principal risks to achievement of our strategy are: Key risks Loss of distribution contract with major brand partner 1 Significant retrenchment of credit available to customers, dealer network or Inchcape plc negatively impacts 2 vehicle sales and or operational capability Brand failure or major interruption to OEM operations or product supply negatively impacts vehicle sales 3 4 Major loss of confidential or sensitive data results in financial penalty and or reputational damage Failure to extract value from acquisitions 5 6 Impact of disruptive technologies and or new entrants to the industry threatens our position in the value chain Failure to engage the next generation of connected customers impacts on revenues and or OEM relations 7 8 Fluctuations in exchange rates with negative impact on financial performance Other principal risks Interruption to iPower or major systems failure impacts on ability to service customers and or operational 9 efficiency Failure to safeguard our customers and employees by not consistently applying EH&S standards across 10 the Group 11 Internal controls failure of sufficient scale to materially affect financial performance or reputation Individual governments increasing restrictions on cross-border currency movements leading to higher incidents 12 of trapped cash across the Group Dynamic changes in local or international tax rules e. g. domestic tax reform in markets in which we operate, or 13 changes to transfer pricing rules as a result of the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Sharing initiative Social, political and regulatory instability leads to market interruption and or threat to safety 14 Changes in legislation directly affecting customer demand 15 Failure to comply with changes in laws and regulations leads to sanctions, financial penalty and or 16 reputational damage Failure to attract, retain and develop our people leads to knowledge drain and operational inefficiency 17 32 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 2 3 4 5 6 12 9 10 16 11 17 7 8 13 14 15 Low Medium High LIKELIHOOD Existing risk Amended risk Following an in-depth review of the principal risk footprint, by the Group Executive Committee and Board, the following changes have been made during the year, to best reflect the current principal risks facing the Group.
The risk of social, political and regulatory instability in AMENDMENT CONSOLIDATIONS Emerging Markets has been widened to remove the The risk impact of disruptive technologies and or restriction to Emerging Markets to reflect the potential methods of engaging the next generation of for instability in all our markets, not only those that are customers has been split into two separate risks not emerging.
to reflect our approach to managing the factors underlying these risks and the potential impact.
We have broadened our view of tax related risks to The new risks added are encompass all areas of tax compliance recognising changes in tax legislation in our markets, including but Impact of disruptive technologies and or new not limited to the new laws surrounding facilitation of entrants to the industry threatens our position in tax evasion in the UK.
We have included a reference to product supply Failure to engage the next generation of interruption in the existing risk around interruption connected customers impacts on revenues to OEM operations.
com 33 IMPACT Low Medium High Risk management continued KEY RISKS Description Impact Principal mitigating activity LOSS OF DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT WITH MAJOR BRAND PARTNER Distribution and Retail contracts are fundamental to our Loss of significant High quality operational, commercial and business model.
revenue and Although our brand diversification strategy is designed to In-depth, regular performance reporting operating profit.
mitigate this risk, an event which leads to any of these contracts and business performance reviews.
being cancelled, or not renewed, may have a significant Significant impact Clear compliance and risk management long-term impact on revenue and profit.
framework in place including Minimum factors which could contribute to this risk may include: Cost of business Control Framework to address Failure to deliver a sufficiently attractive value proposition to interruption closure compliance issues.
and staff termination Strong anti-fraud procedures including costs.
Consistent failure to deliver to standards or targets in major whistleblowing hotline.
markets or across multiple markets.
Dedicated in-house business Failure to deliver on growth strategy or defend our business development function overseeing model against new entrants.
Major fraud, bribery, data security or other systemic Connected customers a core element compliance failure.
Failure to connect with the next generation of customers.
SIGNIFICANT RETRENCHMENT OF CREDIT AVAILABLE TO CUSTOMERS, DEALER NETWORK OR INCHCAPE PLC NEGATIVELY IMPACTS VEHICLE SALES AND OR OPERATIONAL CAPABILITY Economic shocks may lead to a significant constriction in global Adverse impact Maintenance of accounts with liquidity, so that funding is unavailable to Inchcape plc, floor plan on retail volumes.
financing disappears and customer credit dries up.
Dealers unable to Continuous monitoring of credit lines to New vehicle sales volumes rely on our customers both end finance inventory, customers and independent dealer network.
users and dealers being able to access affordable credit lines.
impacting Distribution Close management of credit extended to volumes.
Credit availability globally, whilst improving, remains uncertain independent dealer network including and a significant retrenchment would adversely impact new short-term support where needed.
Underlying factors include: Headroom funding model to monitor Difficulty in securing credit for customers and floor cash flow.
Independent dealers face challenges obtaining credit.
Funding unavailable, or unaffordable, for Inchcape Group either from commercial lenders or from supplier-related funding.
34 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Description Impact Principal mitigating activity BRAND FAILURE OR MAJOR INTERRUPTION TO OEM OPERATIONS OR PRODUCT SUPPLY NEGATIVELY IMPACTS VEHICLE SALES An event undermining the reputation of one of our brand Loss of reputation Internal monitoring process and response partners could lead to the failure of that partner, with a resultant of product leading plan for major incidents.
to significantly Brand diversification strategy.
For example: Established monitoring procedures to Loss of company A major recall or similar event causes loss of product anticipate and address product recalls reputation leading reputation and severe drop off in customer demand.
to failure of brand An event of sufficient significance could also affect the Monitoring of product recall events and partner.
reputation of our OEM brand partners to the extent that continuous liaison with OEM brand partners Adverse impact on viability of that brand is affected.
regarding quality competitiveness of supply of inventory.
Interruptions to our supply chain or an event which adversely Adverse effect on impacts the reputation of the products we sell could have Diversification of suppliers where possible.
volumes, margin a knock-on effect on our revenues, margins or reputation.
Incident response and business continuity and reputation.
Specific incidents could include: plan in place.
Damage to product reputation in light of product recalls.
Lobbying and communication with OEM brand partners regarding competitiveness of Significant failure in the supply chain for key components models.
MAJOR LOSS OF CONFIDENTIAL OR SENSITIVE DATA RESULTS IN FINANCIAL PENALTY AND OR REPUTATIONAL DAMAGE As a business we hold a large amount of confidential Impact on customer Global IT security team in place.
data pertaining to ourselves, as well as our customers and or OEM brand Clear IT security policies and procedures.
partner relationship Clearly understood data protection standards and erosion Whilst we only hold and use this data for the purposes of and processes.
continuously improving the customer experience, we recognise Information assets defined and our responsibility to protect this information and preserve Adverse financial security controls benchmarked to its integrity.
impact as a result of ensure best practice.
Failure to protect confidential or sensitive data, whether held Minimum standards developed electronically or otherwise, could result in significant operational and implemented.
FAILURE TO EXTRACT VALUE FROM ACQUISITIONS Inchcape complements its organic growth agenda by pursuing Inefficient Specialist Business Development team to inorganic growth through acquisition.
or ineffective oversee acquisition process.
Failure to identify and acquire the right targets or to efficiently Central synergy plan developed to integrate new businesses into our operation will adversely Lost revenue inform business development activity impact our ability to recognise the synergies and benefits opportunities.
Adverse impact on Detailed acquisition planning.
Group and regional functions facilitate business integration, with external support where needed.
Financial, legal and reputational due diligence performed in advance on all acquisitions.
Post-acquisition reviews and detailed integration processes.
com 35 Risk management continued Description Impact Principal mitigating activity IMPACT OF DISRUPTIVE TECHNOLOGIES AND OR NEW ENTRANTS TO THE INDUSTRY THREATENS OUR POSITION IN THE VALUE CHAIN Over the longer time horizon, major new competitors Volume and margin Brand diversification.
are likely to enter the automotive market from the are adversely Business performance reviews and regular technology sector as the lines between automotive impacted across margin monitoring.
and technology become ever more blurred, our markets.
Continuous review of operating procedures and changing attitudes to vehicle ownership and Adverse impact on commercial offering to ensure potential is maximised.
threatening the existing Distribution and value of Retail sites.
Continuing dialogue with OEM brand partners to build Retail model.
Reduced ability to awareness of the commercial benefit of our involvement Specific risk factors include electrification of drive demand margin.
vehicle drivetrains, automated vehicles and Close monitoring of developments in new technologies connected cars.
Review investment opportunities in non-traditional automotive markets.
FAILURE TO ENGAGE THE NEXT GENERATION OF CONNECTED CUSTOMERS IMPACTS ON REVENUES AND OR OEM RELATIONS The digitalisation of the customer journey and Volume and Investment in omni-channel brand experience.
growth of online customer platforms presents margin are adversely Leading in customer experience a core part of the real opportunity to improve the customer offering, impacted across Ignite strategy, including controlled use of digital whilst at the same time presenting new risks around our markets.
data protection, maintenance of standards and Adverse impact on Business performance reviews and regular customer engagement through, for example, value of Retail sites.
Reduced ability to Continuous review of operating procedures and Digital platforms also allow our OEM brand partners drive demand margin.
commercial offering to ensure potential is maximised.
to reach out to our customer base directly, in effect Loss of customer bypassing the relationship between the retailer relationships and and even the distributor in favour of a direct possibly reduction relationship with the customer.
This may impact in loyalty.
the quality and intensity of the relationship that we as an intermediary hold with our customers and impact our ability to drive demand and margin.
FLUCTUATIONS IN EXCHANGE RATES WITH NEGATIVE IMPACT ON FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Inchcape has a broad geographical footprint Negative transactional Centralised Group Treasury function responsible for and therefore many of our subsidiaries operate impact on trading ensuring that foreign currency exchange risks are with functional currencies that are not GBP.
Given recent economic and political events, Adverse translational Hedging of net currency flows.
coupled with continuing uncertainty over the impact on profitability.
strength of the global economy, we have seen increasing volatility in currency rates in recent years.
36 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board carried out an assessment of the Groups The Group iPOM Committee meets a minimum of four principal risks during the year.
The Board considered the times a year to manage oversight of risk, at Group level risks most likely to impact the business and achievement and throughout the markets.
The purpose of the iPOM of the Ignite strategy.
To reflect the changing business Committee is to ensure that: environment the principal risks were updated during There is an appropriate mechanism in place to identify the review and the changes are given on page 33. the risks the Group faces: Risks are also considered throughout the year as part Management teams have the correct focus on those of the Boards review of each strategic objective of risks and, in particular, action plans to mitigate or the Ignite strategy.
This enables the Board to ensure respond to those risks: that the nature and extent of risks the Group is willing A compliance programme is in place in all to take in achieving its strategic objectives is at an markets that meets or exceeds external benchmarks acceptable level.
and is appropriate in terms of legal requirements, The Board also reviewed and approved the viability content, sector, cost and resources: statement including its assessment of the methodology Internal controls are appropriate, well designed, used by management to reach its conclusion.
The and operating consistently across the Group: and viability statement is given on page 38.
The Groups fraud and whistleblowing programme is appropriately managed to reduce the risk of fraud, or The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process throughout the year via regular respond quickly and decisively in the event the Group falls victim to fraud.
reporting from the Corporate Assurance and Internal Audit functions.
The information considered by the Regional iPOM Committees provide direct oversight of Audit Committee allows it to: our risk management activity across each region.
They Assess the effectiveness of the risk management meet quarterly to review the principal risks and mitigating system and internal control processes in place action plans for all markets within the region, ensuring across the Group: completeness of the assessments and that risks are being adequately addressed.
Review compliance with the Minimum Control Framework and Enterprise Risk Management Manual: Administered by Regional Risk Champions on Monitor progress against action plans for particular behalf of the Committee Chair, the Regional iPOM Committees provide formal risk reporting to the Group risks and controls where failures or gaps have been identified: and iPOM Committee.
Review fraud and whistleblowing reports and assess The Market iPOM Committees are the representative the remedial actions taken by management.
of iPOM in each of our markets.
The Market iPOM Committees have primary responsibility to identify and The Committee chair reports to the Board after each control market risks, maintain local risk registers, regularly meeting to ensure full oversight of the risks within the update mitigation plans and update the Groups risk Groups operations.
Further information on the work of mitigation monitoring system.
The Committees meet the Audit Committee can be found on pages 50 to 55. quarterly to review all systemic and dynamic risks The Group Executive Committee and ensure that the mitigation plans are up to date.
During the year, the Group Executive Committee Evaluation of each risks potential impact and likelihood undertook a routine evaluation of the principal risk is defined by guidelines issued by the Group Corporate footprint, based on various inputs including the risk Assurance team which are consistent across the Group.
registers maintained within each of our markets.
This evaluation comprised a review of the impact and likelihood of the principal risks the Group faces, the underlying causal factors, and the mitigating actions required to address those factors.
The resulting changes to the risk footprint were agreed with the Board.
The risk footprint and associated mitigating actions will continue to be monitored by the Group Executive Committee on an ongoing basis.
Risks facing the Group are discussed on an ongoing basis at both market and Group level through the iPOM Committee framework with the most pressing issues escalated to the Group Executive Committee and the Board as appropriate.
com 37 Risk management continued The Board has prioritised a subset of these principal risks VIABILITY STATEMENT for the purposes of assessing the longer-term viability of The Groups business model and strategy are outlined the Group.
The three risks modelled for the purpose are: onpages 2 to 19 and the long-term viability of Group isintrinsically linked to the delivery of this strategy and the loss of a Distribution contract with a major brand thecash-generative nature of this business model.
partner in its largest market: It is in the nature of our business that our continued brand failure or major interruption to OEM operations viability is dependent upon the continuation of our or product: and relationships with ourOEM brand partners.
Based on the a significant retrenchment of credit available longevity of ourrelationships with OEM brand partners, it to customers, dealer networks or the Group.
is reasonable for us to expect that, when viewed across Sensitivity analysis is undertaken to stress-test the athree year time horizon, a sufficient number of those resilience of the Group and its business model.
For the contracts will be renewed such that the Company will purposes of viability testing we modelled both the loss continue in viable operation.
of a Distribution contract with a major brand partner in In seeking to become and remain the OEMs partner of its largest market and the failure or major interruption to choice, we expect to continue to build on the long-term OEM operations or product.
The third risk, liquidity credit strategic relationships we have developed with our OEM shock, has been modelled as a sensitivity on top of both brand partners over the years to grow our businesses of these risks.
together over a far longer timeframe.
The recent successful refinancing of the Group, both The plans and projections prepared as part of the in the US Private Placement market and through our Groups annual strategic planning process consider syndicate of relationship banks, coupled with the existing the Groups cash flows, committed and uncommitted cash-generative nature of our business model, combine funding positions, forecast future funding requirements to generate sufficient cashflow headroom under the and lending covenants.
As a component part of the strategic planning On the basis of an assessment of the principal risks, process, the Board adopts a rigorous approach to the and on the assumption that the principal risks set out identification of the principal risks facing the Group and on pages 32 to 36 are managed and mitigated in the to the monitoring of the actions taken to mitigate these ways described and based on the Boards review of the risks as outlined in this report.
strategic plan and the results of the sensitivity analysis undertaken, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2020.
