STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Bunzl operates in six core market sectors across 30 countries which exposes it to many risks and uncertainties.
The Group sees the management of risk, both positive and negative, as critical to achieving its strategic objectives.
Risk management process To deliver the Groups strategic objectives successfully, and provide value for shareholders, customers and other stakeholders, it is critical that Bunzl maintains an effective process for the management of risk.
The Company has a risk management policy which ensures a consistent process is followed by every business and business area as well as the Executive Committee and ultimately the Board, firstly to assess and then subsequently to manage both current and emerging risks.
These interrelated aspects of the Groups risk management policy are explained below.
Additional detail is also provided on the key risk management activities undertaken during 2017.
RISK ASSESSMENT Risk identification Inherent risk assessment Risk response and residual risk assessment Every business, business area, T he inherent impact and theExecutive Committee and the probability of risks are evaluated The relevant mitigating activities and Boardidentify and document risks before considering the effect ofany controls are evaluated for each risk.
in a consistent way within the mitigating activities: The residual risk is assessed assuming that , operational impact is assessed based on the mitigating actions and internal controls andfinancialrisks.
a defined range of business operate as intended in an effective way.
This includes current risks as well as continuity, health & safety and If necessary to bring the residual risk within emerging risks which also need to be the environment, regulatory, Bunzls risk appetite, enhancements to risk carefully monitored.
reputational and financial criteria: mitigation activities and controls are and considered until the residual risk is reduced probability is assessed as remote, to an acceptable level.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Board Executive Committee Establishes the nature and extent of risk the Group is willing to Holds regular meetings with business area management to discuss accept its risk appetite in pursuit of Bunzls strategic objectives.
strategic, operational and financial issues and ensures policies and procedures are in place to identify and manage the principal risks Performs a robust assessment of the Groups risks through affecting each of the Groups businesses.
a biannual review of the Groups risk register, including those risks considered to be significant by management and the Considers the evolving risk landscape including reviewing the Executive Committee.
results of the risk assessment process and assessing the sufficiency of risk mitigation activities for current risks and the Continuously monitors and oversees the Groups risk management threats and opportunities from emerging risks.
and internal controls processes and procedures.
The Audit Committee Business area and business management Reviews the process for the management of risk, including the risk The Groups decentralised management structure allows assessment and risk response, and its effectiveness.
for the establishment of clear ownership of risk identification and management at the business level within the framework of the Directs and oversees internal audits activities and reviews the Bunzl risk management policy.
results of assurance over controls and risk mitigation activities.
Businesses, with the support of business area management, In addition during 2017 the Audit Committee considered the results implement and monitor the effectiveness of controls, policies of an external assessment of the effectiveness of Bunzls risk and procedures designed to manage risk.
management process and procedures and discussed the recommended changes to the risk management process.
The Risk management and internal control section of the Corporate governance report on pages 63 and 64 includes further information on the specific procedures designed to identify, manage and mitigate risks which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations and for monitoring the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
51 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED To improve clarity, the presentation of the Overall, save as mentioned above in relation Principal risks and uncertainties Groups principal risks and uncertainties has toLaws and regulations, the nature and type The principal risks and uncertainties faced by been refreshed when compared to the 2016 ofthe principal risks and uncertainties the Group, being those which are material to Annual Report.
In particular: affecting the Group are considered to be the development, performance, position or unchanged from the previous year.
The future prospects of the Group, and the steps the categories of risk have been likelihood and impact of each of the principal taken to mitigate such risks, are reclassified to align them more closely risks crystallising is also considered to be summarisedbelow.
with the Companys strategy: materially unchanged as compared to the the titles of some of the risks have been prioryear.
The Group operates in six core market sectors amended to reflect more accurately the across 30 countries which exposes it to many detailed descriptions of the relevant risks: The Board is continuing to monitor the risks and uncertainties, not all of which are potential risks associated with the UK necessarily within the Companys control.
the risk headed Economic environment leaving the European Union Brexit.
Therefore, the risks identified do not comprise was considered to be too generic, As exit negotiations are ongoing, the final all of the risks that the Group may face and especially as components of that risk outcome remains unclear and it is too early accordingly this summary is not intended to are included in the Competitive to understand fully the impact that Brexit beexhaustive.
The risks are not presented in pressures, Product cost deflation and will have on the Groups operations.
The order of probability or impact.
inflation and Financial risks set out risks arising from Brexit will most likely below: belimited to foreign exchange volatility, a During the year an analysis of the the risk headed Business continuity has reduction in economic activity in the UK and interconnectivity of the principal and been refocused on the specific Cyber the imposition of trade tariffs.
The Group non-principal risks as identified through security element of this risk: and does not consider that its principal risks and theGroups risk assessment process uncertainties have changed as a result of wasperformed.
This review looked at the Laws and regulations risk was these Brexit related risks.
therelationships, connections and reconsidered and it was determined that interdependencies between risks, while exposure to potential legal and The directors confirm that they have carried recognising that risks do not always occur regulatory claims is always a risk, it did not out a robust assessment of the principal risks inisolation.
Although this exercise did not represent a principal risk to the Group.
facing the Group, including those that would result in identifying any additional principal threaten its business model, future risks, the review contributed to the Groups performance, solvency or liquidity.
assessment of the adequacy of risk management and mitigating activities.
Principal risks facing the Group Description of risk and how it might affect the How the risk is managed or mitigated Groups prospects Risks to the Groups organic growth T he Group operates in highly competitive markets and The Groups geographic and market sector 1.
Competitive pressures faces price competition from international, national, diversification allow it to withstand shifts in demand, Revenue and profits are reduced regional and local companies in the countries and while this global scale across many markets also as the Group loses a customer or markets in which it operates.
enables the Group to provide the broadest possible lowers prices due to competitive range of customer specific solutions to suit their pressure U nforeseen changes in the competitive landscape exacting needs.
could also occur such as an existing competitor or new market entrant introducing disruptive technologies or The Group maintains high service levels and close changes in routes to market.
contact with its customers to ensure that their needs are being met satisfactorily.
This includes continuing to C ustomers, especially large or growing customers, invest in e-commerce and digital platforms to further could exert pressure on the Groups selling prices, enhance its service offering to customers.
thereby reducing its margins, could switch to a competitor or could ultimately choose to deal directly The Group maintains strong relationships with a variety with suppliers.
of different suppliers, thereby enabling the Group to offer a broad range of products to its customers, A ny of these competitive pressures could lead to a loss including own brand products, in a consolidated of market share, and a reduction in the Groups one-stop-shop offering at competitive prices.
A r eduction in the cost of products bought by the Group, The Group uses its considerable experience in sourcing 2.
Product cost deflation due to suppliers passing on lower commodity prices and selling products to manage prices during periods Revenue and profits are reduced such as plastic or paper and or foreign currency of deflation in order to minimise the impact on profits.
due to the Groups need to pass on fluctuations, coupled with actions of competitors, may cost price reductions Focus on the Groups own brand products, together require the Group to pass on such cost reductions to with the reinforcement of the Groups service and customers, especially those on indexed or cost-plus product offering to customers, helps to minimise the pricing arrangements, resulting in a reduction in the impact of price deflation.
The Group continually looks at ways to improve O perating profit margins may also be lower due to the productivity and implement other efficiency above factors if operating costs are not reduced measuresto manage and, where possible, commensurate with the reduction in product costs.
52 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Principal risks facing the Group Description of risk and how it might affect the How the risk is managed or mitigated Groups prospects S ignificant or unexpected cost increases by suppliers, The Group sources its products from a number of 3.
Product cost inflation due to the pass through of higher commodity prices different suppliers so that it is not dependent on any Profits are reduced from the such as plastic or paper and or foreign currency one source of supply for any particular product and can Groups inability to pass on fluctuations, could adversely impact profits if the purchase products at the most competitive prices.
product cost increases Group is unable to pass on such product cost increases The majority of the Groups transactions are to customers.
carried out in the functional currency of the Groups operations, but for foreign currency transactions some forward purchasing of foreign currencies is used to reduce the impact of short term currency volatility.
If necessary, the Group will, where possible, pass on price increases from its suppliers to its customers.
Risks to the Groups acquisition growth Acquisitions are a key component of the Groups growth The Group maintains a large acquisition pipeline which 4.
Unavailability of strategy and one of the key sources of the Groups continues to grow with targets identified by managers acquisitions competitive advantage, having made more than 150 of our current businesses, research undertaken by the Profit growth is reduced from the acquisitions since 2004.
Groups dedicated and experienced in-house corporate Groups inability to acquire new development team and leads received from banking companies I nsufficient acquisition opportunities, through a lack and corporate finance contacts.
ofavailability of suitable companies to acquire or an unwillingness of business owners to sell their The Group has a strong track record of successfully companies to Bunzl, could adversely impact future making acquisitions.
At the same time the Group profit growth.
maintains a decentralised management structure which facilitates a strong entrepreneurial culture and encourages former owners to remain within the Group after acquisition, which in turn encourages other companies to consider selling to Bunzl.
Unsuccessful acquisition I nadequate pre-acquisition due diligence related to a The Group has established processes and procedures Profits are reduced, including target company and its market, or an economic decline for detailed pre-acquisition due diligence related byan impairment charge, due shortly after an acquisition, could lead to the Group to acquisition targets and the post-acquisition toan unsuccessful acquisition paying more for a company than its fair value.
oracquisition integration F urthermore, the loss of key people or customers, The Groups acquisition strategy is to focus on those exaggerated by inadequate post-acquisition businesses which operate in sectors where it has or integration of the business, could in turn result in can develop competitive advantage and which have underperformance of the acquired company compared good growth opportunities.
to pre-acquisition expectations which could lead to The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of lower profits as well as a need to record an impairment its acquisitions through the recruitment and retention loss against any associated intangible assets.
of high quality and appropriately incentivised management combined with effective strategic planning, investment in resources and infrastructure and regular reviews of performance by both business area and Group management.
Risks to the Groups operations T he frequency, sophistication and impact of cyberConcurrent with the Groups IT investments, the Group 6.
Cyber security attacks on businesses are rising at the same time is continuing to improve information security policies Bunzls ability to operate and asBunzl is increasing its digital footprint through and controls to improve its ability to monitor, prevent, service its customers needs acquisition and investment in ecommerce platforms detect and respond to cyber threats.
areimpacted by a cyber-attack and efficiency enhancing IT systems.
Cyber security awareness campaigns across all W eak cyber defences, both now and in the future, regions have been or will be deployed to enhance the through a failure to keep up with increasing cyber risks knowledge of Bunzl personnel including their and insufficient IT disaster recovery planning and resilience to phishing attacks.
testing, could increase the likelihood and severity of IT disaster recovery and incident management plans, acyber-attack leading to business disruption, which would be implemented in the event of any such reputational damage and loss of customers.
failure, are in place and periodically tested.
A Group CIO and Group Head of Information Security has been recruited to coordinate activity in this area.
53 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Principal risks facing the Group Description of risk and how it might affect the How the risk is managed or mitigated Groups prospects Financial risks I nsufficient liquidity in financial markets could lead to The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from 7.
Availability of funding banks and institutions being unwilling to lend to the different sources and continually monitors net debt and Insufficient liquidity leading Group, resulting in the Group being unable to obtain forecast cash flows to ensure that it will be able to toinsolvency necessary funds when required to repay maturing meet its financial obligations as they fall due and that borrowings, thereby reducing the cash available to sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups meet its trading obligations, make acquisitions and requirements in the short, medium and long term.
T he majority of the Groups revenue and profits are The Group does not hedge the impact of exchange rate 8.
Currency translation earned in currencies other than sterling, the Groups movements arising on translation of earnings into Significant change in foreign functional currency.
sterling at average exchange rates.
The Board believes exchange rates leading to a that the benefits of its geographical spread outweigh reduction in reported results and A s a result, a significant strengthening of sterling the risks.
Results are reported at constant exchange or a breach of banking covenants against the US dollar and the euro in particular could rates so that investors can observe the underlying have a material translation impact on the Groups performance of the Group excluding the translation reported results and or lead to a breach of net debt to impact on the Groups reported results.
The Groups borrowings are denominated in US dollars, sterling and euros in similar proportions to the relative profit contribution of each of these currencies to the Groups EBITDA.
This minimises the risk that movements in foreign exchange rates will have a material impact on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, and therefore minimises the risk of a breach of banking covenants caused by foreign currency fluctuations.
Taxation C hanges to tax law have recently been enacted in Oversight of the Groups tax strategy is within the remit Increase in Group tax rate and or several countries, in particular in the US, and overall of the Board and tax risks are assessed by the Audit cash tax these are expected to lead to a decrease in the Groups Committee.
The Group seeks to plan and manage its tax affairs H owever, the future tax expense and cash tax efficiently but also responsibly with a view to ensuring obligations could be affected by the resolution of that it complies fully with the relevant legal obligations uncertain prior year issues and by further changes in in the countries in which the Group operates while tax law.
endeavouring to manage its tax affairs to protect value for the Companys shareholders in line with the Boards F or instance, changes could result from the legal broader fiduciary duties.
arguments between the European Commission and the UK government over whether part of the UKs tax The Group manages and controls these risks through regime is contrary to European Union State Aid an internal tax department made up of experienced tax provisions.
professionals who exercise judgement and seek appropriate advice from specialist professional firms.
T he resolution of prior year issues or legislative changes could cause a higher tax expense and higher At the same time the Group monitors international cash tax payments, thereby adversely affecting the developments in tax law and practice, adapting its Groups future cash flows.
approach where necessary to do so.
54 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED resilient and in particular it remained in Assessment of the prospects of the How the prospects of the Company compliance with the relevant financial Company and its viability statement and its longer term viability have covenants.
The conditions required to create In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the been assessed the reverse stress test scenario, the third Corporate Governance Code, the directors In making a viability statement, the directors stress test, were so severe that it was set out below how they have assessed the are required to consider the Companys considered to be implausible.
prospects of the Company, over what period ability to meet its liabilities as they fall due, the prospects have been assessed and the taking into account the Companys current The directors consider that the stress Companys formal viability statement.
The Company testing based assessment of the Companys has significant financial resources including prospects, building on the results of the committed and uncommitted banking The context for and period over robust assessment of the principal risks facilities, US private placement notes and which the prospects of the to the business and the financial implications asenior unsecured bond, further details of them materialising, confirms the Company have been assessed ofwhich are set out in Note 13 to the resilience of the Group to severe but To consider the prospects of the Company consolidated financial statements.
As plausible scenarios and provides a and determine an appropriate time frame aresult, the directors believe that the reasonable basis on which to conclude for the purpose of making a statement on Company is well placed to manage its on its longer term viability.
the Companys longer term viability, the business risks successfully.
directors have taken into account various factors including the nature of the Confirmation of longer term viability The resilience of the Group to a range of Companys business, its business model In accordance with the provisions of the possible scenarios, in particular the impact and strategy and the existing planning Corporate Governance Code, the directors on key financial ratios and its ongoing periods.
In particular: have taken account of the Groups current compliance with financial covenants, was position and principal risks and uncertainties factored into the directors considerations Bunzl has a geographically balanced and referred to above in assessing the prospects through stress testing current financial diversified business portfolio operating in of the Company and they have a reasonable projections.
These stress tests included 30 countries: expectation that the Company will be able to thefollowing: the Company operates across six core, continue in operation and meet its liabilities fragmented market sectors, many of which as they fall due over the three year period to the impact of the crystallisation of the are growing and resilient to challenging 31 December 2020. principal risks to the Groups organic economic conditions: and growth and a significant increase in the business model and strategy minimise working capital: the volatility of the Companys results, the impact of the crystallisation of the enabling Bunzl to deliver consistently good principal risks to the Groupss organic results with high returns on capital and andacquisition growth and significant cash conversion.
increases in both working capital and the effective tax rate, both with and without With regard to the time frame specifically, mitigating actions: and the directors considered the above factors a reverse stress test scenario which as well as the Groups strategic planning identified what would need to happen to process.
Comprehensive budgets are cause the Company to fail, which for this prepared annually by the business areas purpose is taken to mean an unavoidable andapproved by the Board.
Strategic plans breach of financial covenants.
covering a period of two years beyond the forecast for the current year are also In all scenarios it has been assumed, based prepared annually and reviewed by the on past experience and all current indicators, Board.
While the directors have no reason to that the Company will be able to refinance believe the Company will not be viable over a itsbanking facilities, US private placement longer period, given the inherent uncertainty notes and senior unsecured bond as and involved, the period over which the directors when they mature.
In the first two stress consider it possible to form a reasonable tests it was found that the Group was expectation as to the Groups longer term viability is the three year period to 31 December 2020.
