RISK MANAGEMENT INTRODUCTION RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Audit and Risk Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman, Risk universe with delegated responsibility from the Board to provide oversight and challenge to the appropriateness of the Risk Management Framework and forward-looking risks.
Risk appetite The Committee regularly discusses any breaches of agreed risk appetites with representatives from the Trusts Executive function, WTW and Alliance Trust Savings.
The Chief Risk Officer Policies from Alliance Trust Savings reports to the Committee on risks affecting that business on a quarterly basis.
The Committee also receives reports on the Risk Exposures and Events from the Executive function and WTW which highlight any risk Governance Management information exposures that might be close to or exceed agreed limits.
RISK GOVERNANCE Risk management Risk management organisation The financial statements in this Annual Report are those of methodologies the Trust only.
In this section where reference is made to Group it means the Trust and its subsidiaries details set out on page 63 other than Alliance Trust Savings which has Embed risk Culture Conduct practices its own independent board responsible for managing the risks affecting that business and which operates its own risk management framework.
The Framework is reviewed annually and findings are Effective risk management is essential to the Group's presented to the Committee.
The most recent assessment meeting its strategic objectives successfully.
A robust highlighted no significant concerns.
Risk Management Framework the Framework has been After the year end the annual review of the effectiveness implemented throughout the Group to provide an efficient of the internal control systems is provided to the Board.
and comprehensive approach for the identification, This review encompasses all material controls including assessment and management of the significant risks financial, prudential, and operational and compliance, and impacting the Groups ability to meet its objectives.
This aims to ensure that all systems are operating effectively Framework supports key processes including compliance to mitigate and manage the key risks to the Group.
Please with various regulatory capital and liquidity requirements.
refer to page 37 of the Audit and Risk Committee report Prior to 1 April 2017, the Trust relied on the Risk Management for further details on the findings of our 2017 internal systems put in place by Alliance Trust Investments ATI.
Following WTWs appointment the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee performed a full review of the Groups RISK APPETITE internal control environment.
WTW, which replaced Alliance The Groups Risk appetite statement was updated in 2017 to take Trust Investments as investment manager, was asked to report into account the adoption of the new investment management on the Groups control model and the Trust engaged Ernst approach and outsourcing to third parties.
The statement has & Young LLP EY to perform an independent analysis of the been approved by the Board and provides the basis for the level Framework and mitigating controls, comparing this to industry of risk the Group is prepared to accept.
A suite of risk appetite best practice.
In addition, as part of the Committees review, metrics has been agreed.
Reporting is provided against these the Trusts Risk Appetite Statement was updated to reflect the metrics on a quarterly basis by the Executive function and in appointment of the third-party service providers delivering the form of a risk profile snapshot from WTW and activity is the Trusts new investment approach.
The Groups principal monitored against stated triggers and limits.
risks and the Framework reflect the changes made as part of this process.
There were three risk appetite measures outside the following triggers during the year which remained in that position at the year end: Performance of subsidiaries against business plan Alliance Trust Savings failed to achieve its financial target Demand for Trust Shares 1% below the sector six-month average NAV performance below an outperformance of 1.5% over the MSCI ACWI over a rolling three-year period | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 22 I STRATEGIC REPORT II III PRINCIPAL RISKS In common with other financial services organisations, our business model results in a number of inherent risks which are continuously monitored and managed.
Under each of the risk headings in the table below, the sub-risk categories have been updated to align with the changes made to the risk management processes during the year.
MARKET AND PRUDENTIAL RISKS Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Investment Risk Investment performance fails Robust investment process which is guided by to deliver sufficient capital growth the investment policy.
The Board regularly reviews due to poor stock selection, investment performance and governance, and must sector allocation or wider market approve any changes to the investment mandate.
Compliance with investment parameters is tested by WTW, which also contributes to the stress and scenario testing of the portfolio through an Early Warnings Indicators analysis.
Investment risk is managed by WTW within parameters set by the Board which reviews regular reports from WTW.
Credit and Credit risk is the risk that a The Group has adopted a policy of working only Counterparty counterparty to a financial with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining Risk instrument will fail to discharge sufficient collateral where appropriate to mitigate an obligation or commitment that the risk of financial loss from defaults.
it has entered into with the Group.
Investment transactions are carried out with well-established, approved brokers and on a cash against receipt or cash against delivery basis.
Financial and Level of capital held to cover the The consolidated Group Internal Capital Adequacy Prudential Group risks is not sufficient.
Assessment Process ICAAP includes a risk Reporting assessment carried out to identify the principal risks that may adversely impact the Trust due to its being a bank holding company.
The Board reviews the capital structure of the Trust and Group on a semi-annual basis.
Net gearing has been limited to no more than 30% of the net assets of the Trust.
WTW carries out and reports to the Board on stress and scenario testing on the portfolio.
Liquidity The Trust does not have sufficient The majority of investments are held in listed liquid resources to ensure that entities which pose a reduced risk to liquidity.
it can meet its liabilities as they Gearing availability and cash positions of the Trust fall due during normal and are monitored on a regular basis.
The Committee reviews the consolidated Group This is the risk that the movement Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process in the fair value of the assets of ILAAP which involves analysing the risks to the the Trust is amplified by any business and the level of capital required to reflect gearing that the Trust may have.
those risks and the way in which any liquidity concerns would be addressed.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 23 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Cyber-attack Failure to ensure that business Systems and controls in place to protect the is adequately protected against business from cyber-attacks are tested on a the threat of cyber-attack, which regular basis.
may lead to significant business Ongoing monitoring of the cyber-security Increased due disruption or external fraud.
environment to understand any changes to the to the higher Despite action taken by threats and risks of new attacks.
number of management to improve systems Business continuity plans are in place should a outsourced the increasing trend is due to the cyber-attack occur.
general growth in cyber-related incidents across the industry.
Outsourcing Loss arising from inadequate or Through due diligence process in place when failed processes, people and or selecting third-party service providers.
WTW regularly monitors and reports to the Board Increased due to the higher on the equity managers and other third-party service providers.
number of outsourced Controls reports from WTW and other service providers.
providers are received and reviewed by the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Corporate The risk of not meeting and The Board conducts an annual internal review Governance being in compliance with external review is conducted every three years of regulatory responsibilities.
the effectiveness of itself and of its Committees.
This enables it to identify new challenges and evolve its response.
INVESTMENT TRUST STATUS Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Loss of The risk of not complying with WTW reviews the Trusts Investment Trust status and reports on this regularly to the Board.
tax status Sections 1158-59 of the Corporation Tax Act and the organisation losing Investment Trust Status.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 24 I STRATEGIC REPORT II III STRATEGY RISK Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Performance Stock market action involving the The Board regularly monitors KPIs against the impacted by Trust results in uncertainty around business model and strategy, as well as meets external factors the business model and impacts on with shareholders to understand expectations performance current and future.
The increasing risk is due to WTW regularly reviews and reports on the political continued focus by shareholders and economic environment.
on delivery of the Trusts strategy.
A Marketing and Investor Relations Working Group has been put in place to focus on Trust communications and marketing activities.
REPUTATIONAL Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Reputational Damage to the Trusts reputation Through due diligence process in place when that could lead to negative publicity selecting third-party service providers.
and adverse impact on financial WTW and the Executive function regularly monitor performance.
the activities of third-party service providers and report to the Board.
REGULATORY NON-COMPLIANCE Risk Description Mitigating activities Change in year Regulatory Failure to ensure that systems Regulatory developments are monitored on non-compliance and controls are adequate to a regular basis to ensure changes have been Increased due allow compliance with all relevant implemented effectively.
to the higher regulatory requirements.
WTW and the Executive function report on the number of regulatory environment.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 25
