RISK MANAGEMENT The successful delivery of our strategy depends on our ability to manage risks appropriately in a manner that does not jeopardise the interests of our stakeholders.
We assess the principal risks to our business RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK as part of on-going business performance and operational reviews, as follows: Board We conduct Group-level risk workshops to consider overall strategic risks to the business.
Ultimately responsible for effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems We conduct operational risk workshops focused on specific operational risks in the context of each of our operations.
Audit Committee EHS&S Committee We conduct functional risk workshops to assess key matters which could affect underlying support functions, such as treasury, tax, technical services and business improvement, Executive Leadership Team required for our long-term business plans.
Accountable for the design and implementation of risk management processes and the consistent application of risk management systems We ensure that principal risks are assessed as material components of our monthly operational and financial performance reporting.
General managers and functional heads Our annual business plan and budgeting process incorporates risks identified as a result of these Ensure risk management compliance is embodied in Acacia culture, practices and operations reviews.
Residual risks are identified based on the effectiveness of existing controls.
The principal risks identified via this process are then Internal audit function monitored, assessed and reviewed throughout the year by the Executive Leadership Team in the Assists the Board and management in executing their responsibilities first instance, the Audit and EHS&S and other Board Committees where relevant to their respective remits of responsibility, and ultimately by the Board, as part of Acacias continuing in our operating environment and related may present a risk to funding.
This has required assessment of risk trends and developments.
disputes and the overall resulting impact of the Group to implement various mitigation these matters on the financial and operating measures, including Bulyanhulus move to Further detail as regards to the outcome of the conditions of the Group.
reduced operations and the acceleration of Boards internal control and risk management planned processing changes at Buzwagi to review for the year is provided on page 68 of As such we have added the following principal provide solely for dor production.
In addition, the Corporate Governance Report Internal risks to the 2017 risk register: management has taken, and continues to Control and below.
Attraction and retention of employees explore, cash optimisation opportunities as Liquidity risk 2017 Principal risk review evidenced by the gold hedging programmes Significant fraud and corruption For 2017 our principal risks have continued executed during the year and subsequent to Reserve and resource estimates to fall within four broad categories: strategic year-end and the divesture of the Hound risks, financial risks, external risks and royalty a non-core asset following year-end.
Attraction and retention of employees operational risks.
The make-up of our Group This risk is now considered a principal risk due Significant fraud and corruption principal risks has changed through the year to the increasing likelihood and impact of not In the past, the risk relating to significant fraud from those identified as principal risks in being able to retain key staff or attract suitably and corruption has been disclosed together with 2016, with many of the risks being elevated experienced staff in the current operating the principal risk relating to security.
However, due to the current challenges in the operating environment.
To respond to this risk, we have assessed that the controls over environment in Tanzania, and our disputes with management has introduced long-term operational security and theft have improved the Government of Tanzania.
Non-technical incentive and retention programmes and are and that the residual risk in that area has risk risk relating to interactions with external continuing with implementation of the decreased.
Although the trend in risks relating stakeholders remains high and financial risk employee localisation strategy.
to fraud and corruption remained constant over trends are increasing as a result of these 2017, it is now disclosed separately from Liquidity risk factors.
The operational and  security and theft.
Management Our primary source of liquidity is operating cash related risks show a decreasing trend, notably continued to maintain a range of processes flow together with cash holdings and credit equipment effectiveness, environmental and and controls during 2017 to manage fraud and facilities.
The challenges in our operating safety-related risks have decreased.
corruption risks, including conducting risk environment have resulted in a decrease in We have reassessed the Groups principal assessments, maintaining and implementing operating cash flow and over the longer term risks in light of the on-going challenges 24 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Relevant pages p26 Principal risks and uncertainties PRINCIPAL RISK CHART: RESIDUAL RISK RANKING annual compliance programmes, training in the Code of Conduct, maintaining our Whistle-blower 1.
P olitical, legal and regulatory developments Hotline, and formal anti-corruption and anti-fraud 2.
Single country risk policies and procedures, which are available on Acacias website.
A ttraction and retention of employees new Reserve and resource estimates 4.
Significant changes Generally reserves and resources estimates to commodity prices are based on a range of assumptions and 5.
Operational security and theft factors and each year we disclose risks and 6.
L iquidity risk new factors relevant to reserves and resources estimates in the context of our annual 7.
S ignificant fraud and corruption new reserves and resources estimates, which 8.
R eserve and resource in turn are calculated and reported on in estimates new accordance with the requirements of NI 9.
Environmental hazards 43-101 of the Canadian Institute of Mining and rehabilitation and Metallurgy and Petroleum.
S afety risks relating to mining operations this risk has been reintroduced this year as a Ranking in 2016 result of the on-going challenges in our Low residual risk High residual risk Current ranking 2017 operating environment and the impact that these external factors may have on our reserves and resources calculation and, Assessment of viability uncertainty that may cast significant doubt ultimately carrying value of our assets, further In addition to annual risk management on the Groups ability to remain viable.
details of which have been provided in the reviews, we also conducted additional We continue to assess viability over a Strategic report, the Finance review and the reviews relating to business viability relevant three-year assessment period on the basis notes to our financial statements.
to our assessment of Acacias on-going of the key components and criteria that viability and the related confirmations Overall improvements in controls as well as continue to underpin the Acacia Groups required to be made in this regard.
the reducing impact of certain risks have life of mine planning process.
This process resulted in three operational risks being In assessing the viability of the business is built on a mine by mine basis using a removed from the list of risks previously the Directors have taken into account the detailed physical and financial model.
viewed as being principal risks.
These three developments and trends across the It makes certain assumptions as regards operational risks are: Companys principal risks and related the on-going gold price environment and on-going uncertainties affecting our Equipment effectiveness the performance level of each mine.
Each business and in particular the on-going Implementation of enhanced operational component of the plan is then stress tested political, legal and regulatory developments systems for market sensitivities as part of on-going affecting our operating environment, as Continuity of power supply reviews.
The key components of the plans, explained in this Risk management section associated principal risks and relevant The principal risk chart opposite shows how and throughout this Annual Report.
scenario testing to this planning process are we have allocated residual risk ratings across In addition, the Directors consideration reviewed by the Directors at least annually.
In addition, the of viability is subject to all considerations table entitled principal risks and uncertainties In addition, the life of mine planning and assumptions taken into account as overleaf sets out a description of each of process is underpinned by regular Board part of the 2017 carrying value review and our principal risks, along with commentary briefings as part of on-going periodic tax provision assessment outlined on page regarding management responsibility, operational performance reviews and the 72 and the going concern statement on Committee and Board oversight, relevance discussion of any operational initiatives page 49 of this Annual Report.
to strategy, mitigating action and the status to be undertaken in the ordinary course of of the risk in 2017 for further information After making appropriate enquiries and business.
In addition to this and in light of purposes.
We also chart year-on-year trends considering the uncertainties described above, the challenges faced in 2017 management and continuing impact assessments.
In addition the Directors have a reasonable expectation has enhanced its liquidity assessments for to those risks stated, there may be additional that the Acacia Group will continue to operate going concern and viability purposes.
risks unknown to Acacia and other risks, and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for The information relating to Acacias currently believed to be immaterial or that relate the next three years should the operating performance included on pages 30 to 61 to the wider gold mining industry, which could environment not further deteriorate, however inclusive of this Annual Report is incorporated turn out to be material to the Group.
Additional have concluded that the combination of the by reference into this Strategic report and is discussions of certain trends and uncertainties above circumstances represents a material deemed to form part of this Strategic report.
that may affect our operations are provided in other parts of this Strategic report.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 25
