Key risks and mitigations Risk management culture focused onintegrity and good conduct The Group is exposed to a variety of risks as a result of Lines of defence its business activities.
Effective risk management is a The first line of defence against undesirable outcomes core competence and we actively monitor the potential is the business functions themselves and the line impact of current and emerging risks.
The Group managers across Asset Management, Wealth places significant focus on the integrity and good Management and Infrastructure.
Heads of each conduct of employees and the risk management business area take the lead role with respect to framework is underpinned by a strong ethical culture identifying potential risks in their area and with clear oversight responsibilities.
This section implementing and maintaining appropriate controls to explains how we control and manage the risks in our manage these risks.
It outlines key risks, how we mitigate them Line management is supplemented by the control and and our assessment of their potential impact on our oversight functions, including Group Risk, Compliance business in the context of the current environment.
Legal and Governance, Finance, Tax, and Human Managing risk Resources, which constitute the second line of defence.
The Board is accountable for risk and oversight of the The compliance monitoring programme reviews the risk management process.
It considers the most effective operation of relevant key processes against significant risks facing the Group and also uses regulatory requirements.
quantitative exposure measures, such as stress tests, Group Internal Audit provides retrospective, where appropriate.
Non-executive Director oversight of independent assurance over the operation of controls the risk management process with respect to and forms the third line of defence.
The internal audit standards of integrity, risk management and internal programme includes reviews of risk management control is exercised through the Audit and Risk processes and recommendations to improve the Committee, more details of which are on page 60. control environment, supplemented by external It is the responsibility of all employees to uphold the assurance from the Groups auditors.
We embed risk management within all areas of the business.
Members Lines of defence of the Group Management Committee GMC have risk Overview management responsibility for their respective business areas and we expect individual behaviours to External independent assurance mirror the culture and core values of the Group.
The Group Chief Executive and the GMC, as the Three lines of defence principal executive committee with responsibility for the monitoring and reporting of risk and controls, rd Group Group Audit 3 line: Internal independent assurance regularly review the key risks facing the Group.
Risk Management and Risk Committee Committee Committee The executive Director oversight of risk is delegated by the Group Chief Executive to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial Officer has responsibility for the risk nd 2 line: Control and oversight functions and control framework of the Group and independent monitoring and reporting of risks and controls is supported by the Group Head of Risk.
st 1 line: Business operations and support The Chief Financial Officer chairs the Group Risk Committee GRC which meets ten times a year.
The GRC supports the Chief Financial Officer and the GMC in discharging their risk management responsibilities.
The committee is attended by the heads of the control functions Group Risk, Compliance, Legal and Internal Audit along with chief operating officers from across the business and senior managers from Distribution, Product and Wealth Management.
Other GMC members regularly attend.
The GRC reviews and monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework, including relevant policies and limits.
It also reviews trends and current exposures to our key risks and considers issues as they arise.
The GRC and the Wealth Management Audit and Risk Committee receive reports relating to the risk profile of Wealth Management.
34 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 W r i h s k a Strategic report t a i f s t e t r h c e o r n e t r s o i d l s u ?
l s y e e s k s e r c u o o r e p r a s s t a e i h n W n i W h s p l u a a b t c c e o t n o t r m o i l t s i g d a t o Schroders maintains comprehensive insurance cover We performed ongoing monitoring of our risk with a broad range of policies covering a number appetite measures and metrics and enhanced these ofinsurable events.
in certain areas, such as information security.
Through our Information Security Risk Oversight 2017 developments Committee, we have developed risk appetite metrics Management of our key risks has remained a priority to ensure we remain in a good position to manage throughout 2017.
In particular, we have focused cyber threats.
We commissioned an external review onfurther enhancing our operational risk framework of our security framework, including governance, and embedding conduct risk management in our capabilities and strategy, to ensure the inventory of business lines.
planned enhancements remain appropriately prioritised.
Specific initiatives were undertaken which cover a wide range ofactivities across the Group and are outlined We performed further work to consider model risk below: and to manage user developed tools.
We have also developed an approach to assess the risks when We enhanced our skills and experience in the UK, US wedeploy robotics, as this is a key business and Asia Pacific to ensure a smooth transition to our initiativefor us.
new front office technology platform which will The Risk and Control Assessment RCA process provide a more comprehensive risk management continues to be a key part of our Risk Management capability.
Framework and is summarised in the diagram As an integral part of the corporate investment below.
In 2017, we broadened the range of risks that process, we have worked alongside our business are included and assessed within RCAs to provide a teams performing due diligence on inorganic more comprehensive assessment.
Tosupport this opportunities to fully assess the risks.
activity we are upgrading our technology to manage We expanded our risk framework to consider our RCAs, which will improve our aggregation, oversight growing business activities in China, including our and reporting.
Risk and control assessment process Risk and control assessment Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 e t w h e e h r a i s v k ?
i h m e r p e a c n t t Key risks and mitigations continued Key risks Assessment of key risks Viability statement We have identified 21 key risks across Strategic, Business, Financial and Operational risk In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the key risks facing the Group and expect Schroders categories, asshown on the following page.
plc will continue to be viable for at least the next five years.
These risks have been assessed in light of the current environment, taking into consideration Assessment of prospects the views of subject matter experts and risk A five year period to December 2022 is in line with the Groups strategic business owners within the firm, market conditions, planning and forecasting period.
The Groups strategic and financial planning process regulatory sentiment and changes within includes a detailed review of the business model and key planning assumptions.
Threats with uncertain impact, led by the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer in conjunction with probability and timeframe could impact the management teams, with the one year outlook most recently updated in February Group.
Notwithstanding the five year viability horizon, the business plan addresses the external environments to identify new and longer term headwinds that the business currently expects to face, to ensure that the emerging risks.
Wethen analyse each risk and, business model adapts to the changing environment.
The business plan is based on ifneeded, develop and apply mitigation and the Groups strategy which is summarised on page 14. management plans.
Key assumptions included AUMA growth from both markets and net new business: The Group determines which key risks it changes to net operating revenue margins due to changes in business mix, planned considers to be heightened, for example those business activity and industry-wide margin pressures: and additional costs comprising that are more costly if they materialise.
We then the expected total compensation cost ratio and non-compensation costs including undertake further work to actively manage from the Groups continued investment intechnology, increased accommodation these.
When considering these risks, we also costs and costs driven by regulatory requirements.
take account of the objectives of regulators Progress against financial budgets and key objectives are reviewed throughout the toensure market integrity, appropriate year by both the Directors and the GMC along with periodic reviews of the capital and consumer protection and promotion of dividend policy.
The diagram onthe following page shows therelative Assessment of viability position of our risks and is an outcome An assessment of the Groups viability requires the Directors to consider the ofour assessments.
principal risks that could affect the Group, which are outlined on the following page.
We remain vigilant in considering the impact The Directors review the key risks regularly and consider the options available to the ofBrexit on our business model and have Group to mitigate these risks to ensure that the ongoing viability of the Group is described this further at the end of this section.
Stress testing is performed on the Groups business plan, based upon a number of the Groups key risks crystallising over the assessment period.
Thestress scenarios are consistent with those used in the Groups consolidated Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
The severe but plausible stress scenarios include the following factors which, where relevant, use assumptions more severe than the regulatory stress scenario established by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA : Outflows of our AUMA, or deterioration in the value of our AUMA, asaresult of a market downturn, foreign exchange movements or poor investment performance: a more severe decline in net operating revenue margins reducing projected revenues, together with an increase in the ratio of total costs tonet income: and the impact of a material operational risk event which could lead toreputational damage and outflows of our AUMA.
Having reviewed the results of the stress scenarios, the Directors have concluded that the Group would have sufficient capital and liquid resources in the above scenarios and that the Groups ongoing viability would be sustained.
In drawing this conclusion, the business model was able to adapt to the changes in capital and liquid resources.
The stress scenario assumptions include maintaining the Groups dividend policy but this and other commitments would be reassessed if the circumstances determined this to be necessary over the longer term.
Furthermore, it is possible that the headwinds could be more severe or come sooner and have greater impact than we have determined plausible.
The Directors current, reasonable expectation is that Schroders plc will beable to continue in operation, meeting its liabilities as they fall due, overaviability horizon of at least five years.
The Boards five year viability and longer-term assessment isbased upon information known today.
36 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Strategic risks Financial risks 1 10 Reporting on our Changing investor requirements Market risk materialrisks 2 11 Market returns Credit risk The diagram below illustrates our 3 12 key risks.
The horizontal axis shows Fee attrition Liquidity risk the impact ofa key risk if it were 4 13 Regulatory landscape change Risk of insufficient capital tomaterialise and the vertical axis 5 shows the likelihood of this Business model disruption Operational risks occurring.
The scales of each axis 14 are set on a relative basis between Business risks Conduct and regulatory risk each risk and are based on the 6 15 Reputational risk Legal risk residual risks.
7 16 Investment performance risk Tax risk The risks that we consider to have 8 17 either a higher likelihood of Product risk Process and change risk impacting the organisation, or with 9 18 Business concentration risk Fraud risk a higher likelihood of occurring, are shown above the diagonal line.
19 Technology and information security risk Details of these risks, and how we 20 People and employment practices risk manage them, are described in the tables on the following pages.
21 Third party service provider risk A summary of other key risks is set out on pages 42 and 43.
Financial risks are considered in note 19 of the financial statements.
Risk impact matrix 4 3 1 5 2 16 17 21 6 14 19 8 11 7 20 15 18 10 9 13 12 Low Medium High Impact Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 Likelihood Low Medium High Key risks and mitigations continued Key risks The table below details our heightened key risks.
Key risk Description How we manage risk Growth in demand for investment solutions that are not currently offered by the Group.
This may include index Our Product and Solutions function is distinct from Investment and Distribution, in order to focus on development of new product strategies, Changing investor tracking strategies or certain products where Schroders does not currently offer the investment capability.
innovation, client engagement and managing our diverse product range.
requirements Regulated clients derisking due to the impact of regulatory capital changes, where clients reallocate investments We continue to focus on developing our investment capabilities, expanding into new investment types and specific areas of expertise, 1 tocapabilities that are not currently offered by the Group or at a lower margin.
andcommit seed capital to support product innovation for future growth.
Movement from defined benefit DB to defined contribution DC pension plans in a number of countries such as We deliver our value proposition using an approach based on our strategic capabilities, focusing attention where we believe we are able to make the UK, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan.
a significant difference for our clients or where we have current or future capabilities.
Consolidation of local authority pensions in the UK, reducing the associated fee pool.
We adapt our business structure and cost base to manage the changing asset allocation requirements of our clients and the impact onour business.
Our income is derived from the assets we manage.
A considerable and sustained decline in markets is outside our We have diversified income streams across a range of markets to mitigate a considerable fall in any one area.
Market returns control but may contribute to a significant fall in revenues.
We strive to outperform our competitors with a view to attracting assets which may offset a decline or fall in any given market whilst pursuing 2 best returns for our clients.
A lower fee environment and the impact on our business model of margin attrition due to: Our business is increasing its focus on solutions and other outcome-oriented strategies which diversifies our fee income.
Fee attrition Changes in investor demand, driven by derisking, or a focus on lower fee margin products: We are also increasingly diversifying our product offering, representing our strategic capabilities, to address evolving investor needs, which 3 supports overall profitability in the long term.
Compressed investment returns leading to greater fee sensitivity: We have increased our access to private and other alternative investment assets and strategies through acquisitions and strategic relationships Moves towards vertical integration advice, platform and investment management services, which may lead e. g. infrastructure debt, securitised credit and private equity.
toinvestor and IFA risk for participants within the industry, increasing competition and pressure on fee revenue asactive managers may be disintermediated: We made a strategic investment into Benchmark Capital which provides the opportunity to engage in business in different parts of the value chain in the UK.
Rising costs within the industry, driven by changing and increasing regulatory requirements and technological advancement which impact margins: Industry pricing pressures from competitors, forcing fee cuts in order to remain competitive: and Consolidation of preferred distributors or partners, increasing buying power.
Regulators have moved their focus from the prudential and misconduct issues affecting investment and retail Regulatory and legal change is monitored by the Compliance, Legal and Public Policy teams and our Regulatory Change Committee.
We engage Regulatory banks, to other parts of the financial system, particularly asset managers.
with our regulators in relation to potential and planned changes in regulation.
landscape change There is an increased regulatory focus on transparency of objectives, pricing, fees and other indirect costs borne We are actively considering all implications that may arise from Brexit and are planning accordingly.
We engage in debates when the 4 byend investors and clients.
More information as to how we will be positioned with respect of our EU activities after Brexit is provided on page 42.
The associated operating costs of compliance reduce net profits e. g. MiFID II, PRIIPs, the potential introduction of Our increasingly diverse product offering enables us to meet the changing needs of clients driven by evolving regulation.
minimum levels of fund liquidity and the outcomes of other regulatory reviews, such asthe UK FCAs Asset Management Market Study, the CMAs market investigation into investment consultancy and fiduciary management services and the FCAs market study of investment platforms.
The implications of Brexit, especially with respect to any changes to the ability to delegate activities outside the EU, remain uncertain, although a transitional period is now more likely.
Changes to intermediary commission and incentive structures and obligations are affecting intermediaries product selection processes.
Regulation of distribution through digital channels and robo-advice may also change.
The rise of technology solutions from competitors that disrupt our value chain including competition from We are driving increased efficiencies and insights through technology, including investment in data science to obtain investment insights from Business model quantitative investment technologies that have the potential to assimilate more data and make investment non-traditional data sources and upgrading our front office systems.
disruption decisions, and that may be perceived to realise alpha more efficiently than active managers.
Digital initiatives are in progress to improve client experience, engagement and servicing through our web and mobile platforms, e. g. single 5 Competitors are consolidating through merger and acquisition activities.
They are increasing scale, broadening web platforms and client behaviour analytics.
investment capabilities andexpanding distribution channels resulting in stronger relative market positions.
We are undertaking significant investment in our technology platform to support scalability, agility in product offerings, and our expanding Increased investment and asset allocation through robo-advice services, providing automated investment private assets and alternatives business offerings.
capabilities and potentially displacing active management.
We monitor the performance of our key counterparties on a regular basis, as well as establishing processes for regularly assessing alternatives.
Inability to meet demand for products and solution-based offerings due to our capabilities being inadequate relative to requirements.
Concentration of risks associated with consolidation of key counterparties that support our business operations where alternative providers are not easily identifiable or where there are significant transition challenges.
38 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report The table below details our heightened key risks.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Key risks and mitigations continued Key risk Description How we manage risk The reputation of Schroders is of paramount importance and can be impacted by any of our key risks and by our High standards of conduct and a principled approach to regulatory compliance are integral to our culture and values.
We consider key Reputational risk relationships with clients, regulators and shareholders.
reputational risks when initiating changes in strategy or our operating model.
6 This may arise from poor conduct or judgements or risk events due to weaknesses in systems or controls.
We have a number of controls and frameworks to address other risks that could affect our reputation including: financial crime, investment risk, client take-on and product development.
Ineffective branding and marketing may impact our ability to grow our business.
We have rebranded to ensure our marketing remains relevant and effective and supports our strategic objectives and product offerings.
Reputational risk may also arise from inappropriate client relationships or mandates which have adverse implications for the Group.
The management of investment performance risk is a core skill of the Group.
This is the risk that portfolios will not We have clearly defined investment processes designed to meet investment targets within stated risk parameters.
The Groups Investment Investment meet their investment objectives or that there is a failure to deliver consistent and above-average performance.
RiskFramework provides review and challenge of investment risks, independent of our fund managers, across all asset classes.
Investment performance risk monitoring is performed by fund managers and asset class heads on a regular basis, as well as by asset class risk committees, the GMC The risk that clients move their assets elsewhere if we are unable to outperform competitors or our andlegal entity boards.
Recognising that products may not outperform all of the time, we offer clients a diversified product set.
Keytoinvestment performance isourability to attract and retain talented people.
The risks of client detriment arising from inappropriate conduct, conflicts, management practice or behaviour, We promote a strong compliance culture and we promote good relationships with our regulators.
Our Compliance function supports Conduct and orfailing to meet client needs, interests or expected outcomes.
management in identifying our regulatory obligations and enabling these to be met through relevant training and procedures.
regulatory risk  regulatory requirements is monitored in accordance with a risk-based programme.
The risk of money laundering, bribery or market abuse shortcomings on the part of fund investors, clients, suppliers 14 orour employees.
Our approach to encouraging appropriate conduct and minimising the risk of client detriment is set out in our conduct risk framework, andisbuilt on our culture and values, supported by appropriate governance and reporting.
The risk of fines, penalties, censure or other sanctions arising from failure to identify or meet regulatory requirements.
Risk-based client take-on and review processes are among our key controls to address the risks of money laundering.
Financial crime oversight The risk that new regulations, or changes to existing interpretations of them, have a material effect on theGroups is provided by the Financial Crime Committee.
operations, risk profile or cost base and are complex to implement and difficult to manage.
Regulatory and legal change is monitored by the Compliance, Legal and Public Policy teams and our Regulatory Change Committee.
We engage with our regulators where appropriate in relation to potential and planned changes.
The Group and its managed funds are exposed to: Our approach to managing tax risk is set out in our tax strategy.
This is reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee annually.
It is supported Tax risk byatax governance framework, which aligns to the Groups wider risk and control framework.
Key risks and issues are escalated to the GRC and compliance and reporting risks, which include the submission of late or inaccurate tax returns: 16 the Audit and Risk Committee.
transactional risks, which include actions being taken without appropriate consideration of the potential tax The Tax function works with management and advisers to monitor the tax position of the Group.
Local management, with oversight from our consequences: and Tax function, is generally responsible for identifying and managing the tax position of our managed funds, with the assistance of third party reputational risks, which cover the wider impact that our conduct in relation to our tax affairs can have on our service providers.
Developments in taxation are monitored by the Tax function and local management.
We engage with industry organisations relationships with our stakeholders.
and advisers to keep abreast of relevant tax changes.
The risk of failure of significant business processes, such as mandate compliance, client suitability checks Our key business processes have been identified and the risks assessed by first line of defence owners through theRCA process.
change risk This process is used to determine the adequacy and effectiveness of key controls: with second line providing oversight and challenge.
Poor execution of acquisitions or management of strategic relationships which fail to deliver intended benefits Associatedcontrols are assessed with regard to their design and performance.
Outputfrom the RCA process is presented to the GRC.
17 interms of revenue or costs.
As part of our due diligence process when we consider an acquisition or strategic partnership, we identify areas to be remediated after atransaction is completed.
Subject matter experts will be involved throughout the transition.
Fraud could arise from either internal or external parties who attempt to defraud the firm or our clients Policies and procedures are in place to manage fraud risk.
Controls in place to manage fraud risk are assessed aspart of the RCA process.
Fraud risk bycircumventing either our processes and controls or the controls operated by our third party providers Attempted or any successful frauds are investigated by the Financial Crime team, withoversight from Group Risk.
18 e. g. withinour outsourced transfer agency activities.
The Financial Crime Committee provides oversight of the management of Fraud risk and is a sub-committee oftheGRC.
Technology and information security risk relates to the risk that: Formal governance over information risks has been established across the three lines of defence through the Information Security Risk Technology risk Oversight Committee.
The Group holds insurance to cover cyber risks.
and information our technology systems and support are inadequate or fail to adapt to changing requirements: security Policies and technical standards, including security awareness training, have been deployed across the Group.
our systems are penetrated by third parties: or 19 our data is held insecurely.
Robust project management, assessment of business requirements and management of implementation risks are utilised.
Third party service provider risk relates to the risk that suppliers may not meet their agreed service level terms.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews all material outsourced relationships, focusing on significant aspects such asservice quality and Third party service risk management.
provider risk We have a number of outsourced supplier relationships as part of our business model, particularly in respect ofinformation technology, fund administration, custody and transfer agency services.
Policies are in place that govern our approach to appointing, managing and performing relevant due diligence ofthird party service providers 21 including regular reviews of performance against agreed service levels.
Minimum requirements are established for overseeing service provider risk and performance, and we perform risk assessments on service providers deemed critical to business operations.
40 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Key risk Description How we manage risk The reputation of Schroders is of paramount importance and can be impacted by any of our key risks and by our High standards of conduct and a principled approach to regulatory compliance are integral to our culture and values.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Key risks and mitigations continued Lower rated key risks The key risks that appear below the diagonal line in the risk impact matrix are summarised in the following table.
Key risk Description Key risk Description The risk that our product or service range is not suitably diversified or viable or does not provide access to strategies Counterparty liquidity exposure arising from client transactions and lending activities, principal cash and Product risk Liquidity risk sought by investors or meet their objectives.
8 12 The risk of insufficiently diversified distribution channels, products, clients, markets, or income streams resulting The risk that the Group is unable to support its strategic business objectives due to its minimum regulatory Business Risk of insufficient ina decline in fee revenue if investor demands change.
concentration risk capital 9 13 Market movements may cause a fall in the value of principal investments and a decline in the value of our Legal risk may arise from Schroders, clients or suppliers and other third parties failing to meet their legal Market risk Legal risk proprietary assets.
obligations: Schroders taking on unintended obligations: or legal claims.
10 15 Counterparty capital exposure arising from client transactions and lending activities, principal cash People and employment practices risk may arise from an inability to attract or retain key employees to support Credit risk People and andinvestment holdings.
business activities or strategic initiatives: non-compliance with legislation: or failure to manage employment 11 employee performance.
20 Our business model and Brexit On 29 March 2017, the British government invoked Article 50, beginning the two year countdown to the United Kingdom withdrawing from the European Union.
Negotiations continue butuncertainty remains and there is a range of possible outcomes and timeframes for many aspects of the UKs exit.
Schroders is well positioned to manage the challenges that may arise as a result of Brexit.
Whilst all the legal and regulatory changes of Brexit are not yet clear, our diversified business model means that we are well placed in deciding how best to respond and to continue to service our clients and grow our business.
Over80% of our net operating revenue comes from clients who are based outside the EU27.
We have a long standing commitment to continental Europe, with a substantial presence involving more than 700 employees across nine offices.
In Luxembourg, our European operations centre, we 42 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Key risk Description Key risk Description The risk that our product or service range is not suitably diversified or viable or does not provide access to strategies Counterparty liquidity exposure arising from client transactions and lending activities, principal cash and Product risk Liquidity risk sought by investors or meet their objectives.
20 Our business model and Brexit have around 250 employees in Product, Risk, Compliance and other Infrastructure functions, and from there we distribute funds not just across borders within the EU, but also more widely across the world, delegating portfolio management to a number of jurisdictions.
Globally, our two largest fund ranges are in the UK and Luxembourg.
The UK range is not actively marketed outside theUK.
The Luxembourg range is predominantly comprised of EU27 and other non-UK investors.
The UK government has said that they will, if necessary, introduce a regime to allow EU27-based funds to continue to beoffered to clients based in the UK in the period immediately after Brexit.
We have obtained additional permissions in order to ensure that we can continue to offer our full range of services to European Institutional clients.
Pages 2 to 43 constitute the strategic report, which was approved bytheBoard on 28 February 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Peter Harrison Group Chief Executive 28 February 2018 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43
