PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We define principal risks as those risks or combination of risks that would threaten our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
EXECUTIVE BOARD BOARD RELEVANCE POTENTIAL CHANGE LEADERSHIP TEAM COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT TO STRATEGIC FURTHER RISK IMPACT FROM 2016 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 2017 STATUS MITIGATION COMMENT PILLARS INFORMATION STRATEGIC RISKS Single country risk All of our revenue is derived from production at our operations High CEO CFO Board This risk is elevated as a result of on-going challenges We seek to assess a wide range of potential growth Please in Tanzania.
To ensure continued growth, the Group needs to identify in the operating environment in Tanzania, and our opportunities to build on our existing portfolio, particularly see our new resources and development opportunities through exploration and on-going disputes with the Government.
acquisition and development opportunities outside Exploration acquisition targets.
The identification of potential growth opportunities Tanzania to maximise growth potential and to help mitigate review Continued progression of exploration projects in Kenya, in other territories is required to strengthen the business through the effects that significant developments in Tanzania could and the Burkina Faso and Mali.
geographic diversification in order to mitigate the effects that significant have on our business.
Strategic in-country developments could have on our operations and business.
FINANCIAL RISKS Significant changes to commodity prices Our financial performance is highly dependent on the price of High CFO Board In 2017 we implemented additional gold price We monitor our exposure to commodity price fluctuations Please gold and, to a lesser extent, the price of copper and silver.
Fluctuations protection measures over the short term and will as part of financial and treasury planning and controls see our in the pricing of these commodities, which are largely attributable to continue to assess the requirement for further price procedures.
Financial factors beyond our control, will likely have a corresponding impact on protection arrangements.
We conduct on-going reviews of hedging policies for our financial condition, particularly in the context of rapid pricing certain commodity exposures and implement strategic fluctuations.
protections to secure cash flows from sales revenues.
Liquidity risk Our primary source of liquidity is operating cash flow together with High CFO Board Through 2017, we have faced increased risks of On-going mitigation of the risk includes the general Please cash holdings and credit facilities.
Impacts on operating cash flows impacts on operating cash flows resulting from the continuation of cost control and cost discipline within see our may present a risk of the Group not having access to sufficient funds concentrate ban and resulting actions that have the business and reduction in corporate overheads, Financial to meet its financial commitments and liabilities.
adversely impacted our operating environment.
the deferral of capital expenditure, where possible, review.
Actions taken during 2017 to mitigate this riskinclude: and active management of cash and cash equivalents.
Moving Bulyanhulu into reduced operations Accelerating planned processing changes at Buzwagi to provide solely for dor production Securing gold price protection via hedging programmes Divesting non-core assets, such as the royalty over the Hound Mine in Burkina Faso EXTERNAL RISKS Political, legal and regulatory developments Our exploration, development and operational activities are subject High CEO Head Board The introduction of the export ban on mineral We continue to seek a negotiated solution for the Please see to extensive laws and regulations governing various matters in the of Legal and concentrates in 2017 has led to a number of on-going resolution of all relevant matters at issue by all available our Strategic jurisdictions in which we operate.
Our ability to conduct business is Compliance issues in our operating environment and resulted in a means, including those that may be achieved through report.
dependent on stable and consistent interpretation and application of number of disputed actions.
These include the issuance Barricks on-going negotiation of the framework with the laws and regulations applicable to mining activities and our operations, of a number of tax assessments, including those to the Government of Tanzania.
Changes to existing applicable laws and order of US$190 billion for alleged under-declared In the meantime, the Group continues to protect its regulations, a more stringent application or interpretation of applicable revenues, which appear to follow on from the findings of rights via the arbitration processes commenced under the law and regulation, or inconsistencies and irregularities in the the First Presidential Committee announced on 24 May Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi MDAs and continues to dispute interpretation of applicable law and regulation by relevant Government 2017, and of the Second Presidential Committee the erroneous tax assessments via legal procedures.
authorities could adversely affect the progression of our operations and announced on 12 June 2017.
The allegations contained development projects.
Our operations and financial condition will also in these announced findings and the resulting tax be adversely affected if existing Mineral Development Agreements are assessments are unfounded and the relevant tax not honoured by the Tanzanian Government.
The Group may also be assessments unsubstantiated.
adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, and In addition to the export ban and the Presidential political and or economic instability in Tanzania or any of its Committees reports, new laws and regulations have surrounding countries.
been enacted in Tanzania which have material impacts on the natural resources sector and the mining industry in particular.
26 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC PILLARS KEY OUR BUSINESS OUR PEOPLE INCREASE DECREASE OUR RELATIONSHIPS OUR FUTURE NO CHANGE NEW FOR 2017 EXECUTIVE BOARD BOARD RELEVANCE POTENTIAL CHANGE LEADERSHIP TEAM COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT TO STRATEGIC FURTHER RISK IMPACT FROM 2016 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 2017 STATUS MITIGATION COMMENT PILLARS INFORMATION STRATEGIC RISKS Single country risk All of our revenue is derived from production at our operations High CEO CFO Board This risk is elevated as a result of on-going challenges We seek to assess a wide range of potential growth Please in Tanzania.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 27 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED EXECUTIVE BOARD BOARD RELEVANCE POTENTIAL CHANGE LEADERSHIP TEAM COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT TO STRATEGIC FURTHER RISK IMPACT FROM 2016 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 2017 STATUS MITIGATION COMMENT PILLARS INFORMATION OPERATIONAL RISKS Attraction and retention of employees Our business depends upon our ability to recruit and retain qualified High CEO Board As a result of on-going challenges in our operating We have embarked on training programmes and leadership Please see personnel, such as skilled engineers and geologists.
The loss of skilled environment, we have introduced the attraction and development programmes to develop local industry expertise.
our Strategic workers and a failure to recruit and train equivalent replacements may retention of employees as a principal risk.
In addition, report and Long-term incentive and retention programmes have been affect our operations and production.
key staff may depart leaving vacancies that may not be Sustainability introduced to address retention because of developments adequately filled whilst a resolution to on-going disputes review.
in our operating environment in 2017. in Tanzania remains outstanding.
Continued progression of our localisation strategy.
Operational security and theft We face risks to our businesses in relation to gold thefts and wider High CEO Head EHS&S Throughout 2017 we have continued to review and, Our security management system adopts a range Please security-related matters relating to trespass, vandalism and serious of Legal and Committee where possible, enhance our security model in line with of measures to protect employees, assets, operations and see our security-related incidents on our operations, and illegal mining in areas Compliance our objectives for operational security.
We have people, including local communities, from operational security Sustainability covered by the Groups exploration and mining licences, all of which may continued to assess and enhance security and safety risks.
Our approach to security management is guided review.
have an adverse effect upon Group operations and financial condition.
We have also continued to enhance security by the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and human rights training, on-going reviews of VPSHR.
These measures include the implementation community grievance processes, and on-going of security checks and procedures: infrastructure such as engagements with local police forces.
perimeter and asset fencing and surveillance equipment: contracts with private security providers and Memoranda of Understanding with local police forces with clear expectations regarding respect for human rights: support for human rights training for private security personnel and the police: and community grievance processes.
Significant fraud and corruption We face risks in ensuring fraud and corruption in relation to our High CEO Head Audit Throughout 2017 we have maintained on-going We have implemented a range of processes and controls operations and businesses does not occur, with serious fraud and of Legal and Committee compliance programmes and training focused to manage the risk including conducting risk assessments, corruption having the potential to threaten our licence to operate Compliance on our Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud and Antitraining in the Code of Conduct, maintaining a Whistleand result in legal liability.
blower Hotline, and formal anti-corruption and anti-fraud procedures.
Reserve and resource estimates The reserves and resources estimates are based on a range of High CEO Board This risk has been reintroduced this year as a result We seek to manage the varying nature of reserve Details of assumptions and factors.
Changes to these assumptions, including for of the on-going challenges in our operating environment and resource estimates through our life of mine planning our reserves commodity price, operating environment and applicable changes in law and the impact that these external factors may have on procedures, periodic reviews of such estimates and and resources may impact on the input parameters to the estimates.
This in turn may our reserves and resources calculation and, ultimately production targets and by ensuring that our reserve and are set out in impact on economic recoverability of tonnages or grades in current carrying value of our assets, further details of which resource estimates are calculated and reported on in the reserves reserve and resource estimates.
have been provided in the Strategic report, the Finance accordance with the requirements of NI 43-101 of the and resources review and the notes to our financial statements.
Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and Petroleum.
Environmental hazards and rehabilitation Our operations are subject to environmental hazards because of High CEO EHS&S Throughout 2017 we have maintained our focus We use environmental management systems and Please see the processes and chemicals used in our extraction and production Committee on environmental objectives in support of our controls across our operations to provide for appropriate our Strategic methods.
Should environmental incidents occur despite the mitigating environmental strategy and have continued to environmental practices, including the adoption of report and our measures implemented, we may be liable for losses and costs make enhancements to the Groups environmental specific environmental management plans for each of Operating and associated with environmental hazards at our operations, have our management plans.
We also monitor mining and operational Sustainability licences and permits withdrawn or suspended, or may be forced to activities against key international standards, such as the reviews.
undertake extensive clean-up and remediation action.
International Cyanide Management Code, and assess remediation and rehabilitation costs on an annual basis.
Safety risks relating to mining operations Our mining operations are subject to the usual hazards and safety risks High CEO EHS&S Throughout 2017 we have continued to enhance safety We use a wide range of safety management systems Please see in a mining workplace, such as fall of ground relating to underlying Committee management systems and critical risk control standards to safeguard safety in the workplace.
We provide our Strategic geotechnical risks, potential fires and mobile equipment incidents.
for key operational safety risks in order to maintain our continuous training and supervision on safety management report and our Should safety incidents occur despite the mitigating measures objectives for health and safety.
to promote and embed the use of safe operating practices.
Operating and implemented, we may be liable for associated losses and costs or Sustainability have our operations suspended or licences or permits withdrawn.
28 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC PILLARS KEY OUR BUSINESS OUR PEOPLE INCREASE DECREASE OUR RELATIONSHIPS OUR FUTURE NO CHANGE NEW FOR 2017 EXECUTIVE BOARD BOARD RELEVANCE POTENTIAL CHANGE LEADERSHIP TEAM COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT TO STRATEGIC FURTHER RISK IMPACT FROM 2016 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 2017 STATUS MITIGATION COMMENT PILLARS INFORMATION OPERATIONAL RISKS Attraction and retention of employees Our business depends upon our ability to recruit and retain qualified High CEO Board As a result of on-going challenges in our operating We have embarked on training programmes and leadership Please see personnel, such as skilled engineers and geologists.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 29
