I n t 3 e r r d n L a l i n A e u d i t t n e m e g a e n a n i M L Principal Risks The Groups principal risks have been updated to reflect its operational priorities How we manage risk By regularly reviewing the principal risks reported The Board has ultimate accountability for the The Board sets the policy for managing risk in the across the Group by businesses and functions, and execution of risk management and internal control business.
It recognises the importance of having satisfying itself that these risks are managed within systems, with the Group Executive responsible effective processes and procedures for identifying, the Groups risk appetite, the Board ensures that for overseeing execution of risk management actively monitoring, mitigating and managing the the Groups risk exposure remains appropriate throughout the Group.
During 2017 a new Risk financial and non-financial risks facing the Group.
and that this links to the effective delivery of its Committee was formed as a formal Board strategic objectives.
committee to review the risk management activities of the Group Executive.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the monitoring and reviewing of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems to the Audit Committee.
Assurance over the effectiveness of these systems is provided through regular management reporting to the Audit Committee.
For the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector, which holds classified US Defence programmes and so operates under a US DoD SSA, specific assurances and authorised assurance reports are given by representatives of the SSA Board, which has its own Audit Committee.
The Groups CEO and CFO both sit on the Board of the SSA, as described on page51.
Monitoring Risks and The process for monitoring and controlling risk, and Reporting Actions illustrated in the diagram left, emphasises ongoing evaluation and monitoring by the management teams at each appropriate entity level: Business ERM Unit, Sector, specialist function and at Group level.
The Groups Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework is structured to ensure that risks are identified promptly by management teams to ensure that they are mitigated and managed appropriately in support of the delivery of the Groups strategic plan.
Risks are categorised in terms of inherent risk before mitigation and current risk after existing mitigation.
This allows the Group to Policy and identify risks that are heavily dependent on internal Controls mitigating controls and to allocate resources appropriately.
The risks identified are documented and measured, including the ownership of individual risks.
Data from this process has been aggregated and has been used as the basis for the Groups principal risk disclosure on pages 36 to 39.
com 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 l t a s n 1 o i t a r e p O F 2 u n n d c t L i i o n n s e STRATEGIC REPORT As a result of this process, several changes Risk appetite In making its assessment, the Board has taken into have been made to the Groups principal risks.
The Board has established a risk appetite baseline account the potential impacts of the principal risk Following the completion of the Rights Issue and through which Cobhams risks can be managed events identified in the latest risk review to consider the refinancing of the Groups loans in 2017, and the with appropriate controls and assurance measures.
whether these could prevent the Group from divestment of the AvComm and Wireless test and Risk events can be categorised under four main achieving its strategic objectives.
These principal measurement businesses that is expected to headings: Strategic, Operational, Financial Reporting risks are described in detail in the Principal Risks complete in the first half of 2018, the risk associated and Compliance.
The Group has broken down these section of this report on pages 36 to 39.
The Board with breaching borrowing covenants has been risk categories into a number of subcategories and considers the potential financial and operational retired as a specific principal risk, although it is defined its risk appetite for each.
The risk appetite impact of plausible downside scenarios resulting still being tracked as part of principal risk 10 is articulated as low, medium or high across the from these risk events occurring individually or in Governance Framework.
In addition, the risks various elements of the risk framework.
Consideration was also given to the arising from the execution of the Groups strategy occurrence of other individual events that in their and the realisation of integration benefits from There is a higher appetite for areas of Strategic risk own right could have a material impact on the the Aeroflex acquisition have also been retired, including the promotion of growth, for example in Groups viability, including a failure to complete reflecting the completion of a strategic review in business and product portfolios, and in the strategic the AvComm and Wireless divestment.
Whilst the 2017, which identified new strategic objectives and planning processes.
There is a low appetite for conclusion on the viability of the Group is the completion of Aeroflex integration activities.
Compliance risk including zero tolerance for unchanged in most plausible downside scenarios, Finally, a new principal risk was identified associated certain ethical issues such as bribery with a if the divestment were not to complete the Balance with meeting customers expectations, as a result of medium appetite for Operational and Financial Sheet would be less resilient in the event of other increased focus being put on this area as one of the Reportingrisks.
The Groups controls, mitigation activities and Based on the consolidated financial impact of The Group manages risk by operating a three lines associated assurance measures implemented the sensitivity analyses and associated mitigating of assurance risk and control model.
The first line reflect the risk appetite for each position.
internal controls and risk management actions that consists of operational management implementing are either now in place, or could be implemented, and maintaining effective risk management and Viability Statement the Board has been able to conclude that the Group internal control systems.
They are supported by a The Board considers the Groups viability as part of will be able to maintain sufficient bank facilities to number of Group functions which, together with their continuing programme of monitoring and meet its funding needs over the three year period.
performance management procedures, form managing risk.
The Board has concluded that the the second line.
Internal Audit, which forms most relevant time horizon for this review is three Confirmation of longer term viability the third line, is empowered to provide an years, taking account of the diversity in demand Based upon the assessment of the principal risks independent assessment of the effectiveness of characteristics of the Groups end markets.
These facing the Group and robust downside sensitivity risk management and internal control systems, as range from relatively long cycle businesses, such as analysis, all of which are described above and on well as identifying areas for improvement.
These Aviation Services and US defence related businesses pages 36 to 39, the Board has a reasonable lines of assurance include the Groups ethics which both contain predominantly multi-year expectation that the Group will be able to continue reporting system, which enables employees to contracts, to the less predictable, largely in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due raise concerns over ethics and compliance commercial, shorter cycle businesses, such as over the period to December 2020. matters.
The Internal Audit function reports SATCOM, which typically operates with an order directly to the Audit Committee to ensure its backlog of a few months or less.
The Groups going concern statement is detailed independence and objectivity.
Assessing viability The starting point in assessing the prospects of the Group was the annual strategic planning process.
The output of this process is considered to contain all of the key underlying assumptions that will provide the most appropriate information on which to assess the Groups viability.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Principal Risks continued Risk Risk status Element Risks and impact Mitigation appetite indicator 1.
The Group operates Cobhams revenues and costs are dependent on a complex mix of A review of near and long term market trends High within a volatile macroeconomic, fiscal, commercial and strategic defence and security is conducted as part of the Groups annual Unchanged macroeconomic factors, arising from the global defence security and commercial markets strategic planning process to ensure that Overall in 2017, environment within which the Group participates.
actual and anticipated impacts from the volatility in macroeconomic risks are minimised and 36% of the Groups revenue is derived directly or indirectly from the US global Links to KPIs managed effectively.
Due to a number of factors, including the US Government macroeconomic Organic revenue operating under a continuing resolution and the US statutory debt ceiling, Periodic reviews of externally sourced market conditions Underlying operating margin US defence spending levels are difficult to predict beyond the near term.
demand data, with the re-forecasting and continued to Underlying EPS adjustment of internal planning in line with affect the 24% of the Groups revenue is derived directly or indirectly from non-US Operating cash market demand.
While heightened regional security tensions have led to an conversion increase in demand for the Groups products, the general level of public A culture of continuous improvement should deficits and indebtedness remains high, which the Group expects will act enable Cobham to improve operating to limit growth in defence and security investment in the region.
This should enable Cobham to grow market share The Group also has exposure to commercial markets which have historically and remain competitive in the face of volume been cyclical and have experienced downturns in response to weakness in declines or price pressures, whilst retaining commodity markets such as oil and gas, iron and steel, and precious metals flexibility to adjust the cost base appropriately and other factors such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Government and commercial customers are increasingly focused on pricing The Group uses financial instruments where as budgetary pressure requires them to do more with less, even where applicable to assist in the management of headline budgets are expected to increase, in areas such as US Defence.
foreign exchange and interest rate risks, Protectionism by governments is also growing in response to the perceived principally forward exchange contracts and effects of globalisation on national economies.
The Brexit vote in 2016 may lead to uncertainty in future trade Emerging issues and opportunities arising as a arrangements between the Groups UK businesses and the various end result of the UK decision to leave the EU will markets which they serve, together with potential restrictions on the be monitored.
international movement of capital and the mobility of personnel.
If the Group does not anticipate changes in the various end markets which it serves including deterioration in demand or a fundamental shift in how customers procure products and services, changes in input costs, and changes in other macroeconomic factors, its business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.
The characteristics The various end markets served by Cobham are highly competitive.
The The Group seeks to focus on areas within Medium of the Groups Group relies on its ability to win business ahead of its competitors through those markets in which its deep customer Unchanged markets and the a combination of differentiated technology, contractual terms and price.
understanding and technical expertise In 2017, the resulting There is no assurance that the Group will be able to maintain its current provide it with an advantage in bidding, to Group remained contractual market share with respect to its products or services due to the reduce the likelihood of an emergent challenged in a environment are development of competing technologies, the periodic retender and technology or competitor affecting the number of areas, highly complex renewal of existing contracts, the inability to develop existing products competitive position.
in particular with due to resource constraints or the emergence of new competitors.
Links to KPIs Fixed price bids and projects are reviewed for regard to fixed Organic revenue The Group has a number of contracts which span more than one early detection and management of issues price Underlying accounting period, some of which have a fixed price.
If the Group fails to which may result in cost over-run or excessive development operating margin accurately estimate the resources and time necessary to meet contractual delivery risk.
The Underlying EPS milestones, the Group may be subject to claims for damages for late Groups markets The Groups Life Cycle Management LCM Operating cash delivery.
If the costs required for the delivery of such contracts are higher and the resultant process is applied to significant contracts, to conversion than those agreed, as a result of the performance of new or developed contracting identify and mitigate cost and schedule overproducts, schedule over-runs or other external factors such as inflation environment runs or other issues.
resulting in an increase in input costs, which cannot be passed on to a continue to customer, the profitability of a contract may be reduced, or result in a The Group seeks to mitigate risks associated increase in contract becoming loss making.
with the complex characteristics of its complexity.
markets through the use of a Contract Policy The timing of order receipt from customers could have a material impact which is intended to ensure that the Group on the Groups performance in a given reporting period, as the amounts enters into contracts with an appropriate payable under such contracts can be individually substantial.
balance of risk and reward.
The Groups existing contractual arrangements are subject to periodic The Groups bid and approval process and renewal and retender.
There can be no assurance that the Group will be able contract policy is applied to all bids, contracts to successfully renew such contracts, for example the contract with the UK and development programmes to ensure that MOD for helicopter pilot training, which expires in 2018 was lost on retender a consistent approach is followed.
Other significant contract renewals are approaching, for example the contract with the UK MOD for provision of airborne operational Appropriately trained personnel are readiness training which expires at the end of 2019. embedded within the business to ensure that the contract policy is adhered to, and that Some of the Groups contracts have terms which are not unusual in the delays to negotiating and agreeing contracts Groups markets, that provide for unlimited liabilities for the Group or areminimised.
termination rights for the customer and, in some cases, damages and consequential loss exposure.
Many of the Groups contracts are also across Training is conducted for key staff with international borders, leading to increased complexity in interpretation.
The Group is reliant on third party manufacturers and key suppliers, to The Group continues to review its level of whom certain manufacturing and engineering functions are outsourced.
exposure to individual suppliers to ensure that This results in a reduction in control over capacity allocation and quality the level of reliance is appropriatelymanaged.
and may result in disputes regarding the ownership of intellectual property.
The occurrence of any or all of these factors may result in the financial performance of the Group being impaired, through reductions in revenue, increased costs or the emergence of unexpected liabilities.
com 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Risk status Element Risks and impact Mitigation appetite indicator 3.
Project and The Group designs, develops and delivers products and services that are Lifecycle Management LCM ensures that Medium Programme often customised, utilising complex technologies, outsourced supply the Groups key contract and programme Unchanged Management is chains and both fixed price contracts that can be long term in nature and management policies and procedures are The Group is in not effective through internally funded PV projects to exploit an identified market applied consistently and appropriately a significant opportunity.
Development projects can take place across a wide range across all areas of the business.
The Group is phase of Links to KPIs of markets and technologies.
The decision to outsource, and the selection currently investing in quality management engineering Organic revenue of the appropriate suppliers can add additional risk to programmes if the to improve both in house and supply chain and Underlying supply chain is not properlymanaged.
On time delivery is a KPI for operating margin development all Business Units.
Underlying EPS The Group employs a system of project and programme management activity on Operating cash known as Lifecycle Management LCM to ensure that all such projects are A project and programme watch list has been various conversion managed within a common framework.
The current deployment of LCM established to ensure increased focus is given programmes On time delivery across the Group is at varying levels ofmaturity.
to large and technically complex projects.
and platforms, which will The Group is currently undertaking a number of significant development Continuing professional development of continue in projects, notably the aerial refuelling development programmes within project managers is undertaken against 2018. the Mission Systems sector and the Aviator S system within the SATCOM agreed standards and identified Business Unit.
Failure by the Group to execute or deliver these or other developmentneeds.
projects or programmes, and to deliver them concurrently in the same locations for example in Wimborne, UK gives rise to the risk of increased costs, damages, product liability claims, litigation and other financial liabilities, reduced future profitability and reputational risk.
Poor operational performance could also lead to customers withholding new and existing business from the Group.
Certain programmes on which the Group has won positions are scheduled to ramp up to meet user requirements, for example the San Diego facility in the US.
The growth in production required puts added pressure on quality management and therefore adds additional risk to on time delivery and contractual performance andreputation.
Shortage of Key to execution of the Groups strategic plan is the recruitment, The Group undertakes workforce planning to Medium appropriate skills development and retention of sufficient personnel with the appropriate ensure that skill gaps are identified and plans Increasing and talent skills to meet the needs of the business, in engineering, technical and other are established to close them.
This includes Risk specialist and managerial roles, which are amongst the most sought after ensuring that the Groups compensation The Group Links to KPIs skills within the labour market on a worldwide basis.
This is exacerbated by planning and review process takes into continues to Voluntary staff nationality restrictions in certain of its markets, which prevent the Group account any key shortages and that experience turnover from accessing a worldwide talent pool.
Insufficient availability of succession planning is carried out to ensure difficulties with personnel will generate a resource gap that will impair the Groups ability to that a pipeline of suitable candidates for key attracting and deliver against its strategic plan.
retaining personnel with Partly as a result of recent operational and financial challenges, the Group Development programmes are undertaken the range of was required to hire new senior managers in certain of its business units, to ensure that internal candidates develop skills and including the SATCOM, Antenna Systems and Wireless Business Units.
The the skills and experience necessary to experience that Group is also seeking to strengthen its central capabilities through hiring undertake more senior roles within itrequires.
new employees within its corporate functions.
been and may continue to be challenging, and the Group must continue See the CRS section on pages 40 to 43 for to motivate employees and keep them focused on its strategies and goals.
information on talent management actions.
The resulting talent gap could lead to a reduced ability to execute on growth plans and key programmes, resulting in reduced customer confidence and an adverse impact on the Groups financial position and financial outlook.
Customer It is crucial to the Groups current and future development that the The Group has made customer focus a key Medium expectations of expectations of its customers are fully understood and fulfilled, in areas strategic objective during 2017 and this is Increasing service, quality such as the development of new products, the delivery of existing expected to continue into the future.
As a Risk and innovation are products in accordance with customer requirements and the support result, the level of senior engagement with This is a newly not met provided in respect of products that have already been delivered.
key customers has been substantially identified increased.
Principal Risk If the Group fails to understand the future requirements of its customers, Links to KPIs during Organic revenue and achieve the level of service that they expect, failure to win new Regular tracking of on time delivery has 2017 and the Underlying contracts and difficulty in renewing existing contracts may result.
In commenced across the Group.
operating margin effectiveness addition, the Group may suffer financial penalties and possibly the loss of Underlying EPS of mitigation existing contracts.
Customer pricing pressure may also intensify where Operating cash actions will be customers perceive that the Group is not providing a level of service that is conversion assessed during commensurate with expectations.
6. Business change Cobham is undertaking several business change programmes that are Internal project teams have been formed to Medium programmes are important to the Groups future prospects, in areas such as the deliver business change programmes against Unchanged not successfully re-organisation of its supply chain, the implementation of improved agreed objectives.
During 2017, the executed Information Technology systems across the Group, and the ramp up of Business change programmes are being number of production at facilities in certain Business Units.
managed using the LCM process to ensure centrally driven Links to KPIs If these programmes are not successfully executed, the Groups ability to that adherence to budgets and schedules is programmes Organic revenue deliver its strategic objectives will be impaired, which could lead to being tracked.
was reduced Underlying operating margin reputational damage, deteriorations in financial performance, loss of and refocused.
Underlying EPS customer confidence and reduced success in winning new business from A smaller Operating cash existing customers.
number of conversion significant On time delivery programmes remain in operation.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 Principal Risks continued Risk Risk status Element Risks and impact Mitigation appetite indicator 7.
Value creating Cobhams track record for M&A has been adversely affected by the Focus on operational execution to pay down Medium Mergers, Aeroflex acquistion in 2014.
The Groups focus is currently on operational debt and create scope for future M&A activity Decreasing Acquisitions execution, which may result in the Group not being an active participant in the medium term.
Risk M&A and in the M&A market, except for smaller acquisitions that bolt-on to The Groups Conducting divestments through a Divestment existing operations.
portfolio is competitive process rather than through activity is not being managed This could result in the Group failing to capitalise on time sensitive the identification of single buyers should identified and or to optimise the opportunities and effectively maintain a robust M&A pipeline.
This could optimise sale proceeds.
executed total cause a failure to meet strategic targets, as well as reputational damage performance in Links to KPIs which could affect the success of future acquisitions.
Organic revenue continued Divestments that are conducted within confined timescales may result Underlying EPS challenging in optimum valuations not being achieved.
Businesses that are subject to markets.
divestment processes can suffer from distraction and morale issues if staff are uncertain about their future.
Occurrence of an Cobhams businesses could be impacted by natural disasters or other For the Groups larger manufacturing Medium event leading to a external events affecting its operational locations, by other significant locations, programmes have been Unchanged significant events in the supply chain or by IT systems failures including from cyber implemented that seek to meet or exceed IT security business attack, rendering critical systems or manufacturing locations unable to best practice loss prevention guidance, threats remain interruption function.
In some cases this can be exacerbated by the historic and for its smaller locations effective loss significant, and selection of key suppliers which has created significant reliance within prevention programmes and incident continual Links to KPIs the supplychain.
management plans have been put in place.
updates and Organic revenue The Group also maintains major incident IT Underlying Unscheduled interruption to business activities would result in the inability improvements failure business continuity plans.
Employees operating margin to deliver products to customers in accordance with their expectations.
are required to are trained in relevant procedures.
Underlying EPS This would result in reduced profits, loss of customer satisfaction, potential keep pace with Operating cash cost outlays, and reputational impact.
IT security and capability are monitored their ever conversion and strengthened when needed.
changing Lost work case nature.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance incidentrate cover and works with insurers and other On time delivery third party experts to ensure operating infrastructure and processes include robust risk improvement activities.
See the CRS section on pages 40 to 43 for further details on mitigating actions against business interruption risk arising from environmental factors.
Failure to comply Cobham operates in a highly regulated environment and is subject to Cobham employs procedures to ensure None with laws and the laws, regulations and restrictions of many jurisdictions, notably it remains in compliance with all legal Increasing regulations including those of the US and the UK as well as many other countries requirements and regulations, and continues Risk in which it operates.
to drive a culture that ensures that ethical, The regulatory Links to KPIs environmental, and health and safety landscape in These include but are not limited to anti-bribery provisions, import and Organic revenue considerations are embedded in all of the many areas, export controls, tax, government contracting rules, human rights, Underlying Groups activities.
continues operating margin environmental, and health and safety regulations.
A lack of understanding to develop.
Underlying EPS of legal and regulatory restrictions in force in the jurisdictions in which it Policies and procedures are included in Operating cash operates could lead to the Group being in contravention of applicable the Groups corporate framework to ensure conversion laws or regulations.
all of the Groups compliance requirements Lost work case are met.
This is regularly reviewed and Sanctions for failure by the Group, its sales intermediaries, or others incidentrate audited, including procedures related to the acting on its behalf to comply with laws, regulations and restrictions use of sales and marketing representatives, could include fines, penalties, legal claims, suspension or debarment of anti-bribery and anti-corruption, gifts and the Group from future government contracts for a period of time, as well hospitality, whistleblowing, and investigation as having a potentially significant impact on the Groups reputation.
Such of ethics and compliance concerns, along sanctions could also have an impact on the Groups financial position with Cobhams Code of Business Conduct.
Mandatory training is undertaken by all Safety is a key priority throughout the Group, particularly within the employees on a variety of compliance Aviation Services Sector which conducts flying operations in support of related subjects including US Government our customers.
Safety is carefully managed through Group-wide processes, contracting and anti-bribery and corruption.
but the Group recognises that an accident could have a major impact on its employees, customers and other stakeholders.
Such an incident could See the CRS section on pages 40 to 43 also result in legal claims, financial damage and reputational loss.
for further details on human rights, environmental, and health and safetyactions.
Cobhams US defence business is managed through an SSA, the terms of which are agreed with the US Government.
The SSA is intended to ensure that the US defence business is not subject to the effects of FOCI Foreign Ownership, Control or Influence.
Further details of the SSA can be found on page 51.
The terms of the SSA may reduce the ability for the Group to effectively manage its US defence business due to reduced visibility into the business and its performance.
The Group is currently the subject of an investigation by the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA in connection with the Groups handling of inside information prior to its trading update in January 2017 and announcement of its intention to undertake its Rights Issue in 2016.
The Group continues to co-operate fully with the FCA, but is unable to predict the timing, cost, or outcome of the investigation.
com 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Risk status Element Risks and impact Mitigation appetite indicator 10.
Governance The Groups organisational structure delegates some operational The ongoing review of governance is being Medium framework is autonomy and responsibility to its business units, including with conducted in accordance with established Decreasing poorly constructed respect to the negotiation and performance of the Groups contracts principles to ensure that it delivers a Risk and implemented with its customers.
streamlined governance framework, The updated facilitates appropriate risk taking, and delegation of The Group is implementing an enhanced internal governance framework, Links to KPIs drive improvements in performance authorities, and following the identification of certain internal control issues that affected Organic revenue through application of effective the roll out of a the business primarily during 2016.
There is a risk that the revised internal Underlying governance principles.
streamlined set operating margin governance framework could misalign the level of constraint with the of policies and Underlying EPS levels of risk appetite in different aspects of the Groups operations, leading A revised delegation of authorities has Operating cash procedures has to the over and under control of risks in different areas of the business.
been issued to ensure that the degree of conversion improved the delegation is commensurate with the This could lead to exposure to unacceptable risks in areas requiring Voluntary staff Groups internal management capabilities within each conservatism, potentially damaging shareholder value.
Conversely, it may turnover governance.
business unit, Sector and specialist function.
also prevent the acceptance of risks required in order to grow the Groups business, hindering the ability to deliver an acceptable return on An internal governance committee has been shareholder investment.
established to review and approve a revised set of policies and procedures being rolled The Group has a capital structure that is partially funded through out during 2017 and 2018. borrowings from banks and other financial institutions.
The associated banking agreements incorporate financial covenants and other provisions, breach of which may lead to potential defaults and costs associated with obtaining temporary waivers or the requirement to reduce debt through divestment or additional capitalraising.
Information Cobham relies upon its IT systems to store and process its data securely.
IT policy compliance is assessed on a Medium assurance security Due to the nature of its business, the Group faces various security threats, quarterly basis to ensure that processes and Unchanged measures are including cyber security attacks from computer hackers, viruses and procedures in place are reflective of all legal Information insufficient to malicious code intended to gain access to proprietary or sensitive and regulatory requirements.
security prevent data loss information, as well as threats to the physical security of its IT facilities measures Constant monitoring of events and and infrastructure.
continue to be vulnerabilities is conducted by both internal Links to KPIs strengthened Organic revenue Although various bespoke and industry standard procedures and resources and trusted external third parties.
in response to Underlying controls are utilised to monitor and mitigate exposure to these threats, Primary and secondary data centres have operatingmargin the increasing the impact of any future attack cannot be predicted with any certainty been established to provide contingency.
Underlying EPS level of threats due to the evolving nature of these security threats.
These could include Operating cash being compromising the security of intellectual property and customer and conversion experienced.
employee data and the corruption of embedded product data and data for external services.
Significant data breaches or losses could also lead to litigation and fines for breaking data privacy law and other regulations.
This would result in reputational damage and potentially the loss of new and existing contracts.
Taxation liabilities Cobham is subject to corporate and other tax rules in the jurisdictions in External advisors review all Medium may be larger than which it conducts its business operations.
Due to changes in tax laws and majortransactions.
Increasing anticipated regulations, changes in interpretation of taxation regulations, an increase Risk Known risk areas such as transfer pricing in tax audits and challenges and the testing of interpretations through Tax authorities are monitored by the Group.
litigation, tax liabilities are being challenged and may ultimately be deemed Links to KPIs continue to Underlying EPS inaccurate.
Tax authorities may also pursue additional taxes based on Significant tax computations are reviewed assess and retroactive changes to, and interpretations of tax laws.
by external advisors prior to submission.
challenge significant For example, the availability of interest deductions on one of the Groups The Group has established and published its taxation internal financing arrangements, principally as a result of various US tax policy.
acquisitions, has been under challenge for some time.
Over the life of this financing arrangement, the aggregate tax value of the interest deductions amounted to approximately 130m, before interest.
If decided adversely to the Group, this could lead to increased tax liabilities in excess of those provided in the Groups Balance Sheet and result in a substantial tax payment becoming due.
The Group has taken external advice and considers that it has strong support for its position, but the timing and resolution of this issue is uncertain.
An adverse outcome could also result in potential damage to the Groupsreputation.
The deficit within The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes which The trustees of the Cobham Pension Medium the Cobham are closed to new entrants and future benefit accrual, the largest of which Plan seek to ensure that the schemes Unchanged Pension Plan may is the Cobham Pension Plan in the UK.
This pension scheme is in deficit, assets and liabilities remain matched, the change and this deficit may change in the future in response to changes in the most significant element of which involves value of assets and liabilities.
the acquisition of insurance policies that Links to KPIs match existing liabilities.
According to the current schedule of contributions agreed with the Underlying EPS Underlying operating scheme trustees, the Group expects to contribute 18.1m in 2018, 18.2m margin in 2019 and 8.8m in each subsequent year through to 2022.
This deficit Operating cash funding could change in the future, following the next triennial valuation conversion of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes which is expected to be completed during the second half of 2018.
The Trustees view of the strength of the Company covenant is also taken into account in the setting of recovery plans to address thedeficit.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39
