46 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 How we manage risk Our risk management processes are embedded in all our businesses.
These processes identify, evaluate and manage the risks which could impact our performance, our reputation or our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy.
The Board determines our risk appetite monitors and reviews the risk Risk appetite management processes we operate.
Responsibility for implementing and The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of risks monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk management is which it feels are acceptable and appropriate for us to achieve our strategic delegated to the Chief Executive and the Executive Committee.
Specific risk exposures and appetites vary according to the nature Committee operates alongside the Audit Committee, which has primary of the risk, including our ability to mitigate their impact.
responsibility for oversight of financial controls, the Nominations Committee, which has primary responsibility for succession risk, and the Remuneration Risk appetite Committee which has primary responsibility for remuneration and incentive Prudent Balanced Receptive structure risk.
Strategic risk Operational risk Financial risk Compliance risk Risk management Identify and We adopt a common, Group-wide approach to the identification, assessment and assess the risks quantification of risks and the way they are managed, mitigated and monitored.
We operate a bottom-up risk management framework, which is described below.
Monitor improvement Identify existing mitigating actions and report actions and controls This approach ensures that the Board and the senior leadership team are able to actively assess risks and monitor the measures used to mitigate, transfer or avoid such risks.
It also ensures that risks are managed at multiple levels Assess if further controls Identify monitors to throughout the Group and that feedback is communicated to our operations are required and initiate confirm controls are to incorporate in their local risk management processes.
improvement actions operating effectively Group strategic risk Operational risk management process management process Strategic review of the Groups Board The Executive Committees review, which includes a detailed analysis of the Group risk profile, the principal risks and constructive supporting divisional summaries and actions undertaken to ensure compliance with the UK Corporate challenge in relation to the monitors Governance Code, is submitted to the Board twice a year.
The Board also undertakes an annual review and measures implemented to to assess the effectiveness of internal controls used to manage risk across the Group.
Delivery of Group-wide strategic Divisional Bi-annually each manufacturing operation uploads its risk profile to the Group intranet.
Our three divisions actions and monitoring of risks and Group review and consolidate their most significant site level and commercial risks and mitigation strategies into and key performance indicators.
Executive a divisional risk profile, which includes any additional divisional level risks as appropriate.
The divisional risk profiles are then consolidated into a single Group risk profile and the divisional and Group risk profiles are presented and reviewed by the Executive Committee twice a year.
Operating Feedback and communications All manufacturing operations maintain an up-to-date risk profile which identifies the key risks facing the companies provided to operating companies business, assesses the mitigating processes and controls in place to manage the risk and monitors and and manufacturing operations measures the effectiveness of those controls.
The risk profile enables management to identify issues on Group and Divisional and areas that require improvement and efficiently develop remediation action plans.
The risk profile is strategic actions.
incorporated into each business monthly management reporting procedures which increases management ownership and accountability, both of which are crucial to ensuring an effective risk management framework.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 47 The key strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks facing the Strategic Capitalising on significant organic Group, in order of priority, are shown in the table on the following pages.
growth opportunities growth This analysis includes why we think the risk is important, how we are managing the risk, and the main changes during 2017. priorities key Improving operational performance In addition to strategic, operational and compliance risks, the Group is also exposed to broader financial market risks, in particular, currency exchange Increasing investment in New Product Development rate volatility following the Brexit referendum.
A description of these risks and our centralised approach to managing them is described in Section 4.4 Expanding our addressable markets of the financial statements.
through targeted acquisitions IMPACT ON OUR STRATEGIC WHY WE THINK THIS HOW WE ARE MITIGATING RISK GROWTH PRIORITIES IS IMPORTANT THE RISK GLOBAL ECONOMIC OR The Group operates in global markets and Maintain a balanced business portfolio operating POLITICAL INSTABILITY demand for our products is dependent on across a range of markets.
IMPACTING THE GROUPS economic and market conditions.
A downturn Monitor key customers and respond quickly to ABILITY TO ACHIEVE in the economy or political instability could changes in customer demand.
FORECAST AND MARKET impact demand and the Groups ability to EXPECTATIONS Utilise core forecasting processes that ensure achieve market expectations.
The Group operational output can be right-sized appropriately.
needs to be responsive to market conditions RISK Undertake enhanced stress testing and sensitivity whether weak or buoyant.
MOVEMENT analysis of business plans and regularly review key market and sector metrics.
Focus on enhancing competitiveness by increasing investment in New Product Development, Value Engineering and improving operational performance.
Develop robust contingency plans to ensure agility if realignment of cost base is required.
CHANGES DURING 2017 While IMI Critical Engineering has continued to face challenges in many of its key markets, Value Engineering has enabled the division to win new orders in adjacent segments.
Both IMI Precision Engineering and IMI Hydronic Engineering have experienced a stable or improving trading environment.
We have continued to execute our strategy and our competitiveness is improving.
Further information about our strategic progress during the year is detailed in the Chief Executives review and Operational review see pages 12 & 28 respectively.
FAILURE TO DELIVER MAJOR The Group is continually evolving and Detailed plans with clear and measurable TRANSFORMATIONAL changing, both to respond to external milestones reviewed by Divisional Managing PROJECTS ON TIME AND pressures and conditions but also to ensure Directors.
ON BUDGET that we are in a strong position to achieve Regular review of major project progress by our strategic goals.
Change projects include Executive Committee.
RISK business reorganisations and implementation Enhanced risk assessment process including full MOVEMENT of new IT systems which are complex and longmitigation action plans.
Failure to deliver the desired objectives Specialist IT and Group Assurance reviews of major on time and on budget and failure to react IT projects.
quickly enough to changing market conditions, could have an adverse financial impact on Detailed contingency plans.
Monthly operational meetings which rigorously review progress of all projects.
ERP steering committee meetings and post go-live audits to review progress on implementation plans.
CHANGES DURING 2017 As outlined in the Operational review on page 28 each division has robust systems and procedures to manage and monitor business critical projects.
In addition, our ERP investment programme continued to be delivered on schedule and on budget.
While the risk of failed ERP implementations remains pertinent due to more of our operations introducing new systems, the risk is mitigated by greater experience from prior implementation, proficient system implementation teams and a proven control environment.
There have been no major post-implementation ERP issues in the year and this has contributed to a net reduction in the risk for the Group.
QUALITY ISSUES LEADING TO Developing innovative and technically Adherence to Group-wide standard for Advanced PRODUCT FAILURE, RECALL, advanced products is at the heart of what we Product Quality Planning process APQP.
The quality and safety of our products is Weekly and monthly reporting on APQP process DAMAGE OR DISRUPTION TO of the highest importance and failure to deliver to identify improvements in the early phases of the CUSTOMERS BUSINESS the quality required would result in negative development process.
Continued focus on quality management systems RISK and audits.
MOVEMENT Testing of finished product and customer sign-off on the most critical products.
Targeted Lean events to improve quality, including implementation of Obeya reviews for projects work.
Upgrade of talent with a focus on both quality and product development excellence.
CHANGES DURING 2017 During the year our operational performance continued to improve.
Details of key developments are detailed on page 22.
New Product Development momentum increased during the year and further details are included on page 24.
Despite increased investment and a significant number of new product launches the level of risk has remained the same year-on-year due to improved processes and controls and proven success in this New Product Development area.
48 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 How we manage risk IMPACT ON OUR STRATEGIC WHY WE THINK THIS HOW WE ARE MITIGATING RISK GROWTH PRIORITIES IS IMPORTANT THE RISK FAILURE TO INTEGRATE An integral part of the Groups strategy is to Annual Strategic review process to identify potential ACQUISITIONS SUCCESSFULLY make value enhancing acquisitions that have target acquisitions that align with the Group Strategy AND DELIVER THE REQUIRED the potential to broaden our addressable Central M&A function, suitably resourced, working SYNERGIES markets, leverage our position in existing with divisions to identify hard and soft synergies attractive end markets.
Failure to deliver the within targeted acquisition opportunities.
RISK post-acquisition strategy would reduce the Formalised acquisition approval, due diligence and MOVEMENT value of acquired businesses.
Documented process and toolkit to monitor and effectively manage 100 days post-acquisition integration.
CHANGES DURING 2017 Our post acquisition integration process, which deploys a mix of divisional and Group resources, ensures that the right people across all disciplines are available to successfully project manage acquisition integration.
Following a review of our M&A resource, we strengthened certain functions and areas.
These resources are in place and already being deployed to support the integration of Bimba Manufacturing.
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH The Group has an established framework Commitment to good governance practices as LEGISLATION OR A BREACH OF which instigates the highest ethical standards embodied in the IMI Way.
OUR OWN HIGH STANDARDS and regulatory compliance across our Continued enhancement of the internal controls OF ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR business.
As we expand our operations it is declaration process and continued, rigorous audits important that we maintain these standards.
by our Group Assurance team.
RISK Legislative requirements around tax, antiPolicies, manuals, guidelines and standard operating MOVEMENT bribery, fraud and competition law require procedures are available to all employees under the rigorous monitoring and training to avoid legal, compliance and financial sections of the IMI financial and reputational damage.
Group, division and local resources dedicated to compliance.
Employee training focused on how to apply the IMI Way in everyday situations and key risk areas such as competition law, fraud and antibribery and corruption.
Confidential IMI hotline to report concerns.
Divisional risk assessed compliance plans.
Third party agent due diligence and approval procedures and termination of non-compliant agents.
Extensive control framework for dealings with higher risk territories, including formal training for relevant employees.
CHANGES DURING 2017 The challenging market and regulatory environment demands the very highest standards of conduct and further details of the processes and procedures we operate to help ensure this are detailed on page 36.
We have stringent procedures and processes that allow us to operate in high risk territories.
Since the lifting of non-US Iranian sanctions in 2016, we have significantly enhanced our compliance procedures within IMI Critical Engineering to ringfence our business development activities in Iran to ensure no breach of trade sanctions.
Despite the more challenging territories, we believe the enhancements made to our compliance framework are sufficient to mitigate this increased risk.
FAILURE TO MANAGE THE The Group has a significant number of Monitoring of risks and development of contingency SUPPLY CHAIN contracts with a broad base of suppliers.
plans to mitigate the impact of a supplier failure or Failure to meet customers requirements in increased prices.
respect of quality or delivery, could have a RISK Preferred supplier lists for all major materials and MOVEMENT material impact on the Groups results.
components in each of the divisions.
Escalation process and regular review meetings with key suppliers.
Adequate safety stock and or dual supply for critical components.
CHANGES DURING 2017 Following the initial introduction in 2016 of a supply scorecard, preferred supplier lists, a supplier risk assessment selection tool and commodity experts, we have focused on embedding these processes within our businesses.
During the year we have implemented procedures to ensure compliance with the Modern Slavery Act including training for over 300 procurement employees to spot, monitor and deal with any concerns relating to forced labour in our supply chain.
We have a zero-risk appetite to engage with suppliers who are not aligned with our own code of conduct and strong ethical standards.
Each of our three divisions assesses supplier code of conduct risks and audits any high-risk suppliers for all aspects of supply chain risk.
As such, we believe our risk profile remained unchanged in 2017.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 49 IMPACT ON OUR STRATEGIC WHY WE THINK THIS HOW WE ARE MITIGATING RISK GROWTH PRIORITIES IS IMPORTANT THE RISK UNAUTHORISED ACCESS TO Unapproved access to IT systems could IT Security Improvement programme underway OUR IT SYSTEMS result in loss of intellectual property, fraudulent across the Group.
activity, theft and business interruption.
IT security steering group comprising RISK representatives from all divisions with corporate MOVEMENT sponsorship and oversight.
Regular communication with employees to raise awareness of cyber security.
Disaster recovery plans instigated on all critical IT assets.
24 7 monitoring from security operations centre.
CHANGES DURING 2017 Recognising the increased threat to both our IT systems and data, we have strengthened our Group-wide Security Improvement programme.
Phase 1 of that programme was completed in September and included deployment of security software to all laptops and factory control devices at 147 locations in 44 countries together with 24 7 monitoring by our dedicated Security Operations Centre.
Phase 2 of the programme is well underway to deploy robust server protection.
In addition, we have also strengthened the data back-up and re-installation testing procedures at our business units.
We continue to communicate regularly with all our employees to raise awareness of cyber risks and mitigating procedures and behaviours.
INCREASINGLY COMPETITIVE Increased volatility and slowdown in major Competitor tear-down and Value Engineering MARKETS LEADING TO economies could result in increased procedures.
PRICING PRESSURES OR competition leading to loss of customers and Review of site capacity as part of the Lean LOSS OF CUSTOMERS or pricing pressures leading to lost sales and benchmarking to better utilise facilities and reduced profits.
RISK Standard costings to ensure thorough MOVEMENT understanding of product cost.
Lean implementation to increase operational performance, quality delivery and service standards.
Customer feedback surveys on performance and actions tracked to improve performance.
CHANGES DURING 2017 Improvements in operational capabilities, routine tear-down testing and competitive benchmarking of competitor products continue to underpin New Product Development across all our divisions.
Value Engineering processes enabled IMI Critical Engineering to win a number of new orders, further details of which are provided on page 26.
2017 has also seen greater volatility in input costs, particularly around commodities.
Internal reporting has been adapted to track and ensure these cost increases are managed appropriately.
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Groups strategy for sustainable long-term Five-year technology and product roadmaps growth will be achieved in part by delivering a included in divisional strategies.
pipeline of innovative new products.
Failure to RISK Continued investment in research and development deliver market leading products will impact our MOVEMENT to ensure we target the most profitable ability to grow.
Centres of design and technological excellence established with dedicated teams to monitor progress.
Detailed project plans to track new product introduction actions on both a weekly and monthly basis.
Tracking of key performance metrics including sales from new products and research and development spend against sales.
CHANGES DURING 2017 New product development is an integral component of the five-year strategic planning cycle and establishes commercial priorities and development roadmaps for all the Groups principal markets.
Our end to end Advanced Product Quality Planning APQP and New Product Development processes cover design, prototyping, testing, costing and launch to market and has successfully delivered competitively priced new products to market.
Further information about our New Product Development activities are detailed on page 24.
50 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 52 The Board 54 Letter from the Chairman 55 Corporate Governance Report 60 Audit Committee Report 64 Nominations Committee Report 66 Directors Remuneration Report Engineering GREAT the IMI Way Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 51 Custom made pneumatic panel being manufactured for a customer at IMI Precision Engineerings Indian manufacturing facility in Noida, New Delhi.
