3: Total indirect taxes paid and collected by region m Net operating assets The net operating assets of the Group including goodwill 60 at31 December 2017 totalled 2,078 million, 46 million lower than 2016.
Excluding the impact of currency, net operating 50 assets are 101 million higher.
The main components of netoperating assets are detailed in the table below.
the impact of 20 million 2017 2016 Movement currency Rental fleet 1,104 1,203 8 % 1 % 10 Property & plant 110 106 4% 9% 0 Inventory 232 247 6 % % Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin Middle North Pacic America East America Net trade debtors 490 454 8% 16% 2017 2016 A key measure of Aggrekos performance is the return Overall our indirect tax costs in 2017 increased by 8 million to expressed as adjusted operating profit generated from 159 million.
Underlying the net increase is a reduction in the average net operating assets ROCE.
We calculate ROCE amount of sales taxes paid in Argentina as a result of off-hires, bytaking the operating profit for the year and expressing which is offset by increased payroll taxes in North America and it as apercentage of the average net operating assets Europe, principally in the UK and Russia where our headcount at 31 December, 30 June and the previous 31 December.
In 2017 the ROCE decreased to 11% compared with 13% in 2016, primarily driven by the decrease in the Groups Tax Charge operating margin.
The Groups pre-exceptional effective corporation tax rate for the year was 29% 2016: 28% based on a tax charge of Property, plant and equipment 57 million 2016: 63 million on a pre-exceptional profit before Rental fleet accounts for 1,104 million, which is around taxation of 195 million 2016: 221 million.
While the Groups 91%of thenet book value of property, plant and equipment effective tax rate has risen in 2017 as a result of an increase used inour business.
The great majority of equipment in in profits in higher tax locations such as North America due the rental fleet is depreciated on a straight-line basis to to additional work following the hurricanes, the underlying a residual value ofzero over 8 years, with some classes of rateincrease has been offset by a one-off tax benefit due to rental fleet depreciated over 10 and 12 years.
The annual fleet the US tax reform which was passed into law in December depreciation charge of 275 million 2016: 261 million relates 2017.
As a result of the US reform, the Group benefited from to the estimated service lives allocated to each class of fleet aone-off tax credit following the revaluation of our deferred asset.
Asset lives are reviewed at the start of each year and taxliabilities in respect of the US business.
changed if necessary to reflect their remaining lives in light Further information, including a reconciliation of the current oftechnological change, prospective economic utilisation year tax charge, is shown at Note 10 in the Annual Report andthe physical condition of the assets.
Acquisitions Looking beyond 2017, our effective tax rate will continue to depend During the year we made three acquisitions, Younicos, a principally on the geographical mix of profits, the resolution of pioneer and global market leader in the development and open issues and whether there are any changes in tax legislation deployment of integrated energy systems: KBT, an Indonesian in the Groups most significant countries of operation.
utility business: and TuCo a US based temporary heat and air conditioning business.
Further details on these acquisitions Reconciliation of the Groups income statement tax charge canbe found in Note 29 to the accounts.
and cash taxes The Groups total cash taxes borne and collected were IFRS 15 228 million, reflecting 159 million of non-corporate taxes and IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, is 69 million of corporate taxes.
The latter cash tax figure differs effective forannual periods beginning on or after 1 January from the Groups post-exceptional tax charge of 48 million 2018.
Under the standard, revenue is recognised when an reported in the income statement, with the difference entity transfers control of goods or services to a customer.
analysed in the table below.
The costs to fulfil the service to a customer mobilisation and million demobilisation costs will be amortised over the period of the initial contract, in line with when we are earning revenue.
Cash taxes paid 228 We have assessed the impact on 2017, which would have been Non-corporate taxes 159 an immaterial impact on profit before tax: revenue would have Corporate tax paid 69 been 2 million higher, and costs 5 million higher, resulting 1 in a 3 million reduction in profit before tax.
When we report Movements in deferred tax 27 our 2018 interim and full year results we will restate the 2017 Differences relating to timing of tax payments US 9 comparative numbers to take account of IFRS 15.
Note 1 to the Differences relating to timing of tax payments Argentina 4 accounts explains these changes in detail.
Other differences relating to timing of payment of taxes 1 Shareholders equity Post-exceptional corporate tax charge Shareholders equity decreased by 51 million to 1,317 million, per the income statement 48 represented by the net assets of the Group of 1,969 million 1 Of this amount 10 million relates to US tax reform.
offset by net debt of 652 million.
The movements in Shareholders equity are analysed in the table below: 46 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Liquidity and funding Movements in Shareholders equity million million The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its funding As at 1 January 2017 1,368 requirements over the medium term.
At 31 December 2017, Profit for the period post-exceptional items 106 these facilities totalled 1,283 million in the form of committed 1 bank facilities arranged on a bilateral basis with a number Dividend 69 of international banks and private placement lenders.
Retained earnings 37 The financial covenants attached to these facilities are Employee share awards 8 that EBITDA should be no less than four times interest andnet debtshould be no more than three times EBITDA: Remeasurement of retirement benefits 5 at 31 December 2017, these stood at 16 times and 1.2 times Currency translation 98 respectively.
The Group does not expect to breach these PDVSA private placement notes: covenants in the year from thedate of approval of these net change in fair value 4 financial statements.
Movement in hedging reserve 3 The Group expects to be able to arrange sufficient finance to Other 2 meet its future funding requirements.
It has been the Group's As at 31 December 2017 1,317 custom and practice to refinance its facilities in advance of their maturity dates, providing that there is an ongoing 1 R eflects the final dividend for 2016 of 17.74 pence per share 2015: 17.74 pence needfor those facilities.
that was paid during the period.
Net debt amounted to 652 million at 31 December 2017 Pensions 2016: 649 million and, at that date, undrawn committed Pension arrangements for our employees vary depending facilities were 624 million.
on best practice and regulation in each country.
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for UK employees, Interest rate risk whichwas closed to new employees joining the Group after The Groups policy is to manage its exposure to interest rates 1 April 2002.
Most of the other schemes in operation around by ensuring an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate the world are defined contribution schemes.
At 31 December 2017, 610 million of the net debt of Under IAS 19: Employee Benefits, Aggreko has recognised 652 million was at fixed rates of interest resulting in a fixed to a pre-tax pension deficit of 25 million at 31 December floating rate net debt ratio of 94:6 2016: 59:41.
The proportion 2017 2016: 30 million which is determined using actuarial of our debt with fixed interest rates is higher than usual at the assumptions.
The decrease in the pension deficit is primarily year end ahead of some fixed rate debt maturities in the first driven by higher than expected returns achieved on the half of 2018. schemes assets over the year and additional contributions Foreign exchange risk bythe Company, partially offset by the impact of a lower The Group is subject to currency exposure on the translation discount rate being applied to the schemes liabilities.
into Sterling of its net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
The sensitivities regarding the main valuation assumptions In order to reduce the currency risk arising, the Group uses areshown in the table below.
direct borrowings in the same currency as those investments.
Group borrowings are predominantly drawn down in the Income currencies used by the Group, namely US Dollar, Indonesian Deficit statement cost m m Rupiah, Mexican Peso, Indian Rupee, Brazilian Reals and Russian Rouble.
Increase Increase Increase Assumption decrease decrease decrease The Group manages its currency flows to minimise Rate of increase foreignexchange risk arising on transactions denominated in salaries 0.5% 2 in foreign currencies and uses forward contracts and forwardcurrency options, where appropriate, in order Discount rate 0.5 % 21 1 tohedgenet currency flows.
Inflation 0.5% increases on Credit risk pensions increases, Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to deferred revaluation credit risk on amounts due from counterparties.
The Group and salary increases 0.5% 20 1 manages this risk by limiting the aggregate amounts and their Longevity 1 year 5 duration depending on external credit ratings of the relevant counterparty.
In the case of financial assets exposed to credit Treasury risk, the carrying amount in the balance sheet, net of any The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks applicable provision for loss, represents the amount exposed that include liquidity, the effects of changes in foreign currency tocredit risk.
exchange rates, interest rates, and credit risk.
The Group has a centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to ensure Insurance that adequate liquidity is available to meet the Groups funding The Group operates a policy of buying cover against the requirements as they arise, and that financial risk arising from material risks which the business faces, where it is possible the Groups underlying operations is effectively identified topurchase such cover on reasonable terms.
Where this is and managed.
notpossible, or where the risks would not have a material impact on the Group as a whole, we self-insure.
The treasury operations are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board and are reviewed annually.
Financial instruments are only executed for hedging purposes, and transactions that are speculative innature are expressly forbidden.
Monthly reports are providedto senior management and treasury operations aresubject to periodic internal and external review.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 47 R I SK G O V ER N A NCE RISK FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Risks The Group recognises the importance of identifying and to do so within the risk appetite set by the Board.
It is important actively managing the financial and non-financial risks facing that we have in place a robust, repeatable risk management the business.
We want our people to feel empowered to framework to facilitate this.
takeadvantage of attractive opportunities, yet we want them RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Board has implemented a risk management framework thatissummarised in the diagram below.
Ultimate responsibility for risk management and internal control Approves the risk management framework Ultimate Approves the risk appetite and monitors compliance Responsibility Approves the Group Register of Principal Risks Board Approves the viability statement Responsible for reviewing the effectiveness ofthe Groups systems for internal control Oversight andrisk management Reviews and challenges the risk Audit Committee management framework makes recommendations Reviews the effectiveness of the control environment tothe Board Reviews the effectiveness of and approves the approach fortheviability statement Responsible for implementing and embedding riskmanagement and internal controls Defines the risk management process to be Management &Monitoring followedby the business includingrisk appetite Reviews and challenges the Group Register Group Risk Committee ofPrincipal Risks ensuring controls identified are operating and tracks closure of items makes recommendations Facilitates risk process, collating risk registers to the Audit Committee and Board andconsolidating theGroupriskregister Aligns assurance activity Responsible for identification, prioritisation, assessment and monitoring ofrisk whichmay arisein the business Ownership Risks and associated controls are owned and operated by management Business Units, Senior Leadership Team Risk registers are maintained and form the basis and Group Functions ofthe Group risk register supported by Group Risk Read more about roles and responsibilities for risk Read about our risks and viability management in the Governance section on page 71 statement on page 55 48 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Approach to managing risk Risk appetite Our approach to risk management aims to deliver The Group is willing to take and manage considered risks  management of risk, whilst within clear boundaries set by the Executive Committee alsomakinga positive contribution to effective andapproved bythe Board.
We have defined our appetite decisionmaking and performance improvement.
forrisks ineachofthe categories below and use that to decidewhatmitigation is required for each risk.
The Group compiles a Register of Principal Risks from risk registers held by our Business Units and Central Functions.
Risk categories We monitor the level of each risk against our appetite for We allocate risks into the five categories below and use them itusing quantitative and qualitative measures and identify tohelp define our risk appetite.
anyactions required to manage the residual risk after considering our existing controls.
Strategic Risk Operational Risk Hazard Risk Compliance Risk Financial Risk Risks related to the Risks arising from people, Risks related to the Risks related to Risks which might impact Groupsability to deliver processes and systems wellbeing of our people non-compliance upon our ability to meet on strategic priorities.
impacting upon efficient and the wider stakeholders withgovernment and our financial expectations and effective operations.
People, Organisation Asset Life Cycle Health & Safety Ethics FX and Interest & Culture Rate Volatility Service Delivery Security Corporate Governance Mergers & Acquisitions Liquidity and Funding Supply Chain Environment Laws and Regulations Technology Credit Risk Contractual Market Dynamics Tax Information Technology Financial Management Information Security and Control Risks removed from last years register: Focus during the year In 2017 we have further developed our methodology and Change management relating to our new business continued to embed the risk framework into the business.
priorities: We have made good progress towards delivery We have assessed estimates of the likelihood of each risk and ofthe Business Priorities programme and many of the the potential impact.
We have also agreed actions to increase initiatives have nowbeenincorporated into our business the effectiveness of risk prevention and mitigation.
Changes since 2016 An environmental incident occurs due to a project Our Group Register of Principal Risks will change from time delivery failure: Whilst we do not believe this risk has to time as we take action to improve the management of beeneliminated, we believe we have improved our risks, improve the processes we use to identify risks and management of this area and will continue to monitor as thebusiness environment in which we operate evolves.
thisrisk within our Business Unit risk registers.
This year we have seen three additional risks elevated to Unanticipated tax liabilities in developing countries: theGroup register and three risks have been removed.
Robusttax risk management processes have allowed ustoreduce thisrisks expected impact and likelihood Risks elevated to the Groups register this year: inthe future.
Disruptive technology: Alternative and more distributed Determining whether appropriate direct and indirect energy sources are becoming increasingly available and taxprovisions are in place in respect of contentious historic affordable.
This could affect our competitiveness as power or current liabilities remains a primary area of judgement providers.
In recognition of this, we acquired Younicos in forthe Audit Committee.
See page 69 for details of how 2017, introducing new technology and micro-grid capability, thisis addressed.
and have evolved our business strategy to incorporate this new offering.
Equipment obsolescence: We are introducing new fleet andtechnologies into the business as some of our existing fleet is approaching the end of its useful life.
The older fleet isstill available for rent and is required for specific applications within our business.
We are focussing on ensuring the continued utilisation of this fleet.
Working capital management: Our working capital has increased in recent years, mainly driven by an increase in trade and other receivables.
We have implemented a working capital improvement initiative to drive a sustainable improvement and are already seeing the results in trade and other payables.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 49 Primary strategic area affected symbols RISK CONTINUED Customer Technology Efficiency People PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing Aggreko, including thosethatwould threaten our future performance, business model, solvency and liquidity.
The list below is not exhaustive: ouroperations are large and geographically diverse and the list might change if something that seems immaterial today becomesmore important tomorrow.
The order in which our principal risks are presented follows our risk categorisation model.
S T R A T EG I C Market dynamics Power Solutions Primary strategic area affected Executive responsible: Stephen Beynon, Managing Director Power Solutions Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted Changes in power Fleet size A change in power market dynamics couldhave A diverse customer base and development of our market dynamics and composition a material impact on revenue and profit.
Industrial business result in major Mobile, modular, homogeneous equipment allows Capital activity The impact of low commodity prices on the contracts maturing transfer between markets economies of developing countries hasreduced Margins with no equivalent their capacity to pay for temporary power.
Improved sales capability, resourcing Returns replacements.
andperformance management Customer buying power has increased because Technology improvements make ourofferings ofmore competition for powerprojects.
more competitive Changes during 2017: We have had a challenging year within the Power Solutions Utility as the impact of repricing and off-hires in Argentina significantly impacted results.
Power Solutions Industrial had a strong year as our strategic priorities begin to take effect.
Read more about Power Solutions performance on page 40 Market dynamics Rental Solutions Executive responsible: Bruce Pool, President Rental Solutions Primary strategic area affected Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted Challenging Revenue growth North America is the largest region in Diversification into other market sectors market dynamics RentalSolutions.
Oil & Gas and Petrochemical Margins Mobile, modular, homogeneous equipment allows reduce volume & Refining have traditionally been its largest transfer between markets Returns and profitability market sectors, so continued challenges in Improved sales capability, resourcing and Capital activity in our Rental these sectors havehad amaterial impact on performance management Solutions business.
Delivery of our strategic priorities to improve the Customer buying power has increased because ease with which customers can do business with us of an increase in supply of fleet inthe market Continued development of our Temperature and increased competition.
Control business to offset slower growth in power Changes during 2017: Despite ongoing competitive pressures, the changes we are making to our business processes and systems have begun todeliver benefits and Rental Solutions had a good year in 2017.
Further strategic progress, as we differentiate our offering, positions us well goingforward.
Read more about Rental Solutions performance on page 38 Disruptive technology Primary strategic area affected Executive responsible: Volker Schulte, Group Manufacturing and Technology Director Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted The introduction Fleet size Alternative and more distributed energy Diversified product portfolio of new technology and composition sourcesare becoming increasingly available Technology roadmap for existing and into the power andaffordable.
alternative technologies Returns market reduces New energy business models using technology Bolt-on acquisition of new technologies Capital activity our ability to manage the onand off-grid environment and capabilities to remain areemerging.
These developments could affect our competitiveness as power providers.
Changes during 2017: We acquired Younicos in 2017, introducing a new technology and micro-grid capability.
We have updated our business strategy to incorporate this new offering and are developing opportunities to utilise this new capability in tandem with our existing offerings.
Read more about the technology developments taking place as part of our Strategic Priorities on page 28 50 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC CONTINUED Talent management Executive responsible: Anna Filipopoulos, Group Human Resources Director Primary strategic area affected Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted Failure to attract, Employee Our people make the difference betweengreat Succession planning retain and develop satisfaction performance and mediocreperformance.
Talent management reviews and keypersonnel.
development plans We are keenly aware of the need to attract the right people, establish them in their roles and Feedback from staff surveys incorporated into manage their development.
strategic priorities Remuneration and benefits toattract and retain Failure to do so could result in loss of productivity the required talent and intellectual capital, increased recruitment costs and lowerstaffmorale.
Long-term incentive Plans Changes during 2017: Staff turnover reduced slightly in 2017.
When issues arise in specific jurisdictions, we take action to address them or implement our succession plans.
There were fewer instances of this kind than there were in 2016.
Several new high potential managers were recruited in the year.
Read more about People on page 30 New technology market introduction Executive responsible: Stephen Beynon, Managing Director Power Solutions Primary strategic area affected Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted Ineffective Fleet size New product development and introduction New product introduction process identifies and newproduct and composition isone of our key strategic priorities.
resolves product performance issues development Capital activity Standard operating procedures for new technology New products introduced recently and market facilitate effective commissioning and operation Revenue growth include:engines with greater fuel efficiency introduction e. g. Next Generation Gas : alternative fuel Marketing strategies formulated for new products Margins hinders growth.
technology e. g. HeavyFuelOil : and renewable Training delivered to the sales team on the product, Returns technology e. g. diesel solar hybrid.
market opportunities and commercial risks associated with new technology Failure to develop and introduce newproducts may lead to product obsolescence and reduce Sales champions identified for new technology revenue andprofit.
ineach region Monitoring of pipeline conducted on amonthly basis Changes during 2017: We are satisfied with the operational performance of our new technology products and are introducing them to the market.
This has been a slower process than originally anticipated but there is a stable pipeline of customer interest.
Read more about the technology developments taking place as part of our Strategic Priorities on page 28 OP ER A T ION A L Cyber security Executive responsible: Grant Nairn, Group Chief Information Officer Primary strategic area affected Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted A cyber security Revenue growth A cyber security incident may be caused byan A cyber security forum has been formed to monitor incident leads to a external attack, internal attack or byuser error.
risk threats and ensure appropriate actions are Customer loyalty loss of data, a loss being taken Earnings Such an incident may lead to the loss of of data integrity Suite of security technology in place including per share commercially sensitive data, a loss of data or a disruption antivirus and malware software, firewalls, email integrity within our systems or the loss of tooperations.
scanning and internet monitoring financial assets through fraud.
Third-party expertise engaged to assist with A successful cyber attack on our systems incident response and security penetration testing could also result in us not being able to deliver User awareness training designed and rolled out service to our customers, As a result, we could across the organisation suffer reputational damage, revenue loss and financialpenalties.
Future system developments incorporate encryption and security at design stage Changes during 2017: Whilst we believe we have implemented significant improvements over the course of this year, there has been an increase in the number of firms suffering cyber security breaches.
As a result of the general increase in the level of threat we believe that this risk score has increased since last year.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 51 Primary strategic area affected symbols RISK CONTINUED Customer Technology Efficiency People OPERATIONAL CONTINUED Equipment obsolescence Executive responsible: Stephen Beynon, Managing Director Power Solutions Primary strategic area affected Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted Equipment Capital activity We are introducing new fleet and technologies Mobile, modular, homogeneous equipment allows becomes obsolete into the business as some ofour existing fleet transfer between markets Returns before the end isapproaching the end of its useful life.
Sales team training on applications for ofits expected older equipment Whilst the older fleet is still available for useful life.
rent andis required for specific customer Equipment disposal policy to optimise our sales applications, there is an increased likelihood process in the event that excess fleet is identified that the utilisation of this older equipment We design and manufacture our own fleet allowing fallsas it is displaced by new equipment.
us to undertake refurbishment programmes which extend its useful life, improve performance and avoid obsolescence Changes during 2017: We are focussing on ensuring the continued utilisation of our older fleet.
We have identified specific applications where thisfleet can best serve our customers and are taking advantage of the mobile, modular nature of our equipment to redeploy this equipment where necessary.
HA Z A RD Health & Safety Executive responsible: Chris Weston, Chief Executive Officer Primary strategic area affected Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted A health and safety Safety The business of the Group involves transporting, Group HSE policy communicated globally in all incident occurs installing and operating large amounts of heavy relevant languages which results in equipment, which produces lethal voltages or Appropriate training is delivered to all staff serious illness, very high pressure air and involves the use of Staff are empowered to stop work when they feel injury or death.
millions of litres of fuel.
All of these could cause safety may be compromised serious damage to our people and third parties HSE risk assessments are undertaken and safety if not handled with care.
procedures developed in line with our standard Some of our people work in high risk locations.
operating practices Besides the security considerations discussed HSE compliance audits are conducted regularly below, issues facing these personnel include: and all staff are encouraged toreport risks poor road infrastructure, a lack of availability and incidents ofhealthcare and exposure to contagious Our equipment is subject to rigorous testing prior diseases.
We also operate on high risk customer touse and is maintained toahigh standard sites such as offshore oil and windplatforms Where health matters are of concern, we and at mine sites.
implement stringent testing procedures and restrict access to our sites Comprehensive site induction materials are provided to all visitors and staff deployed into anew country Defensive driving training is provided in highriskcountries whilst journey management isan important part of ourHSE system Changes during 2017: Our lost time accident frequency rate fell markedly in 2017.
We continue to improve our online risk and accident management system and, since the introduction of reporting capability through mobile devices, we have seen a significant upturn in thevolumeof risk reports.
Energy Safety Rules training has continued at pace throughout 2017 with all relevant employees now authorised.
Tragically, one of our technicians was fatally injured when he came into contact with an exposed live electrical cable while working at a customers site.
We held a safety stand down and briefing across all operational sites across the Group and have taken additional steps to reduce further the likelihood of such an event occurring again.
Read more about Health & Safety on page 30 52 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION HAZARD CONTINUED Security Executive responsible: Chris Weston, Chief Executive Officer Primary strategic area affected Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted A security incident Safety A security incident may adversely affect Group security policy communicated globally occurs which the wellbeing of our people, the security inallrelevant languages Fleet size affects our people, ofour assets, our reputation or our ability and composition Group Security team under the direction of the assets, or our togeneraterevenue.
Group Head of Security provides guidance and Revenue growth operations.
direction on appropriate security requirements Monitoring of security environments in countries where we operate Security compliance reviews undertaken periodically by the Security team Group-wide Travel Management System, provides pre-travel guidance and allows monitoring of travellers Head of Security provides monthly briefings totheExecutive management team In some cases, insurance against losses has been procured Changes during 2017: Whilst we continue to face specific security challenges in Afghanistan, Iraq, Venezuela and Yemen, we have taken further steps to reduce our risk exposure with the communication of our Security Policy and implementation of our group-wide travel management system this year.
C OM P L I A NCE Failure to conduct business dealings with integrity and honesty Executive responsible: Peter Kennerley, Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Primary strategic area affected Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted We are prosecuted Customer loyalty The scale and global nature of much of our Anti-bribery and corruption framework designed as a result of business exposes us to risks of unethical in line with UK Government guidance and Revenue growth anemployee or behaviour.
implemented across the Group Margins person acting on Board-level leadership through our Ethics This risk is particularly relevant owing to the our behalf having Committee which oversees the compliance policies following factors: made a payment and procedures and aims to foster a culture of which is, or is integrity and honesty in all of our business dealings We operate in several countries with perceived perceived to be, Ethics policy in place with which employees, agents high levels of corruption: abribe.
and sales consultants are required to comply We participate in tenders for high value Training of employees and third-party sales contracts involving public procurement: and consultants on anti-bribery and corruption policies Our business model involves the use of and procedures.
third-party sales consultants agents in Due diligence undertaken on sales consultants some countries where we do not have andagents.
Once appointed we regularly monitor apermanent presence their performance, audit payments and refresh We are aware of the potential reputational due-diligence at least every two years andfinancial impact of such behaviour Head of Compliance and Internal Audit team and wehave in place a robust compliance monitors compliance with policy requirements programme to mitigate our exposure to this risk.
inthis area An independent whistle-blowing system is in place which allows employees to report concerns confidentially and anonymously.
Any reports received are fully investigated Changes during 2017: No material changes during 2017.
We have continued to undertake training for all new starters and high risk third-party relationships.
Read more our ethics policy and anti-bribery and corruption framework on page 73 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 53
