Strategic review HOW WE MANAGE RISK Managing the risks of our business is essential to our long-term success and sustainability of the Group.
Our approach to risk is intended to protect the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Consideration of execution risk will be a key part of our growth acceleration programme.
ESSENTIAL TO LONG-TERM SUCCESS RISK APPETITE FRAMEWORK APPROACH Managing business risks Risk appetite framework For a given Board decision, underlying parameters are identified and IDENTIFY KEY Who: Group Finance Director and As with all businesses, there are certain risks The Board is responsible for determining the considered alongside the likely impacts of the decision: and uncertainties that may impact Rotorks nature and extent of the risks it is willing to DECISIONS AND Head of Risk & Internal Audit ability to achieve its objectives.
take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Our UNDERLYING Potential decision points and outcomes: and Group Risk Appetite Statement is designed to PARAMETERS Impact types e. g. financial, reputational.
The assessment and management of risk is the set the right tone from the top and support responsibility of the Board, and the continuous decision making: improvement and execution of a comprehensive and robust system of risk Risk appetite statement management is a high priority for Rotork.
Rotork is a growth company and will continue Managing the risks of our business is essential to pursue both organic and acquisition led to the long-term success and sustainability of initiatives to drive future growth.
Growth will the Group and our approach to risk is intended lead to greater diversification in our product to protect the interests of shareholders and all portfolio, geographic coverage and end Potential decisions are evaluated against the over-arching principles EVALUATE POTENTIAL Who: Board stakeholders.
The risk management process is market exposure.
However, in pursuing growth articulated through the Group Risk Appetite Statement.
DECISIONS AGAINST an established way of identifying and our preference will be to maintain the current GROUP RISK APPETITE managing risk and is part of our governance levels of operational risk and our existing Potential decisions are assessed against the detailed Group risk framework as set out in our Corporate business model and not to dilute the core appetite metrics, for example: Governance Statement, see page 56. values associated with the Rotork brand.
We will also not risk the financial stability of the Do the forecast returns justify the additional risk taken on?
The Boards role in risk management involves company through the pursuit of development promoting a risk-aware culture that emphasises opportunities.
integrity at all levels of business operations.
This includes: The RAF provides qualitative and quantitative Setting the Groups risk appetite in insight on key risks and supports proactive accordance with the Risk Appetite mitigation planning.
The RAF consists of: Potential decisions are evaluated against the specific risk appetite EVALUATE SPECIFIC Who: Board Framework RAF, as set out below: 1.
Risk Appetite Dimensions dimensions, statements and KRIs, considering: RISK APPETITE Determining the principal risks: 2.
Risk Appetite Statements DIMENSIONS Setting, maintaining and communicating the 3.
Risk Appetite Preferences The key risk appetite dimensions related to the decision: overall policies for risk management: and 4.
Key Risk Indicators KRIs How the KRIs are expected to be impacted by the decision: and Ensuring that risk management is Whether the impact supports our desired appetite for the embedded within the core processes of During 2017, we revised the RAF to reflect given risk s. the Group.
changes to the nature of Rotorks business and its operating environment.
We updated the Effective communication of policies and Boards risk appetite dimensions, statements standards across our global locations is crucial and preferences, which inform the KRIs to ensuring a consistent risk management monitored by the Board.
The risk appetite statements provide guiding ASSESS AND REFINE The RAF is continuously refined in light of the decisions made.
Who: Group Finance Director and We then use the RAF to determine: 2017 has seen the continued development of principles to support decision-making at both a RISK APPETITE Head of Risk & Internal Audit, with the risk management framework, including Board level and throughout the wider Group.
FRAMEWORK Board sign-off Where we are willing to take on additional risk: investment in technology to support further The Board sets the Groups risk appetite improvement in the Groups risk management preference for each dimension, stating Where further action is needed to manage risk within approach.
whether we are tolerant, neutral or averse to a our appetite: Whether decisions expose us to additional risk dimensions particular risk dimension.
These preferences guide the Groups approach to managing risk.
not currently identified: and How the RAF could better support the Boards decision-making process in the future.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 18 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation We have applied the RAF throughout 2017, incorporating this into Board decision making and measuring business decisions against our appetites through a quarterly Executive Risk Summary.
The approach taken by the Board is summarised below: For a given Board decision, underlying parameters are identified and IDENTIFY KEY Who: Group Finance Director and considered alongside the likely impacts of the decision: DECISIONS AND Head of Risk & Internal Audit UNDERLYING Potential decision points and outcomes: and PARAMETERS Impact types e. g. financial, reputational.
See principal risks and uncertainties on pages 22-25 Potential decisions are evaluated against the over-arching principles EVALUATE POTENTIAL Who: Board articulated through the Group Risk Appetite Statement.
DECISIONS AGAINST GROUP RISK APPETITE Potential decisions are assessed against the detailed Group risk appetite metrics, for example: Do the forecast returns justify the additional risk taken on?
See principal risks and uncertainties on pages 22-25 Potential decisions are evaluated against the specific risk appetite EVALUATE SPECIFIC Who: Board dimensions, statements and KRIs, considering: RISK APPETITE DIMENSIONS The key risk appetite dimensions related to the decision: How the KRIs are expected to be impacted by the decision: and Whether the impact supports our desired appetite for the given risk s. See principal risks and uncertainties on pages 22-25 ASSESS AND REFINE The RAF is continuously refined in light of the decisions made.
Who: Group Finance Director and We then use the RAF to determine: RISK APPETITE Head of Risk & Internal Audit, with FRAMEWORK Board sign-off Where we are willing to take on additional risk: Where further action is needed to manage risk within our appetite: Whether decisions expose us to additional risk dimensions not currently identified: and How the RAF could better support the Boards See principal risks and uncertainties decision-making process in the future.
on pages 22-25 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 19 Strategic review HOW WE MANAGE RISK CONTINUED Risk appetite dimension Statement KRIs Acquisitions We will pursue suitable acquisition opportunities and Total value, size and number of acquisitions within the review each on its individual merits.
Control environment We will invest in order to further strengthen the control Number of significant control breaches identified by environment of the business, including in second and third internal audit.
Control environment We will continue to review current external and internal Number of successful cyber-events.
cyber cyber threats so that the business is protected from these Critical system uptime %.
threats and ensure that we have appropriate processes in place to respond to a successful cyber-attack.
Earnings volatility We have limited appetite for volatility in earnings in Level of hedging cover for currency exposures.
the long term, but would consider opportunities that Current year adjusted operating profit.
would increase the risk of earnings volatility, if the upside Order book coverage of in year revenue forecasts.
Geopolitical We will continue to operate a geographically diverse % of Group revenue from risky countries by: business and we want to be as geographically diverse as Subsidiary location forecast: possible in the future.
Risky countries are defined in the AON Political Risk Map 2017.
Health and safety We are fully committed to ensuring the safety of all our LTIR incidents leading to absence.
Health and safety audit scores.
Promotion of open health and safety culture.
Market We will, in the long term, move to greater diversification in % of Group revenue by industry.
industry concentration the end markets we serve.
Operational We will continue to have a preference for an asset-light Number of critical components which are business model and will evaluate dual supply for critical single sourced.
Operating model, We will have a strong regard to our culture when Consideration of our culture and our talent culture and behaviours considering the evolution of the organisation or its development is a key part of the strategic review.
management structure or the integration of acquisitions.
Operational We will take on sales projects, including complex, Major contracts approved.
sales projects extended scope and long-term maintenance contracts, but will only do so on commercially acceptable terms and under strict terms and conditions.
Operational We will invest in our IT systems and infrastructure in order Progress reporting for IT system implementation and IT systems to ensure that we operate consistently and efficiently.
People We want to maintain appropriate succession plans for our We are reviewing our talent development.
Succession succession planning key people at a Board and divisional management level.
planning will be a key consideration of this workstream.
Product We will invest in R&D in order to retain a differentiated Actual R&D investment.
product portfolio and will support this by providing a Market opportunities and competitor actions.
leading service element to our offering.
Quality We will maintain robust quality control procedures over Cost of significant product recalls.
components purchased and over our finished product in all of our manufacturing locations.
Legal and regulatory We have zero tolerance for non-compliance with relevant Number of confirmed significant regulatory compliance laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate.
breaches external investigations notification or approach from a regulator.
Tax We do not pursue aggressive tax planning schemes.
Monitoring of Group effective tax rates.
Number of tax audits carried out against the Group.
This framework enables Rotork to have better visibility of which risks potentially need additional mitigation, which risks are potentially over managed, and where we have appetite to accept additional risk.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 20 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The risk management process is summarised as follows: STAGE 6 Monitor, assure and report on robustness of risks and risk assessment processes STAGE 5 Top down risk Top down risk assessment assessment Ongoing risk mitigation reviews STAGE 4 and controls testing Ongoing Quantify the net risk divisions and businesses manage and monitor risks STAGE 3 Identify risk mitigations and controls STAGE 2 Quantify the gross risk Bottom up risk assessment STAGE 1 Risk identification, bottom up risk assessment Major risks are first identified Stage 1 and considered by the Divisional Risks are monitored, assured and reported in a number of ways and Group Executives during their regular meetings.
An example of each is below: the gross likelihood and impact of each risk Stage 2 on their divisional Monitoring Divisional management and the Board monitor, business, assuming no specific mitigations or controls.
Divisions then manage and reassess risk, maintaining risk registers as live consider the strength of mitigations and controls in place for each risk documents.
Stage 3 before giving a net likelihood and impact score Stage 4.
There Assurance The work of internal audit and others tests the are a range of potential impacts including financial, reputational and effectiveness of mitigations and controls in relation to Rotorks risks.
For financial impacts, valuation limits are tailored so Reporting The quarterly Executive Risk Summary reports KRIs that each division has an appropriate benchmark.
giving an indication of how Rotork is being affected by risks.
Consolidated Group risks are formally updated and presented to the Identified risks are discussed and the progress reviewed at both Rotork Board at half year.
An annual Risk Assessment Workshop is then Management Board and Divisional Board meetings during the year.
facilitated by the risk function for each division and the plc, to promote Senior management, in association with the Board, meets twice a year consistency and challenge to the bottom up process.
Once the Risk to consider the Group risk register and progress with mitigating actions.
Assessment Workshops are completed by each division, the risks are then consolidated at a Group level.
This consolidation process is subject to top down input and challenge from the Rotork Management Board, Audit Committee and Board Stage 5.
The consolidated risk scores are used to determine which risks are most important at a Group level and these are defined as our principal risks.
Each principal risk is ultimately owned by a member of the Rotork Management Board.
Risks which are not considered to be principal risks, are owned and managed by members of the Divisional or plc Boards.
The principal risks are set out on pages 22 to 25.
