Strategic review PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES A GROWTH ACCELERATION PROGRAMME As detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 51, we are assessing options for a growth acceleration programme which will aim to return Rotork to the higher growth and margin levels previously delivered by the Group.
We have initiated a programme of work to assess our sales and operating infrastructure including our supply chain and the readiness of our people and systems.
The present activities, which are being driven by appropriate steering groups and working teams, are focused on analysing the current state and options and so do not present a significant risk to ongoing business activities.
Implementing such a programme will present a variety of challenges and risks, but will ensure that Rotork continues to thrive in a rapidly changing market environment.
We will only pursue change where the level of risk exposure is consistent with our risk appetite and we will invest in mitigations and controls to ensure net risk levels are managed appropriately.
Our risk management processes are dynamic and will continue to assess and prioritise the risks related to growth acceleration and their impact on the principal Group risks which are detailed below.
These risks are the result of the robust, top down and bottom up risk assessment process previously described.
These risks include those that would threaten the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
B PRINCIPAL GROUP RISKS Risk description and Summary of Strategic Risk importance to Rotork mitigation and controls priority trend Economic and market conditions A decline in government and Product development and innovation to address new markets and Accelerated private sector confidence new applications in existing markets.
growth and spending will lead to Geographic and end market diversification provides resilience to a Strong margins cancellations of expected projects reduction in any one area or market but, as we have seen this year, or delays to existing expenditure may not fully mitigate a change in the larger end markets.
Increased focus on service offerings, to capitalise on increased This lower investment in Rotorks demand for product maintenance.
traditional market sectors would result in a smaller addressable market, which in turn could lead to a reduction in revenue from that sector.
Increased competition on price or Rotork already has production or sales and service operations in many Accelerated product offering leading to a loss low cost countries.
growth of sales globally or market share.
Global strategic sourcing team secure lower prices for components.
Strong margins R&D investment and organic product development, or acquisition of companies with new products, to maintain differentiation from the competition both in terms of the quality of our products and the services we provide.
A Group wide project has been established to focus on an improved customer experience and delivering the required market driven specifications to the end user.
Increasing social and political Regular review of global markets considering social and political risks Accelerated instability results in both and contingency plans and market exit strategies developed and growth disruption and increased implemented as appropriate.
Strong margins protectionism in key Key Risk Indicator monitoring % of revenue from high risk markets geographic markets.
reported quarterly to the Board.
This includes the risks posed The geographic spread of Rotorks operations and customers limits by Brexit.
the impact of any one market on the results of the Group as a whole.
Business disruption would impact Group Treasury policy sets cash limits for overseas businesses, our sales and might ultimately restricting our exposure to any one market.
The Treasury Committee lead to loss of assets located in assesses compliance with these limits.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 22 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation Risk trend Increasing No change Decreasing Risk description and Summary of Strategic Risk importance to Rotork mitigation and controls priority trend Financial UK defined benefit pension Both defined benefit schemes are closed to new members.
In 2018, Sustainability scheme deficit can be volatile due the UK defined benefit scheme will be closed to future benefit to a number of factors including accruals and all members of this scheme are being offered alternative investment returns, long-term pension arrangements.
interest rates, price inflation and The Group and trustees monitor the performance of the scheme.
Actuarial and investment advice is taken with a view to reducing This in turn might lead to a volatility and the overall cost of provision of this employee benefit.
requirement for the Company to increase cash contributions to the schemes.
Volatility of exchange rates Rotorks Treasury Hedging Policy addresses short term risk and Strong margins would impact Rotorks reported this works together with the natural hedging provided by the results and competitive position.
geographical spread of operations, sourcing and customers.
The Hedging Policy continues to be reviewed annually to ensure it remains fit for purpose.
Health and safety The nature of Rotorks core Compliance with relevant legislation and codes of best practice.
Accelerated business and geographical growth Robust health and safety policy and training included in all staff locations involves potential inductions, in addition to regular refresher training.
Sustainability risks to the health and safety Regular health and safety audits, site checks and reporting.
of our employees and other Regular communications about accidents at work and visible KPIs.
Appropriate training is provided for known safety risks.
Third party provider of international support and travel advice in all markets and regions.
See Health and Safety Report on pages 50 to 51.
Product quality and reliability Major in field failure of a new Extensive product design review process pre-launch reduces the risk Accelerated or existing Rotork product of product failures occurring in the field.
growth potentially leading to a product Rotork has experience of launching many products and enhanced the Strong margins recall, major on-site warranty process based on this experience.
Sustainability programme or the loss of an Comprehensive set of quality control procedures over suppliers.
These existing or potential customer.
include supplier visits, audits and a scorecard system to measure their performance.
Our global service coverage ensures that any product failure issues should be dealt with quickly and efficiently to minimise any reputational impact.
Fitting and commissioning products wherever possible by Rotork engineers to ensure current operations.
Failure of a key supplier or Dual sourcing for key components wherever possible provides Strong margins tooling failure at a supplier mitigation for key suppliers.
causing disruption to A Key Risk Indicator measures single sourced critical components and manufacturing at a is reported quarterly to the Board.
Maintaining safety stock levels sufficient to protect against short term disruption.
Regular monitoring and replacement of our tooling at all suppliers reduces the risk of a tooling failure.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 23 Strategic review PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk description and Summary of Strategic Risk importance to Rotork mitigation and controls priority trend Acquisition risk Failure of an acquisition Forecast market conditions are considered during the due Accelerated to deliver the growth or diligence process.
growth synergies anticipated, either Due diligence processes will provide information to assist due to unforeseen changes in management and minimise likelihood of unknown surprises.
market conditions, or failure During the due diligence process a 100 day plan is prepared to to integrate an acquisition manage the important initial stages of integration.
Significant financial Effective integration and communication of Rotorks policies and underperformance could lead to procedures.
an impairment write down of the associated intangible assets.
Careful consideration and negotiation of acquisitions by senior management to ensure the purchase price represents value for money.
IT security, continuity and system implementation Failure to provide, maintain Thorough business process reviews and use of flexible testing Strong margins and update the systems and environments to address functional issues.
Sustainability infrastructure required by the Post system implementation, each business is monitored.
Dedicated implementation resource provided by experienced Failure to protect Rotork Rotork team.
operations, sensitive or Robust security systems are in place to monitor and protect the commercial data, technical Rotork network.
specifications and financial We continually review the effectiveness of our key IT security controls, information from cyber-crime.
including a Key Risk Indicator to monitor the number of successful cyber breaches reported quarterly to the Board.
Regular cyber-security and cyber-fraud awareness training and guidance.
A disaster recovery solution supported by third party service level agreements where applicable is in place for all critical systems.
Compliance with law, regulation or ethical standards Failure of our staff or third Tone from the top, a no tolerance culture to reinforce our high Sustainability parties who we do business with ethical standards and values.
to comply with law or regulation Commitment to compliance embodied in Rotork culture.
or to uphold our high ethical Anti-bribery and corruption training is provided to all relevant staff.
We continue our programme of communication to, and education of, agents.
We are currently undertaking a Group wide review of our arrangements with all agents and distributors.
Use of WorldCheck for agents and acquisition targets before engaging in business relationships.
Availability and promotion of the Whistleblowing Policy and Hotline.
We are fully committed to reduce our environmental impact and comply with all legal and regulatory requirements.
People Failure to recruit and retain the Benchmarking of salaries to ensure they remain competitive.
Sustainability talented staff needed to deliver Continued focus on employee performance management.
to our core strategic challenges.
Identification and motivation of existing talent.
We are aware of human rights and act in accordance with them.
