I n t e r d r n a a l o a B u d i t Principal risks and uncertainties Rigorous risk management is a keydriver to sustainable success Global economic and political headwinds There is a trend Our values extend intoour attitude towards greater global uncertainty and risk, and as Just Eat towards identifying, understanding serves consumers and conducts its operations across several markets and countries, it requires representation and responding to the principal risks as a principal risk.
Certain business risks we face, such as those disclosed within Note 33, are generally faced by other comparable The Board carries out robust assessments of the principal online businesses.
There are also additional risks that the risks facing the Group.
These include those that would Group is exposed to that are not considered principal risks threaten its business model, future performance, solvency but may have an adverse impact if they occur.
or liquidity to ensure the principal risks and uncertainties are properly identified, evaluated, prioritised and addressed.
Risk management framework During the course of the year, the Board defined the The exposure to risk is an inherent part of running a business Groups risk appetite and monitored the management of and the Board recognises that rigorous safeguards and a significant risks to ensure that the nature and extent of sound risk management process are required to mitigate those significant risks did not compromise the Groups such risks.
Risk is an agenda item at Board meetings and overall goals and strategic objectives.
the overall process for identifying and assessing business risks and managing their impact on the Group is The Groups risk appetite influences the culture of our continually under Board review.
business and how we operate, and this is reflected in our risk management framework as detailed below.
The risk management process follows a sequence of risk identification and assessment of probability and impact.
New risks were identified and existing risks assessed over Anowner is then assigned to each risk to manage the course of the year as the Groups overall risk profile mitigation activities.
Through our strategic review process in 2017, the Executive Team and the Board ensured that risk The Executive Team supports the Board in monitoring our management was fully embedded to balance opportunities risk exposure through regular reviews and a register is kept with a clear understanding of the risks faced and any of all corporate risks.
The risk register and the methodology mitigation required to align to the Group's risk appetite.
applied are the subject of continuous review by senior management and are updated to reflect new and developing In presenting the principal risks on the following pages, risks that might impact the business.
Where exposure is the Board has sought to enhance disclosures, providing outside of our risk appetite, the issue is communicated to greater detail around strategic context, mitigation, key risk the Board alongside proposed actions to mitigate the risk.
Further, certain risks have been disaggregated to provide greater focus This approach to risk management helps to facilitate top-down and clarity, whilst additional risks have been added to and bottom-up perspectives across business units within the augment the view of our principal risk universe.
The corporate risk register is presented to, and from 2016 were removed.
A summary of additional risks reviewed by, the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
isprovided below: Service experience Online technology is driving significant Strategic objectives changes in Customer and Restaurant Partner behaviour.
This risk addresses the uncertainty related to introducing new, innovative service features whilst our competitors dothe same.
Risk appetite Monitor Brand Following the Group's significant growth in recent years, this inherent risk, whilst stable, has proportionately grown to now be included as a principal risk.
This is supported through significant marketing budgets and Just Eat's public Communicate profile as a leading food-related marketplace business.
effectively People and culture Following significant changes in the leadership team, there is greater risk of change across the Group's management layers, which can create uncertainty Implement Identify and and has the potential to be disruptive.
assessrisks Design and planmitigations Annual Report & Accounts 2017 22 e e t M t i a m n a m g o e C m t e i n d t u A Strategic report Viability statement EU referendum Brexit update In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the Board assessed the prospects of the Company over The Group has continued to monitor a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going developments and potential impacts that Concern provision.
This assessment involved a robust review Brexitmay have on our performance and results.
of the principal risks facing the Company and Group, particularly We also reference our work with the British those which could impact solvency, performance or the Groups Takeaway Campaign, which seeks to represent business model.
The Board conducted this review for a period of three years, which was selected for the following reasons: the views of the industry, and which has driven dialogue and a greater understanding of the the Groups strategic plan covers a three-year period: and potential risks and implications that Brexit the significant growth profile anticipated for the Group maybring.
It also represents the industry in both organically and by acquisition means that forecasting discussions with political stakeholders as beyond three years is more subjective: hence, the Board believes a three-year period is the most appropriate.
The three-year strategic plan considers the Groups cash Whilst there is still macroeconomic uncertainty flows, uEBITDA, investment in areas such as marketing and as negotiations continue, we have concluded technology and other key financial ratios over the period.
that Brexit risks continue to fall below our These metrics are subject to sensitivity analysis, which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying criteria for inclusion as a principal risk.
We the forecast both individually and in unison to ensure the provide a summary of the potential direct and business is still viable in a stressed environment and any indirect impacts we have considered in arriving additional financing requirements are identified.
at this conclusion: The sensitised scenarios model the impact of the Groups principal risks materialising.
For example, this includes a fall in orders due to a total outage from an unmitigated technology Potential direct implications failure Technology Resilience, an unexpected change in legislation Regulation and Legislation and a sudden and sustained inability to process card payments Service Experience, Currency risk as well as downside impacts that may result from competition, A further weakening of sterling would serve to brand and global headwinds.
Mitigating factors to address increase our reported revenue.
Our growing these risks, which would include a reduction in marketing international business now accounts for 44% of spend, delaying removing discretionary payments and a total Group revenue.
However, certain headcount freeze, have not been modelled.
The risks, together investments and expenditure are non-sterling, with a lack of mitigation, have been combined to form a reasonable worst case scenario.
which would have the impact of reducing profit.
The three-year strategic plan does not include cash flows inrespect of future mergers and acquisitions that have not Consumer spending completed by the date of signing.
The Board has assumed that Adverse economic conditions arising out of any decisions on future acquisitions will have regard to the increased inflation or interest rates, could Companys financial position and future cash flows at that impact consumers.
However, our experience is time, and that funds will be raised if needed in order for the that the takeaway industry is resilient and that Company to be able to continue in operation and meet its consumers may exchange takeaways as an liabilities as they fall due.
alternative to more expensive out-of-home dining.
The loss recognised in the current year is caused by the non-cash impairment charge taken against the carrying value of goodwill in the Australia & New Zealand cash-generating unit.
It has not had an impact on cash generation.
Potential indirect implications Based on the results of this analysis, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to Skills shortages continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due Restrictive changes to UK migration policy over the three-year period of their assessment and are pleased hasthe potential to add further burden to an with how the Company is positioned for its longer-term future.
existing skills shortage within the restaurant and takeaway industry.
This could impact Going concern short-term industry performance but perhaps In adopting a going concern basis for preparing thefinancial more importantly could impact the longer-term statements, the Directors have made appropriate enquiries growth of our industry.
and have considered the Groups cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and business activities as set out on page 97, in Note 33 to the Groups financial statements onpages Cost of food 130 to 134, and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as Changes in tariffs and potential adoption of set out on pages 22 to 27.
WTO rules could have a material impact on the Based on the Groups forecasts, the Directors are satisfied cost of imported food for the industry.
Uncertainty that the Company, and the Group as a whole, have adequate regarding EU farming subsidies and the UK food resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable manufacturing industrys dependency on migrant future.
Accordingly, thefinancial statements have been workers increases therisk further.
This knock-on prepared on thegoing concern basis.
impact to our Restaurant Partners may adversely impact our commercial termswith them.
Key to principal risks table on pages 24 to 27 Category We categorise risks to better understand the spectrum, and scale ofrisks that fall into certain groupings.
Owner The primary Executive Team member accountable for the risk.
Risk movement Considered on a net basis, recognising changes in both gross risk measurement and the offset of any advancements or regression in mitigation.
Key risk indicators Metrics and criteria used by management to understand both risk exposure and effectiveness of mitigation.
com 23 Principal risks and uncertainties continued What is the risk and impact?
What is the strategic context?
An inability to offer compelling service Leadership in each of our markets is Rigorous business modelling and pilots We rigorously model and Order volumes 1 2 3 Competition propositions to Customers and Restaurant important to achieving scale.
Extending pilot new propositions to market.
Partners allows competitors to threaten our our position through providing a wider Net new customers.
Business intelligence We closely monitor territory performance Category: Strategic position in our markets.
choice to our Customers, including offering through advanced analytics.
Customer satisfaction and delivery for selected QSR chains, is Owner: This could adversely impact market share, growth, loyalty levels.
central to our strategic growth plan.
Dedicated delivery initiatives Weare investing in and  revenue, margin and overall profitability.
Restaurant satisfaction accelerating rollout of our deliverypropositions.
This risk has increased as we consider the and loyalty levels.
growing scale and funding of logistics Delivery revenue.
providers and the marketplace margin Driver cost per order.
impacts of the consequential entry of QSR chains into the delivery market.
The user experience on our platforms fails to meet Greater confidence with technology and Consumer and partner product development teams We have Customer satisfaction and 1 2 3 Service the evolving expectations of either our Customers information is revolutionising consumer dedicated teams continuously innovating and developing new loyalty levels.
or Restaurant Partners and is not a positive behaviour and the way businesses are features for our services.
Restaurant satisfaction experience differentiator against competitors.
partnering with each other to leverage and loyalty levels.
Service platform consolidation We are undertaking discrete market opportunities.
This could impact our brand, Customer and initiatives to bring further markets onto a single platform to focus Category: Technology Restaurant Partner experience and loyalty and Offering a compelling online experience development and enhance our agility in bringing features to market.
Owner: ultimately market share, revenue and profitability.
to meet the increasing demands of both Our product focus Our product development is the fastest growing  Customers and our Restaurant Partners is technology area as we prioritise spend in our strategic plan.
critical to brand loyalty and driving growth.
New, changed or reinterpreted laws and regulations Our role within the food industry across Monitoring Our in-house legal, finance, tax and compliance Internal operational 2 3 Regulation adversely impact the business, or we fail to obtain several markets exposes us to a functions monitor new and evolving risks.
required regulatory approvals or licences.
spectrum of laws and regulations, Internal audit findings.
Evaluation Where required, external specialists supplement our andlegislation increasing the inherent risks.
Impacts include compromised revenue streams teams to assess, scope and plan responses to changes in the and or increased cost of operations.
Additionally, Food safety and payment services regulatory landscape.
Category: Regulatory instances ofnon-compliance or adverse judgements regulations are examples of applicable Compliance projects We create multi-discipline project teams to Owner: could result in brand and reputational loss, along areas, but more broadly competition address larger compliance needs such as GDPR and PSD2 legislation.
 with litigation, fines, revocation of licences and anti-trust, bribery, modern slavery, financial loss.
money laundering, consumer protection and taxation including EC State Aid investigations and ongoing tax disputes.
This risk increases as changes such as GDPR and PSD2 are brought into law across European markets.
A single event inflicts considerable harm to our Eating is a fundamental human pleasure Brand ownership and strategy Senior accountability, strategies Customer satisfaction and 1 2 3 Brand brand, or an ineffectual brand strategy weakens in our Customers lives and it is therefore and plans exist to enhance and protect our brand.
our brand or its authenticity over the longer term.
essential that they, along with our Restaurant satisfaction Crisis management Management and communication plans are Category: Reputational Restaurant Partners, value, endorse and loyalty levels.
A significant decline in brand value would result in established to minimise brand damage following an adverse event.
and associate with us, what we do and Owner: the loss of new and existing Customers and Ongoing market what we represent in society.
Proactive initiatives We live our brand values, we are involved in  Restaurant Partners, impacting orders, revenue researchmetrics.
initiatives such as the BTC, Sustainable Restaurant Association and overall profitability.
In response to this, our brand and what and the Better Fast FoodNetwork.
we do to promote and protect it is central to our strategic plans.
Protocols and organisation Skilled teams operate within established brand policies and guidelines.
We sustain a major cyber securitybreach.
It is critical to maintaining our Customers Security and data teams We continue to invest in building our Volumes trends of 1 2 Cyber security and Restaurant Partners experience and security and data teams to support systems design and development, prevented attacks.
A major cyber security breach has the potential to trust that we provide secure systems on and the monitoring of operations.
Cyber response incident cause significant operational disruption, data theft or and data which they can transact.
destruction, malicious damage and or theft of assets.
Attack management systems We have dedicated solutions protection Our platforms are pivotal to the inoperation.
Network health and status Following such an incident, it is probable that the enablement of our services.
reputational and operational impacts would weaken Penetration testing and vulnerability management Our teams Category: Operational itis essential that we develop a strong Levels of obsolete vendor orders, revenue andunderlying profitability.
perform ongoing work to identify and resolve network vulnerabilities.
cyber security capability and that we unsupported systems Owner: continue to invest in enhancing systems Identity management We continue to invest in advancing our inuse.
 to meet the changing nature of this risk.
identity management capabilities, which significantly reduces Internal audit findings.
In so doing, we also need to ensure that vulnerability across user and systems accounts.
we retain a balance between robust Incident and event management We continue to enhance our security and ease of use and that it does incident and event management systems and have specialist not impact the speed to market of any teams that manage responses to cyber incidents.
Improving Customer Building brand to Key 1 2 Bringing greater choice 3 experience drivechannel shift Annual Report & Accounts 2017 24 Strategic report Links to strategic Change focusareas How is the risk managed?
Risk decreased Risk stable Risk increased www.
com 25 Principal risks and uncertainties continued What is the risk and impact?
Widespread and or prolonged outage ofcritical Offering services that are available and Architecture Our platforms are all hosted on Amazon Web Services Systems availability 1 2 3 Technology platforms and infrastructure that support our robust is critical to our Customers and on a 'three site basis' to provide multi-site resilience and failovers to percent uptime levels.
services to Customers and Restaurant Partners.
reduce the risk of major outages and to enable rapid restoration Backup success metrics.
resilience Consequently, if we are to enjoy their ofservices.
Due to the online nature of our businesses, Outage root cause and trust, it is imperative that we innovate large-scale outages would have an immediate Monitoring Our specialist technology teams provide 24 7 problem management Category: Infrastructure and operate with a resilience mindset.
impact on orders andrevenue as Customers would monitoring of our platforms and respond to outages.
We have progressed well in improving Owner: be unable to transact with us.
Thereafter, the Results of business our resilience capability during 2017. Business recovery We have implemented recovery plans to  impact to our brand could deepen if we were recovery exercises.
minimise disruptions and facilitate the resumption of services.
unable to pass collected revenue back to our Our technology profile includes large partners or pay our suppliers.
data-processing platforms enabled through cloud infrastructure, which offers the resilience and scalability of highly redundant architecture, but inherently brings with it cyber, networking and computing risks.
In response to our continued growth and change Our larger corporate profile brings The right leadership We have recruited a number of senior leaders Operational costs per order.
1 2 3 Growth incorporate profile, weencounter challenges withit inherent structural, process who bring with them experience and thought leadership, which will Status of organisational inadapting our operating model to successfully andgovernance challenges that require enable us to accelerate organisational change and to address skill design initiatives.
and scalability balance innovation and agility against maturing us to evolve to remain effective in set, process and technology gaps in our operational capability.
our operations and enterprise-wide governance.
exploiting market opportunities and Organisational design We have a set of organisational design Category: Organisational beefficient with our resources.
This could impact the execution of our strategic initiatives within our strategy to minimise this risk.
Owners: initiatives, as well as impact our ability to leverage As we execute our strategic plan, it is  and operational cost efficiencies.
essential that we concurrently focus ChiefPeople Officer onorganising ourselves for success.
The integration of newly acquired businesses and Newly acquired businesses, such as Project management We manage integrations and Order levels and trends for 1 2 Business our reorganisation of existing businesses is met SkipTheDishes and Hungryhouse, require reorganisations from concept to execution as projects to ensure specific businesses.
with significant challenges and delays.
Integrations appropriate governance, structure and accountability is wrapped Project progress reporting.
integration and are inherently complex and therefore form around them.
The adverse impacts may include greater resource Project governance discrete initiatives within our strategy.
reorganisation utilisation and costs tocomplete such projects, as Executive sponsorship Our Executive Team members act compliancelevels.
well as theopportunity costs of operating fragmented As we grow, certain existing businesses inasteering and decision-making role tohelp the projects overcome Category: Organisational or sub-optimal organisational structures.
also require reorganising to leverage our anyobstacles.
These exercises also form Owners: part of our strategy.
 and ChiefFinancial Officer Key talent leaves the business and or our talent We have had significant changes across Talent board Provides leadership anddecision making on Levels of existing talent.
1 2 People acquisition strategy is ineffective in filling our senior leadership team over the past investing, succession planning and managing our talent pipeline.
Number of critical strategic roles.
As this also brings about vacancies.
Capability management Mapping of existing capabilities to and culture cultural change, we can expect a degree The loss of key talent has the potential to be defined talent standards allows a view on strengths, development Capability trend analysis.
of attrition from existing talent.
This risk disruptive, particularly for positions of leadership.
Category: Organisational Ageing of unfulfilled roles.
is a new addition to the principal risks Together with acquisition risk, this can delay and for 2017.
Organisational design Ongoing progress in enhancing our Owner: ChiefPeople Officer therefore jeopardise the execution and organisation to be efficient and forward looking in planning achievement of strategic objectives.
Talent management forms a key pillar forhuman resources.
of our People strategy to ensure both retention and timely acquisition of talent meets the needs of our growingorganisation.
Significant economic or political events weaken order It is widely accepted that the world has Impact assessments When events such as the referendum on Net new customers.
"1 2 3 Global economic volumes and or growth projections in one or more entered a more volatile state in recent ""Brexit"" occur, we conduct analysis to understand possible Order growth."
of our markets, or threaten to disrupt our operations.
years with increased economic and impacts and to mobilise action plans as necessary.
Due to the Economic and political factors have the potential Cash investments We restrict investments of liquid resources to Acquisition cost of wide-reaching and systemic nature of headwinds to represent both opportunities and risks.
For example, AAA-rated money market funds and lodge deposits with approved newcustomers.
this risk, it is strategically important for UK consumers trade down behaviour was seen to counterparties.
us to understand that we have taken all Restaurant churn rates.
Category: Financial benefit takeaways during the 2007-2012 global necessary steps within our control to Diversification across the globe Inrecent years we have recession.
Nonetheless, a particularly deep and Owner: mitigate it.
diversified our global footprint, with the consequent advantage prolonged event has the potential to change  of reducing our reliance on primary markets.
behaviours, which could adversely impact This risk has the potential to impact revenueand underlying profitability.
performance in one or more markets, Financial planning We conduct rigorous financial planning disrupt operations and potentially tomanage and monitor cost versus revenue performance.
threaten the safety of personnel working for us, or on our behalf.
Improving Customer Building brand to Key 1 2 Bringing greater choice 3 experience drivechannel shift Annual Report & Accounts 2017 26 Strategic report Links to strategic Change focusareas How is the risk managed?
