Strategic Report OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board has overall responsibility At least twice a year, the Board undertakes a formal risk review, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, to assess for our risk management and internal the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control controls, with the Audit Committee systems.
During these reviews, the Board has not identified reviewing the effectiveness of our risk or been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be material.
management process on its behalf.
Risk appetite We aim to operate in a low-risk environment, focusing on a Our risk appetite is low, including the fact that we do not single subsector of the UK real estate market to deliver an undertake speculative development.
We have high-quality attractive, growing and secure income for Shareholders, tenants, with a portfolio of modern buildings and one of the together with the opportunity for capital appreciation.
The longest unexpired lease terms in the sector coupled with an Board recognises that effective risk management is key to average term to maturity on our debt of.
years, most of which the Groups success.
Risk management ensures a defined is fixed rate.
approach to decision making that decreases uncertainty surrounding anticipated outcomes, balanced against the We have a specific Investment Policy, which we adhere to objective of creating value for Shareholders.
and for which the Board has overall responsibility.
Approach to managing risk Principal risks and uncertainties Our risk management process is designed to identify, evaluate Further details of our principal risks and uncertainties are set out and mitigate rather than eliminate the significant risks we face.
They have the potential to materially affect The process can therefore only provide reasonable, and not our business, either favourably or unfavourably.
Some risks are absolute, assurance.
As an investment company, we outsource currently unknown, while others that we currently regard as key services to the Manager, the Administrator and other immaterial, and have therefore not included here, may turn out service providers, and rely on their systems and controls.
to be material in the future.
All principal risks are the same as detailed in the  Annual Report.
Risk management framework Board Audit Committee Policy procedure and controls Review of key performance indicators and management reports Risk identification The Manager Risk assessment financial and operational Risk mitigation implementation of risk mitigants Risk monitoring evaluation and revaluation of financial and operational mterics Risk reporting to Audit Committee and Board Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks The Board considers these risks have increased since last year Default of one or more tenants Our ability to grow the portfolio may be affected by competition for investment properties in the Big Box sector The purchase of land may involve a higher degree of risk than that associated with existing and built investments or pre-let development activities The Board consider all the other risks to be broadly unchanged from last year The performance and valuation of the property portfolio Our property performance will depend on the performance of the UK retail sector, specifically the continued growth of online retail Development activities are likely to involve a higher degree of risk than investment in standing investments We rely on the continuance of the Manager We are a UK REIT and have a tax-efficient corporate structure, with advantageous consequences for UK Shareholders.
Any change to our tax status or in UK tax legislation could affect our ability to achieve our investment objectives and provide favourable returns to Shareholders The vote to leave the EU in June  could result in political and or economic uncertainty that could have a negative effect on the performance of the Company RARE LOW MEDIUM HIGH The Board considers these risks have decreased PROBABILITY since last year Our use of floating rate debt will expose the business to underlying The matrix above illustrates our assessment of the impact interest rate movements and probability of the principal risks identified.
The rationale A lack of debt funding at appropriate rates may restrict our ability for perceived increases or decreases in the risks identified to grow is contained within the commentary for each risk category.
We must be able to operate within our banking covenants Property risks Default of one or more tenants PROBABILITY: LOW TO IMPACT: MODERATE MITIGATION MODERATE The default of one or more of Our investment policy limits our exposure to our tenants would immediately any one tenant to % of gross assets or, where Change in year: reduce revenue from the relevant tenants are members of the FTSE, up to % each asset s. If the tenant cannot for two such tenants.
This prevents significant remedy the default and we have exposure to a single Customer.
To mitigate to evict the tenant, there may be a geographical shifts in tenants focus, we invest in continuing reduction in revenues assets in a range of locations, with easy access to until we are able to find a suitable large ports and key motorway junctions.
Before replacement tenant, which may investing, we undertake thorough due diligence, affect our ability to pay dividends particularly over the strength of the underlying to Shareholders.
covenant, while continuing to monitor the covenant strength once forming part of the portfolio.
We select assets with strong property fundamentals good location, modern design, sound fabric, which should be attractive to other tenants if the current tenant fails.
In addition, we focus on assets let to tenants with strong financial covenant strength that are strategically important to the tenants business.
Our maximum exposure to any one tenant calculated by contracted rental income is less than % as at  December .
See Asset Management pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report IMPACT NOT SIGNIFICANT LOW MEDIUM HIGH Strategic Report: Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Property risks continued The performance and valuation of the property portfolio PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: MODERATE TO HIGH MITIGATION Change in year: An adverse change in our property Our property portfolio is  % let, with long valuations may lead to a breach unexpired weighted average lease terms and an of our banking covenants.
All the leases conditions may also reduce the contain upward-only rent reviews, which are revenues we earn from our property either fixed, RPI CPI linked or at open market assets, which may affect our ability value.
These factors help maintain our asset to pay dividends to Shareholders.
We have agreed banking covenants A severe fall in values may result in with appropriate headroom and manage our us selling assets to repay our loan activities to operate well within these covenants.
commitments, resulting in a fall in We constantly monitor our covenant headroom our NAV.
on LTV, gearing and interest cover.
The level of headroom is currently significant.
The EMTN has See Asset Management limited covenants.
pages - Our ability to grow the portfolio may be affected by competition for investment properties in the Big Box sector PROBABILITY: IMPACT: LOW MITIGATION MODERATE Competitors in the sector may be We have extensive contacts in the sector and better placed to secure property often benefit from off-market transactions.
We Change in year: acquisitions, as they may have also maintain close relationships with a number greater financial resources, thereby of investors and developers in the sector, giving restricting our ability to grow our NAV.
us the best possible opportunity to secure future acquisitions.
We are not exclusively reliant on acquisitions to grow the portfolio.
Our leases contain upward-only rent review clauses and we have a number of current asset management initiatives within the portfolio, which means we can generate additional income and value from the existing portfolio.
We are, however, disciplined in our investment of capital and will not pay a price which we See Our Strategy and believe is above market value, just to secure Objectives pages - a purchase.
Our property performance will depend on the performance of the UK retail sector, specifically the continued growth of online retail PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: LOW MITIGATION Change in year: Our focus on the Big Box sector The diversity of our institutional-grade tenant means we directly rely on the base means the impact of default of any one of distribution requirements of UK our tenants is low.
In addition to our due diligence retailers.
Insolvencies among the on tenants before an acquisition or, in the case larger retailers and online retailers of forward funded developments, before could affect our revenues and agreeing the lease terms, we regularly review property valuations.
the performance of the retail sector, the position of our tenants against their competitors and, in particular, the financial performance of our tenants.
E-commerce is expected to grow to % of UK retail sales by.
See Our Market pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Property risks continued Development activities are likely to involve a higher degree of risk than investment in standing investments PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: LOW MITIGATION Change in year: Our forward funded developments The Company had no forward funded are likely to involve a higher degree development assets under construction as at of risk than is associated with  December .
However, it has completed standing investments.
This could on a further two and conditionally exchanged include general construction risks, on one forward funded development post delays in the development or the the period end.
All of these assets are pre-let development not being completed, to institutional-grade tenants.
Any risk of cost overruns or developer investment into forward funded projects is contractor default.
If any of the risks minimal, as the developer takes on a significant associated with our forward funded amount of construction risk and the risk of cost developments materialised, this could overruns.
Funds for these developments remain reduce the value of these assets and with us and are only released to the developer See Our Market our portfolio.
on a controlled basis subject to milestones as pages - assessed by our independent project monitoring surveyors see also risk below on land and See Our Strategy and development activities.
Objectives pages - The purchase of land may involve a higher degree of risk than that associated with existing and built investments or development activities PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: MODERATE MITIGATION Change in year: The inability to obtain planning The Company cannot undertake any speculative consent means that the land would development of buildings although it can have to be held or sold prior to any undertake land preparation works and therefore development.
The value of the land a pre-let is a pre-requisite to commencing the may be reduced due to the refusal construction of building.
Prior to acquisition of of planning consent and the costs land the Company will carry out an extensive incurred to that date could be due diligence exercise to limit exposure to significant and may be irrecoverable: environmental risk and other hazards.
Once this would reduce the Company a pre-let is agreed with a suitable tenant, the NAV.
If the Company fails to attract a Company will structure the development of the suitable pre-let it cannot proceed with asset as it does its forward funded development the development of a Big Box.
This projects, therefore minimising risk see risk would impact on the future revenues above on development activities.
The purchase the Company could make from the of land is also subject to a maximum level land and failure to secure a pre-let of  % of NAV, at the time of purchase.
The may have a negative effect on the Company also undertakes a significant level valuation.
of due diligence on the land, the surrounding power and highways infrastructure, the The land may be subject to an surrounding environment and the state of the environmental risk which requires market prior to embarking on a land purchase significant investment to remediate to mitigate any risk around the viability of the prior to commencing the development site for development as much as possible.
Company will usually also work in tandem with an experienced and respected development The costs associated with developing partner to manage any preparatory works land may fluctuate over the course and or development.
of the development due to market conditions.
See Our Market pages - See Our Strategy and Objectives pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Financial risks Our use of floating rate debt will expose the business to underlying interest rate movements PROBABILITY: MODERATE IMPACT: LOW MITIGATION Change in year: Interest on our variable rate The Company has entered into interest rate debt facilities is payable based derivatives to hedge our direct exposure to on a margin over Libor.
These derivatives cap our adverse movements in Libor exposure to the level to which Libor can rise and could significantly impair our have terms coterminous with the loans.
We aim, profitability and ability to pay where reasonable, to minimise the level of unhedged dividends to Shareholders.
debt with Libor exposure, by taking out hedging instruments with a view to keeping variable rate debt approximately % hedged.
During , we Robust financing and refinanced a significant amount of floating rate debt hedging with strong liquidity in the year with fixed rate debt.
Our exposure to Libor pages - currently represents only.
A lack of debt funding at appropriate rates may restrict our ability to grow PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: MODERATE MITIGATION Change in year: Without sufficient debt funding, During the year the Company refinanced a we may be unable to pursue significant portion of its secured borrowings, by suitable investment opportunities issuing long-term unsecured borrowings.
This should in line with our investment enable the Company to raise future debt in a more objectives.
If we cannot source efficient and effective manner on an unsecured debt funding at appropriate rates, basis.
Before we contractually commit to buying an either to increase the level of debt asset, we enter into discussions with our lenders or refinance existing debt, this to get an outline heads of terms on debt financing.
will impair our ability to maintain This allows us to ensure that we can borrow our targeted level of dividend or against the asset and maintain our borrowing impair our ability to grow.
The Board keeps our liquidity and gearing levels under review.
We only enter into forward funding commitments if they are supported by available committed funds.
In December , we issued a million dual tranche bond with an average term of .
years along with a million unsecured revolving credit facility.
We had headroom of million within the Robust financing and credit facility at the year end.
This has created hedging with strong liquidity new banking relationships for us, which helps keep pages - lending terms competitive.
We must be able to operate within our debt covenants PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: LOW MITIGATION Change in year: If we were unable to operate We continually monitor our debt covenant within our debt covenants, this compliance, to ensure we have sufficient headroom could lead to default and our debt and to give us early warning of any issues that may funding being recalled.
Our LTV is low and we enter into interest result in us selling assets to repay rate caps to mitigate the risk of interest rate rises.
loan commitments, resulting in a During , we refinanced a significant part of fall in NAV.
our floating rate debt and moved predominantly to a fixed rate debt platform.
This will mitigate the effect on the Company from interest rate rises.
We invest in assets let to institutional-grade tenants and we also seek to maintain a long WAULT, which Depositary Statement should reduce the volatility in our property values.
page Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate risk We rely on the continuance of the Manager PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: MODERATE TO HIGH MITIGATION Change in year: We continue to rely on the Unless there is a default, either party may Managers services and its terminate the Investment Management Agreement reputation in the property by giving not less than months written notice, market.
As a result, the which may not be served before  December Companys performance will, .
The Management Engagement Committee to a large extent, depend on regularly reviews and monitors the Managers the Managers abilities in the performance.
In addition, the Board meets regularly property market.
Termination with the Manager, to ensure it maintains a positive of the Investment Management working relationship.
The Investment Management Agreement would severely Agreement was amended during : see the See Our Strategy and affect our ability to manage our Management Engagement Committee Report.
Objectives pages - operations and may have a negative impact on the share See Management Engagement price of the Company.
Committee Report pages  - Taxation risk We are a UK REIT and have a tax-efficient corporate structure, with advantageous consequences for UK Shareholders.
Any change to our tax status or in UK tax legislation could affect our ability to achieve our investment objectives and provide favourable returns to Shareholders PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: LOW TO MODERATE MITIGATION Change in year: If the Company fails to remain The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring we a REIT for UK tax purposes, our adhere to the UK REIT regime.
It monitors the REIT profits and gains will be subject to compliance reports provided by: UK corporation tax.
the Manager on potential transactions: the Administrator on asset levels: and our Registrar and broker on shareholdings.
See Our Market pages - The Board has also engaged third-party tax See Our Strategy and advisers to help monitor REIT compliance Objectives pages - requirements.
Political risk The vote to leave the EU could result in political and or economic uncertainty that could have a negative effect on the performance of the Company PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: LOW TO MODERATE MITIGATION Change in year: The UK has now triggered Article The Group operates with a sole focus on the UK, which sets the expected Big Box market which has a significant supply date of the UKs departure from shortage against current levels of demand: this the EU in March .
Economic will assist in supporting property capital values.
It volatility is not a new risk for the is currently well positioned with long and secure Group: however, until the terms leases and a diverse blue-chip tenant line up, with a of Brexit become clearer the focus on tenants with financial strength, which are Robust financing and exact outcome on the business is well positioned to withstand any downturn in the hedging with strong liquidity difficult to predict at this stage.
pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
