STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 59 Principal Risks Principal Risks focusing on analysing root causes of risks Major product programme delivery Risk management or incidents and developing standard Since last year, the level of risk for the major The Board is responsible for the Groups approaches for managing common risks: product programme delivery principal risk risk management system RMS and internal has increased.
This is due to in-service issues improving our risk appetite framework: control systems.
that we have experienced with our Trent 1000 and Trent 900 engines see page 24 conducting progressively more Our RMS is designed to identify and and the resources required to mitigate the challenging crisis management team manage, rather than eliminate, the risk impact of these issues on our customers.
exercises based on our principal risks: of failure to achieve business objectives The change in risk level also reflects the and to provide reasonable, but not strengthening our risk assurance importance that successful delivery of major absolute, assurance against material capability to improve alignment of risk, programmes has in generating cash to fund misstatement or loss.
control and assurance activities: and our refreshed strategy.
We continue to build risk management rolling out our risk visualisation tool into into the way we work to help us to make Product safety the businesses and functions to bring risk better decisions.
It is implemented through As the Group continues to transform, discussions to life and help management a mandated Group-wide risk management the product failure principal risk has been to focus on the most important risks.
policy, including our process, software tools re-defined and focuses specifically on In 2018, we will look to build on these and governance structures.
Our risk policy the product safety aspects to ensure that improvements and continue to integrate is supported by training and a team of ownership of this risk is clearly aligned risk management into the culture change experts.
Businesses and functions are to the changes in our engineering and and transformation programmes and key accountable for identifying and managing technology functions see page 42. decision-making activities.
risks in line with this policy.
Political risk Business continuity plans are in place Our Brexit steering group has continued to mitigate continuity risks and there Principal risks to assess potential impacts of leaving the has continued to be regular testing of Our RMS is designed so that principal risks EU, including uncertainties related to our the adequacy of these plans through can be identified from multiple sources.
We have briefed the UK exercises at every level of our incident bottom-up risks are identified by businesses Government and other governments on management framework.
and functions and the detail of risks that our Brexit-related issues and have made Joint ventures constitute a large part of meet the Group threshold are subject to representations through our trade the Groups activities.
Responsibility for risk review and challenge by the ELT and the association memberships.
and internal controls in joint ventures lies Board during their risk reviews.
While we wait for political certainty from with the managers of those operations.
The Board, assisted by the ELT, has carried the Brexit negotiations and details of the We seek to exert influence over such joint out a robust assessment of the principal risks final Brexit deal, we have assessed potential ventures through board representation.
facing the Group, including undertaking a additional operational impacts to understand Management and internal audit regularly deep dive into each risk.
Deep dives allow what action Rolls-Royce might need to take review the activities of these joint ventures.
the Board to assess the effectiveness of before Brexit occurs in 2019. management and mitigation of the risk, We could be impacted through a number including consideration of the effectiveness Improving our RMS of routes.
For example: our regulatory of material internal controls.
These reviews relationship with the EU European We have continued to enhance our RMS are supported by the ELT risk committee Aviation Safety Agency: REACH chemical in 2017, including: conducting in-depth reviews of related certification programme : our operational bottom-up key risks and the actions and updating our risk policy and actively relationship customs union and movement controls in place to manage them.
communicating it to our employees: of people : our tax and treasury strategy: our EU R&T funding relationship and other embedding risk assessment as part of key Changes in principal risks interfaces.
We are managing these risks decision-making activities e. g. allocating These ongoing reviews of risks and through our operational assessment and capital investment: understanding of potential root causes applying our business continuity risk has resulted in changes to the following management process to Brexit.
principal risks compared to last year.
Management of principal risks Our risk framework ensures that risks are identified, managed and communicated throughout the Group.
Impact of Monitor Identify Governance Set risk appetite PRs on longmitigation and Reporting principal risks of PRs for PRs term viability control of PRs PRs Assess effectiveness of risk management system RMS Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 60 Principal Risks Other changes We are aware of the impact our products and operations have on the planet and the impact climate change may have on our business either directly or indirectly.
To help readers understand where we see the biggest risks and in line with the Financial Stability Board FSB Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD we have updated our description of two principal risks: i disruptive technologies and business models and ii business continuity.
Change in risk level Risk management enables our strategy Increased Customer focus Technology focus Resilience through Financial progress 1 2 3 4 to rectify in-service through product adaptability with delivering improving Decreased issues, ramp up revitalisation, a spotlight on free cash flow, large engine electrification safety, diversity strengthening Static production and digitalisation & inclusion, and the balance sheet, highest ethical more disciplined standards capital allocation Priorities for 2018 on page 9 Principal risk or uncertainty Change in 2018 and potential impact How we manage it Key controls risk level priorities Disruptive technologies Horizon and emerging technology scanning and Strategic 2 and business models understanding our competitors, including patent searches.
planning process Investing in innovation and new technologies.
Investment Disruptive technologies, new entrants with alternative business Focusing on enhancing our skills and capabilities to maintain review committee our technology leadership.
Digital models or disruptions to key markets or customers could Forming strategic partnerships and conducting joint research governance programmes.
board reduce our ability to sustainably win future business, achieve Establishing our digital business.
Research & technology operating results and realise This principal risk is subject to review by the Science future growth opportunities.
Digital business development board Competitive position Accessing and developing key technologies and service Financial 3 The presence of large, financially offerings which differentiate us competitively see page 42. performance strong competitors in the majority Focusing on being responsive to our customers and improving review 4 of our markets means that the the quality, delivery and reliability of our products and services.
Strategic Group is susceptible to significant Partnering with others effectively.
planning process price pressure for original Driving down cost and improving margins.
Investment equipment or services even Protecting credit lines.
review committee where our markets are mature Investing in innovation, manufacturing and production, Science & or the competitors few.
Our main and continuing governance of technology programmes Technology competitors have access to see page 111.
Committee significant government funding Maintaining a healthy balance sheet to enable access to Research & programmes as well as the ability cost-effective sources of third party funding.
technology to invest heavily in technology Understanding our competitors.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Board.
Major programmes are subject to Board approval.
Rolls-Royce Major product 1 Reviewing major programmes at levels and frequencies management programme delivery appropriate to their criticality and performance, against key system Failure to deliver a major 4 financial and non-financial deliverables and potential risks Operational programme on time, within throughout the programmes lifecycle see page 71. performance budget, to specification, or Investing in facilities and people to minimise the level of review technical performance falling disruption to our customers from Trent 1000 and Trent 900 Project significantly short of customer in-service issues and developing longer-term solutions assurance expectations, or not delivering to these issues.
Gated business the planned business benefits, Conducting technical audits at pre-defined points which are and technical would have potentially performed by a team that is independent from the programme.
reviews significant adverse financial Requiring programmes to address the actions arising from Quality and reputational consequences, reviews and audits and monitoring and controlling progress compliance audit including the risk of impairment through to closure.
Major quality of the carrying value of the Applying knowledge management principles to provide benefit investigations Groups intangible assets and to current and future programmes.
board the impact of potential litigation.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 61 Principal Risks Principal risk or uncertainty Change in 2018 and potential impact How we manage it Key controls risk level priorities Product safety Ensuring a culture that puts safety first.
Company 3 Applying our engineering design and validation process product safety The lives of people that our customers serve depend on from initial design, through production and into service.
assurance board 4 Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the Groups product Quality the safety of our products wherever and whenever they safety policies to ensure that they operate to the highest compliance audit industry standards.
Any failure to meet this expectation, or if Operating a safety management system SMS, governed by technical audit the product safety review board, and subject to continual Crisis our product causes significant environmental impact, would improvement based on experience and industry best practice.
management Product safety training is an integral part of our SMS team adversely affect our reputation 1 and long term sustainability.
Environment and Improving our supply chain quality.
sustainability committee This principal risk is subject to review by the Safety & Ethics Committee.
Talent and capability Attracting, rewarding and retaining the right people with the Remuneration 1 Inability to attract and retain right skills globally in a planned and targeted way, including Committee the critical capabilities and regular benchmarking of remuneration see pages 46 and 47.
ELT 2 skills needed in sufficient Developing and enhancing organisational, leadership, technical Senior 3 numbers to effectively organise, and functional capability to deliver global programmes.
leadership team deploy and incentivise our Continuing a strong focus on individual development and HR executive 4 people to deliver our strategies, succession planning.
team business plans and projects.
Proactively monitoring retirement in key areas and actively managing the development and career paths of our people with a special focus on employees with the highest potential.
Embedding a lean, agile, high-performance culture that tightly aligns Group strategy with individual and team objectives.
Incentivising and effectively deploying the critical capabilities, skills and people needed to deliver our strategic priorities, plans and projects whilst implementing the Group's major programme to transform its business, to be resilient and to act with pace and simplicity.
Tracking engagement through our annual employee opinion survey and a commitment to drive year-on-year improvement to the employee experience and communications see page 47.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Nominations & Governance Committee.
Business continuity Continuing our investment in adequate capacity and modern Crisis 1 equipment and facilities.
management Breakdown of external supply chain or internal facilities that Identifying and assessing points of weakness in our internal and team 4 external supply chain, our IT systems and the skills Major incidents could be caused by destruction of key facilities, natural disaster of our people.
board Selecting stronger suppliers, developing dual sources Quality board including those caused by climate change, regional or dual capability.
and process Ensuring our suppliers are aware of the 2018 REACH deadline councils conflict, financial insolvency of a critical supplier or scarcity and conducting research on alternative materials.
Operations and Crisis management exercises and testing site-level incident IT executive of materials which would reduce the ability to meet management and business recovery plans.
Supplier audit Providing improved response to supply chain disruption Environment & customer commitments, win future business or achieve through customer excellence centres.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
IT vulnerability Implementing defence in depth through deployment of Operations and 1 multiple layers of software and processes including web IT executive Breach of cyber security causing controlled or critical data to gateways, filtering, firewalls, intrusion, advanced persistent IT security 2 threat detectors and integrated reporting see page 101. management be lost, made inaccessible, 4 corrupted or accessed by Running security and network operations centres.
Crisis Actively sharing cyber security information through industry, management unauthorised users.
team This principal risk is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
1 Redefined from product failure see page 59.
Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 62 Principal Risks Principal risk or uncertainty Change in 2018 and potential impact How we manage it Key controls risk level priorities Market and financial shock Maintaining a strong balance sheet, through managing cash Financial 4 balances and debt levels see page 19. performance The Group is exposed to a number of market risks, some of Providing financial flexibility by maintaining high levels of review liquidity and an investment grade credit rating.
Financial risk which are of a macro-economic nature e. g. foreign currency, oil Sustaining a balanced portfolio through earning revenue both committee from the sale of original equipment and aftermarket services, Operational price, rates and some of which are more specific to the Group providing a broad product range and addressing diverse performance markets that have differing business cycles see page 11. review e. g. liquidity and credit risks, reduction in air travel or Deciding where and what currencies to source in, and where Group finance, and how much credit risk is extended or taken.
The Group treasury and tax disruption to other customer operations.
Significant has a number of treasury policies that are designed to hedge teams residual risks using financial derivatives foreign exchange, extraneous market events could also materially damage interest rates and commodity price risk.
Review debt financing and hedging in light of volatility in the Groups competitiveness and or creditworthiness.
external financial markets caused by external events, such as Brexit or other geopolitical changes.
This would affect operational This principal risk is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
results or the outcomes of financial transactions.
Political risk Where possible, locating our facilities and supply chain in Government 1 countries with a low level of political risk and or ensuring relations and Geopolitical factors that lead to an unfavourable business that we maintain dual capability.
Group tax teams 2 Diversifying global operations to avoid excessive concentration Strategic climate and significant tensions 3 between major trading parties of risks in particular areas.
planning process The Groups businesses and its strategic marketing network Supplier audit or blocs which could impact 4 the Groups operations.
Maintaining a balanced business portfolio with high barriers Examples include: explicit trade protectionism, differing tax or to entry and a diverse customer base see page 58.
Proactively influencing regulation where it affects us.
regulatory regimes, potential for conflict or broader Steering committee to co-ordinate activities across the Group and minimise the impact of Brexit see page 59. political issues.
Compliance Taking an uncompromising approach to compliance.
Corporate 3 Operating an extensive compliance programme.
This programme governance Non-compliance by the Group with legislation, the terms and the Global Code of Conduct are disseminated throughout the framework 4 Group and are updated from time to time to ensure their Compliance of the deferred prosecution agreements or other regulatory continued relevance, and to ensure that they are complied with, and export both in spirit and to the letter.
The Global Code of Conduct control teams requirements in the heavily regulated environment and the Groups compliance programme are supported by Group Secretariat appropriate training see page 49.
Legal team in which it operates e. g. export controls: use of controlled Strengthening of the ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, compliance and export control teams.
chemicals and substances: and anti-bribery and corruption A legal team is in place to manage any ongoing regulatory investigations.
legislation compromising the ability to conduct business Engaging with external regulatory authorities.
Implementing a comprehensive REACH compliance programme.
in certain jurisdictions and exposing the Group to potential: This includes ensuring that we and our supply chain are covered by REACH authorisations for a number of chemicals needed reputational damage: financial penalties: debarment from for our products, establishing appropriate data systems and processes and working with our suppliers, customers and government contracts for a period of time: and or trade associations.
suspension of export privileges This principal risk is subject to review by the Safety including export credit & Ethics Committee.
financing, each of which could have a material adverse effect.
