Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties A stable risk environment Change in risk in year preRisk Areas of impact mitigation Mitigation Property investment Cash flow Increased  portfolio with 48% of the Groups properties being outside Underperformance theUK, in two of the most stable economies in Europe.
Profitability of investment Net asset value portfolio due to: Banking covenants Cyclical downturn inpropertymarket Changes in supply of space Rental income Increased 47% of UK income is derived from Government tenants.
Minimal exposure to the type and or occupier demand oftenant who may want to relocate from the UK to elsewhere in Europe.
In-house Cash flow assetmanagement enables management to highlight and address tenant needs.
Vacancy rate Void running costs Property values Net asset value Poor asset management Rental income Unchanged Asset management is not outsourced, property teams proactively manage customers toensure changing needs are met, and review the status of all properties weekly.
Cash flow Written reports are submitted monthly to senior management on, inter alia, vacancies, Vacancy rate lease expiry profiles and progress on rent reviews.
Void running costs Property values Net asset value Other investments Net asset value Increased The Group invests only in bonds with a minimum issue size of 350m, with no Underperformance investment being more than 5% of the Groups portfolio: the portfolio size can Liquid resources ofcorporate be no greater than 50% of the Groups cash and other financial investments.
bondportfolio Sustainability Rental income Unchanged Continual assessment of all properties against emerging regulatory changes.
Increasing building Fit-out and refurbishment projects benchmarked against third party schemes.
Cash flow regulation and Vacancy rate obsolescence Net asset value Profitability Liquid resources Net asset value Unchanged Investment in energy efficient plant and building-mounted renewable energy systems.
Increasing energy Profitability costs and regulation Liquid resources Funding Cost of borrowing Unchanged The Group has a dedicated treasury team and relationships are maintained with Unavailability some 21 banks, thus reducing credit and liquidity risk.
The exposure on refinancing Ability to invest or develop offinancing at debt is mitigated by the lack of concentration in maturities.
acceptable prices Cost of borrowing Increased 74% of borrowings are at fixed rates and 5% are subject to interest rate caps.
Adverse interest Cost of hedging ratemovements 20 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Change in risk in year preRisk Areas of impact mitigation Mitigation Cost of borrowing Increased Borrowing agreements contain cure clauses to rectify LTV breaches through part Breach of borrowing repayment of the loan or the depositing of cash.
covenants Net asset value Reduced Property investments are partially funded in matching currency.
The difference Foreign currency between the value of the property and the amount of financing is generally unhedged Profitability exposure and monitored on an ongoing basis.
Loss of deposits Unchanged The Group has a dedicated treasury team and relationships are maintained with Financial counterparty 21banks, thus reducing credit and liquidity risk.
The exposure on refinancing debt Cost of rearranging credit risk ismitigated by the lack of concentration in maturities.
facilities Incremental cost of borrowing Political and economic Net asset value Increased 47% of rents in the UK are derived from central government departments.
On a Impact of UK exit from macro level, the Group operates in the three largest and most stable economies in Profitability the EU Europe.
Availability of funding People Rental income Increased Staffing levels and recruitment are addressed as part of investment decisions.
Failure to recruit Cash flow suitable staff to Vacancy rate accommodate Void running costs investment expansion Property values Net asset value Profitability Unchanged The semi-annual appraisal process assesses capabilities and generates training Failure to recruit, plans.
Staff turnover and engagement is monitored across the Group.
Succession Net asset value develop and retain staff planning isin place for all senior management roles.
and key executives with the right skills Catastrophic event Profitability Increased Business continuity and crisis management plans are in place.
Cyber penetration Large scale terrorist testing is carried out periodically.
Net asset value orcyber attack, environmental disaster or power shortage The following are no longer considered principal risks and uncertainties by the Board: Development risk with the sale of Vauxhall Square there are no major developments planned in our portfolio Taxation risk tax rates are falling across the countries in which we operate and significant tax rises are not currently on the agenda of political leaders in power Break-up of the euro election results in France and Germany have provided political stability across Europe Major health & major development projects bring with them an increased risk of accidents and with the sale safetyincidents ofVauxhall Square our developments are now smaller in size and risk 21
