Risk management Strategic report PROMOTING AN EFFECTIVE RISK CULTURE WHICH SUPPORTS THE DELIVERY OF OUR STRA TEGIC GOALS Risk management approach Our risk management and controls In a rapidly developing business frameworks have been created to ensure environment we strive for best-in-class that we are able to identify, measure risk management in order to maximise and effectively manage these risks, both shareholder risk adjusted returns and at Group level and in each entity and protect our customers from loss and poor business unit, before they adversely outcomes.
This includes leveraging our impact the business.
This information, core expertise in being selective in the together with the strength of the Groups risks we wish to retain whilst ensuring capital position, allows the Board to set that we manage, mitigate and avoid risks a risk strategy and appetite which sets where we are not adequately rewarded.
out the level of risk the Board is prepared As a pure general insurer our key area of to take in the delivery of its strategic expertise is underwriting property and objectives.
Achieving best-in-class risk casualty insurance risks, which means management ensures we maximise longwe are able to provide our customers term value by minimising the risks where with competitive products that protect our shareholders are not adequately them against losses from uncertain future rewarded and our customers are not well events whilst ensuring that the risks served e. g. vulnerability to cyber-attacks.
we accept are collectively managed to maximise our long-term risk-adjusted returns, and serve our customers well.
All insurance groups are faced with a number of different risks which for example can range from adverse movements in asset prices, external cyber-attacks or significant losses from catastrophic events details of all the key risk categories are set out on page 36.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Risk management continued Operational planning cycle ORSA reported Board sets Board sets risk to Board business strategy strategy and appetite 8 1 2 Policies guide Risk Management System underpins Model outputs 7 3 on managing risks used in ORSA the Operational Planning Cycle within appetite 6 5 4 Model outputs Risk assessment Monitor appetite checked and used in and update internal and action tracking business decisions model 1.
Board sets the business strategy which is 4.
Regional Risk and Control Committees 7.
The internal model is run regularly throughout incorporated in the three-year operational track actions for risks outside of appetite, the year in order to assess the risks impacting plan.
Risk provide robust challenge of and escalate to local & Group boards.
the Group and determines how much capital validity and achievability of plan.
the Group needs to hold to remain solvent even 5.
Significant changes in risk assessments after a major stress event s, which forms part 2.
Risk Strategy creates the overarching principles are considered by the Internal Model of the ORSA process.
for setting the Risk Appetite Indicators.
Governance Committee and where appropriate, the Groups internal model is updated.
Validated output from the model is reported 3.
Comprehensive policy suite sets the required to the Board, so that changes can be made to business processes and controls to deliver 6.
Output from the model is sense checked the three-year operational plan to ensure the the operational plan within appetite.
against non-modelled stress and scenario Group remains in appetite.
Cycle will continue Robust control testing used to identify events to ensure it provides a reliable basis for until the Board is satisfied with the future plan.
making business decisions, including capital planning, reinsurance purchase, performance analysis and pricing.
Keeping our focus on the road ahead This is supported by our participation in The five selected risks covered: One of the key roles of the risk team is the CRO Forums Emerging Risk Initiative 1 G lobal socio-political uncertainty to ensure that we support the business Working Group, which RSA is chairing 2 F inancial market uncertainty by anticipating future risks which could during 2018.
The output of the deep dive is 3 P ersistent or more extreme impact the Group.
This has become the emerging risks set out in the diagram weather Patterns increasingly more important as the opposite, which were presented to the 4 Cyber-risk business environment continues to Board Risk Committee for consideration, be impacted by rapid and dynamic along with more detailed analysis on five 5 C ritical infrastructure technological advancements.
The more detailed analysis geomagnetic storms we perform an annual deep-dive considers the appropriate responses The results from these reviews, coupled assessment of the emerging risks facing and next steps.
with the work performed in previous the business.
The deep dive is informed Against this evolving environment, we are years, satisfied the Board Risk Committee through the use of subject matter experts, further enhancing our focus on customer that the Groups risks and controls thematic brainstorming workshops and issues in each country, in the interest of frameworks were overall effective at consulting a wide range of key external long-term success.
managing future threats to the business.
34 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Emerging risk analysis Political Economic 15 16 3 1 14 2 13 12 4 8 5 11 7 10 6 9 Social Technological Environmental Risk impact Risk emergence Economic Technological Social Environmental Political assessments proximity Emerged risk 1.
Terrorist attack Very high slowdown extreme weather impact N ear term risk 5.
Financial market changes socio-political uncertainty underwriting 9.
Scarcity of uncertainty High impact Medium-term risk resources leads 2-5 years 3.
Regulatory supply shocks Medium nature of infrastructure legislative change Long-term risk impact reinsurance solar storm 10.
Pandemic stringent capital Far-term risk advances standards 10 years 16.
Geopolitical tensions conflict RISK MANAGEMENT IN ACTION RISK MANAGEMENT IN ACTION The risk function provides significant real time support to The risk function is closely involved in M&A and other the business for change programmes including outsourcing, major strategic initiatives.
For example, in February 2017 automation and technology deployments, whose aim is RSA secured the disposal of UK Legacy business.
The risk more efficiency and better customer experiences.
Our focus function participated actively in the transaction design is ensuring risks arising through these initiatives, both for and negotiations, including security assessment, asset and execution and for long-term benefits, remain transparent collateral arrangements and contractual safeguards for and well managed.
We help ensure the programme considers customers and shareholders.
This involved both establishing a broad range of key risks early, learning from internal and the framework of considerations to satisfy and giving realexternal failures, and manages these successfully in an time advice, as well as providing an independent report to integrated way.
A key step is to design and agree approval the Board.
RSAs internal model was central to evaluate a criteria well in advance that tie to these key risks.
In addition, range of aspects of the deal including overall value, capital the Control Environment Impact Assessment process has implications, financial risks and the structure and limits been deployed to manage specific risks to the control for interim reinsurance and collateral.
Given the extended environment from business change.
This process continues and complex nature of the transfer, the risk function has to be developed to reflect the dynamic nature of our continued to oversee and challenge on execution and change agenda.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Risk management continued Key risks and mitigants Solvency II Key risk and exposures SCR % Key mitigants and controls Commentary Catastrophe risk 14 Our reinsurance programme significantly Consistent with our strategy and Arises from the risk of large reduces our exposure to catastrophe appetite of retaining risks that reside natural disasters with our main risks with losses arising from the 2017 within our core expertise, where we exposure being to European Hurricane season being well covered by are able to maximise risk-adjusted windstorms and Canadian our programme.
Programme is designed returns, our Solvency II Capital earthquakes.
to cover at least 1 in 200 year events.
Requirement SCR is primarily comprised of insurance-related risks, including higher than Reserving risk 19 Reserves are reviewed and challenged anticipated underwriting losses, This is the risk that the Groups at the Group Reserving Committee which large retained catastrophe losses estimate of future claims is is attended by the Group Chief Actuary, and deterioration in our stock insufficient.
Longer tail line the CRO, CFO and CEO of reserves for future claims.
of business present more The Reserve assurance programme has Whilst our investment strategy uncertainty on the size and timing independently verified 90 percent of the remains deliberately conservative of payments, with our key Groups net reserves over a three year period we continue to look for opportunities exposure being the Swedish Economic transfer of the UK legacy to increase returns through the personal accident lines.
Risk insurance liabilities, effective at purchase of less liquid high-quality includes legislative changes 31 December 2016, reduced Groups assets as we are able to match the e. g. Ogden rate change.
exposure to Ogden rate change.
cash flow profile against that of our liabilities.
Underwriting and claims risk 12 Controlled through well-defined risk This is the risk that underwritten appetite statements which are rigorously Another key SCR risk arises from the business is less profitable than monitored at quarterly portfolio reviews, Groups defined benefit pension planned due to insufficient pricing with remediation actions taken where schemes.
Although these schemes and setting of claims case deemed necessary are well funded 95 percent per latest reserves.
Key exposures arise triennial review, under the Solvency II Claims case reserves are prudently set from large portfolios where rules we are required to hold sufficient and reviewed at quarterly case reserving claims trends are slow to capital to withstand a 1 in 200 year committees emerge such as UK Commercial event.
For more information on the Extensive control validation and assurance and Marine.
pension schemes see note 38 of activities performed with over 100 the financial statements.
separate assurance reviews having been performed.
Market, credit and currency risk 22 RSA adopts a prudent investment strategy This is the risk to our insurance with the investment portfolio favouring funds arising from movements high-quality fixed income bonds in macroeconomic variables Asset Liability Committee ensures assets including widening credit spreads, are closely duration and currency matched declining bond yields or currency with insurance liabilities to hedge volatility fluctuations.
Investment positions are regularly monitored to ensure limits remain within appetite.
Pension risk 23 Funding assets are well matched to We face longevity and in particular liabilities in the pension schemes, market related risks which arise including the use of swap arrangements from our defined benefit pension Reached an agreement to close the schemes.
The largest exposures UK schemes to further accrual from arise from credit spread and 31 March 2017 equity movements, although RSA continues to work with the pension these are partly hedged by trustees in order to further explore offsetting movements in the options to fide-risk the pension funds.
Operational risk 10 Extensive Line 2 and 3 challenge over the These risks relate to customer continued progress in executing the Groups and or reputational damage transformation programme arising from operational failures Clearly articulated IT risk appetite such as IT system failure.
supported by control testing and appropriate remediation plans Extensive control review and testing with 1,000 control enhancement steps in the last two years.
36 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Risk culture Focus on best-in-class control framework Pillar three relates to enhanced and We consider the foundation for We continue to strive to deliver a best-instandardised disclosure requirements, embedding an effective risk management class control framework.
Across all our including increased transparency of the framework is the cultivation of a risk processes and territories, we have taken risk strategy and risk appetite of the culture which promotes accountability over 1,000 control enhancement steps in business.
Since 2017, RSA has annually and openness a willingness to admit the last two years.
This focus has ensured published its Solvency and Financial mistakes and learn from the past, that our risks are well controlled within Condition Report: which contains within an organisation built on respect, appetite whilst minimising unnecessary extensive information on how RSA integrity and a clear focus on customer operational losses, which have reduced manages its risks and exposures and employee outcomes.
At RSA the by around half in the aggregate view.
and report on the financial position senior management team have been of the company using Solvency II IT risk monitoring framework instrumental in setting the right valuation principles.
The Group has enhanced the IT control tone from the top, which is further validation programme, moving away from Brexit underpinned by the Groups quarterly self-assessment to a more independent Following earlier restructuring of the cultural health check and annual and transparent programme which Groups operational entities the impact staff survey.
is linked to the RSA risk monitoring of Brexit on the Group has been relatively A key part of our culture is ensuring framework IT Risk Appetite.
The main action for the Group is the that our customers are at the heart of provides management with feedback Part VII transfer of its European branches all we do, and our staff are passionate on the effectiveness of the IT control into a newly created Luxembourg entity.
about providing brilliant service to our environment, which has been strengthened customers.
We give considerable attention through the creation of business owned to ensuring our customer are treated control testing teams.
In the UK we are reviewing and Group Recovery and Resolution Plans enhancing our Conduct Risk Framework The risk team have engaged subject to enhance oversight of how our matter experts and external advisors to customers receive good outcomes.
develop group recovery and resolution Risk developments in 2017 plans which provide valuable insights Delivery of General Data Protection into how the Group would be able to Regulation GDPR The UK, Ireland and effectively respond to an exceptional Scandinavian businesses are taking the loss event with careful consideration necessary steps to enhance their data of entities, particularly the top protection capabilities in order to address operating company.
the specific requirements of the GDPR Solvency II and Solvency legislation.
The project continues into Capital Requirement SCR 2018 and remains on track to meet the The Solvency II insurance regulatory May 2018 deadline.
regime became effective on 1 January Risk assessment of the operating plan 2016 and introduced the requirement to The Groups operating plan provides calculate the Groups Solvency Capital the platform for ensuring the business Requirement SCR.
Insurers are required remains aligned with its strategic goals, to calculate the level of capital required including delivery of profitable growth based on their unique risk profile.
For RSA whilst maintaining a robust capital base.
this is calculated using our own Internal Model that was approved by the regulator It is therefore essential the plan meets the in December 2015. right balance of achievable stretch targets with realistic assumptions and strategic Additionally, the Solvency II Directive actions for how this can be achieved.
impacts how RSA manages risk and Risk take an active role in challenging how it reports to both regulators and the plan, including ensuring the validity shareholders: of assumptions when compared to Pillar one relates to the quantitative economic projections, peer reviews, past requirements including the calculation experience and current risk assessments, of the SCR.
which also includes an assessment of the ability to deliver planned change activity.
Pillar two incorporates qualitative governance requirements, including the way the risk management function operates within the business and how key systems and controls are documented and reviewed.
This includes the need for the Group to perform its Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
