Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Risk and risk management Types of risk inherent to our business model Risks customers transfer to us Risk and risk Life insurance risk includes longevity risk annuitants living longer than we expect, mortality risk customers with life protection, management critical illness risk, expense risk the amount it costs us to administer policies and persistency risk customers lapsing or surrendering their policies General insurance risk is the risk arising from loss events fire, flooding, windstorms, accidents etc Accident and Health insurance risk covers healthcare costs and Risk management is key to Avivas success.
We accept the risks loss of earnings arising from customers falling ill inherent to our core business lines of life, accident and health, and general insurance and asset management.
We diversify these risks Risks arising from our investments through our scale, geographic spread, the variety of the products Credit risks actual defaults and market expectation of defaults and services we offer and the channels through which we sell them.
create uncertainty in our ability to offer a minimum investment We receive premiums which we invest in order to maximise riskreturn on our investments adjusted returns, so that we can fulfil our promises to customers Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to make payments as while providing a return to our shareholders.
In doing so we have a they become due because there are insufficient assets in cash preference for retaining those risks we believe we are capable of form managing to generate a return.
Market risks result from fluctuations in asset values, including Looking forward, these risks may be magnified or dampened by equity prices, property prices, foreign exchange, inflation and current and emerging external trends which may impact upon our interest rates current and longer term profitability and viability, in particular our ability to write profitable new business.
Risks from our operations and other business risks This includes the risk of failing to adapt our business model to Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss, arising from take advantage of these trends.
The Principal risk trends and causal inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or factors table in this section describe what these trends are, their external events including changes in the regulatory environment impact, future outlook and how we manage these risks.
Asset management risk is the risk of customers redeeming funds, not investing with us, or switching funds, resulting in reduced fee How we manage risk income Rigorous and consistent risk management is embedded across the Group through our Risk Management Framework, comprising our systems of governance, risk management processes and risk appetite framework.
Our governance This includes risk policies and business standards, risk oversight committees and roles and responsibilities.
Line management in the business is accountable for risk management which, together with the risk function and internal audit, form our three lines of defence of risk management.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board Governance, Audit and Risk Committees and Management Disclosure, Asset Liability and Operational Risk Committees in the oversight of risk management and internal control is set out in the Directors and corporate governance report in the Annual report and accounts.
Our process This comprises the processes we use to identify, measure, manage, monitor and report risks, including the use of our risk models and stress and scenario testing.
Having identified and measured the risks of our business, depending on our risk appetite, we either accept these risks or take action to reduce, transfer or mitigate them.
Our risk appetite framework This refers to the risks that we select in pursuit of return, the risks we accept but seek to minimise and the risks we seek to avoid or transfer, including quantitative expressions of the level of risk we can support e. g. the amount of capital we are prepared to put at risk.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 24 S S S S St t t t tra ra ra ra rate te te te tegi gi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c repor c report t t t t G G G G Go o o o overn vern vern vern vernan an an an ance ce ce ce ce IF IF IF IF IFRS RS RS RS RS f f f f fi i i i in n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c cia ia ia ia ial l l l l st st st st sta a a a at t t t temen emen emen emen ement t t t ts s s s s O Oth O O Ot t t ther in her in her in her in er infor f f f fo o o orma rma rma rma mati t t t tio io io io on n n n n Risk and risk management Continued Principal risk types The types of risk to which the Group is exposed, described in the table below, have not changed significantly over the year.
All of the risks below, and in particular operational risks, may have an adverse impact on our brand and reputation.
Risk type Risk preference Mitigation Credit risk We like credit risk as we believe Risk appetites set to limit overall level of credit risk 1 Credit spread we have the expertise to Credit limit framework imposes limits on credit concentration by issuer, Credit default manage it and the structural sector and type of instrument investment advantages Investment restrictions on sovereign and corporate exposure to certain conferred to insurers with longEurozone countries dated, relatively illiquid Credit risk hedging programme liabilities enable us to earn Specific asset fide-risking superior investment returns.
Market risk We actively seek some market Risk appetites set to limit exposures to key market risks 1 Equity price risks as part of our investment Active asset management and hedging in business units Property and product strategy.
We have a Scalable Group-level equity and foreign exchange hedging programme Interest rate limited appetite for interest rate, Pension fund fide-risking Foreign exchange foreign exchange and inflation Asset and liability duration matching limits impact of interest rate changes Inflation risks as we do not believe that and actions taken to manage guarantee risk, through product design these are adequately rewarded.
Life insurance risk We take measured amounts of Risk selection and underwriting on acceptance of new business 1 Longevity life insurance risk provided we Avivas staff pension scheme longevity swap covering approximately 5 Persistency have the appropriate core skills billion of pensioner in payment scheme liabilities Mortality in underwriting and pricing.
We Product design that ensures products and propositions meet customer Expenses like longevity risk as it diversifies needs well i. e. has little no correlation Use of reinsurance to mitigate mortality morbidity risks against other risks we retain.
General insurance We take general insurance risk in Use of reinsurance to reduce the financial impact of a catastrophe and risk measured amounts for explicit manage earnings volatility GI catastrophe reward, in line with our core Application of robust and consistent reserving framework to derive best GI reserving latent skills in underwriting and estimate with results subject to internal and external review, including and non-latent pricing.
We have a preference for independent reviews and audit reviews GI underwriting those risks that we understand Extensive use of data, financial models and analysis to improve pricing and Expenses well, that are intrinsically well risk selection managed and where there is a Underwriting and claims management disciplines spread of risks in the same Underwriting appetite framework linked to delegations of authority that category.
GI risk diversifies well govern underwriting decisions with our Life Insurance and Product development and management framework that ensures products other risks.
and propositions meet customer needs Formal and documented claims management philosophies and procedures 2 Liquidity risk The relatively illiquid nature of Maintaining committed borrowing facilities 1.65 billion from banks insurance liabilities is a potential Asset liability matching methodology develops optimal asset portfolio source of additional investment maturity structures in our businesses to ensure cash flows are sufficient to return by allowing us to invest in meet liabilities higher yielding, but less liquid, Commercial paper issuance assets such as commercial Use of the limit framework covering minimum liquidity cover ratio and mortgages.
minimum central liquidity Contingency Funding Plan in place to address liquidity funding requirements in a significant stress scenario Asset management Risks specific to asset Product development and review process risk management should generally Investment performance and risk management oversight and review Fund performance, be reduced to as low a level as is process liquidity and commercially sensible, on the Propositions based on customer needs margin, Product, basis that taking-on these risks Client relationship teams managing client retention risk and Persistency will rarely provide us with an risks upside.
Operational risk Operational risk should Application of enhanced business standards covering key processes Conduct generally be reduced to as low a Our Operational Risk & Control Management Framework which includes the Legal & regulatory level as is commercially sensible, tools, processes and standardised reporting necessary to identify, measure, People on the basis that taking manage, monitor and report on the operational risks and the controls in Process operational risk will rarely place to mitigate those risks within centrally set tolerances Data security provide us with an upside.
Enhanced scenario based approach to determine appropriate level of Technology capital for operational risks On-going investment in simplifying our technology estate to improve the resilience and reliability of our systems 1 Top three risks ranked by diversified Solvency II Solvency Capital Requirement 2 Not quantifiable in terms of economic capital Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 25 S S S S S St t t t t tra ra ra ra ra rate te te te te tegi gi gi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c repor c repor c report t t t t t G G G G G Go o o o o overn vern vern vern vern vernan an an an an ance ce ce ce ce ce IF IF IF IF IF IFRS RS RS RS RS RS f f f f f fi i i i i in n n n n na a a a a an n n n n nc c c c c cia ia ia ia ia ial l l l l l st st st st st sta a a a a at t t t t temen emen emen emen emen ement t t t t ts s s s s s O O O O O Ot t t t t ther in her in her in her in her in her inf f f f f fo o o o o orma rma rma rma rma rmat t t t t tio io io io io ion n n n n n Risk and risk management Continued Principal risk trends and causal factors This table describes the external trends and causal factors impacting our inherent risks, their impact, future outlook and how we take action to manage these risks: Key trends and movement Risk management Outlook Uncertain interest rate Over the last few years we have taken significant While interest rates are still well below preenvironment if current low steps to reduce the sensitivity of our balance financial crisis levels, during 2017, the US Fed interest rates continue for a sheet to interest rates.
Our exposure to interest raised interest rates on three occasions, the prolonged period it will adversely rates movements is mitigated by investing in fixed Bank of England reversed its 2016 rate affect the return we earn on our interest securities which closely match the interest reduction and the ECB has begun to reduce its investments, as well as the rate sensitivity of our liabilities.
Although rates may remain attractiveness of the returns we can include close asset liability matching, reducing below pre-2008 financial crisis levels in the EU offer to new customers.
sales of products with guarantees in particular in and UK for some time to come, there is a risk Italy and France, and shifting our sales towards that a rapid increase in rates could result in a Trend: Reducing protection and unit-linked products.
collapse in bond prices, widening spreads and Risks impacted: Credit risk, Market reducing asset prices.
risks, Liquidity risk UK-EU relations Brexit Brexit does not have a significant operational In December 2017, the UK and EU agreed uncertainty 18 months since the impact on Aviva.
We are actively engaged to separation terms, reducing the risk of a sudden referendum result there remains ensure the interests of our customers, the departure in March 2019.
In 2018, negotiations considerable uncertainty over the company and the industry are appropriately taken will begin on transitional arrangements and a UKs future relationship with the EU, into account.
Our plans to address the loss of the future trade agreement.
Uncertainty over the economic growth and productivity, ability for UK firms to passport business into the ultimate outcome is heightened by the UK as well as the status of EU EU are currently in progress.
Given our corporate Governments lack of parliamentary majority.
employees working in the UK and structure, this is not a major risk.
We are also longer term implications for reviewing our data arrangements to ensure that financial services regulation, adequate measures are in place to allow including Solvency II.
continued uninterrupted flow of personal data.
Our Financial Event Response Plan ensures that Trend: Volatile we will be able to respond swiftly and effectively Risks impacted: Credit risk, to any severe adverse financial event.
Market risks, Operational risk Medical advances and healthier We monitor our own experience carefully and There is considerable uncertainty over the life styles these contribute to an analyse external population data to identify extent that improvements in life expectancy increase in life expectancy of our emerging trends.
Detailed analysis of the factors experienced over the last 40 years will continue annuitants and thus future that influence mortality informs our pricing and into the future e. g. despite continued medical payments over their lifetime may be reserving policies.
We add qualitative medical advances emerging, lifestyle changes and in excess of the amounts we expert inputs to our statistical analysis and strains on public health services may begin to currently expect.
analyse factors influencing mortality and trends in slow or even reverse this trend.
mortality by cause of death.
Avivas Staff Pension Trend: Stable Scheme hedges its longevity risk covering 5 Risks impacted: billion of pensioner in payment liabilities.
Since Life insurance risk longevity 2016 we have used longevity reinsurance for bulk purchase annuities and Aviva guaranteed annuity options.
We continue to evaluate emerging reinsurance market solutions.
Climate change potentially We are actively engaged in public policy debate Global average temperatures over the last four resulting in higher than expected on the risks and impacts of climate change to our years have been the hottest on record.
Despite weather-related claims including business and customers.
We use reinsurance to the UNFCCC Paris agreement, the current trend business continuity claims and reduce the financial impact of catastrophic of increasing CO emissions is expected to 2 inaccurate pricing of general weather events.
Our flood mapping analytics continue with global temperatures likely to o insurance risk, as well as adversely helps us identify properties most at risk and exceed pre-industrial levels by at least 2 C and impacting economic growth and improve our risk selection.
Our responsible weather events floods, droughts, windstorms investment markets.
investment strategy ensures climate change, as increasing in frequency with a possibility of well as other environmental and social issues are more cluster events and severity.
Disclosure of Trend: Increasing integrated into our investment decisions.
Read impacts against various climate scenarios and Risks impacted: General insurance more in respect of the physical, transition and time horizons will become increasingly risk, Credit risk, Market risk liability risks we face as an asset owner, insurer common for all companies.
and asset manager in our Climate-related financial disclosure.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 26 S S S S S St t t t t tra ra ra ra ra rate te te te te tegi gi gi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c repor c repor c report t t t t t G G G G G Go o o o o overn vern vern vern vern vernan an an an an ance ce ce ce ce ce IF IF IF IF IF IFRS RS RS RS RS RS f f f f f fi i i i i in n n n n na a a a a an n n n n nc c c c c cia ia ia ia ia ial l l l l l st st st st st sta a a a a at t t t t temen emen emen emen emen ement t t t t ts s s s s s O O O O O Ot t t t t ther in her in her in her in her in her inf f f f f fo o o o o orma rma rma rma rma rmat t t t t tio io io io io ion n n n n n Risk and risk management Continued Key trends and movement Risk management Outlook Impact of new technologies Avivas strategy is focussed on transformation into There is expected to be a five-fold growth in failure to understand and react to a digital leader by taking a bold and enterprisedigital data between now and 2020.
Big data is the impact of new technology and wide approach to digital and automation.
Four becoming a critical driver of competitive its effect on customer behaviour and years ago Aviva announced its strategic advantage for insurers.
how we distribute products could framework and embarked on a digital strategy potentially result in our business using predictive analytics, automation and digital Artificial intelligence and robotic automation model becoming obsolete.
We are currently integrating data are likely to increasingly transform the failure to keep pace with the use of analytics into our operations, enabling new efficiency of insurance operations such as data to price more accurately and to means of underwriting, personalised customer underwriting and claims and will transform the detect insurance fraud could lead to propositions and operational efficiency now and customer experience and build deeper loss of competitive advantage and in the futuresuch as our Ask it Never initiatives.
Refer to Our strategy for further information on our digital strategy.
Trend: Increasing Risks impacted: Operational risk developing the right strategy Changes in public policy any We actively engage with governments and The UK Governments lack of parliamentary change in public policy government regulators in the development of public policy and majority increases the possibility of a general or regulatory could influence the regulation.
We do this to understand how public election and change of government resulting in demand for, and profitability of, our policy may change and to help ensure better a shift in public policy with consequences for products.
In some markets there are outcomes for our customers and the company.
the products we sell and our investment or could be in the future The Groups multi-channel distribution and strategy.
In other markets in which we operate: restrictions and controls on product strategy and geographic diversification a general election will be held in Italy in March premium rates, rating factors and underpin the Groups adaptability to public policy 2018: in Poland we face heightened charges.
risk, and often provides a hedge to the risk.
For uncertainty on public policy on pension example, since the end of compulsory reform: and in Ontario, Canada, further Trend: Volatile annuitisation in 2015 in the UK we have regulatory reform focussed on providing Risks impacted: Operational risk compensated for falling sales of individual affordable motor insurance is required.
developing the right strategy, annuities by increasing sales of other life and regulatory compliance pension products including bulk purchase annuities.
Cyber crime criminals may We are not complacent.
We continue to invest In 2017 there were a number of high profile attempt to access our IT systems to significantly in IT Security, introducing additional cyber security incidents for corporates in the steal or utilise company and automated controls to protect our data, detect UK and elsewhere most notably the global customer data, or plant malware and prevent cyber-attacks.
In addition to Wannacry attack, and we expect this to viruses, in order to access customer implementing secure development practices we increase in 2018 as cyber criminals and rogue or company funds, and or damage employ our own white hat hackers to regularly states become ever more sophisticated and our reputation and brand.
test our IT security defences.
We undertake given the growing importance of digital regular activities with our people to promote automation in business strategy.
Trend: Increasing awareness of cyber and data security, including: Risks impacted: Operational risk employee phishing exercises, computer based fraud, business interruption training and more regular communications about specific threats as they are identified.
Changes in customer behaviour Not only do we listen to our customers to ensure We expect customers will be much more in will impact how customers wish to we meet their needs, we also seek to transform control, expecting to self-service and self-solve.
interact with us and the product the customer experience through our digital They will want to access data and insight and offering they expect from us, strategy, creating an effortless customer use it to guide their own decisions.
including the exercise of options experience.
For information on how we are embedded in contracts already sold mitigating this risk through the execution of Digital by us.
First and True Customer Composite strategies refer to Our strategy, with further examples Trend: Stable provided in the Market review section.
Risks impacted: Operational risk developing the right strategy, regulatory compliance Outsourcing we rely on a number Our businesses are required to identify business The recent insolvency of Carillion, which was of outsourcing providers for critical outsourced functions internal and not a direct supplier of services to Aviva, has business processes, customer external and for each to have exit and brought added focus to this risk and we expect servicing, investment operations termination plans and business continuity and regulatory scrutiny of outsourcing and IT support.
The failure of a disaster recovery plans in the event of supplier arrangements to increase.
critical outsourcing provider could failure, which are reviewed annually.
Business significantly disrupt our operations.
continuity and disaster recovery plans are subject to annual testing.
We also carry out supplier Trend: Stable financial stability reviews at least annually.
Risks impacted: Operational Risk Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 27
