Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the financial statements of the Company Continued H Risk management Risk management in the context of the Group is considered in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 56.
The business of the Company is managing its investments in subsidiaries and joint venture operations.
Its risks are considered to be the same as those in the operations themselves and full details of the major risks and the Groups approach to managing these are given in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 56.
Such investments are held by the Company at fair value in accordance with accounting policy D. The fair values of the subsidiaries and joint ventures are estimated using applicable valuation models, underpinned by the Companys market capitalisation.
This uses the Companys closing share price at year end.
Given that the key input into the valuation model is based on an observable current share price, and therefore sensitive to movements in that price, the valuation process is not sensitive to nonobservable market assumptions.
Financial assets, other than investments in subsidiaries and the joint ventures, largely consist of amounts due from subsidiaries.
As at the balance sheet date, these receivable amounts were neither past due nor impaired.
Financial liabilities owed by the Company as at the balance sheet date are largely in respect of borrowings details of which are provided in note F and the Group consolidated financial statements, note 49 and loans owed to subsidiaries.
Loans owed to subsidiaries were within agreed credit terms as at the balance sheet date.
Interest rate risk Loans to and from subsidiaries are at either fixed or floating rates of interest, with the latter being exposed to fluctuations in these rates.
The choice of rates is designed to match the characteristics of financial investments which are also exposed to interest rate fluctuations held in both the Company and the relevant subsidiary, to mitigate as far as possible each companys net exposure.
All of the Companys long-term external borrowings are at fixed rates of interest and are therefore not exposed to changes in these rates.
However, for short term commercial paper, the Company is affected by changes in these rates to the extent the redemption of these borrowings is funded by the issuance of new commercial paper or other borrowings.
Further details of the Companys borrowings are provided in note F and the Group consolidated financial statements, note 49.
The effect of a 100 basis point increase decrease in interest rates on floating rate loans due to and from subsidiaries and on refinancing short term commercial paper as it matures would be a decrease increase in profit before tax of 114 million 2016: decrease increase of 108 million.
The net asset value of the Companys financial resources is not materially affected by fluctuations in interest rates.
Currency risk The Companys direct subsidiaries are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates during the course of providing insurance and asset management services around the world.
The exposure of the subsidiaries to currency risk is considered from a Group perspective in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 56 c v. The Company faces exposure to foreign currency risk through some of its borrowings which are denominated in Euros.
However, most of these borrowings have been on-lent to a subsidiary which holds investments in Euros, generating the net investment hedge described in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 57 a.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to make payments as they become due because there are insufficient assets in cash form.
The Companys main sources of liquidity are liquid assets held within the Company and its subsidiary Aviva Group Holdings Limited, and dividends received from the Groups insurance and asset management businesses.
Sources of liquidity in normal markets also includes a variety of short and long-term instruments including commercial papers and medium and long-term debt.
In addition to the existing liquid resources and expected inflows, the Company maintains significant undrawn committed borrowing facilities 1,650 million from a range of leading international banks to further mitigate this risk.
Maturity analysis of external borrowings and amounts due to and by subsidiaries are provided in notes F and I respectively.
I Related party transactions The Company receives dividend and interest income from subsidiaries and pays interest and fee expense to those subsidiaries in the normal course of business.
These activities are reflected in the table below.
Loans to and from subsidiaries are made on normal arms-length commercial terms.
The maturity analysis of the related party loans is as follows: Loans owed by subsidiaries 2017 2016 Maturity analysis m m Within 1 year 1,730 1 5 years 754 3,111 Over 5 years 2,926 2,830 Total 5,410 5,941 On 1 January 2013, Aviva International Holdings Limited, an indirect subsidiary, transferred the following loan liabilities with the Company to Aviva Group Holdings Limited, its direct subsidiary: An unsecured loan of 250 million, entered into on 7 May 2003 accruing interest at fixed rate of 5.5% with settlement to be paid at maturity in May 2033.
As at the Statement of Financial Position date, the total amount drawn down on the facility was 222 million 2016: 213 million.
An unsecured loan of 500 million, entered into on 20 May 2008 accruing interest at a fixed rate of 6.88% with settlement to be paid at maturity in May 2018.
As at the Statement of Financial Position date, the total amount drawn down on the facility was 444 million 2016: 427 million.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 236
