36 Risk and risk management Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Committed to managing risk effectively The Group is exposed to a variety of risks that can adversely affect business and financial performance, or potentially damage our reputation.
These risks may be industry wide or more specific to the Group.
The Board recognises that creating shareholder returns is the reward for accepting a level of risk.
The effective management of risk is therefore critical in supporting the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
Risk management framework The Group has a well-established governance structure with appropriate internal control and risk management systems.
Ourapproach is centred on the accepted three lines of defence model, with ultimate oversight from the Board.
Defence Responsibility Actions Oversight Board Sets strategic objectives Determines overall risk culture and appetite Establishes organisational structure with defined lines ofresponsibility, delegated authorities and clear operatingprocesses Ultimate oversight of internal control and risk management systems Third line Group Audit Provides reasonable assurance that systems of riskmanagement, internal control and governance areeffective Second line Group Executive Committee Support divisions with first line responsibilities Group functions including Risk Coordinate and report on Group-level risks Build risk capability and understanding First line Divisional Executive Committees Identify, assess and report key risks Divisional management Regularly review and update divisional risk registers Assign risk owners Implement risk mitigation plans Many risk controls are embedded and evidenced in the Groups day-to-day management activities, including: Detailed KPI tracking in monthly divisional executive reports: Well-established bid evaluation controls: and Robust due diligence on acquisitions.
Prioritising and reporting risks Each division regularly reviews and updates a detailed risk register, in which risks are identified and assessed in terms of both the probability of the risk occurring, and its potential impact.
Risk is assessed on a gross and net basis, taking into account known and proposed mitigating actions.
Group-level risks are assessed as: Macro risks which affect the majority of, or all, divisions: or Individual divisional risks where the materiality of the risk is considered of Group significance.
The Group has developed a risk radar to supplement the Group risk register, and the radar and register are reported to the Group Executive, Audit Committee and Board, twice a year.
At both the Divisional and Group level, the consideration of risk includes: Categorisation of risk as Strategic, Financial, Operational or Hazard: New or emerging risks eg cyber risk, GDPR, Brexit : Longer-term risks such as developments in autonomous vehicles: Latest guidance from the Financial Reporting Council on best practice risk reporting: The impact of the Groups risk and operations on other stakeholders as well as the Group itself: and Acknowledgement that many risks are also opportunities for example, the liberalisation of EU transport markets and a balance needs to be struck in terms of the Groups risk appetite.
The Group prioritises risk mitigation actions by considering both risk likelihood and potential severity, coupled with our ability to effectively intervene to reduce the risk profile for example, reducing the risk of a safety failure through the implementation of technology and new Group safety standards.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Risk and risk management 37 Summary risk radar Risks are shown on a net basis after mitigations.
The closer to the centre of the radar the greater the perceived risk.
High Medium Low Unchanged risk Increased risk Decreased risk New risk Financial risks Strategic risks 12.
Loss of key site Natural catastrophe Weather 6.
HR Labour relations Hazard risks Operational risks
