STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management and Principal Risks Managing risk to deliver strategic objectives Managing risk is key to the delivery of long-term sustainable improvement inshareholder value.
All risks are aligned with the Groups strategic objectives.
Approach to risk management Achievements in 2017 Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is a key factor in In addition to the delivery of ongoing process and system the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board establishes the enhancements that are designed to mitigate risk, the Groups culture of effective risk management and is responsible for maintaining riskfunction has placed particular emphasis on the following areas appropriate systems and controls.
The Board sets the riskappetite and during the year: determines the policies and procedures that are putinplace to mitigate exposure to risks.
Cyber risk has continued to be a major focus area for risk assessment.
A further internal audit project has been undertaken by KPMG and Process continued improvements have been made tomitigate risk and There is a formal ongoing process to identify, assess and analyse risks improveIT security, business continuity anddisaster recovery.
and those of a potentially significant nature are included in the Group Health and safety continues to be a focus area as the Group Risk Register.
The conclusion of the Groups internal auditor, KPMG, is continually strives to reduce health and safety risk and improve that the process continues to be a robust mechanism for monitoring performance.
Additional staff training was undertaken in 2017. and controlling the Groups principal risks.
Proactive supply chain management continues to be a focus area The Group Risk Register is reviewed and updated at least every 6 months forthe Group and an internal audit project has been undertaken and the overall process is the subject of regular review.
This covered the adequacy of the Groups policies, recorded with a full analysis and risk owners are nominated who have procedures and systems and the operation of key controls.
authority and responsibility for assessing and managing the risk.
All risks are aligned with the Groups strategic objectives and each risk is analysed A detailed annual review of the Groups capital structure has been for impact and probability to determine exposure and impact to the undertaken to ensure it remains aligned withcorporate growth business and the determination of a gross risk score enables risk objectives and the external market riskenvironment.
External risks include the weather, political The maintenance of a conservative capital structure with a strong and economic conditions, the effect oflegislation or other regulatory balance sheet and comfortable headroom against bank facilities actions, the actions of competitors, foreign exchange, raw material provides significant mitigation against potential funding risk.
Internal risks include investment in new products, new business strategies and acquisitions.
In particular, during 2017, the potential impact of Brexit and wider economic uncertainty Priorities for 2018 hasbeen considered in the assessment of risk 1 on page 22.
The priorities for the Groups risk function in 2018 include the following The Group seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of strategic, financial areas of focus: and operational risk, both external and internal.
The effectiveness of The rapid pace of change in the wider environment necessitates keymitigating controls is continually monitored and such controls cyber risk remaining a key priority for 2018.
Further assignments aresubjected to internal audit and periodic testing in order to provide andpenetration tests are planned toensurethat the Group remains independent verification where this is deemed appropriate.
The proactive in this area.
effectiveness and impact of key controls are evaluated and this is usedto determine a net risk score for each risk.
The process is used to The completion of a number of targeted projects will again develop action plans that are used to manage, or respond to, the risks beamajor focus for KPMG.
In 2018, projects covering inventory and these are monitored and reviewed on a regular basis by the Groups management, GDPR and human resource systems and procedures Audit Committee.
In addition, the Group has established a formal framework for the Following the acquisition of CPM in October 2017, thesuccessful ongoing assessment of operational, financial and IT-based controls.
integration of the business into the Group is a major focus area.
The Theoverriding objective is to gain assurance that the control framework risk that the integration takes longer than anticipated and impacts is complete and that the individual controls are operating effectively.
financial performance has been included as a key item on the Groups Additional independent verification checking of key controls and Risk Register.
A post integration review is to beundertaken by KPMG.
reconciliations are undertaken on a rolling basis.
Such testing includes Health and safety remains a major focus area.
Significant increases key controls over access to, and change permissions on, base data inthe financial penalty regime have increased the potential impact andmetadata.
MARSHALLS PLC 20 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Framework Risk appetite The Group is prepared to accept a certain level of risk to remain competitive but continues to adopt a conservative approach to risk The Board: management.
The risk framework is robust and provides clarity in determines the Groups approach to risk, its policies and the procedures determining the risks faced and the level of risk that we are prepared to that are put in place to mitigate exposure to risk.
Marshalls continues to put in place detailed plans to manage all risks through strategies that are designed to either treat, transfer or The Audit Committee: terminate the source of the identified risk.
has delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk management and internal controls: Viability Statement reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal After considering the principal risks overleaf, the Directors have assessed control procedures: and the prospects of the Group over a longer period than theperiod of at monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the least 12months required by the going concern basis of accounting.
independence of the external audit.
TheDirectors consider that the Groups risk management process satisfies the requirements of provision C. 2.2ofthe UK Corporate Executive Directors: Internal audit: GovernanceCode.
are responsible for the independently reviews the effectivemaintenance of effectiveness of internal The Board considers annually, and on a rolling basis, a 3-year strategic theGroups Risk Register: controlprocedures: plan, which is assessed with reference to the Groups current position oversee the management ofrisk: reports on effectiveness of and prospects, the strategic objectives and the operation of the management actions: and monitor risk mitigation and procedures and policies to manage the principal risks that might controls: and provides assurance to the threaten the business model, future performance and target capital AuditCommittee.
In this assessment, security, flexibility andefficiency are the implementation of action plans.
guiding principles that underpin the Groups capital structure objectives.
The Board continues to believe that 3 years is an appropriate period ofassessment and, aligned with the Groups strategic plan, the Directors Operational managers: also consider that they have reasonable visibility of the market over a are responsible for the identification of operational and strategic risks: 3-year period to 31 December 2020.
A 3-year period is consequently are responsible for the ownership and control of specific risks: and considered appropriate forthe Viability Statement.
The Groups strategic are responsible for establishing and managing the implementation plan includes an integrated model that incorporates income statement, ofappropriate action plans.
balance sheet and cash flow projections.
Key KPIs and financial ratios are reviewed along with the ongoing appropriateness of all assumptions used.
Scenario planning is undertaken along with stress testing against Risk heatmap downside sensitivities.
The stress testing reflects the principal risks that could conceivably threaten the Groups ability to continue operating asa going concern and has critically assessed downside scenarios that 4 might give rise to sales volume reductions, deteriorating operating margins and increases in interest rates.
None of the individual sensitivities applied impact the Directors assessment of viability.
5 1 Thestress testing applied in 2017 reflects a cautious economic outlook and remains a key part of theGroups detailed approach to capital structure and forecasting.
Asignificant stress test sensitivity has been applied to reflect a dramatic economic downturn and the Groups 7 9 3 updated Risk Register continues to identify external market factors as being the key risk.
The stress testing has aimed to replicate the financial impact of the last recession as the core sensitivity, with significantly 8 2 6 reduced sales volumes giving rise toa 33 per cent decrease in revenue over the next3years.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next 3 years.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have undertaken a robust, systematic assessment LOW MEDIUM HIGH oftheGroups principal risks.
These have been considered within LIKELIHOOD thetimeframe of 3 years, which aligns with our Viability Statementabove.
1 Macro-economic 5 Customers 8 Cost and availability andpolitical of raw materials 6 Competitor activity 2 Cyber security risks 9 Corporate, legal and 7 Threat from new regulatory 3 Integration of CPM technologies and New risk business models 4 Weather MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 21 IMPACT LOW MEDIUM HIGH STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management and Principal Risks continued 1 2 3 Macro-economic Cyber security risks Integration of CPM andpolitical LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK The Group is dependent on the level of Inadequate controls and procedures over The successful integration of CPM into the activity in its end markets.
Accordingly, the protection of intellectual property, Marshalls Group is a significant business itissusceptible to economic downturn, sensitive employee information and market issue for 2018. theimpact of Government policy and influencing data.
POTENTIAL IMPACT anypolitical and economic uncertainty The failure to improve controls against cyber There is a risk that the integration of CPM inrelation to Brexit.
security risk quickly enough, giventhe rapid could take longer than expected.
This could pace of change and the continuing POTENTIAL IMPACT impact the expected financial performance introduction of new threats.
The potential impact of Brexit and wider and reduce the positive impact of potential global macro-economic uncertainty could synergy benefits.
POTENTIAL IMPACT lead to lower activity levels which could Risk of data loss causing financial MITIGATING FACTORS reduce sales and production volumes.
Certain ongoing legal and regulatory could have an adverse effect on the Groups matters were identified during due financial results.
Theimpact of exchange MITIGATING FACTORS diligence and the sale and purchase rate fluctuations could also have an adverse Use of IT security policies.
agreement included risk mitigation by impact on material costs.
The undertaking of regular cyber security requiring 12 million to be paid into an risk audits by specialists and thequick MITIGATING FACTORS escrow account pending the resolution introduction of mitigation controls and The Group closely monitors trends of these issues.
The Group has a right of other recommended procedureupdates.
andlead indicators, invests in market reimbursement of amounts held in the research and is an active member Sensitive data is currently restricted escrow account to the extent that any oftheCPA.
liability crystallises in respect of these toselected senior and experienced employees who are used to handling ongoing legal and regulatory matters.
The Group benefits from the diversity such data.
ofits business and end markets.
The Group has a detailed integration plan Where sensitive data is made available to which covers all business areas and is The Group focuses on sales opportunities third parties, it is done under focused on risk reduction and maximising and strategic growth initiatives, together confidentiality agreements with opportunity.
with quality, serviceand its supply chain.
The integration plan has Executive level The Group focuses on its supplier A rolling programme of awareness focus and is being administered by relationships, flexible contracts and training for staff.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR A post integration review is to be CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR undertaken by KPMG in Q3 2018.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR This remains a high profile area and Given the perception of increased global considerable focus is being given to economic uncertainty, this risk has increased promoting awareness of IT security policies.
and this is reflected in wider economic The acquisition of CPM in October 2017 has Appropriate tools and training procedures forecasts.
The CPA forecasts have softened created a new risk for the Group, although are in place to protect sensitive data when slightly in recent months.
the integration project is receiving stored and transmitted between parties significant management focus.
There continues to be growth potential e. g. encryption of hard drives, restricted incertain focus areas, e. g. New Build USBdevices, secure data transmission Housing, Water Management and Rail.
mechanisms and third party security audits.
Forward indicators in the core business remain positive.
The proactive development of the product range continues to offer protection.
Strategic objectives: Shareholder value Sustainable profitability Relationship building Organic expansion Brand development Effective capital structure andcontrolframework MARSHALLS PLC 22 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 4 5 6 Weather Customers Competitor activity LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK The Group is exposed to the impact The UK business has a number of key The Group has a number of existing ofprolonged periods of bad weather.
customers, in particular the national competitors who compete on range, merchants.
This is partly as a result of price, quality and service.
POTENTIAL IMPACT theconsolidated nature of this market.
Potential new low cost competitors may Adverse working conditions could give rise beattracted into the market through to disruption and delays that might reduce POTENTIAL IMPACT increased demand for imported natural short-term activity levels.
This could reduce The loss of a significant customer may give stone products.
sales and production volumes and therefore rise to a significant adverse effect onthe have an adverse effect on the Groups Groups financial results.
The increased competition could reduce MITIGATING FACTORS volumes and margins on manufactured MITIGATING FACTORS The Group focuses on brand and new andtraded products.
The Group has a continuing focus on product development, quality and newproduct development, including customer service improvement.
MITIGATING FACTORS landscape water management.
The Group maintains a national network The Group has unique selling points that of manufacturing and distribution sites.
The Group is developing its internal differentiate the Marshalls branded offer.
flooring offer and International strategy The Group undertakes ongoing reviews The Group focuses on quality, service, inorder to diversifyits activities.
of trading policies and relationships and reliability and ethical standards that maintains constant communication differentiate Marshalls from The development of the Groups withcustomers.
WaterManagement business is asignificant opportunity.
The acquisition The Group continues to have the CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR of CPM has significantly moved the lowestcost to market.
Group forward in this area and the The Group has a continuing focus Although the underlying risk continues, the acquisition has been a significant step onnewproduct development.
effective management of key relationships inthe stated strategy of providing a full and the ongoing diversificationof the CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR water management capability.
business are servingto mitigate the risk.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR The more uncertain market environment has not led to any significant changes in Weather conditions are beyond competitive pressure.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management and Principal Risks continued 7 8 9 Threat from new Cost and availability Corporate, legal technologies and new ofraw materials andregulatory business models LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK Reduction in demand for traditional The Group is susceptible to significant The Group may be adversely affected by an products.
Risk of new competitors and increases in the price of raw materials, unexpected reputational event, e. g. an issue newsubstitute products appearing.
utilities, fuel oil and haulage costs and in its ethical supply chain or due to a health Failuretoreact to market developments.
As demand increases, the Group is The impact of the Environmental Protocol leads POTENTIAL IMPACT potentially more exposed to the risk of to the need for increasingly expensiveprocesses.
The increased competition could temporary raw material shortages.
reducevolumes and margins on POTENTIAL IMPACT traditionalproducts.
POTENTIAL IMPACT An incident could lead to a disruption to The increased costs could reduce margins production and thesupply of products for MITIGATING FACTORS and may be further impacted in the event customers.
This could increase costs and Good market intelligence.
of imbalances in the mix of regional activity.
have a potential negative impact on the Flexible business strategy able Groups reputation.
The risk of market demand exceeding raw material supply could lead to inefficient An environmental contamination eventmay Significant focus on research and production, which could reduce margins.
lead to a prosecution and toreputationalloss.
Significant increases in the penalty regime MITIGATING FACTORS have increased the potential financial The Group benefits from the diversity CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR impact of health and safety as well as ofits business and end markets.
The Group focuses on its supplier The ongoing diversification of the business, relationships, flexible contracts and MITIGATING FACTORS the continued development of the theuse of hedging instruments.
The Group employs compliance procedures, Marshalls brand and the focus on new policies and independent audit processes The Group utilises sales pricing and products and greater manufacturing which seek to ensure thatlocal, national and purchasing policies designed to efficiency continue tomitigate the risk.
international regulatory and compliance mitigatethe risks.
procedures are fully complied with.
The Group uses specialist The Group uses professional specialists deliveryvehicles.
covering carbon reduction, water management and biodiversity.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR The Group focuses on the implementation of ISO standards.
Cost inflation remains a risk as demand for raw materials increases against a backdrop The Group has a formal Group of increased economic uncertainty.
All sustainability strategy focusing importers are faced with the same issues.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR The risk of temporary shortages is mitigated by proactive supply chain management and The Group continues to improve compliance the use of alternative suppliers.
Health and safety and the potential impact of the Bribery Act continue to be high profile risk areas.
These areas are receiving additional management focus, but the impact of the underlying risk has increased.
The Group is unable to predict future changes in environmental laws or policies or the ultimate cost of compliance with such laws or policies.
Strategic objectives: Shareholder value Sustainable profitability Relationship building Organic expansion Brand development Effective capital structure andcontrolframework MARSHALLS PLC 24 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
