38 Principal risks and uncertainties Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Looking forward, the Group will focus on the following key areas of risk: Potential impact Management mitigation 1.
Economic conditions, including Brexit implications Declining economic conditions potentially impact demand for the Groups The geographical diversification of the Group provides a natural hedge services in some divisions: improving economic conditions may impact the to some economic risk.
The Group continues to monitor the position Groups ability to recruit drivers and other staff, or cause inflationary regarding Brexit.
Robust bid modelling takes into account differing pressure on costs.
Our exit from the UK rail market and focus on international opportunities mitigates risk in this area.
The terms on which Brexit is negotiated specifically in relation to the means by which any limitation on free movement immigration is traded off against access to the single market may affect the Groups ability to bid competitively within the EU.
Political geopolitical regulatory landscape The political and regulatory landscape within which the Group operates is The Group constantly monitors the political landscape and is focused on constantly changing.
Changes to government policy, funding regimes or the effective stakeholder management.
Political risk is specifically considered legal and regulatory framework may result in structural market changes or when considering bids or new market entry.
Strategic alliances and impact the Groups operations in terms of reduced profitability, increased partnerships are used where appropriate to mitigate risk.
The Group carries costs and or a reduction in operational flexibility or efficiency.
The Groups out appropriate lobbying and communication, highlighting especially the exposure to franchise renewal risk in Spain is a specific example.
importance of public transport to central and local government.
Most importantly, we continue to focus on operational excellence and delivering value in our franchises.
Increasing competition The Groups divisions are facing increasing competition in various ways: The Group is committed to operational and service excellence and the price competition, inter-modal eg coach vs rail, and more recently effective management of cost.
Revenue trends are closely monitored and emerging threats such as new market entrants or disruptive technologies.
Our market strategy is to provide our customers with a compelling and differentiated offering.
Effective processes are in place to ensure best practices are shared across the Group in many areas.
Terrorism The Group can be either directly impacted by a terrorist event, or indirectly, The Group liaises closely with government agencies and industry partners.
through softening demand from the travelling public.
Major incident emergency plans are developed in all Divisions.
Insurance coverage is available and in place for some terrorism-related risks.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties 39 Potential impact Management mitigation 5.
Safety, litigation and claims A major safety-related incident eg bus or rail accident could impact The Group has a strong safety culture driven from the Chief Executive the Group both financially and reputationally.
The Group self-insures and divisional leadership.
The Group is dedicated to leading edge safety a proportion of certain risks such as workers compensation and auto technology and has accelerated investment in the Lytx DriveCam liability, and higher than planned claims or cash settlements could technology.
A new compliance steering committee has been establish adversely affect profit and cash outflow.
The Groups operations are also in the Groups North American business, chaired by the Divisional CEO.
subject to potential litigation from other sources such as environmental Appropriate insurance coverage is available and in place for accidentlegislation or wage and hour matters in the US.
The Group is increasingly related claims to employees and third parties, and the Group has subjected to regulation in many areas and non-compliance with regulations experienced claims management and legal teams in each Division.
can create legal and financial risk.
All Divisions have established safety audit programs, supported by Group Internal Audit.
HR and labour relations A lack of available talent leadership skills can inhibit growth.
The Group is committed to employee engagement and invests in a number Shortages in drivers and other key staff can disrupt operations.
Appropriate training is provided for managers unionisation and or poor labour relations presents increased risk of strike and supervisors.
Reward and recognition programmes are established to or operational disruption: inflation of wage and benefit costs: and possible further enhance employee engagement.
The Group is focused on the reputational damage.
effective management of stakeholder and union relationships, and the advice of specialist outside counsel is sought where necessary.
Changing customer expectations in a digital environment Customers increasingly expect to be able to buy tickets and manage The Group has appointed a Chief Digital Officer: and comprehensive their travel plans through a variety of digital platforms.
Failure to develop digital strategies are being developed in each Division.
Divisional digital applications and digital channels that meet these increasing customer scorecards are reviewed monthly by the Executive Committee to monitor expectations could affect profitability, customer satisfaction and the the effectiveness of various digital channels.
business ability to capitalise on valuable customer data to enable commercial initiatives.
IT, cyber risks and GDPR A major IT failure could disrupt operations and lead to loss of revenues, At a Divisional and Group level, comprehensive back-up procedures and especially in the Coach businesses.
The Group recognises a wide range disaster recovery plans are established.
A dedicated Cyber Risk Security of cyber threats, including loss of data, social engineering, hacking Committee was established in 2016, chaired by the Group Finance Director.
External expert testing has been carried out for cyber risk and recommendations implemented.
The Group also recognises potential risks arising from the implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
The Group is in the process of implementing plans to ensure compliance with GDPR by 25 May 2018, when the new regulation becomes effective.
These plans have been tailored at Divisional level to reflect the type of personal data of European subjects and the nature of processing such personal data which is carried on by each Division and to build on measures that are already in place in each Division which are designed to comply with current national data protection laws.
40 Principal risks and uncertainties Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Looking forward, the Group will focus on the following key areas of risk: Potential impact Management mitigation 9. Credit risk As contracted operations, the North American and Spanish urban Receivables in each business are closely monitored, based on robust and businesses are exposed to the risk that customers are either late thorough documentation: provisions are then made where appropriate on or unable to pay sums owed to the Group, impacting Group liquidity.
a prudent basis for a certain level of non-collection.
Group Treasury actively manages the relationships with 18 banks who provide 544 million of committed bank facilities maturing in November 2021, giving the Group an appropriate level of liquidity when combined with a series of debt capital market issuances and a programme of finance leases.
Hazard risk to key site eg fire : natural catastrophe: extreme weather The loss of a key location to either a man-made hazard such as fire, or The geographical diversification of the Group provides a natural hedge to natural catastrophe such as a hurricane, can result in asset loss, a loss this risk.
Even at the Divisional level, the business operates from multiple of revenue and profit, and a potential loss of competitive position in the locations.
Each Division has established emergency and continuity plans.
Widespread events such as extreme weather events can also Insurance coverage is available and in place for some hazard related risks.
interrupt operations and cause revenue loss even if the Groups assets are undamaged.
Foreign exchange The Groups exposure to foreign currency earnings through its overseas The Group hedges all transactional risk and also actively manages the operations creates a risk that movement in exchange rates may adversely effective currency of its debt portfolio to manage gearing ratios and impact translation of profit and cash flows.
A range of tools are employed including local currency debt and currency swaps.
In addition, management has flexibility to adjust Group capital allocation.
Fuel cost Fuel represents a significant cost to the Group and unplanned increases The Group operates a three year rolling hedge policy, hedging 100% of in fuel price potentially impact profitability.
the next 15 months demand, with decreasing levels of cover in the latter periods topped up each month.
Pension costs Market conditions and or deficit may lead to increase in service costs The Groups Defined Benefit schemes are closed to new entrants.
The UK and or increased deficit recovery payments.
Bus Dundee scheme was transferred to the local authority in 2017.
Triennial valuations for the UK Group and West Midlands Travel schemes have been completed and contributions agreed to 2020.
