Risk management Managing our risks We need to have a strong understanding of the nature and extent of the risks involved in pursuing the Group strategy: and, to enable our strategys success, wemust manage risk effectively and efficiently.
Our First Line of Defence is management who are responsible Managing risk in line with our strategy for owning and managing risks to achieve our business Management, with oversight from the Board, is responsible for objectives on a day-to-day basis.
The Second Line of Defence developing our strategy.
Our strategic planning process aims is the Risk function and is responsible for the design and to ensure we have developed clear objectives and targets, implementation of the ERMF, and for providing proportionate and identified the actions needed to deliver them, including oversight of and challenge to the businesss management of the management of risk.
The delivery of a strategic plan will, risks, events and management actions.
Group Audit is the by its very nature, result in risks and therefore understanding Third Line of Defence, providing an independent and objective and managing those risks appropriately is a key aspect of the view of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk strategic planning process.
The Groups risk strategy is aligned management, governance and internal control framework.
with the Group strategy and supports business decision-making through the proactive identification, assessment and The Groups governance structure is set out in more detail management of risks.
The Groups risk strategy is consistent in the corporate governance section.
with our overall long-term ambition of sustainable growth and at least a 15% RoTE delivered while remaining within Risk appetite our risk appetite.
Our risk appetite statements define the risks we are prepared to accept to achieve our business objectives.
The processes Our risk governance framework for setting risk appetite: particularly the cascade, assessment, The Board sets and monitors adherence to the risk strategy, mitigation and reporting of risk exposures against risk appetite: risk appetite, and risk framework.
The Board approves our are documented in the Groups policies and underlying strategy, risk appetite and policies, and the Board Risk minimum standards.
To monitor whether the business remains Committee BRC approves the Enterprise Risk Management within risk appetite, we use key risk indicators KRIs.
The Board has established a risk management model that separates responsibilities into We derive the KRIs from the risk appetite statements which Three Lines of Defence.
are used to drive and monitor risk-aware decision-making.
These KRIs are qualitative and quantitative, and forward and backward-looking.
We review our risk appetite statements and KRIs annually.
Our risk objectives and appetite Risk objective Risk appetite statement Overarching risk objective The Group recognises that its long-term sustainability depends on having sufficient economic capital to meet its liabilities as they fall due, thus protecting its reputation andtheintegrity of its relationship with policyholders and other stakeholders.
As part of this, the Groups appetite is for general insurance risk, focusing on personal lines retail and SME insurance in the UK.
The Group has appetite for non-insurance risks, asappropriate, to enable and assist it to undertake its primary activity of insurance.
Maintain capital adequacy The Group seeks to hold own funds in the range of 140% to 180% of the internal model solvency capital requirement.
The Group also seeks to maintain sufficient economic capital consistent with its strategic aim of maintaining a credit rating in theArange.
Stable and efficient access The Group aims to meet planned and unexpected cash outflow requirements, tofundingand liquidity including those requirements that arise following a 1-in-200 years insurance, market or credit risk event.
Maintain stakeholder confidence The Group has no appetite for material risks resulting in reputational damage, regulatory orlegal censure, poor customer outcomes, fines or prosecutions, and other types of non-budgeted operational risk losses associated with Group conduct and activities.
TheGroup will maintain a robust and proportionate internal control environment.
22 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The ERMF enables us to manage the business with the Viability statement necessary understanding of our risks and controls, as well In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate ashaving appropriate oversight to manage risks proactively.
Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects The ERMF is aligned to the Three Lines of Defence model, and of the Group for a period longer than the 12 months required provides a comprehensive approach for managing our risks.
by the going concern statement.
Our Policy Framework is a central part of the ERMF, and includes policies and minimum standards which provide the The Strategic report, on pages 1 to 43, sets out the Groups context and risk appetite boundaries within which the business financial performance, business environment, outlook and conducts its activities.
It covers how the Group measures its regulatory and economic capital needs, and Our risk culture deploys capital.
You can find discussion about the Groups principal risks and risk management in this section.
Note 3 to Our risk culture underpins our business and decision-making, the consolidated financial statements starts on page 127 and and helps us embed a robust approach to managing risk.
sets out financial disclosures relating to the Groups principal Ourrisk culture is demonstrated in the understanding and risks.
This covers insurance, market and credit risk: and the business-wide use of the risk management systems and Groups approach to monitoring, managing and mitigating processes and through risk-aware decision-making.
The Board exposures to these risks.
is committed to promoting a culture of high standards ofcorporate governance, business integrity, ethics and Every year, the Board considers a five-year strategic plan professionalism in all our activities.
An annual assessment of and an Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA for the risk behaviours and attitudes is undertaken jointly by the Risk Group.
The plan makes certain assumptions in respect of the function and Group Audit and considers a range of factors competitive markets in which the Group operates, and the influencing risk culture.
delivery and implementation of the new customer systems.
Appropriate aspects of the strategic plan are stress-tested to understand and help set capital and other requirements.
Group strategy When reviewing the strategic plan, the Board considered the Groups prospects over the five-year period that the plan covered and the conclusions of the ORSA, based on the Risk appetite Groups anticipated activities as set out in the strategic plan.
This review included reviews of solvency, liquidity, assessment Policy framework of principal risks, and risk management over a three year Reporting & period, with a further two years of indicative planning.
The monitoring one-year planning period has greater certainty, so it was used Principal risks to set detailed budgets across the Group.
Outcomes for the four-year period are less certain.
However, the plan provides a robust planning tool for strategic decisions.
The Board recognises that, in a strategic plan, uncertainty increases over time and, therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or accurately predicted.
Risk management Considering the Groups current capital and trading position, Identify its principal risks, and the remaining four years of the strategic Risk plan, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the profile Company and the Group can continue in operation, and Assess provide the appropriate degree of protection to those who are, or may become, policyholders or claimants in the period to 31 December 2021.
Manage Our Enterprise Risk Management Strategy Monitor and Framework This section sets out, at a high level, our approach to setting Report risk strategy and the ERMF for managing risks.
It documents the high-level principles and practices to achieve appropriate risk management standards and demonstrates the inter-relationships between components of the ERMF see diagram.
COM 23 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties We assess robustly the principal risks facing us.
Principal risks are defined as having a residual risk impact of 40 million ormore on a 1-in-200 years basis, taking into account customer, financial and reputational impacts.
There have been movements in our risk profile during 2017 primarily driven by the Ogden discount rate change and enhanced technology controls.
Therehave been no material breaches of risk appetite.
Principal risks Executive owner Management and mitigation examples Insurance risk Chief Financial Officer, We estimate technical reserves using various actuarial and Managing Directors statistical techniques.
Managements best estimate of total Underwriting risk of Personal Lines reserves is set at not less than the actuarial best estimate Reserve risk and Commercial Third party experts review the majority of our reserves Distribution risk Underwriting guidelines are set for all transacted business, Pricing risk and pricing refined by analysing comprehensive data Reinsurance risk Catastrophe and motor excess of loss reinsurance limits our exposure to events and large losses The risk of loss due to fluctuations in the We invest in enhanced external data to analyse and timings, amount, frequency and severity mitigate exposures of an insured event relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
We set our reserves using the latest data and trends.
In particular, the decision to reduce the Ogden discount rate has been reflected in the estimate of reserves Market risk Chief Financial Officer We ensure compliance with an investment strategy approved by the Board Spread risk We carefully diversify asset classes Interest rate risk We set limits on exposure to individual asset classes and Property risk the amount of illiquid investments The risk of loss resulting from fluctuations We tightly control individual credit exposures in the level and volatility of market prices We use risk-reduction techniques, such as hedging foreign of assets, liabilities and financial currency exposures with forward contracts, and hedging instruments.
See pages 129 to 131. exposure to US interest rates with swap contracts Credit risk Chief Financial Officer Credit limits are set for each counterparty and we actively monitor credit exposures Concentration risk We only purchase reinsurance from reinsurers with at least Counterparty default risk anA rating.
For liabilities with a relatively long period of time to settlement, this rating will be at least A The risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the credit standing of issuers of We have well-defined criteria to determine which securities, counterparties and any customers are offered and granted credit debtors to which we are exposed.
Operational risk Specific members We monitor operational risk activity in line with a ofthe Executive Board-approved operational risk appetite Information security risk We have appropriate operational processes and systems, IT and business continuity risk including detection systems for fraudulent claims Outsourcing risk We are continuing to work to improve performance of our Financial reporting risk IT systems while focussing on developing future systems Model risk capability.
With significant change underway, we are Partnership contractual obligations risk continuing to monitor risks associated with our IT systems stability, cyber security, and the internal control Strategic change delivery risk environment Technology and infrastructure risk Our risk management framework is designed to enable us tocapture risk information in a robust and consistent way The risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, We monitor how risks are managed in the performance systems, or from external events.
ofoutsourced and offshored activities See page 136.
24 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risks Executive owner Management and mitigation examples Regulatory and Chief Risk Officer We maintain a constructive and open relationship with conduct risk andManaging Director, our regulators Personal Lines Compliance risk We use specific risk management tools and resources to help manage our exposure to regulatory risk Conduct risk We have a strong culture of delivering on our commitments The risks arising out of changes to laws, to our customers regulatory rules, policy or interpretation, Our conduct risk management framework is designed or to supervisory expectations or to deliver fair outcomes to customers and minimise our approach, that have an adverse risk exposure operational and financial impact as a We carry out planned risk-based monitoring of customer result of reputational damage, regulatory processes as well as more targeted thematic reviews or legal censure, fines or prosecutions, which consider strategic or regulatory projects and any other type of non-budgeted operational risk losses, associated with the Groups conduct and activities.
Strategic risk Chief Executive Officer We agree, monitor and manage performance against the Board-approved plan and targets Strategy implementation risk The Boards lead an annual strategy and five-year planning Strategy formulation risk process which considers our performance, competitor positioning and strategic opportunities The risk of direct or indirect adverse impact on the earnings, capital, or We identify and manage emerging risks using established value of our business, resulting from governance processes and forums the strategies not being optimally chosen, implemented or adapted to changing conditions.
Changes to traditional insurance business models Emerging risks New market entrants and changes in consumer expectations Our definition of emerging risks is new or developing risks could result in significant changes to the structure of the general which are often difficult to quantify: they are also highly insurance market, and require us to update our business model.
uncertain and are external to the Group.
Emerging risks Our strategy, aligned to our mission to make insurance much are identified by management and are recorded within an easier and better value for our customers, is positioned to take Emerging Risk Register.
We report these to the BRC for advantage of changes in technology and customer behaviours, review and challenge.
Our emerging risks processes aim to: and building our partnership capabilities.
identify emerging risks on a timely basis: UK economy manage emerging risks proactively: The UK could enter a prolonged period of reduced growth due mitigate the impact of emerging risks which could affect to the exit from the EU, potentially reducing insurance sales and the delivery of the strategic plan: and the value of our investment portfolio.
Whilst our operations are reduce the uncertainty and volatility of our business results.
based mainly in the UK, we continue to monitor implications surrounding Brexit negotiations, and their uncertain outcomes, We consider our main emerging risks to be: including: changes to the value of sterling which impact claims and non-claims supplier costs: inflation: recruitment and Technological change in driving habits reduces retention of people: potential changes to direct and indirect consumer need for motor insurance tax: and the regulatory impact on our capital position.
New car technologies, such as crash-prevention technologies and driverless cars, could significantly affect the size and Climate change nature of the insurance market, and the role of insurers.
Climate change could increase the frequency of severe weather events in the UK, and in particular, flooding claims In addition to our partnership with the Government on costs.
We continue to monitor changes in claims experience automated driving systems, the Group continues to build strong and consider weather trends as part of our pricing and collaborative relationships, including with key manufacturers underwriting approach.
