Principal risks and uncertainties The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and determining the Groups risk appetite.
The review of financial risk has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The Groups risk framework, using a variety of top-down and bottom-up approaches, is used to identify, monitor and report risks.
The risks are aggregated first at a divisional level and then at Group level.
For each business critical risk, assurance activities have been documented in risk assurance maps and these are used to direct assurance activity including that of Internal Audit.
The Group Head of Risk is supported by the Risk and SHE Committee, which met three times during 2017, attended by senior managers from each of the operating divisions and the Group Head of SHE.
The Risk and SHE Committee assists the Group Head of Risk in identifying critical risks, embedding risk management and facilitating the implementation of risk management measures throughout the Group.
The Group Head of Risk provides an update to the Audit Committee on the Groups risk activities at every meeting and a comprehensive review of the Groups business critical risks is presented to the Board in June and December.
The Board concluded that an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has been in place throughout 2017 and a robust assessment of the principal risks had been undertaken.
The table below highlights the major risks that may affect Bodycotes ability to deliver the strategy, as laid out on page 11.
These risks have been reviewed throughout the year and two new risks have been added since 2016: Environment and Capital Projects.
The inclusion of the Environment risk reflects increasing regulatory intervention and a level of uncertainty in a number of jurisdictions in which Bodycote operates.
The inclusion of the Capital Projects risk reflects the Groups continued investments of significant amounts of capital to grow the business and these projects can be highly complex and rely upon factors outside the Groups control.
In determining the principal risks the Board once again considered the result of the 2016 referendum on the future of the UKs membership in the European Union.
The Board does not expect this will have a material impact on Bodycote as customers are served locally and crossborder trading is minimal and this therefore remains as an element of the existing market risk.
Details of the Groups financial risks funding, foreign exchange, interest rate and counterparty risks, which are managed by the Groups treasury function, are provided in note 18 to the financial statements.
The mitigating activities described below will help to reduce the impact or likelihood of the major risk occurring, although the Board recognises that it will not be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
The Board recognises that there could be risks that may be unknown or that may be judged to be insignificant at present but may later prove to be significant.
For this reason business continuity plans have been prepared for all plants to provide for situations where specific risks have the potential to severely impact the business.
Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Market and customer risks Markets Stable Bodycote operates in 23 countries The high proportion of short-term Bodycotes presence in 23 and a substantial amount of sales are fixed costs in the business means countries across a wide variety closely linked to the economic cycle that a drop in sales will have a of end-markets acts as a natural and the general macroeconomic significant impact on profitability.
hedge to neutralise localised environment.
The result of the Sales in the markets served by the economic volatility.
referendum on the future of the UKs AGI businesses 69% of the total There is some short-term membership in the European Union Group tend to develop in line with flexibility in the cost base e. g. is not expected to have a material or ahead of the economic cycle, by ensuring that a proportion of transactional impact as customers whereas aerospace and defence the workforce is employed on are typically served locally and sales 23% tend to track behind the temporary contracts.
Sales to the energy Changes in customer demand on sectors 8% are closely linked to a local or a Group-wide level are energy prices, which in turn can be responded to quickly.
affected by general economic activity.
Loss of key customers Stable Bodycote benefits from many The loss of a key customer could There is no significant customer long-term relationships with key adversely affect the Groups financial dependency, with the Groups top customers and the damage to, results and the viability of one or ten customers accounting for less or loss of, any of these relationships more of Bodycotes facilities.
than 17% of sales and the balance would be detrimental to the Group.
made up by many thousands of customers.
There is a continued focus on customer service and quality processes to maintain excellent relationships with major customers.
Key account management is in place and customer satisfaction is monitored.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Market and customer risks continued Competitor action Stable The entry of competitors into one The erosion of market share resulting The close control of proprietary or more of the Groups Specialist in loss of revenue and profit.
Rapid increase in the scale of the Groups offerings to maintain the position as supplier of choice.
Corporate and community risks Safety and health Stable The nature of Bodycotes activities Bodycote is committed to providing Group-wide health and safety presents safety and health risks.
a safe work environment for its policies set by the Group Chief employees but Bodycotes operations, Executive.
if not properly managed, could have OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 a significant impact on individual compliant SHE management employees.
Furthermore, poor safety systems being used by Group and health practices could lead to Head of Safety, Health and disruption of business, financial Environment with support of penalties and loss of reputation.
divisional safety, health and environmental teams.
Programme in place to focus on reduction of incidents which could have a high impact.
Safety compliance audits at all plants at least every two years.
Oversight of safety and health framework provided by the Group Risk and SHE Committee.
Environment Increasing Actual or potential environmental Bodycote is committed to providing Environmental procedures and contamination could lead to health the highest level of protection to measures in place conforming to risks, disruption of business, financial the environment.
costs and loss of reputation.
regulators in many jurisdictions Environmental due diligence of in which Bodycote operate can businesses for acquisition.
impose obligations on Bodycote to Remediation of contaminated investigate potential contamination sites or additional emission and remediate where required.
abatement as required by local legislation.
26 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Operational risks Service quality Increasing The Bodycote brand is reliant on the Deterioration in quality or service Bodycote has stringent quality repeatable delivery of parts to agreed levels can cause serious long-term systems in place managed by specification to an agreed time.
damage to Bodycotes reputation qualified staff.
with financial consequences such as Quality systems and processes the loss of a customer and the cost operated at plant level with of damages or litigation.
Work that oversight by divisional quality is released into use which is not in teams.
compliance with specification could Where necessary, plants maintain arise as a result of system or human industry relevant accreditations, failure.
such as ISO 9001, Nadcap and The Automotive ISO technical IATF 16949. specification 16949 has recently All plants subjected to internal undergone major revision and is and external quality audits and being replaced by IATF 16949 IATF inspections at least once a year.
being the International Automotive Task Force.
The new standard requires additional work, for example additional quality inspections.
Major disruption at a facility Stable Bodycotes business processes Any significant incident at a site Bodycote has a global network are inherently risky and there is a could result in the service to of 187 facilities.
These facilities possibility that a major fire such Bodycotes customers from the create a framework to provide as that suffered in 2016 at the affected site being disrupted.
back-up capability for affected Huntington Park facility USA or facilities.
utility outage could lead to closure Business continuity plans are of a facilitys operation.
In addition in place for all plants.
These are a number of sites are exposed to updated and tested annually.
This natural hazards, such as earthquakes, process has been subject to a flooding and storms.
Independent insurer inspections to assess hazard and business interruption risks.
Insurance cover, including business interruption cover.
Scheduled equipment maintenance and inspections.
Capital projects Increasing The Group invests capital in Capital projects can be highly There is a well established capital developing existing plants as well as complex and rely on factors outside investment approval process into Greenfield developments and of the Groups control.
This may that applies to all major capital acquisitions.
cause projects to be delivered late projects.
or at a higher cost than forecast.
Project Management frameworks Market conditions may also change are in place to deliver projects on making a project less profitable than time and on cost.
All major projects are subject to post implementation reviews.
Capital project risk will be subject to Internal Audit review in 2018.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Operational risks continued Information T echnology Stable The efficient operation of the Failure to protect the Groups IT Project approval and progress Group relies upon the continued systems from cyber threats, or to subject to regular Executive development and operation maintain and upgrade the Groups Committee and Board review.
Bodycote is ERP system, could result in Project teams made up of currently undergoing a Group wide significant disruption and skilled subject matter experts implementation of an ERP system.
supplemented with third party advisers.
Best practice project management processes in place with assurance provided by third parties.
Defined disaster recovery planning and data backup procedures.
Regulatory risks Regulatory and legislative Stable compliance The global nature of Bodycotes Failure to comply with legislation Business processes are supported operations means that the Group could lead to substantial financial by HR policies and the Group has to comply with a wide range penalties, disruption to business, Code of Conduct alongside training of local and international legislative diversion of management time, and awareness programmes.
requirements, including anti-bribery personal and corporate liability and The Open Door Line whistleand anti-competition legislation, loss of reputation.
blower facility which is managed taxation legislation, employment by a third party.
law and import and export controls.
Engagement of local specialists to support Bodycote at local, divisional and Group level.
Regular audit of the effectiveness of implemented procedures.
28 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Viability statement In preparing this statement of viability, the directors have considered the prospects of the Group over the three year period immediately following the 2017 financial year.
This longer term assessment process supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, and going concern on page 24.
A three year period was determined as it is a reasonable period over which the business could be restructured in the event that any material changes to demand for the Groups services transpired.
As a result, the Board determined that a period of longer than three years would not be meaningful for the purpose of concluding on longer term viability.
The forecast used considers metrics which enable assessment of the Groups key performance indicators including return on capital employed, headline earnings per share and headline operating cash flow in addition to net debt, liquidity and financing requirements.
In conducting the review of the Groups prospects the directors assessed the three year plan alongside the Groups current position, the Groups strategy and the principal risks facing the Group all of which are detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 3 to 35.
This assessment considered the impact of the principal risks on the business model and on future performance, liquidity and solvency and was mindful of the limited forward visibility that the Group has as it carries no order backlog.
The directors viability assessment included a review of the sensitivity analysis performed on the three year plan, whereby the principal risks were applied to the plan in a number of diverging scenarios.
The developed scenarios were designed to be plausible, yet severe.
Examples of scenarios reviewed were: A decrease in forecast revenue of similar magnitude to the largest year-on-year decrease suffered in the last ten years.
A 10% decrease in revenue, debtor days and sterling strengthening to reflect an economic downturn In making this viability statement the directors considered the mitigating actions that are taken by the Group in the event that the principal risks of the company become realised.
The directors also took into consideration the Groups financial position at 31 December 2017, with net cash of 40m, available committed facility headroom of 230m and a history of strong cash generation.
The directors have assessed the viability of the Group and, based on the procedures outlined above in addition to activities undertaken by the Board in its normal course of business, confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2020.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
