Strategic report Risk management The balance of effective risk management and Inherent risk attributes of Clarksons business include embracing opportunities enables us to deliver our the following principles: strategic objective of enhancing shareholder value by We act as agents in the provision of services for maintaining and extending our industry leadership.
It and on behalf of our clients: is imperative that the integrity and reputation of the We do not own physical assets of material value: Clarksons brand, which underpins the successful We do not hold principal positions, other than in delivery of our strategy, is preserved through effective exceptional circumstances within the financial risk management.
division, should there be a failure of a client to The risk profile faced by our business continues to meetits obligations during the settlement period: adapt as external market conditions and regulations Aside from cash held in regulated entities, we are change and there is an increasingly uncertain global not required to commit material amounts of capital political environment with associated market volatility in the conduct of our day-to-day business: and and increasing cyber criminality.
Approach and framework Every year, through an integration of culture and compliance, we make further progress embedding Our approach is to maintain and strengthen our risk ourrisk management approach with all employees.
management and internal control framework of Our objectives and values are clearly communicated identifying, monitoring and managing the principal and our training, systems, processes and internal risks facing our business and assessing them controls are developed in accordance with our risk regularly.
This framework cannot eliminate risk management model.
This is, of course, an ongoing entirely, and can only provide reasonable, not process and we continue to work hard to improve risk absolute, assurance against material misstatement awareness and embed controls and procedures to orloss.
Our risk assessment is formed in stages: The Board and senior management take a forward- 1.
Identify the risks facing the Group by business looking approach to risk to ensure early identification, sector: timely assessment and, where necessary, mitigation 2.
Document risks on a centrally-managed risk of new and emerging risks, such that they can be register: evaluated alongside known and continuing risks.
Assess the likelihood of occurrence of each risk: In November 2017, the audit committee carried 4.
Evaluate the potential impact of each risk on the out itsannual formal assessment of risk which Group: was communicated in full to the Board, which 5.
Determine the strength and adequacy of the subsequently agreed the key risks, risk appetite, controls operating over each risk: controls and risk management processes in place 6.
Assess the effect of any mitigating procedures within the Group.
orprocesses: In addition to our regular risk management activities, 7.
Plot the above factors on a risk matrix: and the priority for 2018 is to continue promoting a 8.
Monitor the above on a regular basis.
monitoring environment which consists of validating, monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of our The Board recognises that whilst it has limited control current controls in order to support the Board in over many of the external risks it faces, including, for their responsibilities.
example, the macro-economic environment, it nevertheless reviews the potential impact of such risks on the business and actively considers them in its decision-making.
The Board actively monitors internal risks and ensures that appropriate controls are in place to manage them.
42 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information Risk governance Risk appetite For detailed information about the role of the Board Risk appetite is at the heart of our risk management and the audit committee in the risk management processes, since it is integral to our consideration of process, see pages 60 and 82 respectively.
strategy and medium-term planning process.
The Board is responsible for the amount and type of risk the Group is willing to accept to achieve our strategic and operational objectives.
It performs this function Board by setting the business strategy and approving the Groups policies and procedures, enabling, where Overall responsibility for the Groups possible, a reduction in risks to the tolerance levels risk management and internal set by the Board.
The Board further considers the control systems inherent risk attributes of the business when identifying its appetite and tolerances for risk and Sets strategic objectives and defines opportunities.
The Groups risk appetite is monitored risk appetite at each Board meeting and formally reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
Monitors the nature and extent of risk exposure against risk appetite for our principal risks Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the revised Provides direction on the importance 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board of risk management has assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period than the 12 months required by the going concern provision.
In carrying out their assessment, the Directors have considered the resilience of the Group with Audit committee reference to its current position, prospects and strategy, the Boards risk appetite, the Groups Supports the Board in monitoring risk principal risks and the effectiveness of mitigating exposure against risk appetite actions.
This robust assessment considers the potential impact of the Groups principal risks Reviews the effectiveness of our on its strategy, business model, future operational risk management and internal control systems and financial performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
In determining the period over which to provide its viability statement, the Board took into Operational management consideration revenues, cash flows, funding requirements, profits, long-term time charters, Risk management process and internal controls embedded across the average construction period of newbuilding divisions and functional areas contracts, triennial valuations of pension schemes and duration of the majority of the forward order Risk identification, assessment book.
The Board concluded that a period of three andmitigation performed across years was appropriate.
thebusiness Based on their assessment of prospects and viability, the Directors confirm that they have a Risk awareness and safety culture reasonable expectation that the Group will be able embedded across the business to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending 31 December 2020.
In doing so, it is recognised that such future assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases with time and, therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Going concern The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, as explained in note 2.1. www.
com 43 Strategic report Risk management continued Summary of principal risks The principal risks which may impact the Groups ability to execute its business strategy have not fundamentally changed since 2016, however, the likelihood of the risk occurring and mitigation in place have evolved.
Further, the impact of changes in the broking industry has replaced pension risk, as a result of the recent fide-risking in two of the three pension schemes.
The principal risks in the following table, whilst not exhaustive, are those which we believe could have the greatest impact on ourbusiness and have been the subject of debate at Board and audit committee meetings.
The Board regularly reviews these risksin the knowledge that currently unknown, non-existent or immaterial risks could turn out to be significant in the future.
Link to strategy Change in risk Risk see pages 20 to 21 factor in the year See also Failure to achieve strategic objectives Our strategy, pages 20 to 21 Growth Changes in the broking industry Chief Executive Officers review, pages 16 to 19 Understanding Employee misuse of confidential information People Cyber risk and data security Chief Executive Officers review, pages 16 to 19 Audit committee report, Trust pages 80 to 83 Economic factors Our market context, pages 14 to 15 Growth Loss of key personnel People Adverse movements in Financial risk management, foreign exchange note 26 Growth Financial loss arising from failure Trade and other receivables, of a client to meet its obligations note 14 Understanding 44 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information Risk description Mitigation Activities in 2017 Failure to achieve strategic objectives Due to the size and international Frequent communication between We have continued to focus on coverage of the Group, there is Executive Directors, global Managing delivery of our strategy through ariskthat our objectives are not Directors and staff.
best in class service in extremely communicated effectively.
The Chief Executive Officer hosts alsothe risk that our strategy does an annual week-long meeting with We have closely and continuously notdeliverthe required and expected all global Managing Directors where monitored developments in outcomes for stakeholders.
attendees consider controls, strategy our industry.
We engaged with our clients to Quarterly divisional reviews of risks, ensure we understand their needs operating and financial performance and priorities and deliver beyond with Managing Directors.
Daily review of real-time financial information.
Changes in the broking industry There is a risk that we do not Monitoring and developing We have made significant investment takeadvantage of, or are overtaken technological applications which and resource into developing by, changes in our industry.
technological applications to enhance This could lead to loss of revenue our service offering and future-proof Reviewing our clients and reputationaldamage.
Employee misuse of confidential information Accidental or deliberate disclosure Strict procedures for leavers to We reinforced our commitment ofconfidential information could ensureno data can be removed to staff training and to operating an haveasignificant reputational fromthe premises.
ethical work environment in order to and financial impact.
promote high standards, consistency Employment contracts and a unified approach.
include confidentiality and non-compete clauses.
We introduced a new cyber training package for all employees.
Investment in compliance, quality assurance and legal functions to We strengthened contractor ensure best practice is consistently confidentiality terms.
com 45 Strategic report Risk management continued Risk description Mitigation Activities in 2017 Cyber risk and data security Financial loss, reputational damage or IT processes include regular As announced on 29 November operational disruption resulting from a penetration testing, anti-virus and 2017, the Group was subjected major breach in the confidentiality, firewall software, frequent password to a cyber security incident.
integrity or availability of our IT systems changes and requirements for The Group continues to invest and data.
complexity, email authentication significantly in enhanced security and strict procedures on granting A breach could be caused by phishing, measures, people and resources and removing access.
ransomware, malware and virus attacks, dedicated to the prevention of stealing and utilising confidential Operational processes cyber crime.
information or IP, malicious sabotage include segregation of duties, deletion corruption of data, breach of business continuity planning firewall, social media misuse, defacing and regular training.
company website applications and unauthorised access to offices.
Economic factors World trade, global GDP and other We are not dependent on any one Our results show the effectiveness general economic fluctuations impact countrys economy as our operations of our strategy and business model the demand for ships.
Actions of owners and clients are located in all major against volatility in our markets, and financiers have a direct impact on maritime and trade centres globally.
particularly those affected by falling the supply side of our business.
Our business model is built on the Supply demand imbalances cause ability to deal with downturns and fluctuations in freight rates.
Our variable rates, volumes or asset prices fall, the remuneration schemes, being commission that we receive on any profit-related, mean that overheads deal would also fall.
react to swings in asset values and freight rates.
Our broad product offering, manned with experts in their fields, means we are in the best position to find new opportunities in volatile market conditions and able to take advantage of market turnarounds.
We review the performance of eachoffice and product line on amonthly basis.
46 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information Risk description Mitigation Activities in 2017 Loss of key personnel Losing key personnel may impair our We offer competitive remuneration We continued to make coverage of a particular line of business and an excellent working environment significant hires.
as our success depends on the to help us to retain staff.
We monitored staff turnover and experience, reputation and performance Appraisals enable us to track progress absenteeism in order to strive to of our specialist teams.
understand the reasons behind such activity.
Employment contracts include restrictive covenants, appropriate A number of employees transferred notice periods and gardening leave locations within the Clarksons Group, provisions to prevent the loss of accommodating both the employees key information.
Teamwork is encouraged across theGroup.
We invest in our teams through training and promote further learning through lectures and encouraging personal study.
Succession-planning and documentation of key procedures help minimise any impact of losing personnel.
Adverse movements in foreign exchange The Group can be exposed to adverse The Group hedges currency exposure We continued to apply our hedging movements in foreign exchange as our through forward sales of US dollar policy consistently and we have revenue is mainly denominated in US revenues.
We also sell US dollars forward sold a proportion of US dollar dollars and the majority of expenses are on the spot market to meet local anticipated revenues into 2019. denominated in local currencies.
We continually assess rates of exchange, non-sterling balances and asset exposures by currency.
Financial loss arising from failure of a client to meet its obligations We regularly monitor global client We continued to provide for debt levels using information from doubtful debts on a prudent basis.
There were no unexpected losses Provisions are based on ageing arising from a client failure during of balances, disputes or doubts the year.
