STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK FRAMEWORK This section sets out a description The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
This work ofthe principal risks and uncertainties is complemented by the Group Risk Committee, whose purpose is that could have a material adverse to manage, assess and promote the continuous improvement of the Groups risk management, controls and assurance systems.
effect on the Groups strategy, This risk governance framework is described in more detail in the Directors Report on pages 75 to 80. performance, results, financial The Head of Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel, who condition and reputation.
report to the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer respectively, have accountability for reporting the key risks that the Group faces, the controls and assurance processes in place and any mitigating actions or controls.
Both roles report to the Audit Committee, attend its meetings and meet with individual members each year as required.
Risks are formally identified and recorded in a risk register for thesignificant countries and for each business line and support function.
The risk register is updated at least twice each year andis used to plan the Groups internal audit and risk strategy.
In addition to the risk register, all senior executives and their direct reports are required to complete an annual return to confirm that management controls have been effectively applied during the year.
The return covers Sales, Operations, IT, Finance and People.
Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2017 UPDATE Reputation Reputation is key to the Group maintaining and growing Failure to meet financial performance expectations.
Quality Management Systems: adherence to these is regularly audited This risk remains stable compared with 2016. its business.
Reputation risk can occur in a number of Exposure to material legal claims, associated costs and and reviewed by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
The Group continues to invest in staff development, ways: directly as the result of the actions of the Group wasted management time.
Risk Management Framework and associated controls and assurance quality systems and standard processes to prevent or a group company itself: indirectly due to the actions Destruction of shareholder value.
processes, including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
of an employee or employees: or through the actions of Loss of existing or new business.
Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who undergo other parties, such as joint venture partners, suppliers, Loss of key staff.
customers or other industry participants.
Zero-tolerance approach with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual employed by the Group, or acting on the Groups behalf.
Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit Committee, where staff areencouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely toadversely affect the reputation of the Group.
Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders.
Customer Service A failure to focus on customer needs, to provide May lead to customer dissatisfaction and Net Promoter Score NPS customer satisfaction, customer sales trends and This risk remains stable compared with 2016. customer innovation or to deliver our services in customer loss.
accordance with our customers expectations and our Gradual erosion of market share and reputation Global and Local Key Account Management GKAM LKAM initiatives customer promise.
if competitors are perceived to have better, more in place.
responsive or more consistent service offerings.
People Retention The Group operates in specialised sectors and Poor management succession.
HR strategy policies and systems.
This risk remains stable compared with 2016. needs to attract and retain employees with Lack of continuity.
Development and reward programme to retain and motivate employees.
relevant experience and knowledge in order Failure to optimise growth.
Succession planning to ensure effective continuation of leadership to take advantage of all growth opportunities.
Impact on quality, reputation and customer confidence.
Loss of talent to competitors and lost market share.
32 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS Furthermore, the Directors believe the five-year period The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of which, appropriately reflects the average business cycles of the including macroeconomic and industry-specific cyclical risks, are business lines in which the Group operates, particularly in outside the Groups control.
Some risks are particular to Interteks relationto capital expenditure investment horizons.
The principal risks of which the Group is aware are In addition to the bottom-up strategic review process where detailed on the following pages including a commentary on how theprospects of each business line are reviewed, an assessment the Group mitigates these risks.
These risks and uncertainties do has been made of the potential operational and financial impacts not appear in any particular order of potential materiality or on the Group of the principal risks and uncertainties outlined in probability of occurrence.
The Directors have also assessed certain There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded combinations of these principal risks and uncertainties in a as immaterial which could turn out to be material.
Any of these number of severe, but plausible, scenarios, as well as the risks could have the potential to impact the performance of the effectiveness ofany mitigating actions.
Group, its assets, liquidity, capital resources and its reputation.
The Group has a broad customer base across its multiple LONG-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT businesslines and in its different geographic regions, and is In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate supported by a robust Balance Sheet and strong operational Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability cashflows.
The Board considers that the diverse nature of oftheGroup over a five-year period to 31 December 2022, by business lines and geographies in which the Group operates carrying out a robust assessment of the potential impact of the significantly mitigates the impact that any of these scenarios principal risks and uncertainties on the Groups current position, might have on the Groups viability.
including those that would threaten the Group's business model, Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This is documented on haveareasonable expectation that the Company will be able to the following pages.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over The Directors have determined that a five-year period is an the period to 31 December 2022. appropriate period over which to provide the viability statement of the Group, as the Groups strategic review covers a five-year period.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 33 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2017 UPDATE Operational Health, Any health and safety incident arising from our Individual or multiple injuries to employees Quality management and associated controls, including safety training, This risk remains stable compared with 2016.
This could result in injury to Interteks and others.
appropriate PPE Personal Protective Equipment, Health & Safety policies Security employees, sub-contractors, customers and or any Litigation or legal regulatory enforcement including due diligence on sub-contractors, meetings and communication.
action including prosecution leading to reputational Avoiding fatalities, accidents and hazardous situations is paramount.
It is expected that Intertek employees will operate to the highest Loss of accreditation.
standards of health and safety at all times and there are controls Erosion of customer confidence.
in place to reduce incidents.
Environment environmental damage, potential litigation This risk remains stable compared with 2016.
Facilities Environment an adverse impact on the environment Business Continuity Plans BCPs and Disaster Recovery Plans DRPs due to inadequate sample storage disposal, and or and fines, impact on reputation.
inappropriate use of materials dangerous to the Lease Renewals loss of key sites, financial impact in Health & Safety policies, Environmental policy and Sample Storage environment.
terms of relocation costs, or increased premiums on policy implemented.
Regular review of contracts leases.
Lease Renewals a failure to secure the renewal Security possible injury or fatality to our people and of a critical lease, or having to agree unfavourable general public, inability to deliver key services, impact on renewal terms.
Security loss of a critical site due to natural Restructuring loss of financial or other internal controls, disaster catastrophe, with alternative sites loss of revenues, adverse customer relationship or unavailable unfeasible.
Restructuring an adverse impact on operations caused by restructuring or moving multiple facilities or locations.
Industry and A failure to identify, manage and take advantage Failure to maximise revenue opportunities.
GKAM and LKAM initiatives in place.
This risk remains stable compared with 2016.
Competitive of emerging and future risks.
Examples include Failure to take advantage of new opportunities.
The Groups results have been impacted by the lower Landscape the opportunities provided by new markets and Lack of ability to respond flexibly.
Focus on new services and acquisitions.
levels of capital expenditure in the energy sector, customers, a failure to innovate in terms of service Erosion of market share.
Tracking new laws and regulations.
driven by lower oil prices, but more than offset by offering and delivery, the challenge of radically new Impact on share price.
Regular strategic and business line reviews.
the diverse nature of the Group and anddifferent business models, and the failure to Failure to respond to macroeconomic factors.
Development of ATIC cross-selling initiatives.
its ability to grow revenue and manage the foresee the impact of, or adequately respond to and Sanctions and fines for non-compliance NPS customer research to understand customer satisfaction.
comply with, changing or new laws and regulations.
Macroeconomic factors such as a global market downturn and contraction changing requirements in certain sectors.
IT Systems and Systems integrity major IT systems integrity issue, or Loss of revenue due to down time.
Information systems policy and governance structure.
Data Security data security breach, either due to internal or external Potential loss of sensitive data with associated legal Regular system maintenance.
Additional work being undertaken to ensure factors such as deliberate interference or power implications, including regulatory sanctions and Backup systems in place.
adherence to the EU's General Data Protection shortages cuts etc.
Disaster recovery plans that are constantly tested and Regulation ahead of implementation in May 2018.
Potential costs of IT systems replacement improved to minimise the impact if a failure does occur.
Systems functionality a failure to define the right IT and repair.
Global Information Security policies in place strategies, maintain existing IT systems or implement Loss of customer confidence.
IT, Data Protection, Cyber Security.
new IT systems with the required functionality and Damage to reputation.
Adherence to IT finance systems controls part of Core Mandatory Controls which are fit for purpose, in each case to support Loss of revenue profitability if we fail to adopt an IT 'CMCs'.
the Groups growth, innovation and competitive investment strategy which supports the Groups growth, Adherence to IT general controls.
Internal and external audit testing.
Data security a failure to adequately protect the Group's confidential information, customer confidential information or the personal data of the Group's employees, customers or other stakeholders.
34 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2017 UPDATE Operational Health, Any health and safety incident arising from our Individual or multiple injuries to employees Quality management and associated controls, including safety training, This risk remains stable compared with 2016.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 35 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Legal and Regulatory PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2017 UPDATE Litigation Claims resulting from mistakes in Interteks work Financial impact fines by regulators, Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and controls, This risk remains stable compared with 2016. resulting in disputes with clients and or other relevant suspension of accreditation, compensation.
including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
Compliance personnel have been utilised to manage third parties.
Financial impact from defending and settling claims.
Claims management policy and process in place.
contract reviews and assist the wider legal Impact of fines.
Contract review process including risk review.
Potential impact on insurance premiums.
Use of standard Intertek Terms & Conditions.
Ongoing training and education in respect of Loss of customer confidence.
All significant incidents that could potentially result in a claim against the Group contractual liabilities being assumed.
are immediately reported to compliance officers and logged in an incident Impact on share price.
database so that they can be properly managed.
The Group General Counsel reports any significant claims to the Audit Committee.
External legal counsel is appointed where appropriate.
Insurance liaison seeking contractual protection from loss or insurance cover for loss where possible.
Business Ethics Non-compliance with Interteks Code of Ethics 'Code' Litigation, including significant fines and debarment Annual Code of Ethics training and sign-off requirement.
This risk remains stable compared with 2016. from certain territories activities.
Ongoing annual confirmations ensure that staff and or related laws such as anti-bribery, anti-money Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Group Risk Committee, where laundering, and fair competition legislation.
staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely verify compliance with the Code of Ethics.
compliance could be either accidental or deliberate, and Loss of accreditation.
to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
Local compliance officers perform due diligence on committed either by our people or sub-contractors who Erosion of customer confidence.
Enhanced processes for engagement with suppliers and third parties.
sub-contractors to check that they have signed the must also abide by the Code.
Zero-tolerance approach with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any Groups Code.
individual employed by the Group, or acting on the Groups behalf.
During 2017, 202 2016: 163 non-compliance The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal and issues were reported through the whistle-blowing regulatory requirements.
There are also extensive internal compliance and audit hotline and other routes.
All were investigated systems to facilitate compliance.
Expert advice is taken in areas where with36 2016: 47 substantiated and corrective regulations are uncertain.
The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation, and internal policy.
Regulatory and A failure to identify and respond appropriately to a Loss of revenue, profitability and or market share.
Monitoring of regulatory environment and political developments.
Political Landscape change in law and or regulation, or to a political decision, Increase to costs of operations, reduction in profitability.
Analysis of impact of regulatory and political changes on operational SOPs event or condition which could impact demand for the Reduction in the attractiveness of investment in specific andGroup policies.
Groups services or the Groups ability to grow, innovate business, sectors or markets and or adverse change the Membership of relevant associations, e. g. IFIA with related advocacy and and or provide a competitive customer offering in any competitive landscape.
existing or new industry sector or market.
Financial Financial Risk Risk of theft, fraud or financial misstatement by Financial losses with a direct impact on the bottom line.
The Group has financial, management and systems controls in place to ensure This risk remains stable compared with 2016. employees.
On acquisitions or investments, the financial Large-scale losses can affect financial results.
that the Groups assets are protected from major financial risks.
'Doing Business the Right Way established risk or exposure arising from due diligence, integration Potential legal proceedings leading to costs and Adherence to Authorities Cascade which sets approval limits for as core principle within Intertek.
Review and update of core mandatory controls for Corresponding loss of value and reputation could result Legal, financial and other due diligence on M&A and other investments.
in funding being withdrawn or provided at higher A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly interest rates.
financial results are thoroughly reviewed.
The Group also operates a rigorous Possible adverse publicity.
programme of internal audits and management reviews.
Independent external auditors review the Groups half year results and audit the Groups annual financial statements.
36 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Legal and Regulatory PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2017 UPDATE Litigation Claims resulting from mistakes in Interteks work Financial impact fines by regulators, Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and controls, This risk remains stable compared with 2016. resulting in disputes with clients and or other relevant suspension of accreditation, compensation.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 37
