42 Risks and uncertainties Principal risks Implications of business model on risks The Groups overall risk management approach, described on The Groups business model incorporates a number of elements that pages 69 and 70, is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, moderate the risk profile of the Company, and which are increasingly the assurance at all levels of the Group that risks are properly identified case as the portfolio accelerates its focus on Pest Control and Hygiene.
and are being effectively managed.
This includes the provision of The low capital intensity nature of these businesses, delivering similar appropriate mechanisms to ensure that issues and concerns relating route-based services, also benefits from high portfolio retention rates.
to risk can be escalated up through the organisation effectively Pest Control and Hygiene services are characterised by low customer andconfidentially.
concentration no single customer is responsible for more than 1% of revenue, local market operations with very limited dependency on The principal risks most relevant to the Group are described in the table cross-border flows of people or products, revenue earned and costs on pages 43 to 47, together with mitigating actions.
incurred in local currency which reduces foreign exchange risk and the potential impact of Brexit.
They exhibit strong defensive qualities, as Full details of the Companys financial risks can be found in Note C1 density and efficiency gains are reflected in margin growth.
The global to the Financial Statements on pages 135 and 136.
The exact financial nature and scale of the Groups operations acts to limit exposure to the impact of one or more of our principal risks materialising will depend on economic cycle in individual markets: the largest market, North America, the precise operational impact of the risk, its interaction with other risks represents 39% of revenue from ongoing operations at CER, with no and whether mitigating actions are successful in reducing the overall other single market representing more than 14%.
However, as a rule of thumb, a 1% decrease in revenue, if not mitigated at all, would have an impact on operating profit in the Viability statement range of 9m to 11m 3% to 4% and on operating cash flow in the range In line with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the of 8m to 10m 3% to 4%.
Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a period of Other risks three years.
The Directors have reviewed the viability period and have determined that a three-year period is appropriate as it is consistent The Group is exposed to other risks and uncertainties related to with the period reviewed by the Group Board in the strategic planning environmental, political, social, economic and employment factors in the process and is aligned with the typical length of both customer and territories in which we operate.
Additional risks and uncertainties not supplier contract periods entered into by the business.
In making their presently known to management or deemed to be of lower materiality assessment, the Directors have considered the current position of may, if they manifest themselves, have an adverse impact on the Groups the business and have taken into account the potential impact of the growth, profitability, cash flow and or net assets.
principal risks, described above, that could impact on the solvency and Changes in risk profile of the Company in 2017 viability of the Group.
The Company continues to monitor risks regularly in both the Audit The assessment included stress testing the financial forecasts for severe Committee see pages 65 to 70 and the Group Risk Committee but plausible scenarios both individually and in aggregate together see page 61, and take mitigating action as necessary.
with the effectiveness of mitigating actions.
It also considered the level Areas where the risk profile of the business has improved in 2017 include: of financing headroom, bank defaults and the ability of the Group to raise additional finance and deploy capital.
In particular, the Directors a generally improving macro-economic environment in most of our have considered the impact of a prolonged downturn in trading regions, which helps support growth across the Group: performance a reduction in Group profits of 10% each year and have continued lower turnover of senior management limiting loss of assessed liquidity in the context of a credit rating downgrade.
In addition corporate knowledge and experience: to this the Directors have also considered scenarios that could threaten further roll-out of our target financial systems across the globe, the viability of the Group.
helping ensure standardisation of finance processes and improvement in the overall financial control environment: The Directors have taken account of the Groups liquidity position, its investment in information security to mitigate the risk of cyber attack: current credit metrics, and its ability to raise new finance, if required, in transfer of the Rentokil Initials Workwear and Hygiene businesses most market conditions.
The geographic and category diversification in Benelux, Sweden and CEE into a joint venture with Haniel and the of the Groups operations helps minimise the risk of a serious business disposal of the French flat linen business to RLD: and disruption.
In addition, the Groups ability to flex the cost base protects reduction in net debt due to cash received from disposals and the viability of the business in the face of adverse economic and or refinancing of our term loans with a 400m corporate bond at political uncertainty.
The Directors have also considered the key potential a interest rate of 0.95% in November 2017. mitigating actions of reducing capital expenditure or expenditure on acquisitions and ultimately restricting dividend payments.
Areas where risk profile has increased in 2017 include: difficulties in attracting staff in territories with economies close to Based on this assessment and after careful consideration, the Directors fullemployment and others with political trends to limit immigration: have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to integration risk in relation to acquisitions the acquisition programme continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the continues to be focused primarily on North America where there three-year period ending December 2020. isalready a significant systems integration programme in progress but the business has also made significant acquisitions in India, SaudArabia and Italy during the year: and the increased likelihood of rising interest rates impacting the future cost of debt.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 43 Risks and uncertainties Principal risks Growing our business profitably in a changing macro-economic environment Risk description and impact Mitigating actions The Companys three primary business categories Pest Control, Regular review of our capital allocation model to ensure that Hygiene and Protect & Enhance operate in a global macroscarce resources are directed to countries and businesses that economic environment that is subject to uncertainty and volatility.
have the most attractive returns and future prospects.
Examples include: Employer of Choice being rolled out across the Group to ensure focus on the key priorities of the organisation including recruiting changes that impact on free movement of people such as Brexit and retaining critical talent and specialists in all markets.
and reduced appetite for immigration in the US which may make Working with governments and regulators to set realistic it more difficult to attract technicians in the Pest Control and timescales for implementation of new regulations.
Hygiene businesses and create wage inflation: Regular monitoring of market pricing trends where available rises in commodity prices that could raise the cost of fuel and andindividual customer profitability to ensure that margin erosion hence the cost of delivering our services: is minimised: sales incentives increasingly prioritise margin and re-emergence of global inflation: customer profitability.
low-growth economies with inherent cost inflation but where the Continuing focus on cost, with regular reviews of cost base and Company has weak pricing power: and productivity programmes KPI: Gross Margin.
Group Procurement changes to regulations that prevent or limit the use of certain function with executive authority to deliver economies of scale products and chemicals used to deal with pests, e. g. rodents inIT, fleet, energy and logistics KPI: annual cost savings.
Regular monitoring of debtor days outstanding with action Any significant change in macro-economic environment may taken against customers with overdue debts KPI: Days Sales impact the Companys ability to grow while maintaining or growing Outstanding.
margins, and may have an adverse impact on cash flow.
Read more: Our key performance Employer of Choice Our business model indicators on page 40 on page 6 on page 18 Delivering consistently high levels of service to the satisfaction of our customers Risk description and impact Mitigating actions Our business model depends on servicing the needs of our Regular tracking of customer satisfaction and the perception customers in line with internal high standards and to levels agreed of both customers and non-customers of Rentokil Initial, in contracts.
If our operatives are not sufficiently qualified, or do benchmarked against competitors KPI: NPS scores through not have the right technical and inter-personal skills, or we fail to Customer Voice Counts exercise.
deliver successful innovations, this may negatively impact our ability Dedicated Operational Excellence team to drive superior to acquire new customers or retain existing customers, with the customer service and establish key metrics KPI: State of Service: consequent impact on growth, profitability and cash flow.
Incentives for sales and service staff aligned closely with Industrial action in one or more of our key operations could result strategic targets and based on delivering and improving in diminished service levels to our customers and if prolonged customer service levels.
could damage the Companys reputation and ability to secure new International Key Accounts team developing business with contracts or renew existing contracts.
multi-national customers across geographies to take advantage In markets where overall employment rates are high we may of the Company as the most international player in our markets.
havedifficulty attracting and retaining key personnel at all levels HR development processes including leadership and ofthe business.
development training, performance management, reward and incentives KPI: sales and service colleague retention monitored.
Oversight of key industrial relations matters by Group HR Director and regular review by the Chief Executive for countries where risk of industrial action is considered high.
Read more: Our Pest Control business Our Hygiene business Our colleagues on page 22 on page 26 on page 35 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 44 Risks and uncertainties Principal risks Developing products and services that are tailored and relevant to local markets and market conditions Risk description and impact Mitigating actions We operate across markets that are at different stages in the Acquisition of targets that have a strong cultural fit with the brand economic cycle, which are at varying stages of market development and our service model whilst supporting growth.
and which have different levels of market attractiveness.
Our Targeted investment in innovation to support value-added and Company must be sufficiently agile to develop and deliver products innovative concepts to meet market and regulatory needs and and services that meet local market needs, or we risk ceding defend against commoditisation.
advantage to our competitors and will fail to deliver against our Investing in new digital platforms to provide improved marketing targets of growth, profitability and cash conversion.
channels and opportunities for customers to order or amend services.
If we are not flexible, agile or innovative enough to adapt to Exit from unprofitable businesses with commodity characteristics, local business and consumer needs our existing customers may e. g. flat linen.
choose not to renew contracts, or may look for reductions in prices In North America consolidation onto one IT operating platform which may have a negative impact on our ability to maintain or to help drive visibility of performance, and improve customer increase margins and cash flow.
Read more: Leading the field in Our markets on page 16 Our value-enhancing M&A innovation on page 4 on page 2 Integration of acquisitions and separation of disposals from continuing business Risk description and impact Mitigating actions The Company has a strategy which includes growth by acquiring Integration plans considered by Investment Committee as part existing companies to extend its geographic footprint or to of acquisition approval process.
Material integration activities improve its market share in existing geographies.
If the Company managed during relevant monthly performance reviews.
fails to successfully integrate these acquisitions into its existing Dedicated project teams established for largest acquisitions organisation structures, the business may not achieve the expected and demergers, e. g. PCI and former CWS-boco business in Italy, financial and operational benefits which may have an adverse with clear deliverables over three months, six months and one impact on growth, profitability and cash flow.
Additional resources provided to North America to support integration and re-platforming activities.
Since 2014 the Company has been successful in acquiring 135 Tried and tested induction programme for first 100 days for all businesses across all regions with the majority in North America.
Continuity of management leadership in acquired companies, In 2017 the Group transferred Rentokil Initials Workwear and where possible.
Hygiene businesses in Benelux, Sweden and CEE to a new joint Use of transaction structures including deferred consideration venture with Haniel, in which it retains a minority interest.
If the tomitigate deal risk.
integration of the new JV with Haniel is not completed quickly the Group departments, e. g. Health & Safety, Legal, Insurance, and JV may fail to deliver the expected financial returns.
IT, involved early with new acquisitions to drive compliance with In 2017 the business formed a joint venture with PCI in India.
Failure Group standards, especially when entering new geographies.
to successfully integrate the PCI business with the Rentokil Initial Formal post-acquisition review PAR by Investment Committee India business may lead to loss of revenue, profit and cash flow.
of benefits delivered against original business plan within 18-24 months.
The PAR is undertaken by the Investment Committee ahead of releasing any deferred payments.
Board review of acquisitions in aggregate every six months.
Internal Audit review within 12 months of businesses acquired innew geographies.
Read more: Q&A with Andy Ransom, Acquisitons and disposals Our governance framework Chief Executive on page 13 on page 105 on page 61 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 45 Risks and uncertainties Principal risks Business continuity Risk description and impact Mitigating actions A significant cyber-attack or IT failure which cannot be recovered All countries and units maintain business continuity plans and from in a short period of time could prevent normal business for IT disaster recovery plans that are tested regularly.
operations across one or more countries for a prolonged period Procedures in place to ensure that potential industrial disputes and have an adverse impact on revenue, profitability or cash flow.
are escalated quickly to Group HR Director.
Local plans to service customers from adjacent laundries In our Workwear business, where deliveries to our customers are branches where supply has been interrupted.
often daily, business could be adversely affected if access to the Ongoing programme to transfer key data and applications laundries and inventory is not possible due to incidents such as from local servers to regional data centres with higher levels fireor flood.
Security governance framework and standards established, Failure to service our customers may adversely affect our ability including IT security management framework, incident to retain those customers and may badly damage the Companys management reporting, global standards for network reputation.
This may have a negative impact on growth, profitability segmentation and incident response protocols being reviewed.
IT self-assessment exercises carried out across the Group to assess the Companys resilience to cyber attack and remedial action to improve controls where necessary.
Penetration testing on all systems on at least an annual basis to test external firewalls with action to address any weakness identified.
Read more: Data privacy on page 62 Our approach to risk management and internal control on page 69 Financial market risks Risk description and impact Mitigating actions Our business is exposed to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, Financing policy in place to ensure that the Company has liquidity risk, counterparty risk and settlement risk.
The impact of sufficient financial headroom to finance operations and bolt-on Brexit may make some of these risks more volatile and uncertain.
Commitment to target credit rating of BBB.
If any of these risks materialise, this may have a negative impact Treasury policies that limit the use of foreign exchange and on profitability, cash flow and financial statements, and may have interest rate derivatives, set limits for financial counterparty a negative impact on financial ratios, credit ratings or the ability to exposure, govern how financing is raised in bank and other debt raise funds for acquisitions.
capital markets and provide rules around treasury related matters at operating company level.
Monthly reporting and monitoring of financial covenants and rating agency metrics and compliance with treasury policies.
Monitoring of the impact of exchange rate movements on nonsterling profits and net debt.
Cash pooling and debt financing arrangement to match, as closely as possible, currency availability demand across borders.
Read more: Our business model on risks Our financial risk management in Note C1 on page 42 to the Financial Statements on page 135 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 46 Risks and uncertainties Principal risks Fraud, financial crime and loss or unintended release of personal data Risk description and impact Mitigating actions Loss of personal data of customers, suppliers or employees could, Programme to review and validate key applications for if significant, result in regulatory intervention which may result in compliance with data privacy requirements including forthcoming substantial fines and damage to the Companys reputation.
EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
Code of Conduct refreshed in 2016 and circulated to all Theft of Company assets including property, customer or employee employees.
Mandatory online training by all senior employees information, or misstatement of financial or other records via refreshed annually for competition law, anti-bribery and deliberate action by employees or third parties may constitute corruption, information security and privacy.
Training was fraud and result in financial loss to the business, damage to the relaunched in Q4 2017 KPI: % compliance with training.
Companys reputation or fines by regulators.
Compliance with Code of Conduct and other key policies affirmed by annual Letter of Assurance by all senior management.
Standardised control framework operating in all locations with a focus on risk prevention and mitigation: framework defined centrally and independently assessed at all material business units every year.
Wherever possible credit card transactions are managed by regulated third parties who have robust controls in place to prevent loss of data.
Specific review of adequacy of controls in Group Treasury and remedial actions implemented.
International confidential Speak Up hotline and email address, monitored by Internal Audit.
Significant frauds investigated by Internal Audit and lessons learned widely shared.
Read more: Data privacy onpage 62 Our Code of Conduct and Our governance and compliance key policies on page 34 monitoring on page 62 Health, safety and the environment Risk description and impact Mitigating actions The Company operates in a number of hazardous environments Robust and up-to-date health and safety H&S policies and situations, for example: supplemented by SHE Golden Rules re-issued in 2017 providing increased focus to higher risk and regulated activities, the use of poisons and fumigation materials in Pest Control: e. g. driving, working at height, fumigation or heat treatment.
driving to customers across all our businesses: H&S officers appointed in all jurisdictions.
working at height: and Mandatory training of all relevant employees in safe working exposure to needlestick injury bio-hazards from dealing with practices, including mandatory training for drivers and those medical waste.
working in hazardous environments, e. g. heat treatment or Non-compliance with internal policies or industry regulations could fumigation.
lead to personal injury, substantial fines or penalties including Safety Leadership Behaviours initiative for first level withdrawal of licences to operate, and damage to the Companys management.
H&S considered as first item on all Board and senior management meetings.
There could also be potential environmental risks associated H&S KPIs discussed at all country and regional board meetings.
withformer activities at sites currently or previously operated by Formal review of accidents and lessons learned widely circulated.
Monitoring of energy-derived emissions and water usage including energy efficiency target of 20% reduction in energy costs emissions by 2020.
Monitoring and remediation plans where required.
Read more: Health and safety Our key performance Our energy and fuel-derived on page 35 indicators on page 40 emissions on page 37 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 47 Risks and uncertainties Principal risks Breach of laws or regulations including tax, competition and anti-trust laws Risk description and impact Mitigating actions The Company is a multi-national business that operates in many Group Legal involvement in all acquisitions, including advising jurisdictions and is increasing its business in emerging markets, onrisk and regulatory issues.
including by acquisition and new country entry.
Failure to Regular compliance exercises, for example on anti-corruption comply with local laws such as anti-bribery and corruption laws, and anti-bribery legislation, competition law, labour law and data competition law, employment legislation, data protection and protection: monitoring of online U training completion rates.
privacy laws or financial and tax reporting requirements may result Tax policy re-issued and approved by Board.
All significant tax in fines or withdrawal of licence to operate, which could have an planning opportunities have to be pre-agreed with the Group adverse impact on growth, profitability and cash flow.
Tax Director and Chief Financial Officer with independent tax advice taken where necessary.
Regular review of tax exposures.
The Company operates across many different tax jurisdictions Authority schedule in place and regularly reviewed.
and is subject to periodic tax audits which sometimes challenge Group and local policies in place and regularly reviewed.
the basis on which local tax has been calculated or withheld.
Requirement to report breaches in controls or laws to Group Successful challenges by local tax authorities may have an adverse General Counsel and Head of Internal Audit.
impact on profitability and cash flow.
Mandatory training on Code of Conduct, competition, anti-bribery and corruption, IT security and privacy, seeking to instil a highly principled culture of ethical behaviour.
All major business transactions or internal reorganisations are subject to a rigorous internal and external review.
A dedicated and experienced central tax department is involved in all tax audits.
Read more: Our key policies Our governance and compliance on page 34 monitoring on page 62 Read our Code of Conduct at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery Read our key policies at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery policies Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 48 Corporate Governance Contents 49 Governance at a glance 50 Chairmans introduction 52 B oard of Directors 54 Executive Leadership Team 55 C orporate Governance Report 65 Audit Committee Report 71 N omination Committee Report 75 Directors Remuneration Report 99 Independent Auditors Report Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
