Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risks and uncertainties facing the business The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control.
Risk management is recognised as an integral part of the Groups activities.
Risk assessments are control framework to ensure that these are Identifying and managing our risks incorporated into risk registers at Group and effective.
Group policies and delegated The Board determines the Groups appetite business level, which evolve to reflect the authority levels set by the Board provide the for risk in pursuit of strategic objectives, and reduction increase in identified risks and the basis against which risks are reviewed and the level of risk that can be taken by the emergence of new risks.
Where it is escalated to the appropriate level within the Group and its operating companies.
Savills considered that a risk can be mitigated Group, up to and including the Board, for businesses worldwide are responsible for further to the benefit of the business, review and confirmation.
executing their activities in accordance with responsibilities are assigned and action the risk appetite set by the Board, We have a clear framework for identifying plans are agreed.
complemented by the Code of Conduct, and managing risk, both at an operational Group policies and delegated authoritylimits.
The Group Director of Risk & Assurance and strategic level.
Our risk identification and facilitates the risk assessment and evaluation mitigation processes have been designed to Risk is assessed across the Group using a process with Group and regional business be appropriate to the ever-changing systematic risk management model covering unit management on behalf of the Board and environments in which we operate.
both external and internal factors and the challenges risk findings and the internal potential impact and likelihood of those risks The following chart summarises our business risk management structure.
PLC BOARD Review and confirmation Review and confirmation by the Board PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE Process Risks and mitigation reviewed by Audit Committee aftervalidation by the Group Risk Committee and GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD ExecutiveBoards Committees GROUP RISK COMMITTEE Ongoing review and control There is ongoing review of the risks and the controls inplace to mitigate these risks EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES Review and assessment Group Director of Risk & Assurance consolidates the GROUP RISK operating companies functional and Group risks to compile the Groups key risks.
Any significant programme project risks are also considered.
HEADS OF GROUP HEADS OF OPERATING FUNCTIONS COMPANIES Key risks: Key risks: Heads of Group functions Heads of operating companies identify the key risks and create a register of their top develop mitigation actions risks and mitigation actions Savills plc 25 Report and Accounts 2017 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Monitor that appropriate actions are Actions Roles and responsibilities The Board continuously reviews the Groups taken to manage strategic risks and key Regularly review operational, project, risks arising within the risk appetite of key risks and is supported in the discharge functional and strategic risks of this responsibility by various committees, the Board Review mitigation plans specifically the Audit Committee and the Consider emerging risks in the context Plan, execute and report on assurance Group Risk Committee.
of the Groups strategic objectives activities as required by region or Group Approve Group Policies The risk management roles and The Groups overall risk management responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, Monthly quarterly finance and framework is further enhanced by the and business management are set out performance reviews contributions of specialist committees, below, and all of these responsibilities have for example, I. T. Security.
Group Risk Committee Monitor the application of risk appetite Savills regularly reviews and enhances its risk 1.
Board and the effectiveness of risk management management process and seeks advice from Responsibilities processes.
The Group Risk Committee independent advisers where applicable.
and Board also consider the Groups Approve the Groups strategy overall risk appetite in the context of the Principal risks Determine Group appetite for risk in negative impact that the Group can The Directors have carried out a robust achieving its strategic objectives sustain before it risks the Groups assessment of the principal risks facing the Establish the Groups systems of risk continued ability to trade Company including those that would management and internal control threaten its business model, future Actions performance, solvency or liquidity.
Our The Audit Committee supports the Board Review of risk management and consideration of the key risks and by monitoring risk and reviewing the assurance activities and processes uncertainties relating to the Groups effectiveness of internal controls, including operations, along with their potential impact systems to identify, assess, manage and 3.
Subsidiary Executive and the mitigations in place, is set out below.
Committees Responsibilities There may be other risks and uncertainties Responsibilities besides those listed below which may also Actions adversely affect the Group and its Responsible for risk management and Receive regular reports on Internal performance.
More detail can be found in internal control systems within their and External Audit and other the Audit Committee Report on pages 51 regions businesses assurance activities to 55.
Receive regular risk updates from Monitoring the discharge of their the businesses In summary, our principal risks are: responsibilities by operating companies.
Economic country risks, particularly the Determine the nature and extent of Actions the principal Group risks and assess impact of a global economic downturn Review key risks and mitigation plans the effectiveness of mitigating actions 2.
A chieving the right market positioning Review results of assurance activities in response to the needs of our clients Annually review the effectiveness of risk management and internal 3.
Recruitment and retention of highEscalate key risks to Group management control systems calibre staff and Group Executive or plc Boards Approve the Group risk management 4.
Heads of the Group functions policy 5.
Legal risk and operating companies 6.
Failure or significant interruption to 2.
Group Executive Board Responsibilities IT systems causing disruption to Responsibilities Maintain an effective system of risk client service Strategic leadership of the management and internal control within 7. Business conduct their function operating company Groups operations 8.
Changes in the regulatory environment Ensure that the Groups risk management 9.
Acquisition integration risk and other policies are implemented and embedded Savills plc 26 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Description Mitigation Global market conditions are currently The strength of Savills business and brand and the focus on Economic country volatile, with economic uncertainty in client service.
1 some sectors and markets, particularly risks, particularly the Our strategy of diversifying our service offering and the UK after the Brexit vote, the threat by geographic spread mitigates the impact on the business of impact of a global the US to impose tariffs and the perceived economic downturns and weak market conditions in specific increased risk of the US North Korea economic downturn geographies, but these factors cannot entirely mitigate the tensions escalating with consequential overall risk to earnings.
To manage these risks, we continually economic impact.
Group earnings and focus on our cost base and seek to improve operational or our financial condition could be Change from 2016 efficiencies.
adversely affected by these and other Increase macro-economic uncertainties.
Savills Contingency plans are in place to enable us to respond Strategic objective: operates in a number of countries where quickly to market information and economic trends.
Continual Geographic diversification the transactional business is the largest monitoring of market conditions and market changes against Financial strength component and thereby increases the level our Group strategy, supported by the reforecasting and of economic risk.
reporting in all of our businesses, are key to our ability to respond rapidly to changes in our operating environment.
There is a currency risk from operating in a The actual impacts of Brexit are still unclear, but we are large number of countries.
Our exposure to countries with economies which are currently weak is balanced by our business in more stable markets.
When considering new market entry we undertake due diligence including the impact assessment of political and economic issues in that particular country.
We manage currency risk in local operations through natural hedging and matching revenue and costs in the same currency.
The markets in which we operate are highly To remain competitive in all markets, we continue to promote Achieving the right competitive.
Competition could lead to a and differentiate our strengths whilst focusing on providing the 2 reduction in market share and or a decline quality of service that our clients require.
Our focus is on retaining existing We continue to invest in the development of client relationships in response to the clients as well as engaging with new clients.
globally and associated systems digital technology to support Our service offering continuously evolves our client service offering.
needs of our clients and improves to meet the changing needs of our clients.
Change from 2016 No change Strategic objective: Business diversification Strength in Residential and Commercial markets Geographical diversification Commitment to clients We recognise that the future success of We continue to invest in the development of our people and our Recruitment and our business is dependent on attracting, training and development programmes across the businesses.
3 developing, motivating and retaining people retention of Our partnership style culture and profit-sharing approach to of the highest quality.
remuneration is combined with selective use of share-based high-calibre staff and other rewards to incentivise and retain our best people for the long-term benefit of the Group.
Change from 2016 No change Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients Savills is a strong brand with an excellent We recognise that our brand strength is vital to maintaining Reputational reputation in the markets in which we market share in established and new markets.
The Groups reputation could be management programme is in place to ensure the brands and brand risk damaged as a result of negative media positioning and identity is clearly and consistently promoted.
We recognise the need to Our social media policy is supported by guidance and training Change from 2016 maintain this reputation by ensuring the as well as ongoing monitoring.
All external statements have to No change quality of the service we provide.
Strategic objective: We recognise that the quality of the service we offer is vital to Strength in Residential and maintaining the brand.
We have in place policies, controls and Commercial markets Commitment processes to monitor the quality of our client service to support to clients our programme of continuous improvement.
The Group has well established corporate social responsibility programmes.
Savills plc 27 Report and Accounts 2017 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Risk Description Mitigation Failure to fulfil our legal or contractual The Group has a range of policies in place including client Legal risk obligations to clients could subject the acceptance, legal and regulatory compliance, procurement, 5 Group to action and or claims from clients.
The adverse outcome of such actions Change from 2016 We have Best Practice groups, policies, procedures and claims could negatively impact our No change training which are designed to deliver the relevant contractual reputation, financial condition and or the obligations and thereby mitigate against the risk of such Strategic objective: results of our businesses.
For example: actions claims being made and where such claims occur, Financial strength Commitment i n accepting client engagements, Group to limit liability, particularly in relation to consultancy services to clients companies may be subject to duty of such as valuations.
Such policies are regularly reviewed.
Failure to satisfy these The Group maintains professional indemnity insurance to obligations could result in claims being respond to and mitigate the Groups financial exposure to made against the relevant operating such claims.
Company: As described below, our strong emphasis on appropriate i n our Property Management business, business conduct by all our employees, contractors and we may be responsible for appointing associates further mitigates this risk.
third party contractors that provide construction and engineering services.
Failure to discharge these responsibilities in accordance with our obligations could result in claims being made against the operating companies: i n our valuation consultancy businesses, we can be subject to claims alleging the over-valuation of properties.
Major failures in our IT systems may result Specific back-up and resilience requirements are built into Failure or significant in client service being interrupted or data our systems.
Our critical infrastructure is set up so far as is 6 being lost corrupted causing damage to our reasonably practical to prevent unauthorised access and interruption to our IT reputation and consequential client and or reduce the likelihood and impact of a successful attack.
Our data centres are accredited to international information disruption to client There is a risk that an attack on our security standards.
infrastructure by a malicious individual or Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place to service group could be successful and impact the cover the residual risks that cannot be mitigated.
We are continuously reviewing our resilience to cyber security Change from 2016 attacks due to the constant threat.
Increase Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients We operate in international markets that We have programmes to promote compliance with our Code of Business conduct may present business conduct-related risks Conduct, particularly in areas of higher risk such as procurement.
7 involving, for example, fraud, bribery or We have a zero tolerance approach to breaches of our Code of corruption.
No change Failure by the Group and its employees to observe the highest standards of integrity and Strategic objective: conduct in dealing with clients, suppliers and Business diversification Geographical other stakeholders could result in civil and diversification Commitment to clients or criminal penalties, regulatory sanction, debarring and or reputational damage.
Savills plc 28 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Description Mitigation Our Group Policy Framework, which sets out We are required to meet a broad range of regulatory Changes in the compliance requirements in each of the markets in which our standards for professional, regulatory, 8 statutory compliance and business conduct, we operate.
For example: regulatory is reviewed regularly.
s ome of our operations have regulatory licences: environment To support this Framework each business has i n the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA its own regulatory and statutory compliance resources regulates the conduct of Savills Capital Advisors who monitor regulatory developments and maintain Change from 2016 and, both generally and in relation to the Alternative the internal processes and controls required to fulfil our Increase Investment Fund Managers Directive, Savills compliance obligations.
Investment Management, and the insurance Strategic objective: intermediary services provided to clients by Savills Our compliance environment, at all levels, is subject Commitment to clients UK: our businesses are regulated by The Royal to regular review by internal audit and external Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS : assurance providers.
S avills Investment Management entities are variously regulated by the Bank of Italy, FCA in Japan, BaFin in Germany and CSSF in Luxembourg: v arious countries, corporate entities and individuals are subject to financial sanctions, which require continuous monitoring in response to global events.
Failure to satisfy regulatory compliance requirements may result in fines being imposed, adverse publicity, brand reputation damage and ultimately the withdrawal of regulatory approvals.
We also have a number of key statutory obligations including the protection of the health, safety and welfare of our staff and others affected by our activities.
Environmental reporting requirements place data-gathering responsibilities on our business in common with other listed companies.
Our current priorities are on achieving readiness for the General Data Protection Regulation.
The structuring and integration of acquisitions is critical We apply the Group acquisitions policy and Acquisition to realising the benefits sought.
People, systems and procedures and use professional advisers in the 9 processes are key components due diligence process, and allocate responsibility and integration risk accountability to individuals for integration.
Postacquisition reporting keeps the Board aware Change from 2016 of progress against plan.
No change Strategic objective: Business diversification Geographical diversification Strength in Residential and Commercial markets Financial strength Viability Statement The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires the Company to issue a viability statement stating whether the Board believes that the Group is able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities, taking into account its current position and principal risks.
In accordance with the Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year period to 31 December 2020, taking account of the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 35.
This longer-term assessment supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, and going concern as set out on page 50.
The Directors have concluded that the three-year period is appropriate for this assessment being consistent with the period covered by the Groups strategic plan and the cyclical nature of property markets.
In assessing viability the Directors considered a number of factors including the resilience of the Group, taking account of its current position and prospects, the Groups strategic plan, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the Boards risk appetite as detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 35.
The strategy and associated principal risks which underpin the Groups three-year plan, are reviewed by the Directors at least annually.
The Directors also satisfied themselves that they have the evidence necessary to support the statement in terms of the effectiveness of the internal control environment in place to mitigate risk.
Sensitivity analysis was undertaken on the three year plan, including financing projections, to flex the financial forecasts under a variety of scenarios, which involve applying different assumptions to the underlying forecast both individually and in aggregate, including assessing the potential impact of a severe economic downturn analogous to that experienced during the Global Financial Crisis in 2008 09.
The results of this sensitivity analysis showed that the Group would be able to withstand the impact of such scenarios over the period of the financial forecast.
Performance against the three year plan is monitored on an ongoing basis, including regular Board briefings provided by the Heads of the Principal Businesses on the progress made by those businesses.
These reviews consider both the market opportunity and the associated risks.
These risks are considered within the Boards risk appetite framework.
Based on the results of this review, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending 31 December 2020.
The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis as explained in Note 2.1 to the accounts.
Savills plc 29 Report and Accounts 2017
