Risk management The Board is required to assess the The key mitigating actions we expect the The assessment process and prospects of the Company, taking account business to take in a downturn include assumptions of its current position and principal risks, restricting investment in land, reducing the A Risk Governance Committee operates and to explain how this has been done, level of production and work in progress with representation from all parts of over what period and why that period is held and optimising our overhead base to our business to identify and monitor considered appropriate.
ensure it aligns with the scale of operations the threats identified from within the through the cycle.
This is coupled with a robust The assessment context assessment carried out by the Board to The results of this stress testing indicated The Board has considered the longer term formally agree and assess the principal that the Group would be able to viability of the Group, reviewing this over risks facing the Group, including those withstand the impact of these a 5 year period based on the strategy as that would threaten the execution of its assumptions, taking into account the outlined on pages 16 to 27 to the current strategy, future performance and liquidity.
impact of mitigating actions, on the performance of the Group and its principal Management and mitigation of these Groups financial performance.
The average life cycle of our housing principal risks, as set out on page 30 to developments falls within a 5-year time 33, have been taken into consideration Viability statement period and this aligns with the timeframe when considering the future viability of Based on the results of this analysis, the focused on for the annual strategic review the Group.
Board have a reasonable expectation that exercise conducted within the business the Company will be able to continue in As part of its annual strategic review and reviewed by the Board.
It is also in line operation and meet its liabilities as they fall the Board also considered the Groups 5 with the financing arrangement extended due over the five year period reviewed.
year financial plan, the core assumptions by the Group in 2017. underpinning this plan and how the The Groups new strategy was Going concern current economic and regulatory communicated in detail during 2017 The directors also considered it appropriate environment may impact this plan.
with a renewed focus on improving to prepare the financial statements on The early years of the financial plan are operational performance.
The Board has the going concern basis, as explained prepared in detail with the basis being the considered the Groups risk appetite and in the basis of preparation paragraph in development of our existing land bank.
believes this to be towards the lower end note 1.3 to the accounts.
In forming this There is inherently more uncertainty in the of the risk scale for the housebuilding view, the Group has analysed its forecast later years of the plan as these incorporate sector.
The Board have highlighted the covenant compliance over the period a higher level of assumed housing following elements of the strategy as key linked to its banking arrangement, arriving completions from land owned currently considerations in reaching this view, all of at an assessment of the headroom evident without planning or land not currently which have an impact on the Groups key between the forecast covenant headroom owned by the Group.
investment decisions: and the outcomes necessary to achieve The Groups financial plan has been covenant compliance.
Focused on a Southern biased reviewed in the context of its operational geography The Group entered into its current performance during 2017 and stress tested banking arrangement on 3 December against scenarios to assess the future Targeted at edge of town and large 2015 and it was extended for one year in viability of the Group.
village greenfield locations both December 2016 and January 2018.
The potentially highest impact risks, Delivering a high proportion of standard This arrangement provides a committed from a Group viability point of view, are Portfolio designed housing revolving credit facility with a limit of seen as those which arise from either a 250 million maturing in December 2022.
Traditional two storey family housing downturn in the economic environment The Group regards its current banking is the core product offering with only or fundamental changes in government arrangement as adequate for its needs limited low rise apartments in the mix policy, leading to decreased affordability, in terms of flexibility and liquidity.
As at reduced demand for housing and falling 31 December 2017, the Group had nil The Groups strategy is to drive cash into house prices.
drawings under the facility and had net the business leading to expected low cash of 145 million.
levels of debt In testing our economic downturn scenarios there have been sensitivities More details on the Groups approach to applied to the assumptions on sales financial risk management are laid out in rates, pricing and costs and interest rates.
The sensitivities along with the impact of the expected mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group, were overlaid on the Groups 5 year Strategic Plan.
| | 28 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Keble Fields, Fairford | Bovis Homes Group PLC 29
