Principal risks and uncertainties Link to strategic Annual Description Potential Impact Whats changed over the last year?
How we are mitigating the risks?
priorities change Adversely affects consumer Stamp duty land tax will be abolished for first-time purchases Close monitoring of lead indicators in the housing market, notably visitors Deterioration of the confidence and demand up to 300,000. to sales outlets, sales rates and price achieved.
health of the UK for new homes, with economy, brought Bank of England interest rate rise of 0.25% during November Maintaining a rigorous approach to land acquisition, with spend consequential impact about by higher interest 2017 with more forecast in 2018. focused in the south of England, where the economy is expected to on revenues, profits and rates and increasing remain more robust.
potentially asset carrying Ongoing negotiations between the UK and EU have so far unemployment, values.
failed to address the uncertainty regarding a final Brexit deal.
A focus on cash generation to further strengthen our financial resilience.
leading to decreased affordability, reducing Help to Buy scheme has been criticised in the media as a Investment in our portfolio of homes to further their appeal and suitability Increased restrictions on demand for housing and component of rising house prices and excessive profits within to a wider range of potential customers.
mortgages granted could falling house prices.
reduce demand for homes and therefore revenues and profits.
Furthermore, changes to the Help to Buy initiative could impact potential sales to first time buyers.
The Groups ability to build Supply issues led to further wage rises for skilled tradesmen.
Maintain clear visibility of future production requirements and its impact on Increasing production is constrained and may suppliers and subcontractors.
across the industry may EU net migration has reduced compared to previous years.
impact profitability if lead to shortages of Maintain close relationships with key suppliers and subcontractors to gain costs rise.
Fully established offices in the heart of each regional both materials and visibility of future supply against need.
Centralised processes to monitor life of site costs across all our active sites, Following recent providing early warning and trend analysis.
exchange rate Revised remuneration package for our employed site managers to retain a fluctuations material quality workforce.
prices have increased and could rise further.
Unable to deliver sufficient Governments housing White Paper published February 2017 Monthly build and cost forecasting processes with regular group oversight Inability to convert shareholder returns from reviewing the consent and planning processes.
strategic land assets to current developments or support required A reduction in our growth targets to enable a steady state Close monitoring of build performance and delivery against plan through a failure to achieve our housing development.
regular onsite visits from the leadership community.
A failure to achieve our Change in leadership driving hands on operational A decision to reduce future land holding from 5 to 3.5 years over the operational targets in management.
terms of forecasted life of Investment has been prioritised to deliver new system capability to improve site costs or the execution build and spend control and forecasting.
| | 30 Strategic report Our business and strategy Operational risk Market risk Materials and Economic and sales Project delivery subcontract labour environment Strategic report | Our business and strategy Principal risks and uncertainties Link to strategic Annual Description Potential Impact Whats changed over the last year?
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 31 31 Materials and Economic and sales Project delivery subcontract labour environment Principal risks and uncertainties Link to strategic Annual Description Potential Impact Whats changed over the last year?
priorities change The reputation of the Bovis Increased media scrutiny of customer issues relating to home All homes built are subject to NHBC building control inspections.
Product quality and Homes brand is diminished build quality across the sector.
service standards that do All staff are trained in the provision of the Groups customer service process.
with an adverse effect on not meet our customers All Party Parliamentary Group for Excellence in the Bovis Homes build a range of high specification homes which are currently sales volumes and returns.
Built Environment has called for the establishment of being reinvigorated for launch in 2018. an ombudsman.
Quality inspections completed by build staff, sales staff and Customer satisfaction put back to being the centre of regional directors.
Introduction of a Customer Home Buyer panel to gather insights which are being used to improve our customer offering and service.
The loss of key staff or the Consolidation of our regional businesses.
A reward system that motivates achievement of performance targets.
An inability to attract, failure to attract, develop develop or retain Employers with more than 250 staff will be required by law Development programmes tailored to our employees.
and retain suitable talent good people.
to publish statistics relating to gender within their company.
may inhibit the Groups Assistant site manager and apprenticeship schemes.
ability to achieve its strategy.
Uncertainly of subcontractor supply due to EU nationals Succession planning reviewed regularly to ensure pipeline for our leaders perception of final Brexit terms and conditions.
A loss of trust in the Investment made in additional health and safety advisors to A consultative committee reviews performance and regulatory requirements Unsafe practices in our ability of Bovis Homes to increase performance across the business.
for health, safety and environmental matters.
construction activities build homes safely and causing injury or death Reinforced as a key priority at every level within the business.
Monitoring health, safety and environmental performance against a in an environmentally to our stakeholders and standard of excellence.
responsible way, affecting damage to communities.
A requirement for regular training for all staff and site based personnel.
the reputation and financial health of the business.
Effective communication processes in place to proactively manage and monitor issues.
Increased costs and Consumer Code for New Home Builders launched Self-assessment process to check that controls and external standards are Inability to adhere to significant delays in November 2017. being adhered to across the business.
an increasingly stringent production leading to regulatory planning General Data Protection Regulation becomes effective Participation in industry forums and events discussing potential regulatory reduced legal completions.
and technical on May 2018. changes and impacts.
requirements affecting Reduced number of active Establishment of a Steering Group to monitor implementation of General the housing market.
sales outlets due to delays Data Protection Regulation requirements.
in planning process leads to There is a specific lower build and sales activity.
risk in 2018 due to a new regulatory Business disruption, expense framework relating to and potential fines from a the management of failure to manage customer customer and employee and employee data in information.
| | 32 Strategic report Our business and strategy Operational risk Health, safety and People capability Increased regulation Customer service environmental and change Strategic report | Our business and strategy Link to strategic Annual Description Potential Impact Whats changed over the last year?
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 33 33 Health, safety and People capability Increased regulation Customer service environmental and change | | 34 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Taking a hands on approach Driving greater operational and commercial success Waters Edge, Fremington | Bovis Homes Group PLC 35
