Strategic Report Risk management Our approach and appetite What important developments How is the Group preparing for for risk occurred in 2017?
We recognise risk as an inherent part of The Committee regularly reviews the The Group is continuing to plan and assess our business operations and we approach principal risks, potential impacts, mitigation its approach to the impacts of Brexit as risk with the same deliberate, strategic and prevention planning.
It also assesses negotiations progress.
The Group has consideration as other aspects of the developing issues that have the potential to already conducted scenario planning business.
The Committee monitors our risks, become principal risks.
The following actions exercises to prepare contingency plans in particular those identified as principal have been undertaken during the year: and lay the groundwork for future actions, risks, on an on-going basis, while the Board including risk-mitigation and identifying Principal risks is responsible for the overall stewardship and capitalising on potential opportunities.
The Committee performed a bottom-up of risk management and internal control.
Our Brexit plan has 11 areas of focus, review of the principal risks, assessing Using the information and evaluations each with an individual sponsor, to ensure responses from Group companies.
In light obtained from our regular top-down adequate attention is given to the various of these responses and the Committees and bottom-up reviews, alongside the challenges and opportunities stemming internal considerations, we updated our Committee-led principal risk appetite ratings, from the Brexit process.
Whilst activities principal risks to reflect changes to the risks the Committee creates an effective system to date have primarily involved monitoring affecting the Group.
The changes are set out for monitoring, planning and developing a developments, the Group will begin to stepon pages 32 to 33.
Group-wide approach and culture regarding up the implementation of the plan in 2018, risk.
General Managers are directly involved beginning with specific impact assessments Risk appetite in the risk assessment process and the regarding tariffs and exchange rate impacts, The Committee confirmed the current Risk evaluations of the Committee, including the which will be conducted in the first quarter.
Appetite Statement, which is set out on appropriate levels of risk, are communicated page 83.
What are the key areas of focus to all Group companies.
Modern Slavery Act The on-going monitoring and engagement In 2018 we will be developing, testing and A statement has been approved by the contributes to the Groups risk register and implementing a Crisis Management Plan Board and is available on our website, the management of risks.
Both the risk across the Group.
register and the principal risks are dynamic and fluid.
They provide a reflection of current 2018 will also be a significant year with Group suppliers are required to abide by the conditions across the Group and guidance regard to Brexit.
We will continue to monitor principles contained within the statement.
for on-going monitoring and preparation.
on-going Brexit negotiations and apply or Compliance is monitored through our Global adjust our planned response accordingly, as Excellence in Supply Chain Initiative.
Regular updates The Group Executive Committee regularly reviews the risk register, to determine if the risks are still current, and the Board is provided with updates.
In 2017, the Committee conducted a bottomup review of risks, incorporating views from across the Group to update our approach to risk assessment.
In 2018, we will be developing a crisis management plan and will continue to monitor and plan for Brexit-related issues.
Nicholas Anderson, Risk Management Committee Chairman 30 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report What due diligence processes Managing risks does the Group employ to pursue Group objectives?
What has been the impact of these activities?
The Group is continuing its work in the Board Audit Committee Global Excellence in Supply Chain Initiative, which puts in place a monitoring mechanism to oversee our own operations and help Reports to Works with ensure our suppliers operate in compliance with our Supplier Sustainability Code Code.
Risk Management Committee This direct engagement with suppliers is critically important to guard against violations Oversees risk management processes and procedures and monitors mitigating actions put in place by the Group.
Works with the Audit Committee to monitor the effectiveness of of standards with respect to the protection internal controls and the audit process of individuals, communities and the environment.
The Code further addresses Top-down review one of our principal risks Health, Safety and Environmental HSE Risks and has had a significant impact by not only setting supplier standards, but also engaging operating Risk review external internal companies across the Group to bring these Carried out at regular intervals issues to the forefront of the business.
Due diligence, undertaken prior to each Group acquisition, is a key process to ensure that acquisition objectives another Risk assurance principal risk and non-financial objectives Internal audit and external auditor are achieved.
In addition to financial and on-going review of effectiveness by the Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee legal considerations our acquisition due diligence approach thoroughly investigates anti-bribery and corruption issues, potential business ethics concerns and HSE matters Group-wide risk register to ensure that any business that becomes Maintained and reviewed by the Risk Management Committee part of the Group is upholding our values and governance standards.
Bottom-up review Pages 81-83 of the Governance Report provide further information on the Groups approach to risk, including risk appetite, along Group operating companies with the roles, responsibilities, and actions of the Risk Management Committee.
Page 80 contains our Viability Statement and page 111 our Going Concern Statement.
Risk likelihood, control and impact The Committees analysis of the principal risks affecting the Group, before mitigation, is set out in the adjacent diagram.
1 The numbers relate to the principal risks outlined on pages 32to33.
Loss of manufacturing output at any Group factory 7 4.
Failure to realise acquisition objectives 3 6 5.
Breach of legal and regulatory requirements including ABC laws 8 8.
Health, safety and environmental risks 4 Potential impact of the risk Low likelihood High likelihood For details of the principal risks see pages 32-33 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 31 High level of control No control Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk management continued Principal risks The table below sets out the Groups principal risks and describes the links to strategy, the mitigation measures and the appetite for each risk.
The year-on-year change column sets out the direction of change from 2016.
The table includes those risks which we have identified as currently most relevant to the Group.
Year-on Risk Link to strategic Principal risk andyear Key mitigation, sponsor appetite Rationale themes why it is relevant change and explanation of change rating for rating pages 22-27 1 Economic and political instability The Group operates worldwide and Operations in accordance with Group Treasury Policy We have the Very low 1 2 3 maintains operations in territories that background and  scenario planning Low have historically experienced economic or know-how to Strong internal controls, including internal audit and 4 5 6 Balanced political instability.
This type of instability, successfully manage appropriate insurance which includes the uncertainties of regime the unique challenges High Resilient business model Direct link change, creates risks for our locally based in economically and Very high Well spread business by geography and sector Indirect link direct operations and broader risks to credit, politically unstable No link Executive sponsor: Nicholas Anderson liquidity and currency.
We are willing to accept these Change: No change challenges where opportunities for growth are substantial.
2 Significant exchange rate movements The Group reports its results and pays Maintain spread of manufacturing across currency areas We take a balanced Very low 1 2 3 dividends in sterling.
Operating and view of this risk: the risk Consideration of exchange rate exposures in Low manufacturing companies trade in local arises as a direct result manufacturing strategy 4 5 6 Balanced currency.
With sales companies in nearly of our global presence, Forward cover where appropriate and in line with Group 50 countries and manufacturing spread High but our geographic Treasury Policy Direct link across the globe, the nature of the Groups spread means we are Focus on reducing manufacturing cost Very high Indirect link business necessarily results in exposure to not wholly dependent Executive sponsor: Kevin Boyd No link exchange rate volatility.
Change: No change 3 Loss of manufacturing output at any Group factory The risk includes loss of output as a result Investment in modern flexible machining Whilst we have mitigated Very low 1 2 3 this risk through a of natural disasters, industrial action and Capacity planning and holding stock in sales companies Low accidents.
Loss of manufacturing output at geographic spread of Conducting audits inspections 4 5 6 Balanced any important plant risks serious disruption to factories, calculated Annual Risk Assessments and business continuity planning sales operations.
High replication of capacity Review and maintain appropriate insurance cover and management of Direct link Very high Continued commitment to employee policies, ensuring Indirect link stock, the potential satisfactory benefits and regular communication with No link negative consequences all employees to the Group and its Executive sponsors: Jay Whalen and Ian Farnworth customers warrants a low appetite for this risk.
Change: No change 4 Failure to realise acquisition objectives Regular review of acquisition criteria in line with Thorough planning and Whilst the Group mitigates this risk in various Very low 1 2 3 strategic plan ways, including through comprehensive proper due diligence Low due diligence, professional advisers can mitigate many of the Board approval of post-acquisition plans for 4 5 6 Balanced and contractual protections, amongst potentially risky aspects major acquisitions others, there are some variables that are of an acquisition.
High Full scrutiny of targets involving local lawyers, accountants, Implementation plans Direct link uncontrollable or difficult to control, such and key internal players operating units Very high Indirect link must be well-developed as economic conditions, culture clashes Use of retainer escrow to provide protection against No link and employee movement.
Therefore, these and carefully pursued to warranty claims could impact acquisition objectives.
The achieve the full strategic Use of insurance as protection against seller breach and Group also has comprehensive integration and financial benefits.
non-disclosure implementation plans, developed with Ensuring valuation models show healthy return independent consultants, which are being on investment successfully rolled out.
Regular monitoring of performance by the Board against the approved investment case Executive sponsor: Kevin Boyd Change: With the recent major acquisitions of Aflex, Gestra and Chromalox, this risk has increased.
Risk appetite ratings defined: Very low Low Balanced High Very high Following a marginal-risk, Seeking to integrate sufficient An approach which brings Willing to consider bolder Pursuing high-risk, marginal-reward approach that control and mitigation methods a high chance for success, opportunities with higher levels unprovenoptions that carry represents the safest strategic in order to accommodate a low considering the risks, along with of risk in exchange for increased with them the potential for route available.
level of risk, though this will also reasonable rewards, economic business payoffs.
32 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Year-on Risk Link to strategic Principal risk andyear Key mitigation, sponsor appetite Rationale themes why it is relevant change and explanation of change rating for rating pages 22-27 5 Cybersecurity Cybersecurity risks include risks from Global assessment of IT environment against UK Concerns of potential Very low 1 2 3 malware, accident, statutory and legislative cyber essentials framework and prioritising actions impact on the Low requirements, malicious actions and other for improvement business, in addition 4 5 6 Balanced unauthorised access by third parties.
to the important Deploying security tools to limit impact and spread considerations of ransomware High surrounding Direct link Initiating new centrally managed Firewall environment Very high Indirect link protection of personal Further strengthening of security for centrally managed No link data, reinforce systems for heightened protection and consistency our commitment Executive sponsor: Shaun Mundy to implement and Change: This is a new risk on the risk register and the maintain robust Committee is monitoring this risk in line with the issues set security measures out therein.
6 Solution specification failure Total solutions demand understanding of Extensive internal and field testing of new products prior Satisfying customer Very low 1 2 3 to launch customers complex technical requirements requests for new, Low and there is risk involved in pursuing new innovative products Continuing capital investment in the latest 4 5 6 Balanced opportunities in engineering systems design, and designs is an manufacturing technology installation and servicing.
Failure could important aspect of High Centres of responsibility established to maintain result in disruption and loss to a customers our business, but Direct link product control Very high Indirect link production line.
it must always be Established testing policy and procedures at Group No link pursued without manufacturing sites compromising our Quality procedures ensure that manufactured quality meets hard-earned reputation these standards for quality products.
Executive sponsors: Jay Whalen and Ian Farnworth Change: With the newly acquired businesses, the Group will be handling larger, more complex, orders thereby increasing this risk.
7 Breach of legal and regulatory requirements including ABC laws We operate globally and must ensure On-going global monitoring of commercial arrangements We respect the laws, Very low 1 2 3 compliance with laws and regulations and agreements, with appropriate professional advice rules and regulations Low wherever we do business.
As we grow of the jurisdictions Established procedures to maintain accreditations 4 5 6 Balanced into new markets and territories, we in which we operate Group-wide ABC training and whistle-blowing hotline must continually review and update our High and believe we have Group Litigation Report and on-going monitoring of cases Direct link operations and procedures, and ensure our a duty to comply with Very high Regular updates on Corporate Governance and Stock Indirect link employees are fully informed and educated those requirements.
No link Exchange rules in all applicable legal requirements.
This is Continued roll out of Supplier Sustainability Code particularly important with respect to antibribery and corruption ABC legislation.
GDPR gap analysis and remediation plan Breaching any of these laws or regulations Executive sponsor: Andy Robson could have serious consequences for Change: No change the Group.
The General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, which protects personal sensitive data, will take effect in May 2018 and we are undertaking a gap analysis to assist with a remediation plan to ensure that we are compliant with this new law as applicable across the Group.
8 Health, safety and environmental risks A major health, safety or environmental All manufacturing locations report monthly on health and We take seriously Very low 1 2 3 incident could cause total or partial closure safety issues the health and safety Low of a manufacturing facility.
As a premium of our employees, Board review of HSE items at every Board Meeting 4 5 6 Balanced provider of safety critical products, a breach customers and all Role of Group EHS Executive and appointment of EHS of these requirements would also have High related stakeholders.
Officers in all major Supply and Sales sites Direct link reputational consequences for the Group.
We continually strive Enhanced training programmes, keeping the focus on Very high Indirect link to put in place policies health, safety and the environment No link and procedures to Site visits conducted by Group Supply Chain Director and ensure compliance Group EHS Executive where practices are reviewed and with HSE legislation.
improvement opportunities identified Executive sponsor: Ian Farnworth Change: This risk has reduced due to increased investment in HSE programmes, including newly-appointed EHS Officers.
Key Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk Following the bottom-up review, the following changes were made to the principal risks: Risk 1: economic and political instability amended to ensure that we Following a recent triennial valuation which saw a material reduction captured all our mitigation activities relating to Brexit.
in the deficit, defined pension benefit deficit previously Risk 4 was removed from the principal risks but remains on the risk register.
Risk 4: failure to realise acquisition objectives and Risk 5: cybersecurity added.
Risk appetite determined for these two risks.
The year-on-year change for each principal risk was assessed.
Risk 7: breach of legal and regulatory requirements amalgamated with breach or potential breach of ABC laws and renamed breach of legal and regulatory requirements including ABC laws.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 33 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
