PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES IDENTIFYING, PRIORITISING AND MANAGING OUR RISKS TO SUPPORT OUR GOALS AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES We outline the principal risks and uncertainties that may have an impact on our strategic objectives, business model, operations, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
These principal risks are described in the table that follows, together with the relevant strategic business objectives, key drivers trends, material controls which have been put in place to mitigate the risks and the mitigation actions we have taken.
It is recognised that the Group is exposed to risks wider than those listed.
We disclose those which we believe are likely to have had the greatest impact on our business at this moment in time and which have been discussed in depth at recent Board, Audit or Risk Committee meetings.
The order in which the Principal Risks and Uncertainties appear does not denote their order of priority.
It is not possible to fully mitigate all of our risks.
Any system of risk management and internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
CURRENCY AND MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPAL RISK Macroeconomic factors relating to Georgia, including depreciation of the Lari against the Dollar, may have UNCERTAINTY a material impact on our loan book.
KEY DRIVERS The Groups operations are primarily located, and most of its revenue is sourced from, Georgia.
Macroeconomic TRENDS factors relating to Georgia, such as GDP, inflation and interest rates, may have a material impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, loan losses, our margins and customer demand for our products and services.
Real GDP growth in Georgia increased to 4.8% in 2017, compared to 2.8% in 2016 and 2.9% in 2015, according to Geostat.
Uncertain and volatile global economic conditions could have substantial political and macroeconomic ramifications globally which in turn could impact the Georgian economy.
In 2017, the Lari appreciated against the Dollar by 2.1%.
The volatility of Lari against Dollar has affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the quality of our loan portfolio, as well as increase the cost of credit risk and impairment provisions.
This is because our corporate, MSME and mortgage loan books are largely Dollar-denominated and the majority of our customers income is Lari-denominated.
The creditworthiness of our customers may be adversely affected by the depreciation of the Lari against the Dollar, which could result in them having difficulty repaying their loans.
The depreciation of Lari may also adversely affect the value of our customers collateral.
As at 31 December 2017, in the Banking Business, approximately 83% and 49% of our corporate investment banking and retail loans respectively were denominated in foreign currency predominantly Dollars, while Dollar income revenue loans covered 9.5% of retail gross loans and 43.1% of corporate investment banking gross loans.
In 2017, our Banking Business cost of credit risk was at 2.2% compared to 2.7% in 2016.
MITIGATION The Group continually monitors market conditions and reviews market changes, and also performs stress and scenario testing to test its position under adverse economic conditions, including adverse currency movements.
The Asset and Liability Management Committee sets our open currency position limits and the Banks proprietary trading position limits, which are currently more conservative than those imposed by the National Bank of Georgia NBG, our regulator.
The Treasury department manages our open currency position on a day-to-day basis.
The open currency position is also monitored by the Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics department.
In order to assess the creditworthiness of our customers, we take into account currency volatility when there is a currency mismatch between the customers loan and revenue.
We allocate 75% additional capital to the foreign currency loans of clients whose source of income is denominated in Lari.
Our Credit Committees and Credit Risk Management department set counterparty limits by using a credit risk classification and scoring system for approving individual transactions.
The credit quality review process is continuous and provides early identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness of customers, including regular collateral revaluations, potential losses and corrective actions needed to reduce risk, which may include obtaining additional collateral in accordance with underlying loan agreements.
Since the beginning of 2016, we have focused on increasing local currency lending.
We actively work with IFIs to raise long-term Lari funding to increase our Lari-denominated loans to customers.
Furthermore, in June 2017, we completed the inaugural local currency denominated international bond issuance in the amount of GEL 500 million to support local currency lending.
Applicable from the beginning of 2017, the NBG expanded the list of assets that banks are permitted to use as collateral for REPO transactions, which provides an additional funding source for our Lari-denominated loan book.
As a result, as of 31 December 2017, in the Banking Business, our Lari-denominated loan book increased by 54.6%, while our foreign currency-denominated loan book increased by 0.2% in constant currency terms.
The trend was supported by the Georgian Governments fide-dollarisation initiatives: a a one-off programme, effective from 15 January 2017 until 25 March 2017, allowing qualified borrowers to convert eligible Dollar-denominated loans into Lari, at a discount compensated by the Government, at the clients election and b a new regulation, effective from 15 January 2017, restricting issuance of new loans in foreign currency with amounts less than GEL 100,000 equivalent.
34 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC REGIONAL INSTABILITY PRINCIPAL RISK The Georgian economy and our business may be adversely affected by regional tensions and instability.
UNCERTAINTY The Groups operations are primarily located, and most of its revenue is sourced from, Georgia.
The Georgian economy is dependent on economies of the region, in particular Russia, Turkey, Azerbaijan and Armenia who are key trading partners.
There has been ongoing geopolitical tension, political instability, economic instability and military conflict in the region, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial position.
KEY DRIVERS Russian troops continue to occupy the Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali South Ossetia regions and tensions between Russia TRENDS and Georgia persist.
Russia is opposed to the eastward enlargement of NATO, potentially, including former Soviet republics such as Georgia.
The introduction of a preferential trade regime between Georgia and the EU in July 2016 and the European Parliaments approval of a proposal on visa liberalisation for Georgia in February 2017, may intensify tensions between countries.
The Government has taken certain steps towards improving relations with Russia, but, as of the date of this Annual Report, these have not resulted in any formal or legal changes in the relationship between the two countries.
Relations between Russia and Turkey remain uncertain, as despite Russia repealing sanctions on Turkey in March 2017, certain sanctions and legal limitations on Turkish nationals remain.
In April 2017, amendments to the Turkish constitution were approved by voters in a referendum.
The amendments which grant the president wider powers are expected to transform Turkeys system of government away from a parliamentary system.
These amendments could have a negative impact on political stability in Turkey, which is already tense after a failed coup against the president in July 2016.
Conflict remains unabated between Azerbaijan and Armenia.
MITIGATION The Group actively monitors regional and local market conditions and risks related to political instability, and performs stress and scenario tests in order to assess our financial position.
Responsive strategies and action plans are also developed.
Despite tensions in the breakaway territories, Russia has continued to open its export market to Georgian exports since 2013.
While lower global commodity prices and macroeconomic factors have affected Georgias regional trading partners, leading to lower exports within the region, Georgia has benefited from increased exports earnings from non-traditional markets such as Switzerland, China, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Singapore.
In April 2017, the IMF approved a new three-year US$ 285 million economic programme, aimed at preserving macroeconomic and financial stability and addressing structural weaknesses in the Georgian economy to support higher and inclusive growth.
During 2017, Georgia delivered real GDP growth of 4.8% from 2.8% in 2016.
REGULATORY RISK PRINCIPAL RISK The Group operates across a wide range of industries, principally banking, but also healthcare services, UNCERTAINTY pharmacy, insurance, real estate, water and energy utility, hydro power, wine and beverages.
Many of these industries are highly regulated.
The regulatory environment continues to evolve.
We, however, cannot predict what additional regulatory changes will be introduced in the future or the impact they may have on our operations.
KEY DRIVERS Our banking operations must comply with capital adequacy and other regulatory ratios set by our regulator, the NBG, TRENDS including reserve requirements and mandatory financial ratios.
Our ability to comply with existing or amended NBG requirements may be affected by a number of factors, including those outside of our control, such as an increase in the Banks risk-weighted assets, our ability to raise capital, losses resulting from deterioration in our asset quality and or a reduction in income levels and or an increase in expenses, decline in the value of the Banks securities portfolio, as well as weakening of global and Georgian economies.
Each of our Investment Businesses is subject to different regulators and regulation.
Legislation in certain industries, such as healthcare, energy and utilities are continuously evolving.
Different changes, including but not limited to governmental funding, licensing and accreditation requirements and tariff structures may adversely affect our businesses.
MITIGATION Continued investment in our people and processes is enabling us to meet our current regulatory requirements and means that we are well placed to respond to any future changes in regulation.
In line with our integrated control framework, we carefully evaluate the impact of legislative and regulatory changes as part of our formal risk identification and assessment processes and, to the extent possible, proactively participate in the drafting of relevant legislation.
As part of this process, we engage in constructive dialogue with regulatory bodies, where possible, and seek external advice on potential changes to legislation.
We then develop appropriate policies, procedures and controls as required to fulfil our compliance obligations.
Our compliance framework, at all levels, is subject to regular review by internal audit and external assurance providers.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 35 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED CYBER-SECURITY, INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND FINANCIAL CRIME PRINCIPAL RISK We are at risk of experiencing cyber-security breaches, unauthorised access to our systems and financial UNCERTAINTY crime, or failures in our banking activity processes or systems or human error, which could disrupt our customer services, result in financial loss, have legal or regulatory implications and or affect our reputation.
We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our risk management, internal controls and systems, and internal processes including those related to data protection, IT and information security in order to manage these threats.
KEY DRIVERS During 2017, we saw a number of major organisations subjected to cyber-attacks, although fortunately, our operations TRENDS were not materially affected.
The external threat profile is continuously changing and we expect threats to continue to increase.
Over the past few years, as our operations have expanded, we have seen an increase in electronic crimes, including fraud, although losses have not been significant.
Money laundering has also increased globally in recent years which the bank has certain responsibilities to guard against.
MITIGATION We have an integrated control framework encompassing operational risk management, IT systems, corporate and other data security each of which is managed by a separate department.
We also have an Anti-Money Laundering AML officer and controls.
We identify and assess operational risk categories within our risk management framework, identifying critical risk areas or groups of operations with an increased risk level and develop policies and security procedures to mitigate these risks.
We have security controls in place including policies, procedures and security technologies.
We also regularly carry out IT and information security checks internally and with the assistance of external consultants.
We have sophisticated anti-virus protection and firewalls to help protect against potentially malicious software.
We have increased our internal and external penetration testing and have back-up disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place across the Group.
Access control and password protections have been improved through the implementation in 2016 of Privileged Access Monitoring for employees with the highest privileged access to confidential and customer data.
We continue to invest in technology to enhance our ability to prevent, detect and respond to increasing and evolving threats.
Our Internal Audit function provides assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management, internal controls and systems in place.
These types of operational risk are on the Audit Committees regular agenda and are also frequently discussed at Board level.
INVESTMENT BUSINESS STRATEGY PRINCIPAL RISK Market conditions may adversely impact our Investment Business strategy and all our Investment Businesses UNCERTAINTY have their own risks specific to their industry.
Our Investment Businesses have growth and expansion strategies and we face execution risk in implementing these strategies.
Our Investment Business strategy is to achieve an internal rate of return of at least 25% from investments.
The Invesment Business will normally seek to monetise its investments, including through initial public offering, strategic sale or other appropriate exit, typically within five to ten years of acquisition.
Macroeconomic conditions and the financial and economic environment, and other market conditions in international capital markets may limit the Groups ability to achieve a partial or full exit from its existing or future businesses.
It may not be possible or desirable to divest, including whether suitable buyers can be found at the appropriate times or cases where there may be difficulties in obtaining favourable terms or prices.
2 KEY DRIVERS Each investment business GGU, m, Aldagi, Teliani, Georgia Healthcare Group faces their own risks.
These include TRENDS risks inherent to their industry, or to their industry particularly in Georgia, and each faces significant competition.
They also face the principal risks and uncertainties referred to throughout this table, such as macroeconomic and regulatory risk.
MITIGATION The Group has a strong track record of growth and has accessed the capital markets on multiple occasions.
Our acquisition history has also been successful and we have been able to integrate businesses due to strong management with integration experience.
For each business, we focus on building a strong management team and have successfully been able to do so thus far.
Management succession planning is regularly on the agenda for the Nomination Committee and Board as whole.
We closely monitor the implementation of strategy, financial and operational performance, risk management and internal control framework and corporate governance structure of our businesses.
We hold management accountable for meeting targets.
For each industry in which we operate, we closely monitor industry trends, market conditions and the regulatory environment.
We have also sought and continue to seek advice from experienced global professionals in our industries.
36 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC DEMERGER AND FUTURE PERFORMANCE RISK PRINCIPAL RISK The Group is implementing a demerger of its Banking Business and Investment Business, subject to UNCERTAINTY shareholder approval.
The demerger is dependent on a number of conditions and steps to complete and there is a risk that it may not go ahead despite extensive management time having been focused on the initiative.
There is also risk that the demerger will go ahead but that the full anticipated benefits are not realised.
KEY DRIVERS On 3 July 2017, the Group announced its intention to demerge the Group into a London-listed banking business and TRENDS a London-listed investment business.
On 12 February 2018 the Group announced that the Board had approved the implementation of the demerger and gave an update on its structure.
The Board has stated that it believes a demerger of the businesses will deliver additional long-term value to shareholders by creating two distinct entities, each of which will have enhanced growth opportunities in the strongly growing Georgian economy.
The Board has stated that it believes the demerger will benefit the two businesses in the following areas: business flexibility, pursuing growth opportunities, regulatory clarity and flexibility, efficient capital structure, improved management focus, alignment of incentives, and investor clarity and understanding.
More detail is expected to be included in the circular to be sent to shareholders relating to the demerger.
MITIGATION We continue to monitor the businesses as usual through the processes and risk framework outlined in this Risk Management and Principal Risks and Uncertainties section.
The Board and management also receive major progress updates on the demerger.
The project team for the demerger, which includes some of our executives, steers the process and helps ensure the implementation plans are in place.
We are seeking advice from experienced professionals in respect of the demerger.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 37 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
