BGEO RISK MANAGEMENT CREATING A CULTURE OF INTEGRITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY We identify, evaluate, manage and monitor the risks that we face through an integrated control framework supported by formal policies and procedures, clearly delegated authority levels and comprehensive reporting.
The Board confirms that our framework has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and is integrated into both our business planning and viability assessment processes.
OVERVIEW regular reporting process by the Audit and Risk regular presentations directly from the head of Our Board, supported by our Audit and Risk Committees, as appropriate, and the Board.
Important risk and internal control Committees and executive management, The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the issues are addressed in such presentations.
is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk Group are identified through the above processes.
The Groups internal audit function reviews a number of areas of risk pursuant to a A description of these principal risks and We believe that in order to have an effective risk programme approved by the Audit Committee.
uncertainties, including to recent trends and management framework there needs to be a outlook, as well as mitigation efforts, can be Any significant issues or risks arising from found on pages 34 to 37 of the Strategic Report.
strong risk management culture within the Group.
an internal audit review are reported to the We have worked to ensure that managing risk Audit Committee and appropriate actions are is ingrained in our everyday business activities.
undertaken to ensure satisfactory resolution.
Since the Bank is the Groups largest business We seek to create an environment where there The Head of Internal Audit has a direct reporting and operates in the complex financial services is openness and transparency in how we make line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
sector, its risk management and internal control decisions and manage risks and where business framework is key to that of the Group.
managers are accountable for the risk Our systems of internal control are also management and internal control processes supported by our Whistleblowing Policy, A description of the Banks risk management associated with their activities.
Our culture also which allows employees to report concerns and internal control framework can be found seeks to ensure that risk management is on an anonymous basis.
The Audit Committee on pages 38 to 43 of the Strategic Report.
approves the Whistleblowing Policy on an annual basis and receives reports from the Head of AML INTERNAL CONTROL OUR FRAMEWORK and Compliance on any significant issues raised.
As mentioned above, our Board is responsible The Boards mandate includes determining the for reviewing and approving the Groups system Groups risk appetite and risk tolerance as well EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW of internal control and its adequacy and as monitoring risk exposures to ensure that the Each year, we review the effectiveness of effectiveness.
Controls are reviewed to ensure nature and extent of the main risks we face are our risk management processes and internal effective management of strategic, financial, consistent with our overall goals and strategic control systems, with the assistance of the operational and compliance, among other risks objectives.
The Board is accountable for Audit and Risk Committees.
Certain matters, such as the approval reviewing the effectiveness of the systems and covers all material systems, including financial, of major capital expenditure, significant processes of risk management and internal operational and compliance controls.
The acquisitions or disposals and major contracts, control, with the Audit and Risk Committees latest review covered the financial year to among others, are reserved exclusively for the assisting in the discharge of this responsibility.
31 December 2017 and the period from Board.
The full schedule of matters specifically year-end to the approval of this Annual Report.
reserved for the Board can be found on our At the Board, Committee and executive We obtained assurance from management website, at http: bgeo.
com page id 67 management levels, we develop formal and Internal Audit.
policies and procedures which explain the With respect to other matters, the Board is often way in which risks need to be systematically The Board is able to conclude with reasonable assisted by both the Audit and Risk Committees.
identified, assessed, quantified, managed and assurance that the appropriate internal controls monitored.
Each business participates in the and risk management systems were maintained With respect to internal control over financial risk management process by identifying the key and operated effectively throughout 2017 and reporting, including over the Groups risks applicable to its business.
The principal the period from year-end to the approval of consolidation process, our financial procedures risks and uncertainties faced by the Group this Annual Report.
The review did not identify include a range of system, transactional and are identified through this process.
any significant weaknesses or failings in management oversight controls.
We are satisfied that our risk prepare detailed monthly management reports On a day-to-day basis, management is management processes and internal control that include analyses of their results along with responsible for the implementation of the systems processes comply with the UK comparisons, relevant strategic plans, budgets, Groups risk management and other internal Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code forecasts and prior results.
These are presented control policies and procedures.
Based on and the Financial Reporting Council FRC s to and reviewed by executive management.
our risk culture, managers own the risks guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control Each quarter, the CFO of the Bank and the relevant to their respective function.
For each and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Group and other members of the finance team risk identified at any level of the business, discuss financial reporting and associated the risk is measured, mitigated if possible in Although we did not identify any significant internal controls with the Audit Committee, accordance with our policies and procedures weaknesses or failings, we continuously strive which reports significant findings to the Board.
Managers are required to report to improve our framework and focus on further The Audit Committee also reviews the quarterly, on identified risks and responses to such risks mitigating our key risks, especially as they half-year and full-year financial statements and on a consistent and frequent basis.
We will also provide online training corresponding press releases and provides and senior management regularly review focused on the importance of risk management feedback to the Board.
The external and internal the output from the bottom-up process by and internal controls.
auditors attend each Audit Committee meeting providing independent challenge and assessing and the Audit Committee meets regularly both the implementation of the risk management COMMITTEE REPORTS with and without management present.
and internal control policies and procedures.
As noted throughout this discussion, both the Audit and Risk Committees play an essential Our Audit and Risk Committees monitor internal Our reporting process enables key risks to be role in implementing effective risk management control over operating and compliance risk escalated to the appropriate level of authority and internal control.
Each Committee has through discussions with the Deputy CEO, and provides assurance to the Committees described this work in its Committee report.
Chief Risk Officer and the Head of AML and and the Board.
Key developments affecting Compliance and other executive management The Audit Committee Report and Risk Committee our principal risks and associated mitigating on a quarterly basis.
Any key issues identified are Report can be found on pages 91 to 94 and actions are reviewed quarterly or more often pages 95 to 96, respectively.
The Board also receives if necessary on an ad hoc basis, outside of the 32 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC GOING CONCERN STATEMENT The Groups business activities, objectives and strategy, principal risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives and performance are set out on pages 14 to 75.
After making enquiries, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that BGEO and the Group, as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence and therefore, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors are required to assess the prospects of the Company to meet its liabilities by taking into account its current position and principal risks.
The viability review was conducted in respect of the Group in case the demerger is not approved by AGM, as well as its underlying businesses post demerger.
The Board performed this review over a three-year period beginning 1 January 2018, being the first day after the end of the financial year to which this report relates.
In determining the appropriate period over which to make their assessment, the Directors considered the duration of strategic plans and financial forecasts, which are usually set and prepared for the three year period, the diverse nature of the Groups activities, the evolving nature of the regulatory environment in which the Groups businesses operate, demerger of the Group, as well as recent trends relating to Lari volatility.
A period of three years beyond the balance sheet date was therefore considered the most appropriate viability period for the Company.
In order to consider the Groups viability, the Board considered a number of key factors, including: the Groups financial and operational position, including capital allocation and other key financial ratios: the Boards risk appetite: the Groups business model and strategy as set out on pages 14 to 29: the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, principally those related to adverse economic conditions, the depreciation of the Lari, IT and or information security including cyber-security control failures, Investment Business strategy, demerger risk and how these risks and uncertainties are managed, as set out on pages 34 to 37: the effectiveness of our risk management framework and internal control processes: and stress testing, as described below.
The key factors above have been reviewed in the context of our current position and strategic plan, financial budgets and forecasts assessed annually and on a three-year basis.
The viability assessment involved a risk identification process which included recognition of the principal risks to viability risks that could impair the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, excluding risks not sufficiently severe over the period of assessment for consolidated BGEO Group PLC, including Banking and Investment Businesses.
Principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Group are currency volatility, global and regional economic instability, market competition and interest rate volatility.
We also identified other risks which, while not necessarily severe in themselves, could escalate when combined with others.
For each risk, we considered our risk appetite and tolerance, as well as risk proximity and momentum.
For those risks considered sufficiently severe to affect our viability, we performed stress testing for the assessment period, which involved modelling the impact of a combination of severe and plausible adverse scenarios.
The Group has examined following stress scenarios over the assessment period: GEL depreciation against US Dollar, market competition driven shrinkage of net interest margin, increase in operating expenses resulting in higher Banking Business cost to income ratio, impairment of loan portfolio quality, possible underperformance of Investment Business entities.
The stress test scenarios were then reviewed against the Groups and its businesses current and projected liquidity position considering current committed funding, capital adequacy and solvency.
The stress testing also took into account the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions, such as decline in lending activity, reduction of operating expenses, as well as the assumption that the Group will be able to prolong or refinance existing borrowings, or increase the financing from DFIs, at the terms similar to existing ones, that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the identified underlying risks to which the Group and its businesses are exposed.
The Directors have also satisfied themselves that they have the evidence necessary to support the statement below in terms of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and internal control processes in place to mitigate risk.
Based on the analysis described above, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group and its businesses will be able to continue operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2020.
If the demerger is implemented successfully then the new Boards of the demerged businesses will make their own viability statement in their respective annual reports next year and the Group, as it is currently comprised, will cease to exist.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 33 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
