BANK RISK MANAGEMENT The Banking Business is the principal driver of the Groups revenue and operates in the financial services sector its risk management and internal control framework are fundamental to that of the Group.
OVERVIEW The main risks inherent in the Banks Management Board.
The Management The BGEO Board, supported by our BGEO operations are credit risk, liquidity risk, Board has overall responsibility for the Banks Audit and Risk Committees and management, market risk including currency and foreign asset, liability and risk management activities, is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk exchange rate risks, operational risk and legal policies and procedures.
In order to effectively management and internal controls.
The following is a description of the Banks implement the risk management system, the risk management policies and procedures in Management Board delegates individual risk Formal policies and procedures have been respect to those risks.
Business risks such as management functions to each of the various developed at the BGEO level, with the help of changes in the environment, technology and decision-making and execution bodies within senior management, to explain the way risks industry are monitored through the Groups the Bank.
need to be systematically identified, assessed, strategic planning process.
The Internal The Banks risk management system is based Audit department is responsible for the regular Clearly delegated authority levels and reporting on the principle of continually assessing risk review audit of the Banks operations, activities, lines have been established, which together with throughout the life of any operation and systems and processes, in order to evaluate and the comprehensive reporting process, form an includes such stages as: provide reasonable, independent and objective integral part of the BGEO risk management assurance and consulting services designed to framework and internal control processes.
risk identification add value and improve the Banks operations.
qualitative and quantitative assessment Each business participates in the risk of a particular risk The Banks Internal Audit department is management process by identifying the key determination of an acceptable risk level independent of the Banks Management risks applicable to its business.
risk monitoring and mitigation Board.
The Head of the Banks Internal ongoing monitoring and control allowing Audit department is appointed by the Banks efficient adjustments in case of any negative Supervisory Board and reports directly to the A detailed description of the BGEO risk changes in the conditions on which the Banks Audit Committee.
The Banks Internal management control framework can be found preliminary risk assessment was made Audit department discusses the results of all on pages 32 to 33 of the Strategic Report.
analysis of the efficiency of the risk assessments with the Banks Management Board management system and reports its findings and recommendations to The work undertaken by the Banks risk the Banks Audit Committee.
management bodies feeds back directly to BGEO.
Certain banking-related risks have BANK RISK MANAGEMENT BODIES been identified in the Groups Principal Risks The principal risk management bodies of The purpose of the Internal Audit department and Uncertainties, which can be found on the Bank are the: Supervisory Board, Audit is to determine whether the Banks risk pages 34 to 37 of the Strategic Report.
Committee, Management Board, Risk management, internal controls and corporate Committee, Internal Audit, Treasury, Credit governance processes, which are designed Given the significance of the Banking Business, the Committee, Asset and Liability Management and implemented by the Management Board, risk management and internal control framework Committee the ALCO, AML and Compliance are adequate such that: are in place at the Bank as described in this and the Banks Legal department.
Supervisory Board, Audit Committee and Risk material risks including strategic, credit, Committee perform similar roles as the BGEO market, liquidity and operational risks, are THE ROLE OF THE BANK IN THE OVERALL Board, BGEO Audit Committee and BGEO Risk appropriately identified, measured, assessed RISK MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Committee, only at Bank level.
Please refer to and managed across the Bank including its Management of risk is fundamental to the the diagram at the bottom of this page.
outsourced activities Banking Business and is an essential element interaction with the various internal of the Groups operations.
governance groups occurs appropriately RISK MANAGEMENT BODIES OF BANK OF GEORGIA Risk Committee Audit Committee Supervisory Board of Bank of Georgia Internal Audit Asset and Liability Credit Committee Management Board Management Committee Quantitative risk Credit risk Operational risk AML and Treasury Legal management and management management Compliance risk analytics 38 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC CREDIT COMMITTEE TIERS OF SUBCOMMITTEES FOR RETAIL AND CORPORATE BANKING LOANS Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Corporate Banking loans US$ Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Credit Risk Management Less than US$ 2.0 million for existing and new borrowers Tier II Deputy CRO Head of the Credit Risk Department Between US$ 2.0 million and US$ 10.0 million for existing and new borrowers Tier III CEO CRO Greater than US$ 10.0 million for existing and new borrowers Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Retail Banking loans US$ Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Credit Risk Management Less than US$ 200,000 Tier II Head of Portfolio Quality Analysis Unit Between US$ 200,000 and US$ 500,000 for retail loans Tier III Deputy CRO Between US$ 500,000 and US$ 2.0 million Tier IV CEO CRO Greater than US$ 2.0 million significant financial, managerial, and purposes, loans for wealth management establishes stop-loss limits for foreign operating information is accurate, reliable clients are classified as retail loans.
The Credit currency operations and securities and timely Committee for corporate loans comprises three monitors compliance with the established the Bank and its employees act with tiers of subcommittees.
Participation of the risk management models for foreign integrity and their actions are in compliance CEO is required for exposures exceeding exchange risk, interest rate risk and with the policies, standards, procedures and US$ 10.0 million.
All exposures to single funding liquidity risk applicable laws and regulations group borrowers over US$ 25.0 million require sets ranges of interest rates for different resources are acquired economically, used approval by the Supervisory Board.
Lower tier maturities at which the Bank may place efficiently, and protected adequately subcommittees meet on a daily basis, whereas its liquid assets and attract funding, and programmes, plans and objectives are higher tier ones typically meet three to four reviews different stress tests and capital achieved, and times a week.
Each of the subcommittees of adequacy models prepared by the Finance significant legislative or regulatory issues the Credit Committees makes its decisions Department and FGCRMC that impact the organisation are recognised by a majority vote of its respective members.
and addressed in a timely fashion and Since 2017, Micro and SME loan applications The ALCO is chaired by the CEO and meets properly.
are approved by credit risk managers.
at any time deemed necessary, with decisions made by a majority vote of its members.
ALCO In order to fulfil its function the Banks Internal The Problem Assets Committee is chaired members include the CEO, Deputy CEO, Audit department has unrestricted access to by one of the following: the Head of the Finance, Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer, all the Banks functions, records, property Problem Loan Management Department first Deputy CEO, Corporate Investment Banking, and personnel.
level pertains to loans of up to GEL 250,000, Deputy CEO, Retail Banking, Deputy CEO, Deputy CEO, Operations second level pertains SOLO & MSME, Deputy CEO, Operations, the Treasury.
Treasury is responsible for managing to the loans in the range of GEL 250,000- Head of the Finance department and the Head the Banks assets and liabilities and its overall 500,000 and Deputy CEO, Chief Risk of the Treasury department.
The ALCO reviews financial structure and is also primarily Officer third level pertains to loans above financial reports and indices including the responsible for managing funding and liquidity GEL 500,000.
The Problem Loan Management Banks limits ratios, balance sheet, statement risks of the Bank.
Department manages the Banks exposures of operations, maturity gap, interest rate gap, to problem loans and reports to the Deputy currency gap, foreign exchange risk, interest Credit Committee.
The Bank has three credit CEO, Operations.
rate risk and funding liquidity risk reports, total committees together, the Credit Committees, cash flow analysis, customer cash flow analysis each responsible for supervising and managing The Corporate Recovery Committee is chaired and concentration risk analysis, for the past the Banks credit risks in respect of loans for by the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer and is periods as well as future projections and retail and wealth management clients, corporate responsible for monitoring all of the Banks forecasts, other financial analysis and further loans and counterparty loans.
These three exposures to loans that are managed by growth projections on a monthly basis.
committees are: the Retail Banking Committee, the Corporate Recovery department.
The the Corporate Banking Credit Committee and Corporate Recovery department reports to the Regulatory capital requirements in Georgia are the Financial and Governmental Counterparty Deputy CEO, Corporate Investment Banking.
set by the National Bank of Georgia NBG and Risk Management Committee FGCRMC.
are applied to the Bank on a standalone basis.
FGCRMC manages, monitors and controls Asset and Liability Management NBG requires the Bank to maintain minimum counterparty risk in relation to financial and Committee ALCO.
The ALCO is the core Capital Adequacy ratios computed based on Governmental counterparties of the Bank.
risk management body that establishes the Banks standalone special purpose financial Each Credit Committee approves individual policies and guidelines with respect to capital statements prepared in accordance with NBG loan transactions.
adequacy, market risks and respective limits, regulations and pronouncements.
funding liquidity risk and respective limits, Each Credit Committee is comprised of tiers interest rate and prepayment risks and In order to transition to Basel III, NBG of subcommittees.
The FGCRMC comprises respective limits, money market general terms introduced new capital adequacy requirements two tiers of subcommittees.
The Committee and credit exposure limits.
ALCO designs and in December 2017.
As a result of the changes, consists of six members Deputy CEO, Chief implements respective risk management and Bank of Georgia became subject to the Risk Officer, Deputy CEO, Finance, Deputy stress testing models in practice and regularly following minimum capital requirements CEO, Corporate Investment Banking, Head monitors compliance with the preset risk limits, at 31 December 2017: of Quantitative Risk Management Department, and approves treasury deals with non-standard Head of Treasury and Head of Trade Finance.
Specifically, ALCO: Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 8.1%, expected A majority of votes is enough for approval.
If the to increase to 9.5% on 31 December 2018 potential exposure exceeds US$ 10.0 million, sets money-market credit exposure lending Tier 1 ratio 9.9%, expected to increase then the decision is deferred to the ALCO.
The limits to 11.4% on 31 December 2018, and Credit Committee for retail loans comprises four sets open currency position limits with Total Capital ratio 12.4%, expected to tiers of subcommittees for risk management respect to overnight and intraday positions increase to 16.0% on 31 December 2018 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 39 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview BANK RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED At 31 December 2017, Bank of Georgias The Bank is obliged to notify the Financial circulation, information streams, distribution of Common Equity Tier 1 and Tier 1 ratios were Monitoring Service of Georgia of all transactions functions, permissions and responsibility.
12.4%, while Total Capital ratio was 17.9%.
that are subject to monitoring in accordance Transition to Basel III is not expected to affect with Georgian legislation.
These reports are The Legal department monitors all changes the Banks growth prospects or its ability to currently filed in electronic form in an offline in relevant laws and regulations, and ensures maintain dividend distributions within the mode by the AML and Compliance department.
that those changes are properly reflected in existing dividend policy payout range.
The reporting process is fully automated and the Banks procedures, instructions, manuals, is supported by a special software application.
templates and other relevant documentation.
ALCO is the key governing body for capital Furthermore, the Bank operates special It also disseminates information on legislative adequacy management, as well as for respective AML software, which meets the industry changes to all relevant departments within the risks identification and management.
The programme covers every Bank.
The Legal department also participates establishes limits and reviews actual performance sanctions list, as well as debarred and banned in drafting laws and regulatory documents upon over those limits for both NBG and Basel I capital individuals and organisations as identified request of legislators and regulators, certain adequacy regulations.
The Finance department by OFAC, EU, UN and other similar bodies.
associations and other professional bodies.
is in charge of regular monthly monitoring of and It allows fully-automated monitoring of all reporting on NBG and Basel I capital adequacy transactions against special lists.
In pursuance The Tax Reporting and Tax Risks Management compliance with original pronouncements as of identifying suspicious transactions the AML Unit focuses on the Banks relationship with the well as with ALCO policies.
Capital adequacy and Compliance department has implemented tax authorities and provides practical advice management is an integral part of the Banks a centralised solution that links transactions, and monitors tax compliance across the Group.
monthly reporting, as well as the Banks annual accounts and customers so that the Bank can and semi-annual budget approval and budget see the enterprise-wide risk associated with Each of the foregoing departments is provided review processes.
The Finance department each customer.
with policies and or manuals that are approved prepares NBG, Basel I and Basel II III capital by the Banks Management Board and or the adequacy actual reports, as well as their BODIES IMPLEMENTING THE Supervisory Board as required.
The manuals forecasts and budgets and different stress RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM and policies include comprehensive guidance scenarios for both regulations, while ALCO The Banks risk management system is for each stage of a transaction, including, and the Management Board regularly review implemented by the Credit Risk Management, but not limited to, manuals outlining asset them, identify risks, issue recommendations Quantitative Risk Management and Risk and liability management policies, foreign and, if applicable, propose action plans.
Analytics department, Treasury, Operational Risk exchange operations procedures, fixed Management, Legal, AML and Compliance and income investment guidelines, Retail Banking Legal department.
The Legal departments Security departments, Finance department and operations procedures, the deposit policy and principal purposes are to ensure that the Banks other departments.
The Credit Risk Management Credit Policies.
activities conform to applicable legislation and to CB Portfolio Analysis, Quantitative Risk minimise losses from the materialisation of legal Management and Risk Analytics department Risk measurement and reporting.
The Legal department is responsible for and Operational Risk Management departments measures risk using a method which reflects the application and development of mechanisms report to the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer and both the expected loss likely to arise in normal for identifying legal risks in the Banks activities in the Legal department is under supervision of circumstances and unexpected losses, which a timely manner, the investigation of the Banks the General Legal Counsel, who directly reports are an estimate of the ultimate actual loss activities in order to identify any legal risks, the to the CEO.
The Finance department and the based on different forecasting models.
These planning and implementation of all necessary Treasury department report to the Deputy CEO, models use probabilities derived from historical actions for the elimination of identified legal risks, Finance.
The AML and Compliance department experience, adjusted from time to time to reflect participation in legal proceedings on behalf of reports to Deputy CEO, Operations.
The Bank also runs the Bank where necessary and the investigation worst case scenarios that could arise in light of of possibilities for increasing the effectiveness The Quantitative Risk Management and Risk extreme events.
of the Banks legal documentation and its Analytics department, in coordination with the implementation in the Banks daily activities.
Treasury, implements the Banks market risk Monitoring and controlling of risks is primarily The Legal department is also responsible for policies by ensuring compliance with established performed based on limits established by the providing legal support to structural units of open currency position limits, counterparty limits, Bank.
These limits reflect the business strategy the Bank and or its subsidiaries.
VAR limits on possible losses and the interest and market environment of the Bank, as well as rate policy set by the ALCO.
the level of risk that it is willing to accept, with Anti-Money Laundering AML and additional emphasis on selected industries.
The Banks AML and Compliance The Treasury department manages foreign Bank also conducts ongoing monitoring and department is responsible for the implementation currency exchange, money market, securities control, allowing efficient adjustments in case of the Banks AML programme including the portfolio and derivatives operations and monitors of any unexpected changes in the conditions development of AML policies and procedures, compliance with the limits set by the ALCO for on which the preliminary risk assessment was transaction monitoring and reporting, and these operations.
The Treasury department is made.
In addition, the Bank monitors and employee training throughout the Bank and its also responsible for management of short-term measures overall risk-bearing capacity in subsidiaries.
The AML programme is based on liquidity and treasury cash flow and monitors the relation to aggregate risk exposure across recommendations, directives and requirements of volumes of cash in the Banks ATMs and at its all risk types and activities.
international organisations, including FATF Basel, service centres.
the European Parliament, the US department The Bank maintains a management of treasury on sanctions programmes, as well The Credit Risk Management department reporting system which requires the Credit as local regulations.
The Banks Internal Audit manages credit risks with respect to particular Risk Management, Quantitative Risk department makes annual assessments of the borrowers and assesses overall loan portfolio Management and Analytics, Finance and Banks AML systems and controls and provides risks.
It is responsible for ensuring compliance Treasury departments to prepare certain reports independent assurance of internal controls.
with the Banks Credit Policies and management on a daily and monthly basis.
On a daily basis, of the quality of the Banks loan portfolio.
a statement of operations, balance sheet and The Bank has adopted a risk-based approach treasury report which includes the Banks open towards ML FT risks, including a general The Operational Risk Management department foreign exchange positions, cash flows, limits anti-money laundering policy, customer identifies and assesses operational risk within and balances on correspondent accounts with acceptance policy and financial sanctions the Banks processes and operations.
It also other banks and confirmation that there has compliance policy.
The Banks risk-based detects critical risk areas or groups of operations been compliance with mandatory financial approach means that it applies enhanced due with an increased risk level and develops internal ratios must be provided by each department.
diligence towards ML FT risks, it determines control procedures to address these risks, On a monthly basis, a report on the structural high-risk categories of products, customers, through among other things business-process liquidity gap, a report on interest rate risk, services and jurisdictions.
redesign schemes, including document monthly financial statements and a quarterly 40 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC report of the Banks Supervisory Board Credit Policies are reviewed annually or more Credit Risk Managers report.
The loan approval containing analysis of the Banks performance frequently, if necessary.
As a result of these procedures for Retail Banking loans depend on against its budget are provided.
Information reviews, new loan restructuring tools are the type of retail lending products.
compiled from all the businesses is examined introduced.
The Bank also uses the NBGs and processed in order to analyse, control and provisioning methodology in order to comply Applications for consumer loans, including identify early risks.
This information is presented with NBG requirements.
credit cards and auto loans up to GEL 20,000 and explained to the Management Board and are approved by the scoring system.
the head of each business division.
The report The Bank manages its credit risk by placing Applications for mortgage loans of Retail includes aggregate credit exposure, liquidity limits on the amount of risk accepted with Banking clients are completed by the Mortgage ratios and risk profile changes.
Management respect to individual corporate borrowers or Loan Officer and submitted to the Credit Risk assesses the appropriateness of the allowance groups of related borrowers, liability of insurance Manager, who evaluates the credit risks and for credit losses on a monthly basis.
The Banks companies, types of banking operations and by determines the amount, terms and conditions Management Board and the Supervisory Board complying with the exposure limits established of the loan, which must be approved at the receive a comprehensive risk report once a by the NBG.
The Bank monitors the market appropriate Credit Committee level.
In the case quarter which is designed to provide all the value of collateral, requests additional collateral of micro financing loans, loan officers evaluate necessary information to assess and draw in accordance with the underlying agreement loan applications, prepare a project analysis conclusions on the Banks risk exposure.
and monitors the market value of collateral and submit proposals to the appropriate Credit obtained during its review of the adequacy of the Committee, which makes the final decision.
Specifically tailored risk reports are prepared allowance for loan impairment.
The Bank also Credit Committee members have equal voting and distributed to all levels throughout the mitigates its credit risk by obtaining collateral and authority and decisions are approved by a Bank in order to ensure that all business using other security arrangements.
The exposure simple majority of votes.
divisions have access to extensive, relevant to financial institutions is managed by limits and up-to-date information.
A daily briefing is covering on and off-balance sheet exposures COLLATERAL given to the Banks Management Board and and by settlement limits with respect to trading The Bank typically requires credit support or all other relevant employees of the Bank on transactions such as foreign exchange collateral as security for the loans and credit the utilisation of market limits, proprietary contracts.
The main forms of credit investments and liquidity, as well as any support are guarantees and rights to claim other risk developments.
The Credit Committees approve individual amounts on the borrowers current account with transactions and the Credit Risk Management the Bank or other assets.
The main forms of RISK MITIGATION AND EXCESSIVE department establishes credit risk categories collateral for corporate lending are charges over RISK CONCENTRATION and provisioning rates, which are set as real estate properties, equipment, inventory and As part of its overall risk management, the per provisioning methodology.
The Deputy trade receivables and the main form of collateral Bank uses derivatives and other instruments CEO, Chief Risk Officer and the Credit Risk for retail lending is a mortgage over residential to manage exposures resulting from changes Management department review the credit property.
In the case of corporate loans, the in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit quality of the portfolio and set provisioning Bank usually requires a personal guarantee risks, and exposures arising from forward rates, in consultation with the Banks CEO surety from the borrowers shareholders.
While these derivatives are and Deputy CEO, Finance, on a monthly basis.
Under the Banks internal guidelines, collateral intended for hedging, they do not qualify should be provided where it is required to for hedge accounting.
The Banks credit quality review process cover outstanding liabilities during the entire provides early identification of possible changes duration of a transaction.
As of 31 December The Bank actively uses collateral to reduce in the creditworthiness of counterparties, 2017, 83.3% of the Banking Business loans to its credit risks.
An evaluation report Counterparty limits are established by the use of of the proposed collateral is prepared by the In order to avoid excessive concentrations a credit risk classification system, which assigns Asset Appraisal and Disposal department and of risks, the Bank focuses on maintaining a a risk rating to each counterparty.
Risk ratings submitted to the appropriate Credit Committee, diversified portfolio.
Identified concentrations are subject to regular revision.
The credit quality together with the loan application and Credit of credit risks are controlled and managed review process allows the Bank to assess the Risk Managers report.
Concentrations arise when potential loss as a result of the risks to which collateral, the Bank discounts the market value a number of counterparties, or related it is exposed and to take corrective action.
of the assets to reflect the liquidation value of shareholders, are engaged in similar business The Bank makes available to its customers the collateral.
activities, or activities in the same geographic guarantees letters of credit, which may require region, or have similar economic features that that the Bank makes payments on their behalf.
MEASUREMENT would cause their ability to meet contractual Such payments are collected from customers Exposure and limits are subject to annual or obligations to be similarly affected by changes based on the terms of the guarantee letter of more frequent review.
The Banks compliance in economic, political or other conditions.
They expose the Bank to similar risks with credit risk exposure limits is monitored Concentrations also involve combined, to loans and these are mitigated by the same by the Credit Risk Management department aggregate exposures of large and significant control processes and policies.
The Bank establishes credits compared to total outstanding balance provisions for impairment losses of financial of the respective financial instrument.
LOAN APPROVAL PROCEDURES assets on a collective basis and on an individual Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity The procedures for approving loans, monitoring basis when there is objective evidence that of the Banks performance to developments loan quality and for extending, refinancing and a financial asset or group of financial assets affecting a particular industry or geographical or restructuring existing loans are set out in the is impaired.
The Bank creates provisions by location.
Identified concentrations of credit Banks Credit Policies that are approved by the reference to the particular borrowers financial risks are controlled and managed accordingly.
Supervisory Board and or the Management condition and the number of days the relevant Board of the Bank.
The Credit Committees loan is overdue.
If in a subsequent period the CREDIT RISK approve individual transactions.
The Bank amount of the impairment loss decreases Definition: Credit risk is the risk that a borrower evaluates Corporate Investment Banking clients and the decrease can be related objectively or counterparty will be unable to pay amounts in on the basis of their financial condition, credit to an event occurring after the impairment was full or in part when due.
Credit risk arises mainly history, business operations, market position, recognised, the previously recognised impairment in the context of the Banks lending activities.
management, level of shareholder support, loss is reversed by an adjusted provision proposed business and financing plan and account.
The determination of provisions for Mitigation: The general principles of the on the quality of the collateral offered.
The impairment losses is based on an analysis of Banks credit policy are outlined in the Credit appropriate level of the relevant Credit the assets at risk and reflects the amount which, Policies.
The Credit Policies also outline credit Committee is responsible for making the in the judgement of the Banks management, risk control and monitoring procedures and the decision for loan approval based on credit is adequate to provide for losses incurred.
Banks credit risk management systems.
The memorandum and, where appropriate, the Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 41 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview BANK RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Provisions are made against gross loan flexible to secure liquidity under a wide range debt issuances amounts and accrued interest.
Under the of market conditions.
The liquidity management proceeds from sale of securities Banks internal loan loss allowance methodology, framework is reviewed from time to time principal repayments on loans which is based upon IFRS requirements, the to ensure it is appropriate to the Banks interest income Bank categorises its loan portfolio into significant current and planned activities.
Such review fee and commission income and non-significant loans.
Significant loans encompasses the funding scenarios modelled, are defined as loans in excess of US$ 150,000 the modelling approach, wholesale funding As of 31 December 2017, the Groups total and non-significant loans are defined as loans capacity, limit determination and minimum consolidated client deposits and notes were less than US$ 150,000.
The Credit Risk holdings of liquid assets.
The liquidity GEL 6,712.5 million US$ 2,589.5 million Management Department makes an individual framework is reviewed by the ALCO prior to as compared to GEL 5,382.7 million and assessment of all defaulted significant loans.
approval by the Banks Management Board.
GEL 4,751.4 million as of 31 December 2016 Non-defaulted significant loans are given a and 2015, respectively and represented 54.0% collective assessment rate.
For the purposes The Treasury and Funding departments as compared to 50.9% and 59.1% as of of provisioning, all loans are divided into also undertake an annual funding review that 31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively different groups such as mortgage, consumer, outlines the current funding strategy for the of the Groups total liabilities.
This review encompasses trends with Georgian legislation, the Bank is obliged in global debt markets, funding alternatives, to repay such deposits upon demand of a Since 2004, the Bank, jointly with certain other peer analysis, estimation of the Banks depositor.
In the case of early withdrawal, the Georgian banks and with the Credit Information upcoming funding requirements, estimated interest on the deposit is foregone or reduced.
Group, a provider of credit information market funding capacity and a funding risk As of 31 December 2017, total amounts due solutions, established JSC Credit Info Georgia analysis.
The annual funding plan is reviewed to credit institutions and debt securities issued CIG that serves as a centralised credit bureau by the Bank Management Board and approved were GEL 4,865.0 million US$ 1,876.8 million in Georgia.
Since 2009, all the participating by the Bank Supervisory Board as part of the as compared to GEL 4,725.7 million and banks, insurance companies and microfinance annual budget.
The Funding and Treasury GEL 2,828.9 million as of 31 December 2016 organisations share and contribute positive and departments also review, from time to time, and 2015, respectively and represented 39.1% negative customer credit information to CIG.
different funding options and assess the as compared to 44.7% and 35.2% as of refinancing risks of such options.
31 December 2016 and 2015, respectively Loans up to US$ 500,000 secured by real estate of the Groups total liabilities.
Amounts due to are subject to a write-off once overdue for more Mitigation: The Banks capability to discharge credit institutions and debt securities are taken than 365 days.
Unsecured loans or the loans its liabilities is dependent on its ability to realise from a wide range of counterparties.
secured by collateral other than real estate are an equivalent amount of assets within the same subject to a write-off once overdue for more period of time.
The Bank maintains a portfolio The Bank Management Board believes that the than 150 days.
Corporate loans and loans of highly marketable and diverse assets that it Banks liquidity is sufficient to meet the present above US$ 500,000, secured by real estate, believes can be easily liquidated in the event of requirements.
For information on the Groups may be written off following an assessment an unforeseen interruption of cash flow.
It also liquid assets, liabilities and maturity profile of by the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer and the has committed lines of credit that it can access the Groups financial liabilities, as well as further Credit Risk department, in consultation with to meet its liquidity needs.
Such lines of credit information on the liquidity risk of the Group the Banks CEO and Deputy CEO, Finance.
are available through the NBGs refinancing see Note 31 of the Notes to the Consolidated facility.
In addition, the Bank maintains a cash Financial Statements of this Annual Report.
The Group has completed its IFRS 9 deposit obligatory reserve with the NBG, implementation programme and adopted IFRS the amount of which depends on the level of MARKET RISK 9, Financial Instruments from 1 January 2018. customer funds attracted.
As of 31 December Definition: The Bank is exposed to market For further information see page 159 in the 2017, in line with the NBGs requirements, 20% risk including currency exchange rate risk Consolidated Financial Statements of this of customer deposits in foreign currencies were and interest rate risk, which is the risk that Annual Report.
set aside as minimum reserves.
In addition, the the fair value or future cash flows of financial Bank maintains a minimum average balance of instruments will fluctuate due to changes in LIQUIDITY RISK 7% of its customers deposits in Georgian Lari market variables.
Market risk exposure arises Definition: Liquidity risk is the risk that the at its correspondent account at the NBG.
For from mismatches of maturity and currencies Bank will be unable to meet its payment wholesale funding and Certificates of Deposits, between the assets and liabilities, all of which obligations when they fall due under normal the NBG requires the Bank to set aside 20% of are exposed to market fluctuations.
its unsubordinated foreign currency wholesale funding for borrowings with a remaining Mitigation: The general principles of the Monitoring: Liquidity risk is managed through maturity of less than one year, 10% for Banks market risk management policy are the ALCO-approved liquidity framework.
borrowings with a remaining maturity of one set by the ALCO.
The Bank aims to limit and Treasury manages liquidity on a daily basis.
to two years and 7% of its unsubordinated reduce the amount of possible losses on open In order to manage liquidity risk, it performs Georgian Lari wholesale funding for borrowings market positions which may be incurred by daily monitoring of future expected cash flows with a remaining maturity of less than one year.
the Bank due to negative changes in currency on customers and banking operations, which There is no minimum reserves requirement for exchange rates and interest rates.
The Bank is a part of the assets liabilities management Georgian Lari Certificates of Deposits.
classifies exposures to market risk into either process.
The Finance department prepares trading or non-trading positions.
Trading and and submits monthly reports to the ALCO.
Funding: In the Georgian marketplace, the non-trading positions are managed and The ALCO monitors the proportion of maturing majority of working capital loans are short-term monitored using different sensitivity analyses.
funds available to meet deposit withdrawals and granted with the expectation of renewal In order to address these risks, the ALCO and the amounts of inter-bank and other at maturity.
As such, the ultimate maturity specifically establishes Value at Risk VAR borrowing facilities that should be in place of assets may be different from the analysis limits on possible losses for each type of to cover withdrawals at unexpected levels presented elsewhere.
In addition, the maturity operation currently the VAR limit is set for of demand.
gap analysis does not reflect the historical foreign currency exchange operations only and stability of current accounts.
the Quantitative Risk Management and Risk The liquidity risk management framework The Banks principal sources of liquidity are Analytics department monitor compliance with models the ability of the Bank to meet its as follows: such limits.
payment obligations under both normal conditions and crisis.
The Bank has developed deposits Currency exchange rate risk: Currency a model based on the Basel III liquidity borrowings from international credit exchange rate risk is the risk that the value guidelines.
This approach is designed to institutions of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to ensure that the funding framework is sufficiently inter-bank deposit agreement changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
42 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC The Bank is exposed to the effects of fluctuation As of 31 December 2017, the Banking The Bank has an integrated control framework in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates Business floating rate borrowings accounted for encompassing operational risk management on its financial position.
The Banks currency risk 11.5% of the Banking Business total liabilities.
and control, AML and Compliance, corporate is calculated as an aggregate of open positions and information security and physical security, and is controlled by setting a VAR calculation The Bank is also subject to prepayment risk, each of which is managed by a separate established by the ALCO with respect to the which is the risk that the Bank will incur a department.
financial loss because its customers and counterparties repay or request repayment The Operational Risk Management department The Bank uses the historical simulation method earlier than expected, such as fixed rate is responsible for development of policies, based on 400-business-day statistical data.
mortgages when interest rates fall.
The Bank processes and procedures for managing Its open currency positions are managed by reviews the prior history of early repayments operational risks in all products, activities, the Treasury department on a day-to-day basis by calculating the weighted average effective processes and systems, consistently and are monitored by the Quantitative Risk rate of early repayments across each credit implementing operational risk framework Management and Risk Analytics department.
product, individually, applying these historical throughout the Bank.
The department is The ALCO sets open currency position limits rates to the outstanding carrying amount of responsible for identification and assessment with respect to both overnight and intra-day each loan product as of the reporting date and of operational risks, detecting critical risks positions and stop-loss limits.
Currently, the then multiplying the product by the weighted areas or groups of operations with an increased Banks proprietary trading position is limited average effective annual interest rates for each risk level, developing escalation process, by the ALCO to a maximum of 15.0% of the product.
This allows the Bank to calculate the considering business recommendations and Banks NBG total regulatory capital.
The open expected amount of unforeseen losses in the mitigation action plans.
currency position is also limited by ALCO to case of early repayments.
an annual VAR of GEL 50 million for a one-day The Operational Risk Management Committee trading period with a 98.0% tolerance threshold.
For further information on the Groups is responsible for setting and overseeing market risk see Note 31 of the Notes to the qualitative and quantitative parameters of The ALCO limits are more conservative Consolidated Financial Statements of this operational risk appetite and tolerance.
than NBGs requirements, which allow banks Annual Report.
to keep open positions of up to 20.0% of Operational risks are identified and assessed by regulatory capital.
The Bank also applies OPERATIONAL RISK using several methodologies, such as: internal sensitivity stress tests to its open currency Definition: Operational risk is the risk of loss loss database collection and analysis, scenario positions to estimate any potential negative arising from systems failure, human error, analysis, Risk and Control Self-Assessment impact on its net assets and earnings.
When controls fail to RCSA, new products assessment, Key Risk perform, operational risks can cause damage to Indicators KRIs analysis, etc.
To mitigate an Interest rate risk: The Bank has exposure to reputation, have legal or regulatory implications, impact of operational risk, the Bank applies interest rate risk as a result of lending at fixed or lead to financial loss.
The Bank cannot a number of approaches, including the and floating interest rates in amounts and expect to eliminate all operational risks, but implementation of control elements in a for periods which differ from those of term through a control framework and by monitoring business process, segregation of duties, borrowings at fixed and floating interest rates.
and responding to potential risks, the Bank and development of preventive control tools Interest margins on assets and liabilities having aims to manage the risks.
Controls include within operating systems.
different maturities may increase or decrease effective segregation of duties, access, as a result of changes in market interest rates.
authorisation and reconciliation procedures, The Head of the Operational Risk Management staff education and training and assessment department, who reports to the Deputy CEO, Similarly to other Georgian banks, the majority processes, including the use of internal audit.
Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for the oversight of the Banks assets and deposits have fixed of the Banks operational risks.
In order to minimise interest Mitigation: The Bank manages its operational rate risk, the Bank monitors its interest rate risks by establishing, monitoring and repricing gap and maintains an interest rate continuously improving its policies and margin net interest income before impairment procedures relating to the various aspects of of interest-earning assets divided by average the Banks cash, payments, accounting, trading interest-earning assets sufficient to cover and core processing operations and data operational expenses and risk premium.
back-up and disaster recovery arrangements.
Within limits approved by the Bank Supervisory The Bank has elaborated a framework, which Board, the ALCO approves ranges of interest is in compliance with normative acts defined by rates for different maturities at which the Bank Georgian legislation and international standards.
may place assets and attract liabilities.
The Regular review of and amendments to the policy Quantitative Risk Management and Risk are performed by the Risk Committee, which Analytics department analyses duration gap is also responsible for setting an overall risk and capital sensitivity to interest rate changes.
BORROWED FUNDS REPAYMENT SCHEDULE BANKING BUSINESS US$ million 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Eurobonds 193 250 Senior loans 165 73 67 67 34 6 4 4 2 Subordinated loans 10 4 65 90 TOTAL 175 73 260 67 34 321 4 94 2 % OF TOTAL ASSETS 3.5% 1.5% 5.2% 1.3% 0.7% 6.4% 0.1% 1.9% 0.0% Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 43 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
