COM STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk management approach & Governance team to support the its new strategic objectives.
The Chairman delivery of the Governance Improvement of the Board and the Audit Committee 2017 was a year of strategic review Programme.
The Board and the Audit Chairman receive copies of the minutes of for Essentra, but it was also a year Committee receive regular reports on the each meeting.
The Audit Committee will when restoring stability to the business progress of the Governance Improvement engage directly with individual enabling was fundamental to securing the Programme, and are fully engaged with functions and divisional businesses, opportunities to exploit future growth and committed to its successful delivery.
including deep dive reviews, as part of prospects.
The Principal Risk section fulfilling its oversight responsibilities on of the 2016 Annual Report included The Group Management Committee the risk management processes.
commentary on the failure of the GMC has, following the completion of Company to manage risks relating the strategic review, undertaken a number The Principal Risks set out below reflect to the Packaging division during 2016, of formal risk identification, prioritisation the key risks and uncertainties facing the which led to a decline in overall financial and mitigation workshops in 2017.
In addition, business following the updates to the performance.
The 2016 Annual Report the Board has also conducted a fundamental strategy and the structure of the Essentra also highlighted that the Company review and discussion of the outputs from Group.
As a result, the Principal Risks had recognised the need to undertake the work undertaken by the GMC.
are a combination of new and previously a review of its existing risk management disclosed risks.
The updated risk structure and processes in order to deliver The senior leadership teams of the management practices have facilitated improvements in the identification, Packaging, Components and Filters a better articulation of the nature and assessment and mitigation of risk.
divisions, and certain enabling functions characteristics of the major risks and an have also undertaken detailed risk enhanced focus on effective mitigation.
In addition to the strategic objectives for management discussions in the context The development of key risk indicators the respective businesses, the Chief of the implementation of the outputs during 2018 will further enable the Executive has set the objective for the from the strategy review.
Risk mitigation consistent, diligent and effective Company to continue to improve its overall activities are being incorporated into monitoring and management of the governance, to ensure alignment with FTSE strategy implementation plans, and risks impacting the Company.
250 top quartile best practice by 2020 and regular risk discussions will be part of to underpin the successful delivery of leadership meetings of all the divisions The diagram over represents the strategic growth and business performance.
and enabling functions to embed risk Companys risk management framework During 2017, the Company has developed management into business as usual activities.
under the refreshed structure, along a well-defined governance improvement with the phases of implementation.
plan, facilitated in part in conjunction with In order to further strengthen the specialist external professional review and leadership, oversight and governance of The Company has considered the risks expertise.
The Governance Improvement risk management, the annual cycle of it is facing under the following four risk Programme includes a number of specific Board agenda activities has been updated category headings and has identified initiatives designed to deliver more effective to facilitate additional risk reviews, while 13 Principal Risks.
governance, driven by the adoption of risk the Audit Committee focuses on ensuring management enterprise risk and business that the new risk management processes 1.
Strategic Internal risks that may continuity internal audit, and compliance are being effectively embedded across the impede achievement of strategic goals.
programmes in line with best practice.
In addition, a new Group Risk Committee GRC chaired by the 2.
External Risks relating to the Recommendations from an external Chief Executive has been constituted.
The macroeconomic climate, political events, review of risk management processes are first meetings of the new GRC took place competitive pressures or regulatory issues.
being addressed to deliver improvements in January and February 2018, and further in the identification, assessment and meetings will take place on at least a 3.
Operational Risks that could impact mitigation of risk, and a refreshed risk quarterly basis.
The Board will receive day-to-day operations and prevent appetite statement is being implemented.
regular reporting from the Chief Executive business as usual activities.
The Chief Executive is sponsoring these in his capacity as GRC Chairman to enable improvements which are being led by the the Board to challenge and review the 4.
Disruptive Risks that could impact Company Secretary & General Counsel.
GRCs views on the Principal Risks and the business model or viability of the The changes are being implemented with emerging risks, as an important part of Company.
Although key disruptive the full endorsement of the Board, and fulfilling its responsibilities to determine risks have been identified and mitigated the Company is increasing its internal the nature and extent of the risks the by the Company, none of them are resources as part of a new Legal, Risk Company is willing to take in meeting considered to be Principal Risks currently.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Board Structure Overall responsibility for assessing the Groups Principal Risks, setting risk appetite and monitoring risk management.
Group Risk Committee GRC Audit & Risk Committee Chaired by the Chief Executive and compiled of Group Management Committee members, the GRC is responsible for monitoring principal Responsible for and key group risks and ensuring the eectiveness of divisional and reviewing the functional risk management.
eectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and Facilitators Divisional Boards Enabling Functions processes.
Each Divisional Board is Enabling Functions will be Group Risk Function responsible for ensuring their responsible for identifying and divisional risks are captured and mitigating risks within their Divisional Risk are being eectively mitigated own functions applicable to Champions within business as usual Finance, IT, Human Resources processes.
Risk management is and Legal & Compliance.
Enabling Function a standing agenda item for Risk Champions Divisional Board meetings.
Business Units Specic business units or sites within each division will Direct & monitor Refreshed 2017 implement their own risk Report Refreshed early 2018 registers, risk and action Refreshed during 2018 owners.
Management will be responsible for managing local level risk and reporting to the respective Divisional Board.
The Principal Risks detailed over are The continued evolution and embedding In addition to the Principal Risk, other graded for likelihood and impact on of improved risk management activities, key or emerging risks have been identified a gross basis ie, without accounting for cascading down from the Board through and are being monitored by the Company.
existing mitigation, and are not presented the respective divisions and enabling The materiality of those other key or in any priority.
The Board believes that the functions, will further align risk management emerging risks as a whole is not sufficient Principal Risks are specific to Essentra and with the delivery of strategic objectives in for them to be considered as a Principal reflect the risk profile of the Company at line with the defined risk appetite.
Risk, but the development of mitigation the current time.
actions in response to such risks will form The Board has reassessed the risk appetite an important part of the divisional and in the context of the newly defined strategy functional risk reporting to the GRC for the Company and will keep this under and Board.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Strategic Risks Description Mitigation Failure to Achieve The Packing division failed to perform The Packaging division has been a key area of focus Acceptable Returns from as expected in 2016.
A number of strategic for the Company in 2017 and a number of changes the Packaging Division initiatives have been undertaken to address have been made to address performance, including: this in 2017: however, there remains Likelihood: Low a risk that such initiatives fail to address Creation of a new globally managed Packaging Impact: High performance issues and allow the division division, replacing the previous Americas and Change in risk level: New to provide an acceptable return.
This includes Europe & Asia regional structure and other Ownership: winning profitable new business, realising organisational complexity Packaging division MD expected cost savings or initiatives taking Categorisation: New leadership including divisional Managing longer or costing more than anticipated.
Company Specific Director and other senior appointments.
The Chief Executive has also focused significantly Although a Principal Risk relating to the on the Packaging division in 2017 and will continue decline of the Packaging division was to do so in 2018 reported in 2016, this risk is considered to be a new risk where the division has stabilised, A new Packaging division strategy has been and therefore risk focus is now on ensuring developed, communicated and rolled out.
the steps that have been taken are This includes initiatives such as the closure effective and allow the division to provide of the Newport cartons production facility, an acceptable return.
the carve-out of the Tapes business into the new Specialist Components division, equipment upgrades, improving operational stability and customer delivery, and growing existing customer relationships and developing new opportunities 42 STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Strategic Risks Description Mitigation Tobacco Industry Dynamics The business of the Filters division relates to Essentra is seeking to mitigate the risk associated the supply of filter products and packaging with changes in the tobacco market dynamics, and Likelihood: High solutions to manufacturers in the tobacco the overall decline in market growth for traditional Impact: High industry.
Changes in the traditional tobacco tobacco products, by focusing on activities with Change in risk level: market have strategic ramifications for longer-term viability and exploiting potential No change Essentra, presenting both potential risks growth opportunities emerging from the latest Ownership: and future opportunities.
Filters division MD Company has a strong market position Categorisation: in its key existing addressable segments, Increased segmentation and prioritisation Company Specific the future growth opportunities for the based on customer categorisation and filter Company and its financial performance differentiation may be affected by market dynamics Further upgrading of innovation capabilities within the industry and the structural shift and development of project partnering with away from traditional tobacco products key customers into Next Generation Products and overall declining market growth.
Essentras Enhanced focus on Key Account Management, competitive position cannot be sustained leading to better market visibility and building unless it manages and adapts its operational further enhanced relationships capacity and innovation capabilities in line Developing a more commercially-led focus with key market trends, including global while maintaining operational excellence and consumption shift from western to eastern responsiveness to customer demands markets, customers self-manufacture and demand volatility, increasing commercial Exploring possible medium to long term value pressures, special filters and Newcreation levers: Generation Product developments and 1.
Investing to establish a permanent presence evolving legislation.
in the highly attractive Chinese market 2.
Delivering new solutions and business models Tobacco-related litigation could also to respond to evolving outsourcing equirements adversely affect Essentra, although there of multi-national customers is no history of the Company being involved 3.
Developing Next Generation Products, possibly in such a claim.
in partnership with third parties 43 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Strategic Risks Description Mitigation Customer Service Quality The Groups success is dependent on Improvements in operational performance have and On Time in Full its ability to provide its customers with been a key focus of the business in 2017.
As well as OTIF delivery quality customer service and on time and safety metrics, quality and delivery performance in full product delivery.
The customer base metrics are tracked and discussed on a daily basis Likelihood: Low is diverse, ranging from an individual at site level, as well as on a weekly and monthly Impact: High who may order low cost parts from our basis within divisions and on a monthly basis at Change in risk level: New Components business to multi-national the GMC, in order to identify: a issues that require Ownership: blue chip companies that rely on products intervention: and b ongoing opportunities for Group Operations Director from our Packaging and Filters divisions.
The Board also receives a quarterly Categorisation: If the Group is unable to deliver excellence report on operational metrics.
Company Specific consistently and meet all expectations, In 2017, all divisions recorded improvements in then it is likely to lose business and profit OTIF delivery performance and reductions in to competitors.
both the number of quality complaints received and the incident rate for quality complaints This is a newly identified Principal Risk.
ie, number of complaints per number of While it has high importance across the orders production volume.
Company, it is fundamental that this risk is managed within the Packaging division The improved performance has enhanced which will be reliant on rebuilding customer the satisfaction of key customers.
44 STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM External Risks Description Mitigation Regulatory Governance The Group operates internationally and The Group uses a range of controls to manage with a diverse supplier and customer base.
regulatory risk including: Likelihood: Low As a consequence it is required to comply Impact: High with multiple areas of regulation and good A tone from the top from the Board and GMC Change in risk level: Same practice for areas such as Anti-Trust, on the importance of ethics and compliance Ownership: Anti-Bribery, Sanctions and General Data Company Secretary New internal resource and investment to drive Protection Regulation GDPR from May & General Counsel better governance practices 2018.
Such compliance and good practice Categorisation: is resource intensive and processes and controls Group compliance policies and guidance materials Industry General must reach 8,000 plus employees in 30 Communication and training platforms and countries, some of which are higher risk programmes territories.
Failure to comply with regulation could result in significant fines, costs and A Right to Speak process, in which the reputational damage to the Group.
Chief Executive, Company Secretary & General Counsel and Group Human Resources Director The level of the risk has remained the are key stakeholders same as there have been no material A third party risk management process and platform changes in levels of regulation from a Company perspective, albeit that the Working closely with external partners to monitor GDPR deadline is imminent.
the regulatory environment Identification and management of regulatory risks via the enterprise risk management process Roll out of GDPR compliance programmes Regulatory Products The Group manufactures multiple products, The Group uses a range of controls to manage such as filters, pharmaceutical packaging, regulatory risk relating to the products that it Likelihood: Low plastic components and oil & gas pipe manufactures and distributes, including: Impact: High protection products that are subject to Change in risk level: Same product regulation.
The Group must A tone from the top from the Board and GMC Ownership: therefore constantly monitor and comply on the importance of ethics, compliance and Company Secretary with such product regulations, as a breach strong governance & General Counsel could have a significant financial and Categorisation: New internal resource and investment to drive reputational impact.
Company Specific better governance practices The level of the risk has remained the same as Group compliance policies, processes and there have been no material changes in levels guidance materials of regulation or business operations to affect Communication and training platforms this from the Companys perspective, although and programmes the use of certain materials such as plastics may lead to some additional reputational risk.
Specialist external support 45 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS External Risks Description Mitigation Cyber Attack The Company is dependent on its IT systems The Company employs multiple layers of cyber for day-to-day operations.
Should the Group security threat defences from endpoint protection, Likelihood: Medium become affected by a general global cyber encryption of data, identity-based access control, Impact: High incident or be specifically targeted by a network firewalls, web and email content protection Change in risk level: criminal network, this could potentially lead to ongoing vulnerability and penetration testing Increased to suspension of some operations, regulatory across critical corporate and online services.
Ownership: breaches and fines, reputational damage, Chief Information Officer loss of customer and employee information As part of the technology transformation Categorisation: and loss of customer confidence.
programme, the cyber security project is enhancing Industry General capability across people, process and technology Although there are no indicators to suggest to ensure Essentra is in-step with the increased risk that the risk of a cyber attack on the associated with cyber attack.
Company is higher, the risk has generally increased given the higher volume of global cyber incidents in 2017.
Brexit Brexit could impact the Company in During 2017 and the early part of 2018, the Company a number of ways, for example: conducted a thorough review of Brexit risks, Likelihood: High including understanding Essentras exposure.
Impact: High A material element of the operations This included consultation with external experts Change in risk level: New of the Components division involves and used third party support.
Ownership: manufacturing products in the UK and Group Operations Director, distributing them into the EU.
Should Coming out of this review, a range of potential Group Finance Director, trade tariffs and or a customs border mitigation options were identified, which the Group Human Resources be imposed this could lead to increased Company is now in the process of reviewing.
Director costs and complexity within the divisions These include: Categorisation: existing business model.
Industry General Potential changes to the European asset and The Company has multiple manufacturing manufacturing footprint to optimise material flows sites in the UK.
Should trade tariffs or a customs border be imposed, this could Optimisation of product manufacturing locations restrict the supply chain opportunities versus customer locations available to these sites.
Seeking alternative raw material supply sources Depending on the outcome of to minimise cross-border flows negotiations, Brexit could increase Seeking Approved Economic Operator status the cost of, or restrict funding for, to minimise inspection delays the Groups current and future investment plans.
Brexit has previously been identified as a key but not Principal Risk to the Company.
As UK EU negotiations continue, the Company has determined that it should now be managed, mitigated and monitored as a Principal Risk.
46 STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Operational Risks Description Mitigation Operational Resilience The Group has some single manufacturing The Group has reviewed and refreshed its business Natural Catastrophes site dependencies for the production of continuity planning processes in 2017, working closely and Fire specific products and meeting particular with external parties.
Enhanced processes are being customer requirements.
All of these sites adopted across the business, and are targeted at Likelihood: Low are subject to fire risk and some of them, higher risk sites and processes and ensuring that Impact: High are in locations that are more prone to robust continuity plans and site improvements are Change in risk level: Same natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, in place.
Aligned to this, there is increased focus Ownership: floods, storms or earthquakes.
The Group on IT infrastructure.
Such plans are to be kept under Group Operations Director experienced both employee impact constant review and tested periodically.
Other Categorisation: and operational disruption as a result of mitigating factors that the Group has in place are: Industry General such events in 2017 at sites in Puerto Rico and Houston, US.
Should further events Operating within a flexible global infrastructure occur, this could impact production Developing multi-site capabilities and capability and fixed assets, supply chain manufacturing flexibility management, customer relationships, reputation, revenue and profit.
Installing fire and other risk prevention systems Assessing and managing operational risks via Such events will continue to be a threat the enterprise risk management process to the normal operation of the Company, and consequently the level of the risk Maintaining a comprehensive insurance programme remains the same.
Product Quality, The Company manufactures a range In addition to the ongoing tracking of quality metrics Liability and of products for a wide range of customers, mentioned above, the Group is also undertaking Contamination some of which provide significant a review of its quality management processes proportion of Group and or divisional to ensure they are fit-for-purpose, to minimise the Likelihood: Medium revenues.
Should the Company fail to risk of contamination or product quality issues.
Impact: High provide adequate quality consistently This review includes support from external experts Change in risk level: New in its products, there is a risk of loss of in some cases, along with alignment of quality Ownership: customers and or failure to win profitable processes and standards across geographies and Group Operations Director new business.
within divisions, to ensure a single consistent global Categorisation: process for customers in multiple jurisdictions.
Industry General Similarly, there is a risk that some manufactured products that reach Divisional capital expenditure plans also include, consumers, such as filters, labels or where appropriate, additional spend on inspection component parts could become equipment eg sensors, cameras to improve in-line contaminated or cause an accident for inspection and further reduce the likelihood of which the Company is liable.
Should this product quality issues.
occur, this could lead to significant fines and or reputational damage.
The Company continues to assess potential exposures to litigation arising from tobacco-related Product Quality, Liability & Contamination or Next Generation Products, and seeks to manage has been elevated to a Principal Risk to the supply, packaging and labelling of such products the Company, and incorporates any accordingly.
potential tobacco-related or Next Generation Products litigation.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Operational Risks Description Mitigation Internal Business A number of the issues that have previously The scope, key questions to be addressed and Processes impacted the Company were due to outcomes of the strategy review were set out in weaknesses in internal business processes detail in the 2017 strategic review.
The outputs from Likelihood: Medium and controls.
Examples of this include strategy work streams are being implemented Impact: Medium inadequate acquisition integration, failure across all four divisions with the support of the Change in risk level: New to document or to update operational Enabling Functions.
The activities will result in the Ownership: processes or define business process implementation of clear business strategies Divisions and ownership, poor planning and project supported by better internal business processes Enabling Functions execution and lack of effective training and improved risk mitigation, through consistent Categorisation: and development.
The Company has adherence to business processes and cultural Company Specific acknowledged and begun to review these change.
Development of the Companys IT weaknesses in 2017, and they will remain capabilities will support the improvement in Internal a risk while they are being addressed.
The benefits of these changes and the investments being made, including the Internal Business Processes have been addition of new internal resources, are expected identified as a new Principal Risk to to support stabilisation and growth of the Company the Company.
Safety Safety is of the highest priority for the Throughout 2017, the tone from the top on including Regulatory Company.
Essentra has 49 manufacturing safety has been reinforced throughout Essentra.
facilities across the world, along with many Management teams have been instructed to give Likelihood: Low non-manufacturing sites and internationally a higher priority to establishing and reinforcing the Impact: High mobile employees.
Manufacturing can be management systems employed throughout the Change in risk level: New inherently risky given the use of industrial Company, and key Health, Safety and Environment Ownership: machinery and high speed manufacturing senior appointments have been made, including Chief Executive processes.
In addition, the Company must a new Group HSE Director reporting to the Categorisation: comply with the requirements of multiple Chief Executive.
Industry General jurisdictions concerning safety regulation.
During 2017, a programme was developed Should an injury or fatality affect any of which will ensure that every Company site has our employees or visitors, or should there a comprehensive and robust approach to the be any breach of safety regulation resulting identification, prioritisation and remediation of in prosecution, we could anticipate risks and hazards.
Delivery of this programme will considerable reputational damage as well continue through 2018 and is supported by central as potentially significant financial costs.
resources who provide training, support and expertise.
The scope of this programme has now Following the risk reviews during 2017, the been broadened to encompass all Essentra sites Company has reaffirmed its commitment during 2018. to treat Safety as an absolute priority and this is reflected through its elevation to one of the Principal Risks to the Company.
48 STRATEGIC REPORT | MANAGEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Operational Risks Description Mitigation Supply Chain Single The Companys supply chain is reliant on The Company increased focus in this area in 2017, Point of Failure raw materials and goods being delivered in including working on business continuity planning full and on time to its manufacturing sites with external parties, as noted above.
This focus Likelihood: Medium from various international sources and will continue in 2018.
In some cases, the Company is Change in risk level: New reliant on a limited number of suppliers or a A comprehensive supply chain assessment will Ownership: single supplier for a key raw material.
In the be completed in 2018, which will focus on Group Operations Director case of supplier failure, significant input cost Categorisation: increases or transportation infrastructure Identification of investment requirements Company Specific disruption, could have a material impact including additional IT capabilities on the profitability of the Company.
Identification of alternative sources of supply for key raw materials, where necessary and feasible Similarly, the Company is reliant on certain sites and their equipment in some cases to Ensuring comprehensive maintenance plans are manufacture specific products.
Should such in place for key manufacturing equipment, and machinery not be able to operate for an or alternative manufacturing routes are identified extended period of time this could also Identifying alternative logistics routings, where have a material profit impact.
necessary and feasible Supply Chain Single Point of Failure has The implementation of the Companys new business been identified as a new Principal Risk to continuity planning process will continue in 2018, the Company, and the risk incorporates ensuring any specific areas of concern are properly Raw Material Supply which was previously mitigated.
IT Systems The Company is dependent on a wide The Company began an investment programme Stability & Reliability range of IT systems for its day-to-day in Q4 2017 to upgrade and reconfigure the internal operations.
In some cases, mainly due to infrastructure across all divisions and key sites.
The Likelihood: High a lack of historic investment, IT systems are focus has been to reduce, and ultimately eliminate, Impact: Medium relatively old, have not been updated and the number of unplanned outages caused by Change in risk level: Same may lack both external and internal systems failure and avoid any disruption to business Ownership: support.
This can lead to IT systems being operations.
Core networks and data communications Chief Information Officer unreliable or having poor functionality to are being upgraded and scaled to accommodate Categorisation: support everyday operations which creates the forecasted increase in data flows.
This includes Company Specific risk of material impact to customers and internal data flows in our core supply chain and employees, ultimately impacting finance systems and external flows to the internet, profitability and reputation.
to streamline our digital interactions with customers and cloud-based services.
The level of risk is considered to be the same as reported in 2016, albeit a number A three-year IT strategy is being developed to of initiatives will be completed in 2018 address the current challenges and the proposed which are anticipated to reduce the investment to support the necessary improvements, risk over time.
and will be subject to detailed review during H1 2018.
