Strategic Report Managing Our Risks We are committed to effective risk Managing management to support delivery of our strategic objectives.
Our Risks Our risk management process is designed to improve the likelihood of delivering our business objectives, protect the interests of our shareholders and key stakeholders, and enhance the quality of our decision making through the awareness of risk-assessed outcomes.
It also assists in the safeguarding of our assets, including people, finances, property and reputation.
We are committed to conducting business in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and in a manner that is consistent with our values.
Risk Governance Accountability for monitoring Structure The Board Audit and Risk Committee Responsible for our system of Corporate Responsible for reviewing and approving Governance and overseeing execution the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk of our strategy: risk management and management and internal controls.
Executive Management Committee Responsible for setting strategic direction, executing strategic decisions and implementing an effective corporate risk management system.
Business Units Audit function Chief Risk Officer Responsible for identifying, assessing and Reviews and reports Reports on key risks managing risks within their business subject on the system of and risk mitigation.
Company Risk Map Risk Register & Divisional Risk Maps Management teams in business units review risks through self-assessment methodology and develop risk registers which, together with risk maps that are developed from the risk registers, are submitted to the Executive Management Committee and the Audit and Responsibility Risk Committee on a bi-annual basis.
for implementing 20 Strategic Report Managing Our Risks BBA Aviations risk mitigation strategy and risk appetite are matters How we manage risk across BBA Aviation that are overseen by the Board, with the support of the Audit and The Board has established a framework for assessing risk in the Risk Committee, which manages the processes that underpin risk context of likelihood and impact in financial and reputational terms.
assessment and our systems of internal control.
Each risk within the Group is assessed against this framework and the Board reassesses its risk appetite on a bi-annual basis when risk The risk assessment process drives the Internal Audit scope, which maps are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
is agreed in February each year by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Chief Risk Officer and Head of Internal Audit attend Audit and Group policies, standards and internal controls, together with Risk Committee meetings to provide regular updates and discuss our Values and our focus on safety, underpin our approach to risk any proposed changes to the plan.
We are committed to being a responsible values-led business and our leaders are responsible for embedding this into BBA Aviations culture, our decision making and how we work.
Our employees are accountable for working to established standards and for identifying and escalating encountered risks so that they can be appropriately managed.
The Group has comprehensive training programmes to ensure that employees are appropriately trained in BBA Aviations ethics policies.
Risk Management Process The key features of our risk management process are set out below: Business Objectives Our business objectives are established on a five year basis and drive our annual objectives.
Bi-Annual Key and Emerging Board, Executive Management Monitor Key Risk Status Risk Assessment Process Committee Review Strategic Plan Progress is monitored at Development & Update global, divisional and business Our strategy informs the level and risks assessed on an setting of shorter-term ongoing basis as part of the goals across the Group and is business review and risk widely communicated.
Ongoing Key Risk Mitigation Strategic Risk Mitigation management processes.
Execution of the Strategic Plan Portfolio and investment decisions are made based on resource constraints and risk reward profiles against our strategic objectives.
21 Strategic Report Managing Our Risks The bi-annual risk assessment process looks forward three years to create BBA Aviations risk profile.
These key Group-level risks are Case Study response to Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria input into the scenario modelling for the Viability Statement, which For a 30-day period in August and September 2017, 17 Signature is explained further on page 85.
Flight Support locations in the United States and the Caribbean were directly impacted by three Category 4 and 5 hurricanes: Progress in 2017 Harvey, Irma and Maria.
Systematic planning and implementation We continue to adopt a risk and controls-based approach and was the key to employee safety, successful recovery and the have improved our reporting to provide practical insight in executive fast re-opening of locations, confirming that, while not every risk summaries to enable senior management to understand issues can be controlled or prevented, identifying and understanding risk quickly.
All audit findings are reported in terms of risk and impact, which enables the turning of a high-risk situation into a manageable event.
is aligned with BBA Aviations Risk Model, and a structured follow-up A robust and effective hurricane plan had been in train before process operates driven by action dates agreed collaboratively the start of the 2017 hurricane season when Signature between Internal Audit and BBA Aviations management and overseen locations undertook their annual pre-hurricane review.
as the hurricanes developed, they were tracked to ensure that A key area of improvement in 2017 was in the area of Business all locations potentially in their paths were alert and prepared.
Signature executive leadership had plans in place to monitor and manage the crisis while ensuring the ongoing business A new sub-Committee of the Executive Management Committee was of the rest of the network was not disrupted.
established to provide guidance and leadership to ensure that BBA Aviations businesses are suitably protected from a BCM perspective.
Three to four days ahead of anticipated landfall, Signatures This includes ensuring compliance with the Groups BCM Policy and Hurricane Response Plan & Checklist was initiated, and daily providing support and expertise, both within Committee members status calls commenced.
The Response Plan & Checklist is a respective operations and across the Group.
The Committee detailed step by step guide to ready the entire FBO complex consists of BCM co-ordinators from each business unit and the key for the coming storm.
Fuel supplies are checked and verified: global functions.
customers are notified to re-locate their aircraft: Ground Support Equipment is prepared and staged: any aircraft remaining on the The Committee meets for bi-annual reviews and strategy planning, ground are secured as much as possible: buildings and grounds monthly conference calls, and is the internal business driver for the BCM are battened down: all administration and supplies are confirmed: testing programme.
Knowledge, learning and experiences are shared and emergency equipment such as generators and satellite within the Group to deliver continuous improvement in BCM practice phones are deployed.
Principal Risks At the corporate offices in Orlando a review was undertaken We have identified 12 principal risks and uncertainties facing BBA to ensure that all required financial matters, including payroll, Aviation which are considered by the Board to be material to the were dealt with in advance.
Communication was maintained development, performance, position or future prospects of the Group.
throughout the storm period and continued until all employees, These risks, mitigations and changes during the year are summarised facilities and equipment were confirmed safe.
Insurance adjusters in the table on page 23.
They are not set out in priority order.
were quickly dispatched to the affected locations and teams were mobilised to provide assistance to employees and to those facilities needing additional expertise and or personnel.
While 17 locations were directly impacted, only three were seriously affected and Signature was able to move very quickly to re-open its FBOs, using social media to keep customers informed of progress.
Post-event reviews were undertaken to identify learnings, and these have been fed into BBA Aviations Business Continuity and Crisis Management Plans to further improve resilience in the future.
22 Strategic Report Managing Our Risks Objective Risks Mitigation action Control Change during year Structural changes in the global economic Active monitoring of lead economic indicators.
environment, or cycle fluctuations: Strong financial controls to monitor financial performance and provide a basis drive down B&GA and commercial flying and for corrective actionwhen required.
Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to meetdemand.
cause market weakness in the ERO sector.
Global terrorist events either in-flight, at or near Airport and internal access security processes, vetting ofpotential staff major airports materially impacting global air travel.
Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to enable corrective action to be taken.
Legislative changes causing material increase to cost Active participation in all relevant industry bodies.
of B&GAflight relative to alternatives such as Ongoing monitoring of all US and EMEA political activity which may impact commercial flying, road orrail travel.
Ongoing competitor activity to replicate market Active monitoring of competitor activity.
Strong financial controls to monitor financial performance.
Ability to attract and retain high-quality and capable Succession planning process embedded with review atExecutive people at senior and mid-management levels.
Management Committee and Board levelannually.
Remuneration structure designed to reward superior performance and Performance promote retention.
Optimisation Proactive employee development and key talent retention processes.
Potential liabilities from defects in services Standard operating procedures with routine root causeanalysis of all incidents.
Impact of a successful cyber attack.
Operation of a specialist Information Security team.
Continual refreshment of firewalls and endpoint protection, laptop encryption, mobile device management, intrusion protection, password policy, vulnerability and penetration testing, identity and security event management.
Intentional or inadvertent non-compliance with Clear values statement and ethical policies.
company values and legislation, both within BBA Semi-annual compliance certification by all senior management.
Aviation and with trading partners.
Rigorous third party vetting processes.
Robust internal control environment and regular reviewby internal and external audit.
Strong procedural controls and physical containment when working with fuel or other hazardous chemicals.
Active management of known environmental matters tominimise costs to resolve.
Non-compliance with banking covenants caused Strong treasury management controls concerning liquidity management.
by a tighter regulatory environment around Rigorous third party vetting processes, which includes the compliance with sanctions compliance, which is a key condition sanctions regulations.
Ability to effectively manage key resources and Strategic Governance Committee established to monitor delivery of Project dependencies across major projects.
Portfolio Roadmap and escalate issues to the Executive Management Committee.
Project Management Framework operates to ensure effective governance.
Changes in tax regulation in both the USA and Timely compliance with all international tax requirements.
EMEA could impact oureffective tax rate and our Continuous monitoring of changes to tax legislation, taking advice where cash tax liabilities.
appropriate from reputable professional advisers.
