Business Environment Business Environment Principal Group risk factors @ Overview Assessment of Group risk Time frame The principal risk factors that may affect the During the year, the Directors have carried Short term Group are set out on the following pages.
out a robust assessment of the principal risks Medium term and uncertainties facing the Group, including Each risk is considered in the context of the those that would threaten its business model, Long term Groups strategy, as set out in this Strategic future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Following a Strategic impact description of each risk, its potential impact The principal risks facing the Group have Growth and management by the Group is remained broadly unchanged over the past summarised.
Clear accountability is attached year with regards to Marketplace, Excise and Productivity to each risk through the risk owner.
Tax, Operations, Regulation and Litigation Winning organisation risk factors.
The Board identified two new The Group has identified risks and is actively principal risks during 2017: the risk related monitoring and taking action to manage the Sustainability to the development and commercialisation risks.
This section focuses on those risks that of NGP and the risk associated with the the Directors believe to be the most important @ Considered in viability statement integration of RAI.
Due to actions put in after assessment of the likelihood and place since the closure of the acquisition, Yes potential impact on the business.
Not all of theintegration of RAI is no longer considered these risks are within the control of the Group No to be a principal risk.
and other factors besides those listed may affect the Groups performance.
Some risks The Directors considered a number of other may be unknown at present.
Other risks, risks for the Group, and while recognising the currently regarded as less material, could risks and monitoring action plans, such risks become material in the future.
were not deemed to be principal risks for the Group.
A summary of these other risks which The risk factors listed in this section and the are monitored by the Board through the activities being undertaken to manage them Groups risk register is set out in the Additional should be considered in the context of the disclosures section on pages 226 and 227.
This is described in the section on risk management The viability statement below provides a and internal control in the corporate broader assessment of long-term solvency governance statement on page 68.
The Directors have considered section should also be read in the context a number of factors that may affect the ofthe cautionary statement on page 239. resilience of the Group.
Except for the risk Injury, illness or death in the workplace the Directors have also assessed the potential impact of the principal risks that may impact the Groups viability.
This is indicated in the impact on viability statement key under each risk.
@ denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part ofBATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
@ Viability statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In making this assessment the Directors have considered the Groups continued strong cash generation from operating activities.
This assessment included a robust review of the principal risks that may impact the Groups viability as indicated on pages 49 to 54 which are considered, with the mitigating actions, at least once a year.
The Directors also took account of the Groups operational and financial processes, which cover both short-term 12 year financial forecasts, 23 year capacity plans and longer-term strategic planning.
The assessment included reverse stress testing core drivers that underpin the specific risks to ensure the business is able to continue in operation, while not breaching the required gross interest cover of 4.5 times see page 38.
Each impact would, individually, have to be between 5x and 17x worse than a prudent annual forecast, or would all have to arise simultaneously with no mitigating or corrective actions to affect the Groups ability to meet the liabilities as they fall due.
The Directors noted that the Group would be able to adjust certain capital requirements, including but not limited to the investment in the Groups manufacturing infrastructure in the short term and the 6 billion credit facility 2017: 600 million drawn, to mitigate the impact of the effect of the principal risks, each of which have specific mitigation activities as disclosed on pages 49 to 54.
The Group operates in a unique environment, being subject to inherent uncertainties with regards to regulatory change and litigation, the outcome of which may have a bearing on the Groups viability.
The Group maintains, as referred to in note 28 on the Accounts Contingent Liabilities and Financial Commitments, that, while it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case, the defences of the Groups companies to all the various claims are meritorious on both law and the facts.
If an adverse judgment is entered against any of the Groups companies in any case, an appeal will be made, the duration of which can be reasonably expected to last for a number of years.
The Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period.
However, given the inherent uncertainty involved regarding litigation and regulation, the period over which the Directors consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability, based on the stress testing and scenario planning discussed above, is three years.
48 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risks Competition from illicittrade Increased competition from illicit trade either local duty evaded, smuggled illicit white cigarettes or counterfeits.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Erosion of brand value, with lower volumes and reduced profits.
Dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT teams operating at global, country levels and internal cross-functional coordination: best practice shared.
Reduced ability to take price increases.
Active engagement with key external stakeholders.
Investment in trade marketing and distribution is undermined.
Cross-industry and multi-sector cooperation on a range of AIT issues.
Global AIT strategy supported by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem.
AIT Engagement Team including a dedicated analytical laboratory works with enforcement agencies in pursuit ofpriority targets.
Tobacco and nicotine regulation inhibits growth strategy The enactment of regulation that significantly impairs the Groups ability to communicate, differentiate, market or launch its products.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Medium term Growth and Sustainability Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Erosion of brand value through commoditisation, the inability to Engagement and litigation strategy coordinated and aligned launch innovations, differentiate products, maintain or build brand across the Group to drive a balanced global policy framework for equity and leverage price.
Adverse impact on ability to compete within the legitimate tobacco Stakeholder mapping and prioritisation, developing robust or nicotine industry and also with increased illicit trade.
compelling advocacy materials with supporting evidence and data and regulatory engagement programmes.
Reduced consumer acceptability of new product specifications, leading to consumers seeking alternatives in illicit trade.
Regulatory risk assessment of marketing plans to ensure decisions are informed by an understanding of the potential Shocks to share price on enactment of restrictive regulation.
Reduced ability to compete in future product categories and make Advocating the application of our integrated regulatory proposals new market entries.
to governments and public health practitioners based on the harm Increased scope and severity of compliance regimes in new reduction principles.
regulation leading to higher costs, greater complexity and potential Development of an integrated regulatory strategy thatspans reputational damage or fines forinadvertent breach.
conventional combustibles and includes Next Generation Products.
Please refer to pages 228 to 231 for details of tobacco and nicotine regulatory regimes under which the Groups businesses operate.
@ denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 49 Business Environment Principal Group risk factors continued Risks continued Significant excise increases or structure changes The Group is exposed to unexpected and or significant excise increases or structure changes in key markets.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Consumers reject the Groups legitimate tax-paid products Requirement for Group companies to have in place formal pricing forproducts from illicit sources orcheaper alternatives.
and excise strategies including contingency plans, with annual risk assessments.
Pricing, excise and trade margin committees in markets, with Reduced sales volume and or portfolio erosion.
Partial absorption of excise increases.
Engagement with local tax and customs authorities, where appropriate, in particular in relation to the increased risk to excise revenues from higher illicit trade.
Portfolio reviews to ensure appropriate balance and coverage acrossprice segments.
Monitoring of economic indicators, government revenues and the political situation.
Litigation Product liability, regulatory or other significant cases may be lost or compromised resulting in a material loss or other consequence.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Damages and fines, negative impact on reputation, disruption Consistent litigation strategy across the Group.
andloss of focus on the business.
Expertise and legal talent maintained both within the Group Consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position andwithour external partners.
could be materially affected, in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year, Closer integration in Group litigation strategy.
by region or country, by an unfavourable outcome or settlement of pending or future litigation.
Ongoing monitoring of key legislative, case law and tobacco developments.
Please refer to note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of contingent liabilities applicable to the Group.
50 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Geopolitical tensions Geopolitical tensions, social unrest, terrorism and organised crime have the potential to disrupt the Groups business inmultiple markets.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Medium term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Potential loss of life, loss of assets and disruption to normal Globally integrated sourcing strategy and contingency business processes.
Increased costs due to more complex supply chain arrangements Security risk modelling, including external risk assessments and or the cost of building new facilities ormaintaining and the monitoring of geopolitical and economic policy inefficient facilities.
Lower volumes as a result of not being able to trade in a country.
Insurance cover and business continuity planning, including scenario planning and testing, and risk awareness training.
Security controls for field force, direct store sales and supply chain with an emphasis on the protection ofGroup employees.
Inability to obtain price increases and impact of increases on consumer affordability thresholds Annual price increases are among the key drivers in increasing the Groups profitability.
The Group faces a risk thatsuchprice increases will not materialise.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Inability to achieve strategic growth metrics.
Funds to invest in growth opportunities are reduced.
Pricing strategies, excise and trade margin committees exist inallmarkets with regional and global support.
Volumes may reduce faster than anticipated due to accelerated market decline leading to growth of illicit trade.
Robust business cases underpinning key innovative launches.
Clear portfolio and pricing strategies, ensuring a balanced portfolio ofstrong brands across key segments.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 51 Business Environment Principal Group risk factors continued Risks continued Disputed taxes, interest and penalties The Group may face significant financial penalties, including the payment of interest in the event of an unfavourable ruling by a tax authority in a disputedarea.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Productivity Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Significant fines and potential legal penalties.
Disruption and loss of focus on the business due todiversion Internal tax function provides dedicated advice and guidance, ofmanagement time.
andexternal advice sought where needed.
Impact on profit and dividend.
Engagement with tax authorities at Group, regional and individual market level.
Market size reduction and consumer down-trading The Group is faced with steep excise-led price increases and, due in part to the continuing difficult economic and regulatory environment in many countries, market contraction and consumer down-trading is a risk.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Volume decline and portfolio mix erosion.
Geographic spread mitigates impact at Group level.
Close monitoring of portfolio and pricing strategies, ensuring balanced portfolio of strong brands across key segments.
Increased focus behind product quality and innovation across all segments to provide tangible differentiation andimprove the pricevalue ratio.
Overlap with many mitigation activities undertaken for other principal risks facing the Group, such as competition from illicit tobacco trade, significant excise increases or structure changes and inability to obtain price increases.
Foreign exchange rate exposures The Group faces translational and transactional foreign exchange FX rate exposure for earnings cash flows from its global business.
@ Considered in viability statement Time frame Strategic impact Short Medium term Productivity Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Fluctuations in FX rates of key currencies against sterling introduce While translational FX exposure is not hedged, its impact volatility in reported EPS, cash flow and the balance sheet driven isidentifiedin results presentations and financial disclosures: bytranslation into sterling of our financial results and these exposures earningsare re-stated at constant rates for comparability.
Debt and interest are matched to assets and cash flows to mitigate The dividend may be impacted if the payout ratio is not adjusted.
volatility where possible and economic to do so.
Differences in translation between earnings and net debt may affect Hedging strategy for transactional FX and framework is defined in key ratios used by credit rating agencies.
thetreasury policy, a global policy approved by the Board.
Volatility and or increased costs in our business, due to transactional Illiquid currencies of many markets where hedging iseither not FX, may adversely impact financial performance.
possible or uneconomic are reviewed on aregular basis.
52 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Injury, illness or death in the workplace The risk of injury, death or ill health to employees and those who work with the business is a fundamental concern of the Group and can have asignificant effect on its operations.
@ Considered in viability statement Time frame Strategic impact Short term Sustainability No @ Impact Mitigation activities Serious injuries, ill health, disability or loss of life suffered by employees Risk control systems in place to ensure equipment andinfrastructure and the people who work with the Group.
Exposure to civil and criminal liability and the risk of prosecution from An EHS strategy ensures that employees at all levels receive enforcement bodies and the cost ofassociated fines and or penalties.
appropriate EHS training and information.
Interruption of Group operations if issues are not addressed immediately.
Behavioural-based safety programme to drive Operations safety performance and culture closer to zero accidents.
High staff turnover or difficulty recruiting employees ifperceived tohave a poor Environment, Health and Safety EHS record.
Analysis of incidents undertaken regionally and globally by a dedicated team to identify increasing incident trends or high Reputational damage to the Group.
potential risks that require coordinated action.
Solvency and liquidity Liquidity access to cash and sources of finance is essential to maintaining the Group as a going concern in the short term liquidity andmedium term solvency.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Short Medium term Productivity Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Inability to fund the business under our current capital structure Group policies include a set of financing principles and key resulting in missed strategic opportunities or inability to respond performance indicators including the monitoring of credit ratings, to threats.
interest cover, solvency and liquidity with regular reporting to the Board.
Decline in our creditworthiness and increased funding costs for the Group.
The Group targets an average centrally managed debt maturity of atleast five years with no more than 20% of centrally managed debt Requirement to issue equity or seek new sources of capital.
maturing in a single rolling year.
Reputational risk of failure to manage the financial risk profile The Group, through B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. holds a ofthebusiness, resulting in an erosion of shareholder value revolving credit facility of 6 billion syndicated across a wide banking reflectedinan underperforming share price.
The facility consists of a 3 billion tranche with a final maturity in May 2021 and a 3 billion tranche with a final maturity in 2018, which can be extended to 2019 by exercising a one-year extension option after which a term out option is available for a further year.
Liquidity pooling structures are in place to ensure that there is maximum mobilisation of cash liquidity within the Group.
The Group has an externally imposed capital requirement for its centrally managed banking facilities of maintaining gross interest cover above 4.5 times.
The Group targets a gross interest cover ofgreater than 5 times.
Going concern and viability support papers are presented to theBoard on a regular basis.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 53 Business Environment Principal Group risk factors continued Risks continued Failure to successfully develop and commercialise Next Generation Products Risk of not capitalising on the opportunities in developing and commercialising successful and consumer-appealing Next Generation Products.
@ Time frame Strategic impact Considered in viability statement Long term Growth Yes @ Impact Mitigation activities Failure to deliver Group strategic imperative and 2020 Focus on product stewardship to ensure high-quality standards growth ambition.
Inability to achieve strategic growth metrics.
Development of an integrated marketing activation model, including digital 1-2-1 and retail touch points, roll out plans are aligned and supported by regions and markets.
Open and transparent engagement with all stakeholders: collaboration and participation in workshops to share best practice and publications are made available to all interested stakeholders.
Demand, inventory and capacity is reviewed on a monthly basis to ensure the Group takes advantage of opportunities as they arise.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2018 and signed on its behalf by Paul McCrory, Company Secretary.
54 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
