STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management The Board has continued to identify, evaluate and monitor risks facing the Group and, during the year under review, a particular focus has been placed on assessing the likely impact that each identified risk could have on the business.
OUR APPROACH All businesses choose to take considered risks in the expectation of earning a return for their shareholders.
The Board BUSINESS OWNER has determined its risk appetite, stating the risks it seeks to take or is prepared to face within the Companys business model and the adopted strategy, and has also defined the risks it is not prepared GROUP EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM to take.
The latter are avoided or eliminated as far as possible, or transferred to insurers.
The Board is responsible for overseeing IDENTIFY managements activities in identifying, RISK evaluating and managing the risks facing the Group.
Importantly, we treat identifying and managing risk as an integral part of managing the business, REGULARLY ASSESS RISK and not as an additional bureaucratic REVIEW AND AND IMPACT chore.
Principal risks are recorded in the EVALUATE Groups risk register and regularly reviewed and evaluated.
Each risk has a business owner, responsible for THE BOARD managing that risk, implementing appropriate controls and mitigating actions and reporting on it to the leadership team.
In turn, the principal risks are reported on to the Board.
UPDATE CREATE KEY RISK MITIGATION As a sense-check on managements REGISTER STRATEGY actions, the Board undertakes its own assessment of principal risks in each year, which is then integrated into the risk register.
These known risks are taken into account in developing the Groups strategy and business plans.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The business faces a wide range of risks on assume that existing controls are effective.
system the Board no longer considers this a daily basis.
The Board has undertaken a Wehave linked the risks to the strategic to bea principal risk.
robust assessment of what it believes are pillars described on page 13.
Theenvironment The Board has again considered the risk the principal risks facing the Company, in which we operate is constantly evolving: posed by Brexit and has noted that there including those that would threaten its new risks may arise, the potential impact of are likely to be risks associated with increases business model, future performance, known risks may increase or decrease and in the costof raw materials and potential solvency or liquidity.
Thetable overleaf or our assessment of these risks may change.
labour cost increases for franchisees.
summarises these principal risks and how The risks therefore represent a snapshot of Atthe present time, the Board does not they are being managed or mitigated.
what the Board believes are the principal consider Brexit to be a principal risk to risks and are not an exhaustive list of all risks The risks in this table have been assessed thebusiness model, but will continue to the Company faces.
In prior years we had on a residual basis according to our current monitor and evaluate thisrisk and reassess included the implementation ofour new view of the potential severity being the the exposure asnecessary.
ERP system as aprincipal risk.
Following combination of impact and probability and the successful implementation of the 22 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC RISKS Strategic pillars To be the favourite takeaway People-related risks Failure to respond to and 1 anddelivery brand overcome competitive pressures E asiest and best customer 2 ordering experience Su perior end-to-end customer 3 service, value and product Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars Great looking stores within easy 4 reach ofall potential customers 1 2 5 8 1 2 3 5 6 Profitable, balanced and 5 alignedfranchise and Risk Risk corporatestore network The business is overly dependent on key The business faces strong competition from Ma rket-leading and innovative use individuals either at Executive level or in a range of players, including those exploiting 6 of digital capability and data to relation to specialist skills, possibly emerging technologies or new food options drive customer interaction exacerbated by a failure to attract or retain and new entrants into the UK market.
andfranchise innovations the skilled and experienced people it needs.
Highly productive and efficient 7 manufacturer and supplier of foodand non-foodservices E ngaged colleagues performing in 8 a great and safe place to work S trong financial foundations, 9 rigorous capital allocation and efficient capital structure Potential impact Potential impact Medium High Probability Probability Medium Low Mitigation Mitigation The Board considers succession planning Management keeps the competitive on a regular basis and has set the CEO a landscape under continual review and the personal objective of developing multiple Board also monitors the markets in which it potential successors.
Contingency plans operates, as well as KPI data on the current are in place which could be implemented business.
Strategy is reviewed and developed on a short-term basis should we suddenly by the Board on at least an annual basis.
Nature of threat Nature of threat These risks could have some impact on These risks have the potential to compromise future performance, for a limited time.
our future performance or, in an extreme scenario, even the business model.
Change from 2016 Change from 2016 Commentary Commentary There has been considerable work This risk has increased during the year due undertaken this year to improve the HR to increased market pressure and evidence operating model and to establish more of increased value for money awareness robust processes for talent management driving consumer choice.
A number of and succession planning.
initiatives have been undertaken during the year to maintain product competitiveness.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued STRATEGIC RISKS CONTINUED Inability to react to changes in Failure to achieve UK growth Commercial leverage of the health debate and public through new store openings largefranchisees desire for healthier food Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars 1 3 9 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 5 6 Risk Risk Risk As societys expectations evolve, and Failure to meet store growth targets The Group has a number of franchisees governments act on public health concerns, wouldbe a breach of our Master Franchise whose businesses run large numbers of we may need to change the products we Agreements MFAs.
Our ability to open new stores and so enjoy some commercial offer and our approach to marketing.
stores depends on our ability to lease or buy leverage.
The Group may be unable to suitable premises, obtain the necessary persuade these franchisees to implement planning approvals and identify a suitable our preferred strategies, or to pass on franchisee to run the store.
costincreases in full or in part.
Potential impact Potential impact Potential impact Medium High High Probability Probability Probability Low Low Medium Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Management keeps consumers purchasing Board approval is needed for the targets Open and transparent relationships with preferences under continual review and contained within the MFAs, and the Board multi-site franchisees are managed at senior adjusts menus in response to these.
We also monitors the pipeline of proposed store levels of the Group.
We also explain the engage, appropriately, with the government openings on a continual basis.
Franchisee profit-sharing model to all franchisees, so on the public health debate to ensure that development programmes are run and we that they understand that success is mutual.
our views are understood by policy makers employ surveyors to identify and secure Numbers of stores managed by the large and influencers.
Nature of threat Nature of threat Nature of threat These risks have the potential to compromise These risks could have an impact on future These risks have the potential to compromise our future performance or, in an extreme performance.
In an extreme case an our future performance for a period of time.
scenario, even the business model.
unremedied breach of the MFA could threaten the Companys business model and liquidity.
Change from 2016 Change from 2016 Change from 2016 Commentary Commentary Commentary The Group is continually reviewing its The overall risk remains the same as last The assessed level of risk has increased products to ensure they meet governmental year.
The MFA targets have been agreed during the year, largely due to some pressure guidelines.
Improvements are being made to for the next ten years and are set at 350 on franchisee profitability.
There is regular make product nutritional information more new stores over the period on a net basis.
and ongoing dialogue with the franchisee accessible and certain products may undergo community to mitigate this risk.
reformulation to reduce sugar levels.
24 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPERATIONAL RISKS Food safety Interruption of raw Supply Chain Centres are unable materialsupplies to supply the stores Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars 1 2 3 7 9 1 2 3 5 7 9 1 2 3 5 7 Risk Risk Risk There is the risk of contamination in either The business relies on a number of We distribute both the pre-proved dough the pre-proved dough we produce at the third-party suppliers for pizza toppings, we produce and third-party pizza toppings Groups Supply Chain Centres, or in the some of whom provide the sole source of to our franchisees stores.
In the event of pizza topping ingredients we distribute to an ingredient.
These suppliers must make a physical damage to, or loss of, a Supply our franchisees stores.
Where we operate commercial return to stay in business and Chain Centre we would need to make urgent corporate stores, and are responsible for reinvest in their operations.
The Group contingency arrangements wherever possible.
finished products, this risk is exacerbated.
would be vulnerable if a supplier decided However, the space required to hold dough to cease trading, suffered a major whilst proving forms a critical constraint to interruption or food safety incident, or was our business.
responsible for an ethical breach of such severity that the Group would no longer trade with them.
Potential impact Potential impact Potential impact High High High Probability Probability Probability Medium Low Medium Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation The business has implemented a rigorous Suppliers who are selected through In the event of the loss of a Supply Chain regime of standards and food safety checks, competitive tendering and appropriate due Centre, third-party ingredients could be working with the appropriate diligence processes supply the Group delivered to stores direct, at an additional governmentregulator.
The Group is considering developing of their businesses are kept under review additional dough proving facilities, which and their performance against their obligations would mitigate this risk significantly.
We assess their compliance our dough production facilities would be with acceptable business standards.
more difficult to overcome, but contract production of dough would be possible, atan additional cost.
Nature of threat Nature of threat Nature of threat If this risk materialised, it could have a These risks have the potential to compromise These risks could have a significant impact significant impact on future performance and our future performance for a limited time.
on future performance and potentially potentially liquidity, for a limited time.
The liquidity, for a limited time.
reputational impact could have a longer-term effect on performance and, in an extreme case, threaten the business model.
Change from 2016 Change from 2016 Change from 2016 Commentary Commentary Commentary This risk has not changed materially during A detailed review of suppliers has been The level of risk has reduced since 2016 the year.
The risk is monitored on a regular undertaken and is ongoing and steps have following the development of the Groups basis by a qualified in-house resource.
The been taken to reduce supplier dependency new production facilities.
Additionally, Board routinely receives reports on food and improve security of supplies through enhancements to the business continuity safety risk controls.
plan are expected to be implemented during 2018.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Failure of online ordering Loss of personal data relating to systems for a prolonged or customers, employees or others: critical period loss of corporate data Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars 1 2 3 5 6 9 1 2 3 6 9 Risk Risk Over 75% of delivered sales are now placed For ease of use, our online ordering online, around half of which are using apps systems hold some customer data, the loss for mobile devices.
As well as the reliance of which whether accidental or following on data centres and our own software hacking would cause disruption and cost developed in-house, there is also a risk to the Group.
In addition, the Groups own from malicious denial of service attacks.
data on employees and suppliers is exposed to the same risks of loss.
Potential impact Potential impact High High Probability Probability Medium Medium Mitigation Mitigation Cyber-risk appears on the Board agenda and Cyber-risk appears on the Board agenda and Audit Committee agenda on a regular basis Audit Committee agenda on a regular basis and management reviews the performance of and management keeps the security of data its IT infrastructure on a continual basis.
Our under its ownership or control under systems are hosted by third-party continual review.
We do not hold customer specialists, with parallel processing across credit card data on our systems.
Franchisees multiple sites and real-time replication and are trained in their obligations in respect of appropriate protection from malicious attempts personal data and are required to train their to disrupt the availability of our sites.
Appropriate IT security is in place and kept under continual review.
In an extreme scenario, the reputational damage could possibly threaten the business model if we suffered a total loss of consumer confidence.
Change from 2016 Change from 2016 Commentary Commentary On the whole, the level of risk has remained Cyber-risk remains a major threat.
The Group has maintained its cyber-security systems are regularly reviewed compliance with PCI level 1 and continues by the Groups management and external toenhance its technical capability advisers.
Regular updates on cyber-security andresilience.
are provided to the Audit Committee.
26 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017
