PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Elementis faces a number of uncertainties in the course of its RISK TRENDS operations and by effectively identifying and managing these The following risk trends have changed over the course risks, we are able to aid delivery of our strategy.
responsibility for the risk framework and definition of risk appetite rests with the Board.
The reduction in likelihood rating for Risk 2 is mainly attributed to an operational incident over which we have better control than RISK APPETITE an external event such as a hurricane.
Our sites have business The amount of risk that the Board is prepared to accept in continuity plans in place that are tested and rehearsed so the return for reward or investment return can vary depending on sites that experience hurricanes are well placed to manage Company strategy in the relevant area as well as guidance from them by mitigating their impact and potential loss.
In terms of management and advisers based on appropriate risk analysis.
operational incidents, our operations and Health, Safety and The strategic appetite for risk is therefore decided on a case Environment HSE leadership have reviewed our risk control by case basis at Board level, for example with respect to any programmes and have implemented a number of initiatives corporate transaction or significant capital expenditure project to improve how operations are managed.
This includes for and delegated to the Executive Leadership team to implement example implementing new life saving rules, carrying out as appropriate.
process hazard analysis and mechanical integrity inspections.
More details are given in the Corporate social responsibility RISK CULTURE report on pages 29 to 31.
The risk culture within the Group is embedded in the people, its systems and processes, leadership and behaviours that Risk 3 is shown as decreasing both in impact and likelihood is underpinned by specific standards, for example, as set because of the work that has been undertaken to improve our out in the Code of Conduct or in other Group policies or supply chain resilience.
This includes globalising the supply corporate standards.
chain function which includes procurement, logistics, product stewardship, operations and manufacturing to improve RISK REVIEW PROCESS transparency and accountability, improving qualification of third The principal risks are shown on pages 33 to 36 were selected party suppliers, carrying out a bow tie analysis of our supply from a Group risk register made up of 80 risks identified by chain risks and developing resilience.
members of the Executive Leadership team and discussed in the annual management risk review in November 2017 and by Risk 4 is shown as increasing both in impact and likelihood the Board in December 2017.
These risk reviews involved risk owing to the rise in regulatory burden experienced by the selection and prioritisation after assessing for impact strategic, businesses as well as the expectation of higher levels of financial, operational and reputational and likelihood of regulation and product stewardship requirements e. g. REACh occurrence.
Risk controls prevention and mitigation and their and similar initiatives around the globe.
It also reflects our effectiveness were also part of the consideration process.
acquisition of the SummitReheis business which supplies The impact score, multiplied by the likelihood score, was then active ingredients, pharma and dental products.
modified by a control score to produce a risk priority number, which is used to band risks for management attention.
In terms Risk 6 is also shown as decreasing overall despite the of severity of financial impact, a materiality threshold of $5m in impact assessment being stable and its likelihood decreasing.
The 9 principal risks risk groupings This risk is comprised of 2 risks: industrial espionage resulting that are disclosed in the table overleaf were consolidated from in loss of intellectual property IP and, separately, workplace a list of 20.
This compares to 10 risks disclosed last year security.
The reduction in likelihood rating reflects our increased consolidated from a list of 14 risks.
The risks listed on the confidence in our mitigation controls both to industrial following pages do not comprise all those associated with espionage and loss of IP, as well as to workplace security.
the Group and they are not in order of priority.
Our operational sites have controlled access, CCTV and employees are given security and safety training.
BREXIT RISKS The Board reviewed its assessment on Brexit risks again The Risk 8 assessment reflects the work undertaken on global towards the end of the year and discussed people risk, supply talent management.
Towards the end of 2016, a new talent chain risk, regulatory risk REACh, currency risk and trade management review process was implemented for the tariffs.
The Boards previous assessment that there is no Executive Leadership team and reviewed in mid-2017.
The material impact on the principal risks faced by the Group same process was then rolled out in Q4 2017 to the next tier of remains unchanged.
In addition, the HR leadership, in conjunction with the CEO and Remuneration Committee, has carried out a review of our incentive arrangements.
This has resulted in a change to our annual incentive plan and the long term incentive plan.
The proposed remuneration policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The changes being implemented will strengthen retention and incentivise key employees who play an important role in helping to deliver our Reignite Growth strategy.
Related material Corporate governance report page 45.
32 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk heat map Key: 1.
Cyber security 3 7 8 9 6 Risk stable Risk increase Low Medium High Risk decreased Likelihood Risk increased Risk decreased Risk stable TABLE OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Impact and link to strategy Mitigation Link to strategic priority 1.
Uncertain global Sub-optimal global Specialty Products is well Pursue best growth economic conditions and economic conditions positioned against a opportunities competitive pressures in can affect sales, capacity deterioration in economic Pursue supply chain the marketplace utilisation and cash conditions due to its balanced transformation including from currency generation, as well as geographic footprint, broad movement.
increase competitive differentiated product offering pressure in the marketplace, and the broad application Risk trend impacting profitability and of its technology across operating margins different sectors Impact The resultant non-delivery Chromium business model is Likelihood of operating plans can lead flexible and can be adapted to market expectations of to respond to variances in Group earnings not being regional demand patterns met and slower delivery of Financial performance stated strategic priorities.
including monthly sales, profit and cash flows is closely monitored with full year forecasts updated 3 times a year and variances investigated and explained Contingency and cost reduction plans can be implemented in the event of an economic downturn to reduce operating costs, including freezing salaries and non-essential capital expenditure items Currency hedging taken out as appropriate.
33 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Impact Low Medium High PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Impact and link to strategy Mitigation Link to strategic priority 2. Business interruption Such incidents can disrupt Good housekeeping, Pursue best growth as a result of a major our operations, impact preventative maintenance, opportunities event e. g. operations capacity utilisation and add process and other safety Pursue supply chain HSE, IT, transport or to operating costs, as well procedures help to mitigate transformation workplace incident as damage reputation, and the effects of a major incident caused by process slow delivery of stated Reliance on hectorite mine system failure and or strategic priorities.
and flood risk mitigated by human error, or by fire, the installation of drainage storm and or flood, or a pumps at the mine in 2011 natural catastrophe e. g. Insurance programme and a hurricane or pandemic.
business continuity plans that are tested regularly Risk trend help to mitigate the effects of a major incident Impact HSE management Likelihood programme in place that includes corporate compliance audits involving third party specialists, where appropriate, and insurance property surveys.
3. Business interruption Disruption to supply chain Raw materials are sourced Pursue best growth as a result of supply e. g. third party, service from a broad and diverse opportunities chain failure of key raw infrastructure, transport or supplier base Pursue supply chain materials e. g. clays IT failure, all of which can Strategic holding of key transformation and or third party service impact capacity utilisation raw materials provision e. g. transport, and add to operating costs, Transport and carrier infrastructure or and result in slower delivery mitigation plans and IT failure.
insurance in place Careful vetting, selection Risk trend and audits reviews of major suppliers.
Increasing regulatory New regulations restricting Active REACh programme Pursue best growth and product stewardship the use or carriage of in which the businesses opportunities challenges.
chemicals can lead to loss participate in industry Innovate for high margins of applications and sales consortia, providing data and and distinctiveness Risk trend and or add to operating information to regulators and costs, and slower delivery experts, to support safety Impact of stated strategic priorities.
reviews of our products in a Likelihood broad range of applications Strong global product stewardship team in place to support the businesses R&D team aims to develop new products and technologies for use in an evolving market to meet the changing needs of our sophisticated customers and in response to regulatory changes.
34 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk Impact and link to strategy Mitigation Link to strategic priority 5.
Major regulatory Can lead to higher operating Active compliance and risk Pursue supply chain enforcement action, costs and reputational management programmes transformation litigation and or other damage, and result in in place including policies, claims arising from slower delivery of stated procedures and training products and or historical strategic priorities as Insurance programme and and ongoing operations.
managements focus and risk transfer strategy in place attention is distracted.
to mitigate financial losses Risk trend Experienced General Counsel supported by in-house and Impact external legal teams Likelihood Regular reviews of litigation and compliance reports by the Board and the Audit Committee, as well as the internal audit programme, help ensure these key risks are managed effectively.
Industrial espionage, Such incidents can disrupt HR processes in place to Innovate for high margins workplace security and key operations, add to ensure new hires undergo and distinctiveness loss theft of intellectual operating costs, distract appropriate background Create a culture of high property.
management attention and and reference checks performance damage reputation, as well Implementation of security Risk trend as result in slower delivery arrangements at work of stated strategic priorities.
locations, such as secure Impact entry points barriers gates Likelihood and CCTV or other alarm monitoring systems in place Security assessments and compliance audits are carried out, and employees are given safety briefings and training where appropriate Employment and computer policies supported by training ensure employees are made aware of their obligations with regards to confidential information and access controls to protect intellectual property.
Disruptive technology New technology, methods R&D team aims to develop Innovate for high margins advances: failure to of production or processes new products and and distinctiveness identify and mitigate the can give competitors a technologies used in an threat posed by new or market advantage, and evolving market to meet imitation technology.
result in slower delivery the changing needs of our of stated strategic priorities.
sophisticated customers and Risk trend in response to competition.
Impact Likelihood 35 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Impact and link to strategy Mitigation Link to strategic priority 8.
Talent management Failure to attract, manage, Experienced Chief HR Officer Create a culture of high and succession planning: develop or retain key talent supported by in-house and performance failure to attract, can lead to loss of external consulting teams manage, develop employees, disrupt growth Management and critical and or retain talent.
plans and or critical business leader succession business functions, and planning is a key area of Risk trend result in slower delivery focus for the Board and of stated strategic priorities.
management team that Impact is kept under review Likelihood Implementation of a global HR information system last year to introduce greater systematic processes and transparency, including job grading, to facilitate talent review and succession planning Talent review using the 9 box matrix talent model.
Cyber security Systems security breach Experienced Chief Information Create a culture of high incident: systems and loss of network Officer supported by in-house performance security breach and loss connectivity and integrity and external consulting of network connectivity can disrupt key operations teams, with oversight from and integrity, and or and add to operating costs IT Steering Committee loss of business and Loss of business and chaired by the CEO personal data.
personal data can disrupt Security controls that include: key operations and add to policies and procedures: Risk trend operating costs, and result staff awareness and training: in slower delivery of stated risk management and Impact strategic priorities.
compliance: systems and Likelihood information management and protection: process management: and continuous assessments and monitoring Use of regional back up data centres in third party locations, cloud based systems with secure entry point and administration controls, encryption technology and multiple authentication systems, website blocking and next generation firewalls with intrusion detection capability Business continuity and emergency response plans exist that aim to restore network connectivity, recover lost data and return operations to their normal pre-incident level.
These principal risks and uncertainties should be read in conjunction with the note on contingent liabilities on page 127.
For more information about risk management www.
com  36 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
