28 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Market risks 1.
Demand reduction driven by Government policy or other macro events Possible events Impact - Brexit impacting numbers of EU students coming to study in the UK - Potential reduction in demand and hence profitability and asset values - Changes in Government policy on Higher Education funding - Departure from EU impacting EU research grants and EU students coming - Immigration policy changes affecting international student numbers to the UK.
What happened in 2017 Risk management - Brexit uncertainty continues.
Whatever the terms of Brexit hard or soft its complexity is very Ongoing monitoring of Brexit implications, time-consuming, resulting in distractions from other policy initiatives.
Government policy and its impact on UK, - UK continues as 2nd most popular international destination for students after the US.
EU and international student numbers studying in - Government undertaking a review of University funding and student finance.
Regularly reviewing our portfolio to ensure - 2017 student intake broadly in line with 2016.
Participation rates have increased, offsetting the 5% we have the highest quality portfolio, appropriately reduction in applications.
Unite has limited exposure to these reduced applications due to relationships sized and in the right locations.
with high and mid-tariff Universities.
- 2017 saw stronger growth in the high and mid-tariff Universities.
- EU students funding arrangements for duration of study confirmed for 2017 2018 and 2018 2019.
- Increased focus on quality and length of nominations agreements.
60% secured through nominations agreements with 6 years average maturity.
- Immigration: the Government has commissioned an independent review of the costs and benefits of international students.
The review of international student over stayers showed the number is around 4,600 rather than in the 100,000s as reported in the media before.
This is widely seen as good news for the HE sector and may result in the removal of international students from the highly politicised net migration targets.
Read more about Market drivers on p02 and Quality partnerships on p10 Risk mitigation in 2017 Strategic objective Implement our Brexit Readiness Plan Offering great service is key to helping us sustain any reduction in demand.
Ensuring we have high Through implementation of Home for Success our core purpose to provide environments that help quality properties and growing and sustainable students achieve more during their time at University we are seeing consistently high customer satisfaction earnings to manage any demand deficit.
and Higher Education trust scores.
Read more about Business model and strategy on p04 Read more about Key performance indicators KPIs on p22 Focus for 2018 Continued engagement with the Higher Education sector to understand and be ready for the impact of Brexit and other HE policy changes.
Demand reduction due to societal change Possible events Impact - Concerns over the costs of a University education affordability and - More competition for value and reduced demand for year round value for money student accommodation in the longer term resulting in lower profitability - Alternative course delivery such as Massive Open Online Courses and asset values.
What happened in 2017 Risk management - Strong service delivery evidenced by high customer satisfaction and University trust scores.
Ongoing monitoring of affordability and value for - Increasing proportion of second and third-years choosing PBSA.
65% of Unites direct lets are money and the evolution of digital learning and returning students.
ensuring we partner with the stronger Universities - Enhanced PRISM, our innovative and proprietary operating platform.
with properties in the best locations.
Enhanced our Unite apps to improve connectivity with our digital native customers.
- Rolled out Student Ambassador programme and University-adopted Welcome programme.
Read more about our Quality service platform on p04 Risk mitigation activity in 2017 Strategic objective Ensured the successful roll out of PRISM, enabling online and more flexible tenancies.
Offering quality service is key to ensuring we Continued investment in market knowledge and building on our relationships with the strongest Universities, have relationships with the higher and mediumdriven by Home for Success and our University partnerships team.
tariff Universities the ones most likely to sustain a reduction in demand.
PRISM helps us deliver the best customer service efficiently.
Read more about Business model and strategy on p04 Focus for 2018 PRISM to drive enhanced customer service and value for money, through its scalability and digital efficiency.
Continued focus on Home for Success and our partnerships with the stronger Universities.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 29 Key Quality properties Quality people Quality service platform Earnings & NAV growth Quality University partnerships 3.
Supply increase due to increasing interest in the performance and appeal of the PBSA sector Possible events Impact - New supply as sustained high levels of investment demand filter into the - More competition for the best sites development market, primarily through investors providing forward - Potential impact on rental growth and occupancy.
What happened in 2017 - Over 4bn of PBSA assets traded in 2017, up from the 3.5bn in 2016.
- PBSA sector maturing and becoming increasingly professionalised.
- Unite secured 99% occupancy for the 2017 2018 academic year, underpinned by 60% nominations agreements.
Active property recycling, resulting in higher-quality Unite portfolio.
Read more about Property Review on p36 and our Operations Review on p32 Risk mitigation in 2017 Strategic objective We continue with our focus and strategy on: Offering great service as well as having high-quality - Markets with supply demand imbalance properties is critical to mitigating any supply surplus.
- Exposure to the best Universities underpinned with new developments secured with nominations agreements Read more about Operations Review on p32 - Investment in our brand and student experience creating better environments within our new developments through Home for Success - Maintaining strong relationships with key Higher Education partners.
Focus for 2018 Continued focus on our portfolio in the towns and cities with the strongest growth prospects and using PRISM, our scalable operating platform, to differentiate our brand and offer consistently high levels of service to students and Universities alike.
Ensuring a strong yet flexible capital structure so we can adapt appropriately as supply grows.
Major health & safety H&S incident in a property or a development site Possible events Impact - Fatality or major injury from a fire or other incident at a property - Impact to students living with us, contractors working on-site and visitors - Multiple contractor injuries at a development or operational site.
- Reputational damage and trust in Unite Students as a reliable partner.
What happened in 2017 Risk management - The Grenfell Tower tragedy renewed focus on fire safety, especially in high-rise residential buildings.
H&S is given direct Board supervision by the H&S - Unite conducted a full fire safety review of all our properties.
Worked closely with DCLG, local fire Committee a sub-committee of the Board which authorities and fire safety experts to ensure fire safety and address any remedial actions following actively supervises H&S, ensuring robust policies Grenfell Tower tragedy learnings.
and procedures are in place and consistently complied with.
Read more about Fire safety and cladding on p41 Read more about - Ensured aligned national approach through the Avon Fire Authority, our Primary Fire Authority.
H&S Committee Report on p72 - Reviewed our specification for new builds and developments.
- Continued good performance against our KPIs.
H&S is also actively reviewed in the Management Board, ensuring that H&S is top of mind in our day Read more about KPIs in H&S Committee Report on p72 to day operations and regularly assessed and validated.
Risk mitigation activity in 2017 Strategic objective Our ongoing internal inspections of our properties, with external assurance sought through: Ensuring the H&S of our customers, contractors - British Safety Council, our external safety auditor and employees is fundamental to us offering - Physical security review through WSP Parsons Brinckerhoff quality service.
Working in partnership with the Avon Fire Authority, our Primary Fire Authority, to ensure best practice in Read more about Business model and strategy on p04 fire safety.
Student safety campaigns: 3 safety focused campaigns for students during their first 6 weeks living with Unite.
These were run in conjunction with local fire and rescue services and Police Community Support Officers.
Student personal safety Focus for 2018 Continued focus on fire safety and education, reinforcing fire as our biggest safety risk.
Finalise ACM cladding replacement requirements, based on further testing, and complete existing current cladding replacement plans.
Integrating Wellbeing into the H&S Management System.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 30 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Property development 5.
Inability to secure the best sites on the right terms.
Failure or delay to complete a development within budget and on time for the scheduled academic year Possible events Impact - Site acquisition risk increasing competition for the best sites pushes - NAV and EPS affected by aborted schemes and or reduced financial up prices.
returns, with cash tied up in development.
- Planning risk delays or failure to get planning.
- Construction risk build cost inflation as the economy improves.
What happened in 2017 Risk management - 2017 schemes delivered, on time and to budget.
Experienced development team with extensive site - Increased our second development pipeline for delivery over the next three years to 7,550 beds.
selection and planning expertise, coupled with - 2018 openings progressing in line with plans.
Planning consents and build contracts in place for strong track record and focus on project delivery all 2019 deliveries.
and strong relationships with construction partners with appropriate risk sharing.
Group Board approval Read more about Property Review on p36 for commitments above a certain threshold.
Financial investment in schemes carefully managed prior to grant of planning.
To ensure we have the highest quality portfolio, we are pursuing new opportunities on a conditional basis, but with a limited number of sites contracted not conditional on planning following a detailed risk assessment of that opportunity.
Risk mitigation in 2017 Strategic objective Regular development team and property review, with Group Board director oversight to ensure failure to Quality properties.
secure sites or complete on time are managed in the budget.
Read more about Business model and strategy on p04 Detailed planning pre-applications and due diligence before site acquisition.
Read more about Development activity on p39 Build cost inflation regularly appraised and refreshed.
Mid-sized framework contractors used and longer term relationships established to mitigate cyclical swings.
Focus for 2018 Main focus will be on delivering multi-location developments and securing pipeline for 2020.
Read more about Secured development pipeline on p39 6.
Property markets are cyclical and performance depends on general economic conditions Possible events Impact - Buying or selling properties at the wrong point in the cycle.
- Reduction in asset values reducing financial returns.
What happened in 2017 Risk management - Over 4bn of PBSA assets traded in 2017, up from the 3.5bn in 2016.
Group Board and Management Board ongoing - The value of the Groups investment portfolio including our share of co-investment vehicles increased monitoring of property market, direction to 2,595 million as at December 2017 31 December 2017: 2.277 million with the average portfolio and values.
- During 2017 we continued to maximise our portfolio value through a programme of selective Forecast rental growth and recurring profit offsets developments, acquisitions and disposals.
Read more about Asset disposals on p41 Ensuring we have a strong yet flexible capital structure so we can adapt appropriately to - Customer satisfaction continues at high levels supporting rental growth and our portfolio value.
Read more about Property portfolio on p36 Clear and active asset management strategy.
Risk mitigation activity in 2017 Strategic objective Disposals ongoing monitoring of our entire portfolio with selective disposals to benefit from keener prices Quality properties.
We sold 472 million of assets in 2017.
Read more about Business model and strategy on p04 Acquisitions disciplined acquisitions strategy exercising caution over portfolio premiums being paid in the market.
Careful management of net debt and LTV.
Maintaining disciplined approach to new development transactions by maintaining Group hurdle rates Focus for 2018 Ongoing monitoring of the property market and general economic conditions.
Ensuring a strong yet flexible capital structure to manage the property cycle.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 31 Key Quality properties Quality people Quality service platform Earnings & NAV growth Quality University partnerships Financing risks 7.
Unable to arrange new debt or expiring debt facilities cannot be replaced or only at high cost.
Adverse interest-rate movements Possible events Impact - Unite breaches a loan covenant or fails to replace debt on expiry - If unable to replace debt, then possible forced sale of assets potentially - Interest rate increase.
leading to sales below valuation.
Reduced level of profitability - Adverse rate movements can lead to reduced profitability and reduction in property values through resulting expansion of valuation yields and lower valuations.
What happened in 2017 Risk management The 2.5% Guaranteed Convertible Bonds due 2018 fully converted.
Unite assigned Proactively managing debt maturities to refinance these facilities at least 612 an investment-grade corporate rating of BBB from Standard & Poors and Baa2 months before maturity and in parallel diversifying our sources of finance to from Moodys.
This reflects the strength of the Groups capital position, cash flows repay more expensive and less flexible borrowings.
Control of future cash commitments in line with progress of disposals This credit rating underpinned our transition to an unsecured capital structure with and refinancing.
a new 500 million unsecured debt facility, reducing our average cost of debt to 3.9% when fully drawn.
Interest rates monitored by the funding team as an integral part of our refinancing activity owned by the CFO and with Group Board oversight.
At as 31 December 2017, LTV 31% December 2016: 34% and net debt of 803m Gearing ratios defined in our Capital Operating Guidelines.
Hedge exposure with interest rate swaps and refinance facilities with fixed rates.
80% of debt at fixed rate swapped.
Read more about Financial Review on p42 Risk mitigation in 2017 Strategic objective Regular and reliable engagement with lenders.
With a benign interest rate environment, we have continued to take advantage of historically low rates both on new debt and also entering into forward-starting interest rate swaps locking in rates for our 20182020 Read more about Business model and strategy on p04 development pipeline.
Read more about Debt financing and interest rate hedging arrangements and cost of debt on p44 Focus for 2018 Transition to unsecured capital structure and funding future development acquisitions beyond 2020.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
