Strategic Report Our Risks Protecting value Effective risk management is essential to support the achievement of our strategic and operational objectives as we address the challenges and uncertainties facing businesses today.
Ultimately, allof our Our Risk Framework illustrates our How we manage risk employees have a responsibility in approach to managing risk which reflects The Board has overall responsibility for the managing the Companys risks.
a three lines of defence model.
We employ risk framework and for ensuring that we both a top down and bottom up approach manage risks appropriately p48.
Through At the request of the Board, the to risk assessment using this common regular review, the Board ensures that our Audit Committee directs internal audit framework, enabling comparison across risks are appropriate to our strategy.
It is to undertake assurance audits over sectors, regions, manufacturing sites and the role of our Executive Risk Management selected key risk mitigating controls functions using our dashboarding tool.
Committee to ensure that ourmarket which are reported back to and reviewed However, our risk management programme sectors, manufacturing sites, regions and by the Committee.
can only provide reasonable, not absolute, functions manage their individual risk assurance that our risks are managed registers by applying our common Risk at an acceptable level.
Risk framework What we monitor How we manage it Current risks Board Audit Committee Our risk Risks that could affect our Business, customers, supply landscape Responsible for the risk Reviews the effectiveness chain employees and communities and stop us achieving management framework of the Group risk management our strategic goals and definition of risk appetite process Emerging risks Reviews key risks with an Directs internal audit to Risks with a future impact, identified through our rigorous opportunity for in depth undertake assurance reviews internal risk assessment process, from external or internal discussion of specific key risks over controls for selected key threats and opportunities and mitigating controls twice risks and reviews the results a year p42 p52 Risk Management Committee SHEQ Steering Committee Our risk Monitors and reviews non SHEQ Meets quarterly to review Strategic People Process categories risks quarterly Safety, Health, Environmental and Quality SHEQ risks include over Identifies and considers 50 risks emerging risks Considers the results of External environment assurance audits over Receives an in-depth SHEQ controls presentation on one key risk and IT systems Financial its mitigating controls from the Monitors against stretching and security Executive owner at each meeting targets and agreed KPIs Ethics Committee Meets quarterly to review ethics Monitors against agreed KPIs Risk ownership Mitigating controls What we and compliance risks each risk has a named owner subject to internal audit assess review and monitoring Likelihood and impact globally applied 6 6 scoring Net risk scale after mitigating controls Gross risk are applied before mitigating controls Our bottom Identify, own and manage risks involved in day-to-day operations up register Executive Risk Register Market sectors Regions Our Executive Committee review a combined summary of all individual bottom-up registers to identify the key emerging risks that may need to be added to their top-down register of key risks Manufacturing sites Functions Executive Committee p60 Croda International Plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report The Board has carried out a robust been amended for four key risks: Our key risks assessment of these key risks and has an increase in major capital project Our risk framework considers more than taken them into consideration when management and security of business 50 generic risks across six categories assessing the long term viability of the information and networks, and a in over 20 risk registers: the key risks Company on page 35. decrease in revenue generation in identified in the heat map below and on established and emerging markets pages 32 to 34 in more detail, are those Changes to our gross risk and ineffective management of pension which we consider could threaten the fund.
See pages 32 to 34 for an environment in 2017 delivery of our long term strategic explanation of these changes.
objectives, business model, future As a result of our risk review throughout performance, solvency or liquidity.
2017, the assessment of gross risk has Risk heat map Our principal risks are reported gross before mitigating controls 1 Revenue generation in established and emerging markets 10 5 3 6 2 Talent development and retention 11 1 3 Product and technology innovation 4 Protect new intellectual property 9 7 4 5 Product liability claims 8 2 6 Major safety or environmental incident 12 7 Security of raw material supply 8 Major capital project management 9 Chemical regulatory compliance 10 Security of business information and networks 11 Ethics and compliance 12 Ineffective management of pension fund Low High Impact Gross risk increase Gross risk no change Gross risk decrease a level of uncertainty into how our We have modelled the costs to the Group Risk management in action: European business will operate in the of future UK-EU trade being conducted Brexit risk future, it is experienced in dealing with under the World Trade Organisation tariffs During 2017, our Brexit project team the challenges associated with trading and duties and consider the impact should continued to review the implications of the across borders that do not benefit from not be material.
The Board will continue to result of the UK referendum to leave the EU the Single Market.
keep emerging Brexit risk under review.
Brexit on our business model, strategy and operations and this was discussed Potential increased levels of bureaucracy with the Board.
While Brexit has introduced may incur additional compliance costs.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Likelihood Low High Strategic Report | Our Risks Key risk Potential impact How we respond What we have on our Business done in 2017 Failure to keep pace with our Through our global sector sales, Delivered a year of record profits Revenue generation customers as they follow consumers marketing and technology teams, and sales growth, when all core in established and into emerging markets, and we identify consumer trends and sectors and major regions emerging markets increasing competition from respond swiftly to satisfy customer contributed to growth p10.
The mainstream and other chemical needs through key technologies.
reduced risk reflects the improved companies looking to move into our Our direct selling model enables us macroeconomic and business-led established markets, will adversely to get closer to our customers.
sales environment in 2017. impact delivery of strategic objective to deliver consistent top and bottom E S line growth.
Innovation plays a critical role across Our outstanding technical resources Continued to expand our Product and our operations: it differentiates us are fully integrated into our global innovation pipeline supported technology from the competition, protects sales sector leadership teams to focus by almost 400 open innovation innovation and improves our margins.
Failure to innovation on customer requirements.
partnerships with universities, drive New and Protected Products We build partnerships with customers specialist research laboratories and NPP through innovation will impact and open innovation partners and SMEs.
We acquired Enza Biotech on growth.
invest in external acquisitions to p12, and IonPhaseE p18 and we remain at the cutting edge.
We have invested in Cutitronics p14 which identified key technology platforms enables us to utilise the very latest p12 that will direct future innovation in digital technology.
Failure to protect our Intellectual We have a specialist IP team who Filed patents in several key areas, Protect new Property IP in both existing and participate in the technical and concentrating on recently acquired intellectual new markets could undermine our business planning and strategy businesses and technologies such property competitive advantage.
meetings to identify ways to protect as Enza Biotech p12.
any new products and technologies.
They defend our IP and challenge C third party IP where appropriate.
The vision and experience of our Reward programmes, a strong The implementation of a new Talent development knowledgeable and specialist development culture and excellent global HR Information System was and retention employees is critical to maintaining learning opportunities support the approved, to provide better people the Groups success.
Inability to retention and career development data and improve succession and recruit and retain appropriately of the high-quality teams we need.
A global skilled people could adversely Global graduate and management employee culture survey was impact our ability to deliver our development programmes conducted p02 and action plans current and future business include stretching and high profile developed.
Progress has been requirements and strategic priorities.
assignments and provide a pipeline made in implementing Diversity of internal talent.
and Inclusion actions and internal If these individuals were to leave, targets have been set to increase it would take time to replace them if The annual global talent review the number of women in leadership no succession plans were in place.
process supports review of positions p23.
E resources and succession plans for critical roles, with actions C M S monitored by the Executive Committee and the Board.
We sell into a number of highly Our sites are certified to demanding All sites maintained the required Product liability claims regulated markets.
Non-compliance external quality standards which level of Good Manufacturing with our customers stringent quality are highly valued by our customers.
In 2017, the relevant requirements could expose us to Compliance with these is audited standards are also being applied liability and reputational damage, both internally by our specialist by our new acquisitions, as well especially in light of our commitment audit team and externally.
as to our larger sales offices, to to sustainability.
We work proactively with relevant ensure we have global coverage.
trade associations to shape M future regulation.
Croda International Plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Link to Strategy Key Link to our business model E Engage Delivering Growth Risk increase C Create Driving Innovation No change M Make Sustainable Solutions Risk decrease S Sell Key risk Potential impact How we respond What we have on our Business done in 2017 We rely on the continued sustainable Monitored by our SHEQ steering Convened a global Process Major safety or operation of our manufacturing sites committee p30, our global network Safety conference to examine environmental around the world.
of safety specialists located at each the strengths and weaknesses incident site enforce compliance with the of our Process Safety A major event causing loss of policies and procedures defined in programme, identifying areas production, or violating safety, health the Group SHE manual.
Assurance for improvement and delivering or environmental regulations could over mitigating controls is provided targeted training.
limit our operations and expose by the dedicated Group SHE internal the Group to liability, cost and We rolled out a behavioural audit team, whilst external audits reputational damage, especially safety training programme, assess compliance with OHSAS in light of our commitment to recognising that behaviour is 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications.
as important as the process.
We have business continuity plans in place for each site and a Group crisis management plan which is M tested at least annually.
An interruption in the supply of key Professional purchasing teams Embedded ownership of the Security of raw based in our regions monitor supply raw materials would significantly key raw material assessment material supply to identify potential future shortages.
affect our operations and financial framework and policy with regional We look to develop good relationships position.
Such a disruption could management, delivering face with our suppliers and to agree long arise from market shortages or from to face training and guidance.
To protect supply, we restrictive legislation, for example Monitoring of continuous aim to source from multiple suppliers.
that relating to the transport of improvement programmes rests Where this is not possible, we build up hazardous goods.
with the global operations our own inventories.
There were no interruptions to raw material supply M in 2017.
Current major strategic capital Specialist project management Audited completed capital projects Major capital project expenditure programmes require teams are formed for all major against cost, schedule, quality and management closely controlled project capital expenditure programmes, financial expectations to identify management to avoid overspend with steering groups chaired by learnings which were shared with and late delivery, both of which a member of the Executive the Board p42 and other sites.
would have an impact on growth.
Our risk has increased due to the current scale of our capital investment programme, with a focus on successful delivery of our North American bio-surfactant plant, high purity excipients plant M and UK polymer additives plant.
As a global chemical manufacturer, Global regulatory expertise is Rolled out a Globally Harmonised Chemical regulatory we operate in highly regulated provided by our in-house team System of Classification GHS compliance markets, which are subject to of specialists, who have in depth to relevant locations, and regular change.
Violation, incomplete knowledge of the regional and implemented controls in SAP knowledge or change of the market regulatory frameworks within to ensure REACH volume appropriate regulations could which we operate.
They work thresholds are not breached.
limit the markets into which we proactively to influence regulation Frameworks to demonstrate can sell, or expose the Group to and they are an integral part of our compliance with the Nagoya fines or penalties.
protocol were written, communicated and adopted.
Our specialists are We use the SAP EHS module to members of a UK working party ensure that regulatory changes are C on the implications of Brexit applied to existing products.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Strategic Report | Our Risks Key risk Potential impact How we respond What we have on our Business done in 2017 We are subject to UK legislation, Our Group Ethics Committee set up Rolled out a refreshed compliance Ethics and compliance including the Bribery Act, which at the start of 2017 meets quarterly programme across the Business.
is far reaching in terms of to promote the importance of ethics Our ethics network have performed global scope.
and compliance across our targeted due diligence on a number Business and those third parties we of our supply chain partners as we Our increased presence in emerging choose to work with p60.
seek increased transparency, and economies and the introduction of Compliance training and education we have refreshed our bribery and regulations such as the Modern programmes are rolled out globally, corruption risk assessments, Slavery Act gives rise to an elevated with results monitored by the meeting with many of our suppliers, risk to our Business.
Committee and followed up with agents and distributors to reinforce refresher training.
our expectations of their behaviour E C M when acting on our behalf.
We published our first Modern S Slavery statement.
We rely heavily on the availability Our information security specialists Undertook a cyber maturity Security of business of IT networks and systems and monitor our IT services and network, benchmark review which was information and an extended interruption of these and oversee computer and mobile reported to the Board p42.
networks services may result in an inability device protection, in line with our Formed a project team to review to meet customer requirements.
and update personal and data Society and business are subject Regular penetration testing is security controls in the context to more numerous and increasingly undertaken and we run our key of GDPR.
Provided regular sophisticated threats to security, applications in distributed computing security awareness training and including hackers, viruses and environments with regular failover communication to all employees.
ransomware attacks which could testing.
We have externally audited The increased risk reflects compromise access.
In addition ISO 27001 certification for key the raised threat from cyber regulatory responsibilities relating systems and locations, whilst internal activity, despite the Companys to data protection are becoming audit specialists review the operation enhanced response in 2017. more stringent, including the of all IT controls annually.
E C M implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR S from 2018.
The Group maintains an open The Company maintains close The risk has reduced as the Ineffective defined benefit pension scheme in dialogue with the UK Pension Trustee has continued to extend management of the UK, which faces similar risks to Trustee, and the move to a career the liability driven investment pension fund other defined benefit schemes such average capped salary basis of component of the schemes as future investment returns, longer calculation in 2016 mitigated some assets to better match assets life expectancy and regulatory of the risks.
The pension fund with liability movements arising changes which could result in investment strategy is delivered with on changes in interest rates and pension schemes becoming more the support of professional advisers, inflation, with approximately 85% of a financial burden.
and trained pension fund Trustee of liabilities now hedged.
The Directors take professional advice schemes return seeking assets and monitor and review have been further diversified to E C M arrangements quarterly.
The triennial valuation is ongoing but no deficit contribution is S expected p28.
Croda International Plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Long term viability statement Assessment of viability Viability has been assessed by considering the top-down headroom available in Assessment of prospects terms of the overall funding capacity to withstand events, together with the bottom-up In assessing the prospects of the headroom assessing the potential financial impact of events reflecting the Companys Company and determining the appropriate principal risks, both individually and in combination.
viability period, the Board have taken account of: Top-down headroom the financial and strategic planning Funding capacity cycle, which cover a three year period.
The strategic planning process is led by The ratio of net debt to EBITDA at the end of 2017 of 1.0x remains substantially Bank below the maximum covenant level under the Groups lending facilities of 3 the CEO and fully reviewed by the leverage times p28, providing significant headroom.
EBITDA would need to fall by more Board p47 : covenant than 50% before triggering an event of default.
Action could also be taken to the investment planning cycle, which conserve cash.
The Executive Current committed debt facilities largely mature after the viability assessment Committee considers, and the Board Debt period p28 and have significant undrawn credit available.
In normal lending reviews, likely customer demand and headroom market circumstances, additional debt funding could also be raised.
manufacturing capacity for each of its key technologies.
The three year period reflects the typical maximum lead time Bottom-up scenarios involved in developing new capacity: Each of the key risks identified on pages 32 to 34 has been assessed for its potential the business model p06 and its financial impact as part of the viability assessment.
Of these, the most severe but diversified portfolio of products, plausible scenarios or combinations thereof were identified as follows: operations and customers, which Scenario modelled Link to Key Risks reduce exposure to specific geographies and markets, as well as Uninsured catastrophic loss of a manufacturing site the Major safety or environmental large customer product combinations: impact of losing the contribution from the single largest site incident p33 was considered assuming no insurance cover.
However, for the strong innovation pipeline, which most loss events, we carry insurance cover.
supports the Companys business through development of new sales Significant compliance breach the financial impact of Ethics and compliance p34 regulatory fines was considered along with the associated growth opportunities, protects sales reputational damage.
and margins, differentiates the Company from competitors and Disruptive technology the impact of substitute technologies Product and technology provides barriers to entry: affecting current sales were modelled together with new digital innovation p32 technology impacting our route to market.
the Companys strong cash generation and its ability to renew and raise debt Loss of IT systems particularly SAP Enterprise Resource Security of business information facilities in most market conditions p28.
Planning system for a prolonged period.
and networks p34 A critically important driver of the Companys business model is its The results of the bottom up scenario modelling showed that no individual event or innovation pipeline.
The Board reviews plausible combination of events would have a financial impact sufficient to endanger this over a period longer than three years, the viability of the Company in the period assessed.
It would therefore be likely that in line with longer development cycles the Company would be able to withstand the impact of such scenarios occurring over for new products.
However, the Board the assessment period.
considers that, in assessing the viability Viability statement of the Company, its investment and Based on their assessment of prospects and viability, the Directors confirm that they planning horizon of three years, supported have an expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet by detailed financial modelling, is the its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years in line with the Companys financial appropriate period.
and strategic time planning horizons.
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the Strategic Report on 27 February 2018.
Steve Foots Group Chief Executive Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35
