32 Strategic Report Delivering Customer Service Putting customers at the heart of We remain focused on customer service and are what we do committed to delivering an excellent customer service to all of our customers at every stage of their journey.
Our approach Customer service continues to be a key priority for all at Taylor Wimpey and is integral to our vision for the future of the business.
We aim to put the needs of our customers at the heart of our decision-making.
We have made great strides in our customer service approach.
However, there are things that we can and must do better.
Across our business operations, we want our employees to adopt our customer-centric culture and to understand the important role they play with our customers.
Regardless of the role that any Taylor Wimpey employee fulfils in the business, we all contribute to the final result for our customers.
Our aim is to keep our customer at the centre of our decisions and coordinate our input to deliver a quality home first time, with great service throughout their customer journey.
This will help our customers to settle in quickly and make our houses their homes.
During 2017 we built on the early success of our new customer service approach, which focuses on getting it right first time and improving the clarity and openness of our communication with customers, and have continued to make good progress implementing this approach across the business.
What makes us different Our strong and sustainable customer base Case study Approximately 97% of our customers are Touchpoint, our customer portal and online owner-occupiers.
First time buyers accounted for options system, was officially launched in 2017.
Investor After a successful pilot phase, the portal is now sales continued to be at a very low level at 3% being rolled out across the wider business.
Touchpoint plays a critical part in improving the information flow between our customer facing Understanding our customers teams and homebuyers at every stage of their contact with Taylor Wimpey, from the moment Over the years our customers communication they reserve and throughout the aftercare process.
We continue to make Once a home is reserved, the portal guides our improvements to our online capabilities, including customers through the homebuying process our website and use of social media such as letting them know what they need to do next and Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
During 2017 we giving immediate access to important updates, for launched a new customer portal.
More information example, how the build of their home is can be found within our case study.
progressing, counting down to legal completion and move-in dates.
Touchpoint also offers new A responsible business homeowners useful information about the various We acknowledge that we do not always get it right appliances and systems in their home and enables for our customers and sometimes fall short of our them to log any issues there and then through the high standards.
Where this is the case, we work portal.
Touchpoint aims to complement the with customers to put this right and learn from our personal service delivered by our Sales Executives, mistakes.
Whilst we recognise there is more to do, Site Managers and Customer Relations Managers, we are particularly pleased to see a positive trend offering another more flexible means of in customer satisfaction feedback, with scores in communication with Taylor Wimpey.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 customers 33 the last six months averaging over 90%.
Internally, Customer representation First time buyers: Affordable: 1 3 we are pleased to see the approach embedding well in the business, where 95% of Taylor Wimpey 41% 17% employees believe that Taylor Wimpey aims to 2016: 38% 2016: 23% deliver the best customer service in the homebuilding industry, according to our employee survey.
In an industry growing at pace, delivery of Second time Investors: 2 4 quality alongside volume growth is not always easy buyers: and it has been a priority to ensure that our people 3% have the right resources, and that we are clear that 39% 2016: 3% we prioritise delivering the right quality over short 2016: 36% term financial results.
We strive to be a five star builder and we have made significant investment to improve our customer journey.
The results from this are starting 2 to be realised in a customer satisfaction score of 88%, up from 85% in 2016, showing progress towards our target.
1 Looking ahead to 2018 and beyond The continued rollout of our Touchpoint customer portal will be a key focus in 2018.
Touchpoint will not only provide an improved service for our customers but should ensure a more helpful and informative homebuying experience for our customers.
Reflecting the success of our academy-based approach in other key areas of the business, our 3 new Academy of Customer Excellence ACE was launched in 2017.
It aims to build the skills of our customer service, production and sales teams and 4 develop further their knowledge of our product range, ensuring consistent customer service delivery across our regional businesses.
Our KPIs 88% Customer satisfaction 100 Objective We strive to maintain and improve our customer satisfaction scores at90% or above.
80 Definition Percentage of customers satisfied or very satisfied with the quality of their new home as measured by the National 60 New Homes Survey undertaken by the NHBC on behalf of the HBF eight weeks after legal completion.
Q&A Does Taylor Wimpey monitor Why is it key to our strategy?
40 We believe it is the right thing to do.
Delivering high levels of We carry out post-occupancy research to customer satisfaction enhances the reputation of our help deepen our understanding of customer business and reduces the costs associated with rectifying views and the longer term success of our poor-quality work.
In 2017, this included 20 research at 16 completed sites that explored the impact of design and placemaking on customer satisfaction.
It showed that residents value developments 0 with character that are easy to navigate and where there is good landscaping and access to open and green spaces.
