34 Strategic Report Optimising Value Optimising and enhancing value We look to optimise the value of each site not only during the initial acquisition process, but throughout the planning and development stages so that the original value is not only protected but enhanced.
We are Our approach committed to not only delivering what we set out We achieve this optimisation of value by to do but, by delivering more, instilling a discipline undertaking a series of thorough reviews of each of capturing inflation.
In the year, we achieved a site at all stages of its life cycle, using our value 1.7 percentage points margin upside on improvement and tracking processes to ensure completions from land acquired since 2009, that we are continually optimising and delivering compared with the expected margin at the the value within our land portfolio.
We also believe in the value of working together Higher return potential with our partners, suppliers and other stakeholders and are committed to supporting charities and It is important to also develop approaches that local community groups.
enable us to control land in a capital-light way, without unduly burdening the business.
This light touch improves our returns, frees money for other investment and reduces risk in the event of What makes us different negative changes in the market.
Taking this approach can also help if, and when, there is Capturing value greater competition in high growth areas.
A good We have a relentless focus on value at every stage example of this can be found within our Major of our business model and this is ingrained into the Developments business.
More information can be Taylor Wimpey mindset.
We also balance our found within the case study on page 35. desire to improve quality with a focus on making our assets work harder for us and our stakeholders.
Partnerships We actively review every site, both new and old, We strive to be an open, transparent and through our value improvement meetings which responsive company for all our stakeholders and are held quarterly and are tracked centrally.
This to work with them to understand and address the allows us to benchmark our success and identify wider social, economic and environmental impacts opportunities for further improvement, ranging resulting from our operations.
from re-planning of sites to redesign and selective Case study How is Taylor Wimpey Q&A The fourth annual Taylor Wimpey investing inresearch Challenge took place in the Lake District in May 2017, with around andinnovation?
400 staff from across the regional Through Project 2020, our research businesses in the UK and Spain initiative, we are exploring different participating.
As with the previous approaches to meet the changing needs challenges, this latest team-focused and aspirations of our customers, improve fundraising event was organised in efficiency in construction and reduce the partnership with the Youth environmental impact of the homes we Adventure Trust YAT, which build.
For example, following our design provides adventure camps and day competition with the RIBA, we will be activities for disadvantaged young building a series of prototype homes people.
As a result of our teams incorporating sustainable build technologies fundraising efforts more than 171k and off-site production techniques.
was donated to the YAT and a selection of charities local to our regional businesses.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 value 35 Efficiency During 2017 we achieved an average annual Our KPIs return on net operating assets of 32.4% 2016: 30.7% which is ahead of our medium term Contribution per Forward order book as a target of 30% as set out in May 2016. legal completion percentage of completions We have improved our UK net operating asset Objective Objective turn to 1.52 times 2016: 1.46 times, benefiting from a low land cost as a percentage of average We strive to maximise the level of contribution We look to maintain a strong order book.
selling price in the short term owned landbank, as per home sold.
a result of higher margin land acquired in recent Definition years and increased strategic pipeline conversion.
Definition The number of homes in our year end order The higher proportion of strategic land conversion Revenue, net of incentives, less build costs, book, expressed as a percentage of the results in higher work in progress spend, due to land costs and direct selling costs, divided by number of homes completed during the year these sites generally requiring greater the number of homes completed excluding excluding joint ventures.
Why is it key to our strategy?
Charity Why is it key to our strategy?
We are committed to supporting charities and A strong order book provides our customers local community groups in the areas in which we Our strategy is focused on value and we with good visibility and provides greater stability operate.
We believe that as a responsible continue to prioritise both short and long term for business planning and enhances our ability business, we must actively contribute to helping margin performance.
Increasing the contribution to deliver the best experience for customers others whether financially, with our time, energy or per plot is a key driver to achieving this.
whilst driving the most value for shareholders.
We aim to be an aspirational housebuilding brand that is recognised for the good that is given back to our local communities by our employees.
Our primary goal is to genuinely 69.3k 49.6% improve the position of the causes that we 70 80 support.
The secondary goal is to engage our employees in these activities as we recognise it is good for their development and self-awareness.
70 60 Whilst there are a large number of worthy projects and causes, we have to focus to make sure that we are effective.
98% of Taylor Wimpey staff 60 50 believe that Taylor Wimpey is committed to being an ethical and responsible company, according to our employee survey.
50 40 During 2017, we continued our partnership with our national charities as well as local charity 40 partners across the UK.
Our six national charities 30 are the Youth Adventure Trust, End Youth Homelessness, Crisis, CRASH, St Mungos and 30 Foundations Independent Living Trust.
Our national charity partners are selected by our 20 20 Charity Committee, with regional charities selected by our regional businesses.
10 In total, during 2017 we donated and fundraised 10 over 1 million for registered charities 2016: over 875k, in addition to c. 90k for other 0 0 organisations, such as scout groups and various local community causes 2016: c. 159k.
More information about our local sponsorships and charity partnerships can be found within our Sustainability Report, which will be published on our website in March 2018.
Case study Since its creation in 2015, Major Developments has focused on the complex, mostly public land, mixed use opportunities across the UK, specifically with a high return and a lower risk structure.
The business works hard to seek acquisition structures that require low upfront capital investment, offering reduced land risk, and therefore reduced exposure to longer term market challenges, enabling us to create additional value, whilst further reducing cyclical risk.
In October 2017, the business announced its most recent development which is a joint venture with Wandsworth London Borough Council for the regeneration of Winstanley and York Road Estates that will provide more than 2,200 new homes, in addition to significant new amenities and facilities for the local community.
co. uk 2015 59.4 2016 65.5 2017 69.3 2015 56.6 2016 54.8 2017 49.6 R i s k m a n s a e g v e i t c m e e j b n t o 36 Strategic Report Our Approach to Risk Management Actively managing risks As with any business, Taylor Wimpey faces risks and uncertainties in the course of its day to day operations.
It is only by effectively identifying and managing these risks that we are able to deliver on our medium term targets 2016-2018 of an average operating profit margin of c. 22%, an average annual return on net operating assets of 30% and a total of 1.3 billion of dividends to be paid in cash to shareholders over the period.
The successful management of risk is essential to enable the Group to deliver The standard methodology used in risk management requires each identified its strategic objectives.
Our risk management and internal control framework risk to be assessed and measured according to a risk matrix.
This matrix defines the procedures that manage and mitigate risks facing the business, considers the potential impact of each risk, whether financial, reputational, rather than eliminate risk altogether and can only provide reasonable and not HSE etc, the likelihood of the event occurring, together with mitigating actions absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and hence the remaining or residual risk.
Our risk registers are refreshed on an ongoing basis as part of our financial planning cycle.
The registers feed into a Our risk management framework includes risk registers that are maintained at formal risk assessment that identifies the Principal Risks and Uncertainties see all organisational levels throughout the business, which detail the risks faced pages 38 to 41 and other key risks which are monitored closely, and allows by the Group, its operating companies and the central teams that support the both the Audit Committee and the Board to re-evaluate the identified risks business and external stakeholders.
The registers identify key operational, facing the Group.
Our Sustainability and Climate Change Risk and financial and strategic risks to the business, with strategic risks considered Opportunity Register highlights the material risks and opportunities facing the and identified as part of the business planning process.
Our risk registers take Company in relation to sustainability and climate change and forms part of our into account the significance of health, safety and environmental issues HSE, Corporate Risk Management Framework.
More information is provided in our together with social and governance matters relating to the Group and use a Sustainability Report 2017. standardised methodology for the assessment of risk.
Our risk assessment and management process Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board, supported by the GMT and the Forecast and Planning Process Audit Committee, identify the Principal Risks All BU risk registers are re-evaluated and based on the assessment of the Material Risk completed as part of the formal planning Register.
The Principal Risks will be disclosed process every six months.
Each BU with the half and full year results.
Feedback re-assesses with their own Senior Management regarding changes to Principal Risks is Team, the risk landscape that the business provided in detail to the risk owners who have faces and the risk register is then updated to been identified to manage and be primarily reflect latest forward views.
responsible for the specific risk on behalf of the Group.
Group Material Risk Register The Material Risk Register is maintained by the Business Unit Risk Register GMT and is also reviewed by the Audit All items reported in the BU risk registers are Committee with the promotion, removal or reviewed for individual risks of note and for change of risks before consideration by the risk-themes which may arise across the Group.
Views are collated from the bottom up A summary of BU risks is assessed by the Business Unit BU risk registers and a top GMT, with significant items promoted for down view of risk formed from horizon discussion by the Audit Committee.
The scanning the macro-economic environment, assessment includes a comparison of the the political landscape and developments in risk-rating of the individual items over time.
specific areas of uncertainty relating to the business or the wider markets within which we operate.
Each material risk is assessed as to its likely impact based on the Groups standard methodology, and risk items promoted or removed as appropriate.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 a c n i g d e t m a i r t i t g S a t i o n 37 Risk Materiality Process The Board determines the nature and extent of the Principal Risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategy, whilst maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
developments have used leases with RPI-based ground rent clauses, which The Board oversees the risk management and internal control framework of have become the industry norm.
During the year, we reviewed the terms of the Group.
The Chief Executive is responsible for implementing any necessary these leases.
The doubling clauses are considered to be entirely legal, clearly improvements, with the support of the GMT.
In line with the UK Corporate set out in the lease documentation and all our customers received Governance Code, the Board holds formal risk reviews at least half yearly and independent legal advice as part of the standard conveyancing process.
That also routinely considers risk at each Board Meeting as appropriate.
The Board said, it became clear that the impact of these rent review clauses was causing reviews the risk profile of the Group and the significant risks with the some of our customers understandable concern, and we resolved that these mitigating factors.
doubling clauses were not consistent with our cultural values.
We have At the Board meeting in February 2018, the Board completed its annual implemented the Taylor Wimpey Ground Rent Review Assistance Scheme assessment of risks.
This followed the Audit Committees formal assessment GRRAS, for our customers who wish to alter the terms of the doubling lease of risk, which was supported by the detailed risk assessment by the GMT, to materially less expensive terms based on RPI, with the Group bearing the and their review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
The key risks affecting financial cost of doing so.
the Group were identified and agreed with the Board.
The Government has recently launched a consultation on leasehold properties, and this may result in changes to future ground rent structures.
Other key risks Whilst our business model, like most other volume housebuilders, is to In addition to the principal industry related risks set out in the following pages, transfer the freehold, management and upkeep of apartment and other we also monitor closely several other key internal and external factors.
These developments to third party organisations, we note that potential changes could be risks with increasing potential impact or likelihood which are added may arise from the consultation.
to our watch list, or risks arising as a result of a combination of unlikely events, which together create a major event.
These include factors that may affect our In the current economic climate and with the structural shortage of housing reputation and which can come from many sources.
The Group considers risk supply in the UK, the Government and the main political parties have housing from a wider technology and cyber perspective, and we are delivering a high on their agendas.
The housebuilding industry is facing increased scrutiny programme of works across the business to reduce our exposure to and pressure from a number of sources, including social media and pressure non-compliance with the EUs General Data Protection Regulation GDPR groups, with the potential for greater oversight from Government through a which is implemented in May 2018.
We continue to invest in our technology Design Champion and a single Housing Ombudsman.
We endeavour to controls and services to mitigate the increasing cyber threats.
The Group also deliver both the letter and the spirit of regulations and maintain this same considers the potential impact to the business in the event that our customers ethos in our relationships with our customers.
buying-experience or any of our homes are below our high standards.
Our Following the tragic fire at Grenfell Tower in London in June 2017, we enhanced customer service processes and departments were established in conducted an internal review into our current and historic developments, 2016, and once fully embedded, will significantly help to ensure that the quality working, as appropriate with building owners, management companies, of our homes is delivered as promised to our customers.
independent fire safety experts and local fire and rescue services.
On sites Our customers and our corporate obligation are at the heart of Taylor where there are tall buildings with Aluminium Composite Material cladding, we Wimpeys cultural values, which were launched to all employees in 2016. sought advice from independent fire safety experts, and, where required, have Theenhanced Customer Journey is in place and we have focused heavily put in place additional measures to ensure that the buildings are fully onproduct quality.
However, during late 2016, some customers expressed compliant with the Governments guidance on interim fire safety measures.
concern about certain leasehold homes which are subject to ground rents that We welcome the commissioning of the Hackitt Review, and look forward to th double every ten years until the 50 year, at which point the rent is capped.
working positively with Government and other agencies to ensure that the This lease structure was introduced on some new developments by outcomes are effective and appropriate for the long term.
TaylorWimpey in good faith in 2007 until late 2011, since when our new Group Appetite for Risk Risk level Low Medium High Our description of the Groups Balance sheet strength, dependent on risk appetite is the foundation of current position in the land cycle our Risk Management framework.
We have identified operational Landbank quality categories against which both our Brand and reputation and current risk profile and our risk customer satisfaction tolerance range have been defined.
Certain risk categories Operational strength are dependent on where we believe we are in the cycle, and may adjust accordingly.
In Health, safety and environment defining our risk appetite, the Board has taken into account the Employee retention expectations of the companys shareholders, regulators and Legal, regulatory and IT security other stakeholders.
Risk tolerance range Current risk profile The current risk profile is within our tolerance range and overall is described as: The Group is willing to accept a moderate level of risk in order to deliver financial returns.
There may be occasions where these risks could have a moderate adverse impact to the Group, be it financially or operationally, although it is considered that the effect could be mitigated through management actions.
