Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 25 PRINCIPAL RISKS Identifying what may affect our performance The principal risks which may affect our business and the future performance of the Group are set out below.
Residual Risk Change Risk Impact Mitigation Rating in 2017 UKs exit As the UK negotiates the terms of its exit We continue to closely monitor the impact of the increased from the EU from the European Union, there remains a uncertainty onthe UK economy and the housing market degree of uncertainty on the outlook for the through the review of external information and changes in the UK economy.
Ongoing economic uncertainty behaviour of our customer base.
Close management of work may reduce consumer confidence, impacting in progress levels matching supply to demand will continue on demand and pricing for new homes and and land investment decisions will continue to be assessed, affecting revenues, profits and cash flows and including measures to ensure exposure to market disruption is may result in the impairment of asset values.
The overall shortage of supply of housing in the UK may provide a degree of support to the housing market should High Potential legislative changes on freedom of these circumstances arise.
Action taken by the Government to movement may also restrict the availability of adjust policy to support UK economic performance may provide skilled construction workers and impact on further mitigation as might any response with respect to interest costs and build activity.
In addition, potential rates by the Bank of England.
further relative devaluation of the UK currency as a result of Brexit could increase costs of We will continue to employ robust tendering processes to materials.
maintain strong cost control over Group sourcing.
In addition, we will remain focused on our training initiatives to improve the supply of the necessary construction skills the Group requires.
Government Government policy has the potential to We monitor Government policy in relation to house building very policy influence various aspects of our strategy, closely.
Consistency of policy formulation and application is very operations and overall performance.
Changes supportive of the industry, encouraging continued substantial in Government policy are considered as a new investment in land, work in progress and skills to support output principal risk due to increased uncertainty in growth.
We actively manage our land investment decisions and the political environment.
work in progress commitments to mitigate exposure to external influences.
Potential changes in Government policy, such as changes to the planning system, changes Both major political parties in the UK continue to support the High New in the tax regime, or the amendment of the Help to Buy scheme which received additional funding in 2017 Help to Buy scheme could have an adverse and is scheduled to remain in place until 2021. effect on industry revenues, margins and asset Recent changes in stamp duty for first time buyers may support values.
Government initiatives to encourage activity levels in the market.
house building through social housing or the SME sector could also increase the demand for, and costs of, scarce material and labour resources.
The housebuilding industry is sensitive to We control the level of build on site by closely managing National changes in unemployment, interest rates our work in progress levels.
We carry out extensive due and regional and consumer confidence.
Any deterioration diligence prior to our land investment decisions.
We monitor economic in economic conditions may decrease our geographical spread to mitigate the effects of local conditions High demand and pricing for new homes, which microeconomic fluctuations.
We continually monitor lead could have a material effect on our business indicators on the future direction of the UK housing market revenues, margins and profits and result in the soastomanage our exposure to any future market disruption.
Mortgage Any restrictions in the availability or affordability We monitor Bank of England commentary on credit conditions.
availability of mortgages for customers could reduce We ensure that our investment in land and work in progress demand for new homes and affect revenues, is appropriate for our level of sales and our expectations profits and cash flows.
Early withdrawal of the for market conditions.
We monitor the Council of Mortgage Government sponsored Help to Buy scheme is Lenders monthly reports and lenders announcements for High likely to impact on the availability of associated trends in lending.
The Governments Help to Buy scheme, mortgage lending and could reduce demand which currently is anticipated to remain available until 2021, for new homes from first time buyers, supports customers to gain access to the housing market impacting revenues, profits, and cash flows.
across the UKwith competitive mortgage rates.
Key: Increased risk No change Decreased risk Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 08 Risk v27.
indd 25 07 03 2018 11:23 26 PRINCIPAL RISKS continued Residual Risk Change Risk Impact Mitigation Rating in 2017 Health and The health and safety of our employees, We ensure that the Boards health and safety strategy is safety subcontractors, home owners and visitors implemented by our comprehensive management systems and to our construction sites is of paramount controls, overseen by our Group Health and Safety Department High importance to us.
Accidents on our sites could to minimise the likelihood and impact of accidents on our sites.
lead to reputational damage and financial penalties.
Regulatory Our business is subject to extensive and We operate comprehensive management systems to ensure compliance complex laws and regulations relating to areas regulatory and legal compliance, including anti-bribery policies.
such as planning and the environment.
Our We engage extensively with planning stakeholders to reduce the obligations to comply with legislation can result likelihood and impact of any delays or disruption.
We also hold in delays causing us to incur substantial costs Low a land bank sufficient to provide security of supply for short to and prohibit or restrict land development and medium term landrequirements.
Non-compliance could also result in damage to the Groups reputation or imposition of financial penalties.
Expansion in UK housebuilding has driven an We closely monitor our build programmes and our supply chain Materials increase in demand for materials which may enablingus to manage and react to any supply chain issues.
We continue to cause availability constraints and build good relationships with suppliers to ensure consistency of or costs to increase.
Prices for key materials may also be affected We have invested in our expanding offsite manufacturing by currency movements as the Brexit process capability to help security of supply.
Our own brick plant was continues.
commissioned in 2017 and will supply a significant proportion Medium of the bricks we use.
In addition we have taken the decision to manufacture our own roof tiles and will establish a new facility at our manufacturing hub at Harworth near Doncaster during 2018.
This complements our existing offsite manufacturing capability at Space4, which produces timber frames andhighly insulated wall panels and roof cassettes as a modern method of constructing new homes.
We continue to examine further investment inSpace4 technology.
Labour Having an appropriately skilled workforce Close monitoring of our build programmes enables us to is a key requirement for house building.
manage our labour requirements effectively.
We operate Expansion in UK house building activity has in-house apprentice and training programmes, including our increased demand for skilled labour.
This may Combat to Construction C2C programme, to supply the continue to create site resourcing shortfalls Groupwith skilled labour.
and or increased labour costs ahead of our We are committed to playing a full and active role in external expectations.
The availability and quality of initiatives to address the skills shortage such as the Home labour resources may be further tightened Building Skills Partnership, a joint initiative of the Construction Medium depending on the nature of arrangements as Industry Training Board and the Home Builders Federation.
the UK exits the European Union.
Where appropriate, we also use the Groups Space4 modern A skilled management team is required to method of construction which reduces the site based skilled enable effective implementation of the Groups labour required in the construction of our homes.
The Executive Directors undertake regular succession planning Loss of a number of key senior management reviews.
The Board have conducted a detailed review of could disrupt the business.
succession planning with particular regard to the 2012 LTIP.
Strategy The Board has adopted its strategy as it The Groups strategy is agreed by the Board at an annual believes it is the one most likely to add the strategy meeting and thereafter regularly reviewed at Board greatest sustainable value for shareholders meetings and by the Executive Directors.
The Board engages and stakeholders.
It is possible that, with time, with management andemployees to ensure the strategy is Low factors become known that indicate that the communicated and understood and that all employees have strategy currently being pursued is not the a clear understanding of the potential benefits and risks of the most effective or efficient and that alternative strategy.
Further information is included in theStrategic Update.
strategies may be more appropriate.
