24 Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE, ALIGNED WITH RISK MANAGEMENT, HELPING TO DELIVER GROWING AND SUSTAINABLE EARNINGS Chris Szpojnarowicz Company Secretary and Head of Legal The Group has the opportunity to grow economy is facing uncertainty during A robust framework further, uniquely positioned to leverage Brexit negotiations.
for systematically To ensure delivery, continued focus on How we do this, and assess our principal operational excellence aligned with risks and manage them, are set out on identifying, monitoring effective risk and assurance management the following pages.
This is especially so at a time when the HE sector and the broader Group Board leads review 1 of risk profile along with assessing principal risks.
Top-down review 2 wide range of strategic and emerging risks and opportunities.
Bottom-up review challenging risks identified by operational management and more 3 technical risks such as information technology, security, continuity, GDPR, financing and treasury.
Board searching externally for best practice 4 engaging with senior leaders in the HE sector as well external technical experts.
External experts 5 Recruiting expert advice on key issues such as fire safety following Grenfell Tower and Information Technology ahead of GDPR introduction.
Output The Groups principal risks mapped Market risks Property across these four risk categories, their Operational risks Financing risks supply & demand Development risks impact on our strategic objectives and how we mitigate these risks are set out Read more p28 Read more p29 Read more p30 Read more p31 on pages 28 to 31.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 25 Key risk developments in 2017 Risk Profile category Key risk developments in 2017 Unite risk activity assessment Operational risks Grenfell Tower tragedy Full fire safety review of all our properties.
major H&S incident renewed focus on fire in a property safety, especially in Worked closely with Department for Communities and Local Government DCLG, local fire high-rise residential authorities and fire safety experts to ensure fire safety and address any remedial actions properties.
Ensured aligned national approach through the Avon Fire Authority, our Primary Fire Authority.
Unite buildings are modern and purpose-built, with ongoing rigorous fire safety and maintenance regimes, as well as whole-building approach includes provision of white goods, fire compartmentation and fire doors.
R ead more about Fire safety and cladding on p41 Market risks Maturing PBSA sector Active property recycling, with Unites portfolio positioned in high-quality locations: supply increase and increasing supply of PBSA beds.
73% in top 10 markets 85% of Unites portfolio aligned to high mid-ranked Universities and TEF Gold Silver 99% occupancy in 2017 18, underpinned by 60% nominations agreements, with an average remaining life of 6 years providing income and rental growth certainty.
R ead more about Quality partnerships on p10 and our Property Review on p36 Market risks Ongoing Brexit negotiations Whilst there was a 4% fall in applications in 2017, University intake was broadly in line with reduction in demand and UKs stance on 2016 due to the excess of applications over acceptances.
immigration creates R ead more about uncertainty for HE sector.
Market drivers on p02 2017 student intake was broadly consistent with 2016, with participation rates increasing, offsetting the demographic reduction.
Market risks Customer expectations Enhanced PRISM, our innovative and proprietary digital platform.
Value for money and affordability are Strong service delivery evidenced by record high customer satisfaction and Higher increasingly important.
Enhanced our Unite apps to improve connectivity with our digital native customers.
Rolled out Student Ambassador programme and University-adopted Welcome programme.
GDPR compliance review of our digital offering.
R ead more in our Operations Review on p32 Our risk appetite During the year, the Board The Groups risk appetite is considered as reviewed our risk appetite in light of a fundamental part of the Boards strategy the key in-year risk developments set out setting and annual budget it does not above.
This considered both threats to happen in isolation.
Our risk appetite is and opportunities in our business in the underpinned by our principal financial context of macro and minor developments, aim to continue delivering low doublenot only in the PBSA sector, but also the digit total returns and sustainable, broader HE sector, property market growing earnings.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 26 Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Stress testing our strategic planning Each year, the Board develops and refreshes the Groups Strategic Plan.
This is based on detailed three-year strategic financial projections with related scenario planning and rolls forward for a further two Increase in Yield years using more generic assumptions.
The Board maps interest rates expansion our strategic objectives against our risk profile.
Then, The influences always conscious that risk events do not necessarily of multiple happen in isolation, the Board stress tests these combined projections against multiple combined risk events.
risk events Through this process, a base case and stress-tested Strategic Plan is developed.
During 2017, consistent with prior years, this stressReduction in EU tested scenario planning considered a material reduction in the number of European and international international students, a material rise in long-term interest rates and students yield expansion, together with a combination of all these events occurring at the same time.
Our strategic objectives compared to our risk profile Strategic Risk profile Principal objective category risks Quality properties Property Development Increasing competition and customer expectations underlines the importance to constantly Improve the quality of our portfolio, whilst navigating site selection, development planning risks and build cost inflation as well as disposal risks.
Market The health, safety, wellbeing and security of the 50,000 students who make Unite Students their home is Quality service platform supply & demand the foundation of our reputation and continued focus on H&S is key to building and maintaining this trust.
Operational Affordability and value for money are increasingly critical in the increasingly competitive market place.
Delivering H&S the highest service levels in the sector continues to be critical to our sustainable and longer-term success.
Quality University Market With the increasing supply and maturing PBSA sector enhancing strong and sustainable University relationships partnerships supply & demand is increasingly important.
Market In an increasingly competitive market with more demanding customers developing and retaining our talent is Quality people supply & demand critical to ensure market leadership.
Property Development Earnings & NAV growth Financing Critical to maintain a timely approach in arranging new debt and extending debt maturities, reducing the cost of funding, diversifying our funding sources and introducing new lenders to the Group.
We ensure we secure a strong balance sheet with appropriate levels of leverage and liquidity so the business can withstand the property cycle.
Creating the right corporate culture for The culture of the organisation recognises - A twice yearly formal review by the effective risk management and accepts that risk is inherent in Board of principal risks, how they are The Groups risk management framework is business and encourages an open and changing and considering any designed to identify the principal risks and proactive approach to risk management emerging risks ensure that risks are being appropriately as opposed to a blame culture.
By viewing - Risk Committee reviews the principal monitored, controls are in place and our risks through the lens of our 5 strategic risks that the Group is facing or should required actions have clear ownership objectives, the Group is able to ensure risk consider with requisite accountability.
management is pro-active and pre- - Specific risk management in dedicated emptive and not a tick box exercise.
Board sub-Committees allowing focus The organisation has an open and on specific risk areas for example, the accountable culture, led by a stable and The Board has the overall responsibility for Audit Committee and Health & Safety experienced leadership team operating the governance of risks and ensures there Committee in the sector for a number of years.
This are adequate and effective systems in - Risk Committee scrutiny and challenge culture is set by the Board in the way it place.
It does this in various ways: of management activity allowing a conducts its Board and Committee focused forum for risk identification meetings and cascades through the - Risks are considered by the Board as and review organisation enabling the same culture an intrinsic part of strategy setting and - Risk assurance through external and for risk management.
consideration of new opportunities internal auditors as well as specialist risk is recognised as an inherent part third party risk assurance where of each opportunity appropriate e. g. British Safety Council providing specialist independent health and safety assurance THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 27 Composition Our risk management framework of Risk Committee Chris Szpojnarowicz The Board Company Secretary and Head of Legal and Chair of Risk Committee Risks assessed as part - Owned by the Board and its Committees of strategy setting - Twice yearly formal risk review and ongoing Joe Lister and risk oversight monitoring of risk integral to Board meetings Chief Financial Officer and MD of People and Communications Risk management Policies and controls Richard Smith Chief Executive Officer - Owned by the Risk Committee Underpinning risk management and the Management Board such as Capital Operating Richard Simpson - Monthly risk tracker review Guidelines: Treasury Policy: AntiGroup Property Director at Management Board Bribery Policy: Major Investment - Risk Committee review and Approvals Committee and the challenge of all risk trackers and internal controls framework related risk and opportunity activity.
People and culture Embedded risk Openness, transparency and clear ownership of management culture risk management through risk trackers cascades through the organisation Key Risk Indicators KRIs linked to our Robust assessment of principal risks Board as part of its strategy setting process.
KPIs and our strategic objectives The directors confirm that they have Once approved by the Board, the plan is conducted a robust assessment of the cascaded down across the Group and Strategic objective KPIs principal risks facing the Group.
The provides the basis for setting all detailed process for how the Board determined financial budgets and strategic actions Quality properties Gross asset value these principal risks is explained above that are subsequently used by the Board Asset age and the specific principal risks are set out to monitor performance.
The forecast Occupancy on pages 28 to 31. performance outlook is also used by the Remuneration Committee to establish the Rental growth Viability statement targets for both the annual and longerSafety Quality service platform The Directors have assessed the viability term incentive schemes.
Customer satisfaction of the Group over a three-year period to December 2020, taking account of the The financing risks of the Group are Occupancy Groups current position and the potential considered to have the potential greatest Quality University Safety impact of the principal risks.
The Directors impact on the Groups financial viability.
partnerships University trust consider the three-year lookout period The two principal financing risks for the to be the most appropriate as this aligns Group are: the Groups ability to arrange Customer satisfaction with the Groups own strategic planning new debt replace expiring debt facilities: % Noms v. Direct Let period combined with the levels of and any adverse interest rate movements.
Safety planning certainty that can be derived The Group has secured funding for the Quality people from the development pipeline.
Based committed future development pipeline, Employee on this assessment, the Directors have which included the first Group unsecured engagement a reasonable expectation that the Group loan facility, and prepares its Strategic Plan Customer satisfaction will be able to continue in operation and on a fully funded basis in line with the University trust meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year outlook period.
To hedge period to December 2020. against the potential of adverse interest Earnings & NAV growth EPS rate movements the Group manages its Total accounting As explained above, the Group has exposure with a combination of fixed-rate return developed an annual business planning facilities and using interest rate swaps for Net debt process, which comprises a Strategic Plan, its floating-rate debt.
During the year, LTV a financial forecast for the current year the Group has complied with all and a financial projection for the covenant requirements attached Net debt : EBITDA forthcoming three years which includes to its financing facilities.
stress testing and scenario planning and Read more in the also rolls forwards for a further two years.
Financial Review on p42 This plan is reviewed each year by the THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
