Risk management Effective risk management The Groups risk management process is essential to mitigate risk exposure, identify business opportunities, improve operations and protect our stakeholders.
Further details of the Groups approach to internal control are set The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and out in the Governance framework report on pages 68 and 73. determines the Groups risk strategy, assessing the balance of risk necessary for the Group to carry out its business successfully and Risk management framework to achieve its strategic goals.
The Group operates a formal and rigorous risk management The Audit Committee oversees the Groups risk framework, designed to ensure that risks are clearly identified, management framework.
effectively managed and continually monitored.
The Health, Safety and Environment Committee reviews health, Under this framework, risk profiling exercises are undertaken by safety and environmental risk management across the Group.
operating businesses, and at division and Group level, to identify, The Remuneration Committee ensures that the remuneration evaluate and control risk.
The Group Risk function coordinates the structure does not encourage excessive risk taking risk assessments and identification activities, as well as facilitating by management.
the development of appropriate responses to identified risks.
The The Nomination Committee ensures that the composition Board and its Committees are provided with detailed information oftheBoard and its Committees is appropriate to oversee to ensure that they are aware of the risks to the business and their risk management.
respective responsibilities are set out opposite: The interim Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee monitors risks relating to the ramp up of operations at the Groups major growth projects.
The Chief Executive Officer and Executive Committee implement the risk strategy determined by the Board.
Risk management framework Risk identification Risk register Action Monitoring and assessment and risk map plan and control Modification 56 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk governance structure Board of Directors Health, Safety and Operations Ramp Audit Remuneration Nomination Environment Up Assurance Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief Executive and Executive Committee Assurance Internal audit department Assesses assurance processes and advises management Speak-Up helpline Group, Divisions and Operations Confidential external whistleblowing facility for employees and other stakeholders Internal policies, procedures and training Instruction and support for employees to ensure that best practices are followed Groups risk environment and risk management activities and Identification of principal risks monitor the Group risk map to ensure that risks continue to be Through the risk management framework, the Groups principal accurately represented.
This continual monitoring process indicates risks are identified and each risk is assessed according to the where mitigating actions may need to be taken.
potential severity of its effect and the likelihood of occurrence.
The principal risks are placed on the Group risk map.
The Board A description of our principal risks, including impact and mitigating and Audit Committee receive benchmarking of the Groups actions, can be found on pages 59 to 63. principal risks against industry peers, review reports on the www.
com 57 Risk governance Operations Risk management continued Viability statement In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Process to assess the Groups prospects Board has assessed the Groups prospects and longer-term viability The Board has performed the viability assessment based on the and has selected a period of three years, to 31 December 2020, for Groups Treasury forecast, which is regularly reviewed by the Board this assessment.
This period is considered appropriate as: and prepared from the annual budgeting process, individual project plans and life of mine LOM plans.
These LOM plans reflect the Commodity prices have been volatile and as the market for expected production profile and related cost structures of the copper, on which the Group is highly dependent, is expected operations over their expected economic lives.
to be finely balanced, this may result in further copper price volatility.
Copper prices are therefore difficult to forecast The Board has considered the key assumptions made in the viability for an extended period.
statement and is satisfied that they are appropriate.
These include Exchange rates and inflation rates in Kazakhstan, important assumptions based on externally sourced views on commodity pricing, drivers of the Groups operating costs, are difficult to forecast exchange rate and inflation and interest rates, as well as an internal for an extended period.
assessment of future production levels.
Commodity price assumptions have been set with reference to market consensus estimates.
The Groups debt level is expected to significantly reduce during the viability period, with scheduled repayments of $1.5 billion.
To reflect the principal risks which could have a material impact on the Groups viability over the three-year period, the base case Assessment of prospects model has been subjected to stress testing and sensitivity analysis.
In assessing the Groups prospects, the Board has considered the This considered severe scenarios, but not those the Board current position of the Group, including the significant available considered to be implausible, and included: liquidity, $1,821 million at 31 December 2017, the performance to date of Bozshakol and Aktogay, the cost competitiveness of the A sustained fall in commodity prices from current levels Groups operations and its future capital requirements, including and below market consensus throughout the viability period: the planned expansion of Aktogay.
Given the location of the A sustained fall in commodity prices combined with lower than Groups operations and market for its products, Brexit is not expected production from the Bozshakol and Aktogay operations: expected to have a material impact on the Groups viability.
A sustained fall in commodity prices and lower than expected production combined with an increase in Group operating costs The Board has considered all of the principal risks set out on pages due to adverse exchange rates and higher cost inflation.
59 to 63 but has focused on those principal risks which alone or in conjunction could have a material impact on production, In addition, reverse stress testing was performed to ascertain profitability, cash flows and liquidity over the assessment period: the negative movement in the copper price which could lead to non-compliance with financial covenants.
Commodity prices: the Groups financial outlook is sensitive to commodity prices.
A sustained deterioration in prices would Confirmation of longer-term viability negatively impact the Groups profitability and cash flow.
In the base case, or an individual downside scenario for lower New projects and commissioning and business interruption: the commodity prices or production, the Board considers there to be Groups operations and growth projects may fail to ramp up or adequate liquidity over the viability period, including financing of the maintain operating parameters as planned.
Foreign exchange and inflation risk: a significant appreciation of the In a more severe downside scenario, where a sustained reduction in KZT $ exchange rate from its current level, or increased inflation in copper price is combined with lower than expected production from Kazakhstan could have a material impact on operating costs.
Bozshakol and Aktogay, the Group would need to take mitigating actions to finance the Aktogay expansion as planned.
Any such Liquidity risk: for borrowing facilities to remain committed, the shortfall would only be expected to occur towards the end of the Group is required to comply with various obligations, including viability period.
Given the quality of the Groups large scale, low cost compliance with financial covenants.
A faster than expected increase and long life assets and the significant reduction in gross debt levels in US interest rates would also impact the Groups financial outlook.
over the viability period, the Board is confident this shortfall could be The Board has a reasonable expectation that there would not be managed by an amendment to existing finance facilities, or from new anunforeseen event, outside of the Groups control, during the sources of finance.
Furthermore, in the unlikely event this was not viability assessment period which would restrict production or successful, the Board could defer uncommitted capital expenditures export of material from the Groups operations for a sustained for the Aktogay expansion.
Such events could include a natural phenomenon, a Therefore, following an assessment of the principal risks, the Board significant political or legislative change or regulatory challenge believes there is a reasonable expectation that the Group will be or significant civil disorder.
able to continue in operation and will continue to meet its liabilities as they fall due throughout the period to 31 December 2020.
58 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Managing our risks The Groups principal risks are set out below, along with mitigating actions.
There may be other risks, unknown or currently considered immaterial, which might become material.
The risks set out below are not in order of likelihood of occurrence or materiality and should be viewed, as with any forward-looking statements in this document, with regard to the cautionary statement.
Sustainability risks Health and safety Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Mining is a hazardous industry.
Health and The Groups goal is for zero fatalities and to Delivering major growth projects safety incidents could result in harm to seek to minimise health and safety incidents.
Optimisation of existing assets people, as well as production disruption, Policies and procedures are designed to Be a socially responsible operator financial loss and reputational damage.
identify and monitor risks and provide a Risk change clear framework for conducting business.
This is supported by regular training and The Group has seen a long-term reduction awareness campaigns for employees in fatalities but the goal of zero fatalities has and contractors.
The HSE Committee reviews and monitors associated risks across the Group.
Further details of the HSE function are set out in the Corporate responsibility report.
Community and labour relations Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group operates in areas where it is The Group engages with community Delivering major growth projects a major employer, where employees are representatives, unions and employees Optimisation of existing assets represented by labour unions and where and aims to address concerns raised by Be a socially responsible operator it may provide support to the local different stakeholders.
Through responsible Risk change community.
This may impose restrictions behaviour, acting transparently, promoting on the Groups flexibility in taking certain dialogue and complying with commitments No change.
Failure to identify and the Group minimises potentially negative manage the concerns and expectations of impacts.
Bozshakol and Aktogay are in local communities and the labour force remote locations where the community could affect the Groups reputation and relations risk is reduced.
social licence to operate, and result in Further details of the Groups social production disruptions and increases in programme are set out in the operating costs.
Wage negotiations could Corporate responsibility report.
be impacted by higher commodity prices, higher domestic inflation or the continued weakness of the tenge.
Employees Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group is dependent on its ability to The Group actively monitors the labour Delivering major growth projects attract and retain highly skilled personnel.
market to remain competitive in the Optimisation of existing assets Failure to do so could have a negative hiring of staff and provides remuneration Be a socially responsible operator impact on operations or the successful structures and development opportunities Risk change implementation of growth projects and to attract and retain key employees.
Key result in higher operating costs to recruit positions are identified at all locations, and No change.
Challenges remain in respect required staff.
The remote location of training and succession plans developed.
of the recruitment and retention of some operations increases this challenge.
International workers with appropriate skilled staff.
expertise assist during the initial phase of operations.
com 59 Principal risks continued Sustainability risks continued Environmental Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Mining operations involve the use of toxic Policies and procedures are in place to set Delivering major growth projects substances and require the storage of large out required operating standards and to Optimisation of existing assets volumes of waste materials in tailings dams, monitor environmental impacts.
The Group Be a socially responsible operator which could result in spillages and significant liaises with relevant governmental bodies Risk change environmental damage.
The Group is on environmental matters, including subject to environmental laws and legislation changes.
regulations which are continually developing, Further details are set out in the Corporate including those to tackle climate change.
Failure to comply with applicable laws could lead to the suspension of operating licences, the imposition of financial penalties or costly compliance costs and reputational damage.
Operational risks Business interruption Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Operations are subject to a number of In-house and third-party specialists are Delivering major growth projects risks not wholly within the Groups control, utilised to identify and manage operational Optimisation of existing assets including: geological and technological risks and to recommend improvements.
Risk change challenges: weather and other natural Equipment and facilities are maintained phenomena: damage to or failure of appropriately and regularly inspected.
This risk is assessed to have increased equipment and infrastructure: loss or Property damage and business interruption as production at Bozshakol and Aktogay interruption to key inputs such as electricity insurance programmes provide some has ramped up whilst commodity prices and water: and the availability of key supplies protection from major incidents.
have strengthened, therefore increasing and services, including the Balkhash smelter.
the financial impact of a disruption Should an outage occur at the Balkhash to production.
Any disruption could impact production, smelter the Group believes it could sell may require the Group to incur unplanned concentrate directly to customers.
expenditure and negatively impact cash flows.
New projects and commissioning Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Projects may fail to achieve the desired New projects are subject to rigorous Delivering major growth projects economic returns due to an inability to assessment prior to approval including Risk change recover mineral resources, design or feasibility or technical studies and capital construction deficiencies, a failure to achieve appraisal.
Specialists are utilised throughout This risk is assessed to have reduced as the expected operating parameters or because the life cycle of projects.
Project Aktogay sulphide and Bozshakol clay plants of capital or operating costs being higher management and capital expenditure were declared commercial during the year.
Failure to effectively planning and monitoring procedures are Going forward the risk may increase as the manage new projects or a lack of inplace to review performance against Aktogay expansion project is executed.
available financing may prevent or milestones and budgets.
This includes delay completion of projects.
the Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee which reports to the Board.
The recently announced Aktogay expansion represents a low risk growth project, being a duplicate processing facility with construction to be managed by the project team which delivered the first processing facility.
Further details regarding the major growthprojects are included in the Operating review.
Represents those principal risks considered as specific downside cases as part of the viability assessment on page 58.
60 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reserves and resources Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Groups ore reserves are in part based The Groups ore reserves and mineral Delivering major growth projects on an estimation method established by the resources are published annually in Optimisation of existing assets former Soviet Union.
There are numerous accordance with the criteria of the JORC Take advantage of natural uncertainties inherent in estimating ore Code and reviewed by an independent resource opportunities reserves, which if changed, could require the technical expert.
This includes mine site Risk change need to restate ore reserves and impact the visits where considered appropriate and the economic viability of affected operations conversion from the former Soviet Union No change.
estimation to that prescribed by the JORC Code.
Drilling and exploration programmes are conducted to enhance the understanding of geological information.
Political Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group could be affected by political A proactive dialogue is maintained with the Delivering major growth projects instability or social and economic changes in Governments of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan Optimisation of existing assets the countries in which it operates.
This could across a range of issues.
Developments are Take advantage of natural include the granting and renewal of permits monitored closely and lobbying is conducted resource opportunities and changes to foreign trade or legislation where appropriate.
Kazakhstan is one of Risk change that could affect the business environment the most politically stable and economically and negatively impact the Groups business, developed countries in Central Asia and No change.
financial performance and licence to operate.
the Board continues to view the political, social and economic environment within Kazakhstan favourably and remains optimistic about the conditions for business in the region.
Legal and regulatory compliance Impact Mitigation Link to strategy In Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan all subsoil Management engages with the relevant Delivering major growth projects reserves belong to the State and subsoil regulatory authorities and seeks appropriate Optimisation of existing assets usage rights must be renewed.
Legislation, advice to ensure compliance with all relevant Take advantage of natural including subsoil use laws and taxation have legislation and subsoil use contracts.
A resource opportunities been in force for a relatively short period specialist department is tasked with Risk change of time and may be subject to change and monitoring compliance with the terms of uncertainty of interpretation, application subsoil use contracts.
closely with the tax authorities in the review of proposed amendments to legislation.
Non-compliance with legislation could Further details of the Groups tax strategy result in regulatory challenges, fines, litigation and risk management are set out in the and ultimately the loss of operating licences.
Appropriate monitoring Substantial payments of tax could arise for and disclosure procedures are in place for the Group, or tax receivable balances may related party transactions.
not be recovered as expected.
com 61 Principal risks continued Financial risks Commodity price Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Groups results are heavily dependent The Group regularly reviews its sensitivity to Delivering major growth projects on the commodity price for copper and to fluctuations in commodity prices.
The Group Optimisation of existing assets a lesser extent, the prices of gold, silver is not currently and does not normally hedge Take advantage of natural and zinc.
Commodity prices can fluctuate commodity prices, but may enter into a resource opportunities significantly and are dependent on several hedge programme where the Board Risk change factors, including world supply and demand determines it is appropriate to provide and investor sentiment.
greater certainty over future cash flows.
During 2017 the copper market and its outlook improved.
However, given Sensitivity analysis to movements in continued volatility and uncertainty, commodity prices is included in the commodity prices continue to be a Market overview.
Foreign exchange and inflation Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Fluctuations in rates of exchange or inflation Where possible the Group conducts its Optimisation of existing assets in the jurisdictions to which the Group is business and maintains its financial assets and Risk change exposed could result in future increased liabilities in US dollars.
The Group generally No change.
As the functional currency of the does not hedge its exposure to foreign Groups operating entities is their local currency risk in respect of currency, fluctuations in exchange rates can operating expenses.
give rise to exchange gains and losses in the Further details are set out in note 31 to income statement and volatility in the level the financial statements.
of net assets recorded on the Groups balance sheet.
Exposure to China Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Sales are made to a limited number of Bozshakol and Aktogay produce a copper Delivering major growth projects customers in China, particularly in respect concentrate that is attractive to Chinese Optimisation of existing assets of copper concentrate output.
Treatment smelters, being clean and high in sulphur Take advantage of natural and refining charges are dependent upon content.
The Group has established good resource opportunities Chinese smelting capacity and the level of relationships with strategic customers Risk change copper concentrate supply in the region.
China is an important source of financing to The Group maintains relationships with the Group with long-term debt facilities a number of international lending banks, of $3.0 billion at 31 December 2017.
In having the PXF facility and DBK facility in addition, the Group uses contractors, place and has the flexibility to consider services and materials from China.
other sources of capital if required.
62 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Acquisitions and divestments Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group may acquire or dispose of A rigorous assessment process is Optimisation of existing assets assets and businesses which fail to achieve undertaken to assess all potential Take advantage of natural the expected benefit or value to the Group.
acquisitions and divestments by specialist resource opportunities Changing market conditions, incorrect staff, supported by external advisers where Risk change assumptions or deficiencies in due diligence appropriate.
Due diligence processes are could result in the wrong decisions being undertaken and material transactions are No change.
made and in acquisitions or disposals subject to Board review and approval, failing to deliver expected benefits.
The including ensuring the transaction is aligned Restructuring was effected under the with the Groups strategy, consideration of laws and regulations of Kazakhstan the key assumptions being applied and the which are subject to change and open to risks identified.
interpretation, including the legal and tax aspects of the Restructuring in 2014, which could give rise to liabilities for KAZ Minerals.
Liquidity Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group is exposed to liquidity risk if it is Forecast cash flows are closely monitored Delivering major growth projects unable to meet payment obligations as they and the financing strategy is set by the Board.
Optimisation of existing assets fall due or is unable to access acceptable Adequate levels of committed funds are Take advantage of natural sources of finance.
Non-compliance with maintained with $1,821 million cash and resource opportunities financial covenants could result in borrowing committed facilities at 31 December 2017.
Risk change facilities becoming uncommitted and The Group has a successful track record of repayable.
This risk has decreased since 2016 raising finance and the majority of the following an increase in available liquidity, the Failure to manage liquidity risk could have a Groups debt is long-term.
successful delivery of the major projects and material impact on the Groups cash flows, Further details regarding going concern and favourable movements in commodity prices.
viability are included in note 2 to the financial statements and page 114 respectively.
