Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 51 51 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES WE MANAGE THE COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RISKS FACED BY THE GROUP IN ACCORDANCE WITH POLICIES APPROVED BY THE BOARD.
We manage the commercial and GROUP APPROACH TO RISK RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES operational risks faced by the Group in MANAGEMENT The risk management governance accordance with policies approved by the The effective identication and structure includes seven business risk Board.
We have reviewed the principal management of risk across the Group is management committees RMCs.
risks and consider they are broadly integral to the delivery of our strategy.
unchanged from the previous year.
The Group has a Risk Management Policy, Each RMC: approved by the Board, which defines the reports to the executive management The Board is responsible for dening risk Groups approach to risk management.
The ofthat area, assisting in the management appetite and ensuring the effectiveness key elements of the policy are as follows: of their risks.
In turn, each executive is of risk management and internal controls identify principal risks that threaten the responsible for their risks to the Group across the Group.
The Group has a achievement of our strategic objectives Executive Committee with responsibility comprehensive system of governance then assess their signicance to the for ensuring that all risks associated with controls to manage key risks.
business: their specic area of the business are put in place appropriate mitigating identied, analysed and managed controls to manage identied risks to an systematically and appropriately.
This acceptable level: includes new and emerging risks and escalate and report principal risk and changes to existing risks.
New risks are control information to support also identied during development of the management decision making: Business Plan: assign responsibility and define has terms of reference that require local accountabilities for risk management and level risk policies and control systems to put these into practice across the Group: be approved, implemented and monitored continuously monitor the changing risk in order to ensure that activities are environment, the Groups principal risks, commensurate with the risk appetite the effectiveness of mitigation strategies established by the Board, are adequately and the application of the risk framework.
resourced and comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The approach manages rather than eliminates the risk of failure to achieve The Group Executive Committee and the business objectives, and provides Board review reporting on risks from each RMC and from Group Risk.
In addition, the reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Audit Committee reviews the suitability and effectiveness of risk management processes and controls on behalf of the Board.
5 52 2 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED DRAX GROUP PLC BOARD ASSURANCE ACCOUNTABILITY GROUP EXECUTIVE AUDIT COMMITTEE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES INTERNAL CONTROL The results of each internal audit are Based on the reporting from the RMCs The Group has a comprehensive and welldocumented in a report for internal and from the Audit Committee in 2017, the dened internal control system with clear distribution and action.
A full copy of Board determined that it was not aware structures, delegated authority levels and the report is distributed to the Group of any significant deficiency or material accountability.
The Board has adopted a Executive Committee and the Chair of weakness in the system of internal control.
schedule of matters which are required to the Audit Committee, with an executive be brought to it for decision.
The internal summary going to the other members of CHANGE IN RISK PROFILE control system is designed to ensure that the Audit Committee.
Each report includes Risks are reported to the Board and the directors maintain full and effective management responses to Internal Audits disclosed in the annual report and accounts control over all significant strategic, findings and recommendations and an under eight principal risk headings.
agreement of the actions that management These are unchanged from 2016. will take to improve the risk management Through the Audit Committee, the Board and the internal control framework.
In has implemented a programme of internal addition to the results of work undertaken audits of different aspects of the Groups by Internal Audit, the Audit Committee activities.
The programme is developed also satisfies itself that an action plan is based on an assessment of the key risks in place and management are addressing of the Group, the existing assurance and issues raised by the external auditor controls in place to manage the risks and in their yearly management letter.
the core financial control framework.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 53 53 Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2017 1.
Strategic risks Context Continue work on reducing Acquisition of Opus Energy and The Group has a strategy designed to projects costs to increase integration into the Group provides strengthen the long-term future of competitiveness in the capacity support to diversication of the Group.
The strategy includes: market auction: a disciplined earnings.
Higher quality, diversied earnings and approach to the auction means Acquisition and start of management of commodity market such projects will only go forward commissioning of LaSalle pellet exposure by increasing contractual upon obtaining a 15-year capacity facility supports self-supply target.
and non-commodity related earnings market contract CMcontract Announcement of a cap to and: which meets our hurdle rate.
standard variable tariffs SVTs for Targeted long-term growth Continued work on cost reductions residential customers increases opportunities with priority on post from biomass supply and regulatory risk to the sector.
generation efficiency to support Announcement of a fide-rating 2027 earnings and creating new opportunities in all the markets in post-2027 operations.
mechanism for battery storage will which we operate.
We continue to actively pursue result in a fairer competition for potential acquisitions of pellet plant CMcontracts.
Risk and impact facilities and evaluate the case for expansion ofexisting facilities.
Development of the four OCGT plants acquired in 2016 and re-powering of We continually analyse the coal units to gas with battery storage changing dynamics of the markets option is dependent on winning in which we operate.
A programme contracts with acceptable returns of product incubation to bring new in capacity market auctions which is energy services to market and uncertain.
research development into new Post 2027 biomass generation technologies is in place.
dependent upon cost of generation relative to market prices.
Biomass self-supply requires acquisition and or expansion in order to achieve the 30% self-supply target.
Acquisition opportunities are dependent on willing vendors or distressed plants coming to market.
The energy markets in which we operate are evolving at a rapid pace with new entrants competing with existing players in both Power Generation and B2B Energy Supply.
Key Up increasing Down reducing No change 5 54 4 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2017 2.
Political and regulatory risks Engagement with politicians The Government has confirmed Context We remain vulnerable to changes across the political spectrum and theCarbon Price Floor will remain in government policy at UK and EU Government ofcials to influence in place and at its current level until level.
The energy sector is subject to thinking.
the end of coal generation in the detailed legislation and regulation Communication of our sociopower sector by 2025. that is frequently changing as economic value tothe UK.
The Government has unveiled the economy decarbonises and Working with think tanks and a successor to the Levy Control decentralises and is ever more specialist consultants to establish Framework to monitor the cost of stringent.
Regulation and compliance Drax as a thought leader on priority subsidies and confirmed no new generally applicable to businesses is policy and regulatory issues.
funding commitments until 2025. also increasing with a trend towards Engagement with regulators to Brexit continues to create transparency and accountability.
influence strategic direction of, and uncertainty over UK participation ensure compliance with, regulatory in, and influence over, discussions Risk and impact requirements.
Changes to UK policy and regulations Working with Energy UK to identify The Government has published may reduce our ability to deliver our market improvements, enhance a Bill to introduce a price cap forecast earnings from our base competition and develop voluntary for domestic power retailers: we business and our growth strategy codes of practice.
remain vigilant to the risk this could putting pressure on our financial Regulatory and compliance be extended to some SMEs.
programmes in place proportionate The smart meter roll out continues More complex and challenging to the risk of non-compliance.
Key and the obligation to install a regulations increase the potential for programmes include compliance smart meter for every customer non-compliant outcomes, regulatory with the Criminal Finances Act 2017 where reasonable steps have been investigation andsanctions.
and the General Data Protection exhausted remains.
Regulation GDPR and associated Many ancillary services require data protection laws.
policy, regulatory and market change to ensure generators are suitably compensated for these services.
Ofgem is reviewing the way in which network businesses are remunerated, which will impact network charging and access rights for generators and demand users.
New Data Protection Bill announced due to Brexit to ensure the UK is regarded as an approved country to continue to process EU citizen personal data.
The introduction of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 2 MiFID2 increases the regulatory requirements placed on businesses participating in non-physical commodity markets.
Key Up increasing Down reducing No change Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 55 55 Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2017 3.
Biomass acceptability risks Increased engagement across all EU consultation on the next Context The biomass market is still relatively European Institutions Commission, version of the Renewables new, sustainability legislation at Parliament, Council, and relevant Energy Directive, including the both an EU and UK level and public UK Government departments.
sustainability requirements for understanding of the benets of Strong coalition with other utilities biomass.
and those engaged in forest industries including using EU Risk and impact and US forestry expertise to brief EU or UK sustainability policy changes Brussels.
could be excessively onerous and Increased transparency in how we make it difficult for us to comply with evidence sustainability.
policy requirements and claim subsidy Working with academics, think in support of economic biomass tanks and specialist consultants generation.
to improve understanding and Detractors and some eNGOs try and analysis of the benets ofbiomass.
influence policymakers against wider Engagement with key NGOs to biomass use and future biomass discuss issues ofcontention.
conversions, which could make it Media, including social media, difficult to gain support for further presence to respond in the public conversions.
Forging closer relationships with suppliers on sustainability through the supplier relationship programme.
Strong processes to ensure compliance with regulation.
Plant operating risks Context Robust management systems Acquisition and start of designed to mitigate risk.
commissioning of LaSalle The reliability of our operating plant is central to our ability to Comprehensive risk-based plant Bioenergyplant.
create value for the Group.
Risk and impact Stringent safety procedures in Single point failures of plant and place for handling biomass and incidents arising from the handling dustmanagement.
and combustion of biomass could Plant designed to prevent and result in forced outages in our control major hazards.
generation or pellet production plants.
significant research and Successful generation using biomass development on the production of requires stringent quality throughout wood pellets as well as the handling the supply chain, which continues to and burning of biomass.
Poor quality could Adequate insurance in place to result in unplanned loss of generation.
cover losses from plant failure wherepossible.
Full testing of all biomass supplies prior to acceptance and the use of contractual rights to reject out of specication cargoes.
Sampling and analysis through the supply chain to increase understanding of causes of fuel quality issues.
Key Up increasing Down reducing No change 5 56 6 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2017 5.
Trading and commodity risks High levels of forward power Sterling exchange rates against Context The margins of our Power Generation sales for 2018 and a CfD for one theEuro and Dollar remain weak.
and B2B Energy Supply businesses generation biomass unit.
Power prices remain low with are influenced by commodity market Hedging energy supply commodity increased volatility in short-term movements, which are inherently volatile.
price exposures when xed price prices.
sales areexecuted with third Prices for wood pellets increased Risk and impact parties.
Fluctuations in commodity prices, Wood pellets purchased under Opus Energy supply to smaller particularly gas and power, could result long-term contracts with xed customers, including gas, increases in lower margins and a reduction in pricing.
commodity exposure relating cash flow in our generation business.
significant forward foreign to weather impacts on demand Drax Power may fail to secure future exchange hedging in place.
grid system services contracts which Hedging fluctuations in ROC are a source of revenue diversity for generation from wind farms the Group.
The value of ROCs generated may be lower than forecast if the recycle value outturns below BEIS projections due to higher than anticipated renewable generation.
Information systems and security risks Context Business continuity, disaster significant investment in our The availability, integrity and recovery and crisis management critical IT systems has improved security of our IT systems and plans in place across the Group.
the general resilience of the core Company data are essential to Cyber security measures, including systems.
support operations of the Group.
a defence, detect, remedy strategy, Implementation of the IT in place.
Risk and impact IT transformation programme in place to deliver upgraded Non-availability of IT systems, or a breach in their security, could result in architecture.
the inability to operate systems or our information could be compromised.
If our IT architecture does not meet the increasingly demanding and complex requirements of the Group, we may not deliver our growth plans effectively.
People risks Context Consistent Group-wide Development and launch of a new We need to ensure we have the right performance management, people strategy centred around people in place with the leadership potential assessment and career valuing people, driving business and specialist skills to help the Group development frameworks.
performance and focusing on to compete, innovate and grow.
Regular staff surveys to monitor talent.
This is placing greater onus engagement levels and alignment on performance, learning, equitable Risk and impact ofpeople with Group values.
treatment and consistency in Our performance and the delivery Investment in leadership approach across the Drax Group.
of our strategy is dependent upon development.
having strong, high-quality leaders Regular staff communications.
andengaged and talented people Reward packages to aid retention.
Key Up increasing Down reducing No change Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 57 57 Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2017 8.
Environment, health and safety risks Training staff to a high level of World-class personal safety Context The health and safety of all our competence to appreciate and performance for the year with employees, contractors and visitors is of manage risk.
improved TRIR continuing well paramount importance to us.
We believe Robust management systems abovethe industry benchmark.
that a safe, compliant and sustainable designed to mitigate risk.
Changes under the Industrial business model is critical to the delivery Continuous reporting of events Emissions Directive set demanding of our strategy and crucial for sustained and prompt implementation of emissions limits that come fully into long-term performance.
force in the next four years.
the heart of our operational philosophy Continuous monitoring of and we continue to work across the processes to identify trends Group to maintain high standards and inperformance.
Compliance Rigorous auditing of compliance with environmental legislation and against standards, policy and our environmental permits and procedures.
consents is essential to ensure the Engagement with regulators long-term future of the business.
and stakeholders to identify improvements to our systems and Risk and impact operations.
Our operations involve managing a Investigating underlying reasons range of hazards to personnel and for events and implementing the environment that arise from any necessary changes in the theprocesses we operate.
Timely identication of future legislation and appropriate investment in order to optimise performance intothe future.
Key Up increasing Down reducing No change STRATEGIC REPORT The Strategic report is set out on pages 157 of this document and was approved by the Board of directors on 26February 2018.
WILL GARDINER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, DRAX GROUP
