STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Accounting, legal & regulatory In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. a risk matrix which identi es the key risks to the Company.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158 it might lose The Board has carried out a robust assessment of these risks investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains within which includes those that would threaten the Companys the Companys portfolio would be subject to capital gains business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Section 1158 quali cation criteria are, therefore, The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained monitored by the Board at each meeting.
unchanged since the beginning of the accounting period, for managing these risks, as summarised below.
The Company must also comply with the provisions of the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed on the London Investment strategy risk Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the An inappropriate investment strategy on matters such Companies Act could result in the Company being ned or as asset allocation or the level of gearing may lead to subject to criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing underperformance against the Companys benchmark Rules could result in the Companys shares being suspended index or peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares from Listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages such risks Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, IAM, by diversi cation of investments through its investment and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and is satis ed that reported on by the Manager.
The Manager provides the they are able to provide an appropriate service in this regard.
directors with regular management information including absolute and relative performance data, attribution analysis, C ontrol systems risk revenue estimates, liquidity reports, risk pro le and shareholder analysis.
The Board monitors the implementation Disruption to, or failure of, IFMs accounting, dealing or and results of the investment process with the portfolio payments systems or the custodians records could prevent manager, who attends Board meetings.
Periodically the accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial Board holds a separate meeting devoted to strategy, the position or adversely impact the ability to trade.
Details of most recent being in January 2016. how the Board monitors the services provided by IFM and its associates and the key elements designed to provide Income risk dividends effective internal control are included within the internal Generating the necessary level of income from portfolio control section of the corporate governance report on investments to meet the Companys expenses and to page 23. provide adequate reserves from which to base a sustainable programme of increasing dividend payments to shareholders Other risks is subject to the risk that income generation from investments Other risks to which the Company is exposed and which fails to meet the level required.
The Board monitors this risk form part of the market risks referred to above are included through the receipt of detailed income reports and forecasts in note 22 to the financial statements together with which are considered at each meeting.
As at 31 December summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These 2017 the Company had distributable revenue reserves of comprise: market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, 33.4 m illion before declaration of the final dividend credit risk and currency risk.
VIABILITY STATEMENT Share price risk The Board makes an assessment of the longer term prospects The Companys share price and premium or discount to of the Company beyond the timeframe envisaged under NAV are monitored by the Manager and considered by the the going concern basis of accounting having regard to the Board on a regular basis.
The directors attach considerable Companys current position and the principal risks it faces.
importance to any premium or discount to NAV at which The Company is a long term investment vehicle and the the shares trade, both in absolute terms and relative to the directors, therefore, believe that it is appropriate to assess average rating at which the UK Equity Income sector of its viability over a long term horizon.
For the purposes of investment trusts as a whole is trading.
Premiums judged assessing the Companys prospects in accordance with Code to be excessive will be addressed by repeated share Provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the issues, either new or from Treasury.
Discounts judged to be Board considers that assessing the Companys prospects excessive will be addressed by repeated share buybacks, over a period of five years is appropriate given the nature for Treasury or cancellation.
The directors are prepared to of the Company and the inherent uncertainties of looking be proactive in premium discount management to minimise beyond a longer time period.
The directors believe that a five potential disadvantages to shareholders.
However, market year period appropriately re ects the long term strategy of sentiment is beyond the absolute control of the Manager and the Company and over which, in the absence of any adverse the Board.
change to the regulatory environment and the favourable tax treatment afforded to UK investment trusts, they do not expect there to be any signi cant change to the current principal risks and to the adequacy of the mitigating controls in place.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 13 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 13 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 OVERVIEW OF STRATEGY CONTINUED In assessing the viability of the Company the directors have EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, ETHICAL conducted a thorough assessment of each of the Companys AND HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY principal risks and uncertainties as set out on page 13.
The Company is managed by IFM, has no employees and Particular scrutiny was given to the impact of a signi cant all its directors are non-executive.
There are, therefore, no fall in global equity markets on the value of the Companys disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The directors have also considered the notes the Managers policy statement in respect of Social, Companys leverage and liquidity in the context of its long Environmental and Governance issues, as outlined below.
dated xed rate borrowings, its income and expenditure projections and the fact the Companys investments comprise STEWARDSHIP ENGAGEMENT mainly readily realisable quoted securities which can be sold The Manager recognises its wider stewardship to meet funding requirements if necessary.
responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, it supports the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out All the key operations required by the Company are the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of outsourced to third party providers and alternative providers investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: could be secured at relatively short notice if necessary.
publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge Having taken into account the Companys current their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: position and the potential impact of its principal risks and disclose their policy on managing con icts of interest: uncertainties, the directors have a reasonable expectation monitor their investee companies: that the Company will be able to continue in operation and establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: meet its liabilities as they fall due for a period of five years from the date of this Report.
be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: MODERN SLAVERY ACT have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their Due to the nature of the Companys business, being voting record: and a company that does not offer goods and services to report to clients.
customers, the Board considers that it is not within the The Manager endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 because it has no investments and supports the principles as best practice turnover.
The Company is therefore not required to make elsewhere.
The Manager believes that regular contact with a slavery and human traf cking statement.
In any event, the companies in which it invests is central to its investment the Board considers the Companys supply chains, dealing process and it also recognises the importance of being an predominantly with professional advisers and service active owner on behalf of its clients.
providers in the financial services industry, to be low risk in relation to this matter.
The Manager believes that companies should act in a GENDER DIVERSITY socially responsible manner.
Although its priority at all times is the best economic interests of its clients, it recognises At the year end there were five male directors and two that, increasingly, nonfinancial issues such as social and female directors on the Board.
The Company has no environmental factors have the potential to impact the share employees and therefore there is nothing further to report price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists in respect of gender representation within the Company.
within the Managers Environmental, Social and Governance ESG team work with the investment teams to appropriately The Companys policy on diversity is detailed in the integrate material ESG factors into the investment process.
corporate governance report on page 23.
The Managers Voting Policy and Corporate Governance GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Guidelines are available on request from the Company All the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
Secretary or can be downloaded from its website.
The Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The future development of the Company is dependent on BRIBERY ACT the success of its investment strategy in the light of economic The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and equity market developments.
The outlook is discussed and is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and in the Chairmans Statement on page 2 and the Managers openly.
The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach Review on page 5. and have policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
CRIMINAL FINANCES ACT 2017 By order of the Board of Directors The Company has a commitment to zero tolerance towards the criminal facilitation of tax evasion.
John Reeve Chairman 20 February 2018 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
