Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks are those that the Board considers would have the most impact on Ascentials strategic objectives.
The Board has made a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the business including those related to its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and considered them in the formulation of the Long-Term Viability Statement.
As part of this assessment, the Board considered the impact of the UKs decision to leave the EU Brexit and identified that the main impacts would be related to currency fluctuation, potentially reduced demand from business in certain regions, and changes to regulatory and tax frameworks.
Potential implications of Brexit are considered at a more granular level by the Divisional Risk Committees and work includes proactive consultation through relevant industry bodies and the assessment of specific risks and opportunities presented by Brexit.
In respect of the overall Group, the Board continues to consider that it is most appropriate, taking into account the diversification of revenue streams and geographical footprint, to manage this risk as part of the principal risk of macro-environment and geopolitical conditions rather than as a separate risk.
The review during 2017 did not identify any new principal risks but the grouping and articulation of principal risks has been revised to more clearly articulate the key risks facing the Group and the mitigation activity in place to manage them.
The Board considers the following to be the Companys principal risks: Business and Strategic Description Link to strategy Impact Mitigation Market Leading Our customers operate in a variety of Strategic focus on customer retention ensures we stay Customer end-markets, each with their own close to customer sentiment and have early indications competitive pressures affecting of whether there is a change in the perceived value of end-market customer preferences and spend.
development Changes in these end markets could Customer satisfaction is measured regularly, and detailed increase competition, reduce customer usage is tracked to ensure continued relevance of spend, or make our products less product offerings.
relevant to customer needs, which could We invest in new product development, and lead to a loss of market share and enhancements to existing products, to respond to profitability.
changing needs and ensure continuing value to the customer.
Where appropriate, this includes consultation with significant customer groups.
Significant recession could lead to Our brands hold market leading positions in their Accelerate Organic Economic and reduced customer demand for our respective markets and many are closely integrated into Growth products and services.
Political and customers operational processes which increases the geopolitical regulatory changes, such as those that resiliency of revenues in the face of reduced demand.
conditions may arise following the UKs decision to Recession modelling gives early visibility of recession, leave the EU, may disrupt patterns of enabling plans to be implemented proactively to minimise trade, impose operating inefficiencies, any sustained financial loss.
and may also significantly affect the We monitor the geopolitical landscape and develop plans Companys tax position.
to specific threats or opportunities.
Market Leading Our products depend on customWe review all major technology development proposals Competition or designed IT platforms which require at a senior level, and manage subsequent delivery continual development to ensure the through robust project management.
substitution services remain competitive, by We maintain an awareness of emerging technology enhancing existing offerings and building developments through a variety of sources including new solutions to meet customer relationships with existing vendors and independent requirements.
partners, market research and involvement with peer networks.
Our brands generally hold market leading We continually develop our brands to ensure sustained positions in their respective markets and relevance to customers.
increased competition or substitution We closely monitor the competitive landscape to identify could result in a loss of market share opportunities and threats.
24 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Business and Strategic continued Description Link to strategy Impact Mitigation Market Leading The ability to grow our revenues The Strategy Director manages all new product New product organically is central to Ascentials development.
sustainability and development of new All new product development has formal project plans, and capability products and capabilities is a key with appropriate gating and milestones.
development driver for organic growth.
Failure to Performance against project plans is monitored and successfully execute this development reviewed by executive management.
could negatively impact Ascentials growth rates and profitability.
Capital Allocation Growth through acquisitions entails We take a disciplined approach to portfolio management Acquisitions and several risks, including the ability to decisions, led by the Strategy Director, with clear identify acquisition opportunities, to acquisition disposal criteria, careful due diligence and disposals achieve the expected benefits, to pre-completion planning for integration transitional integrate acquired businesses with our service arrangements.
existing businesses, to retain staff and to We have a transformation team that manages postpreserve sources of competitive acquisition integration.
Acquisitions which move the We conduct post-transaction reviews to identify any key Group into different geographies or learning points to inform future transactions.
We conduct post-acquisition reviews to evaluate actual performance against expected performance.
Disposals may not realise appropriate value.
Acquisitions which do not deliver anticipated value or are a poor strategic fit may lead to a loss of profitability, market share and damage to reputation.
Accelerate Organic A lack of effective succession planning The Chief People Officer leads the Groups People plan, People risk Growth could undermine achievement of key including leadership development, talent management, business objectives, particularly in parts employment brand, managed engagement and reward.
of the business that are structurally We have reviewed our operating model to increase exposed to key person risk.
We have strengthened our employee engagement High employee attrition in key areas programme including a revised engagement survey and would increase the risk to delivery of an action planning programme to better understand and strategic and financial goals.
Strategic skills shortages and inability to attract talent could compromise execution of growth, new product development and business efficiency programmes leading to weaker organic growth and margins.
The trend for strategic risk is that it is rising, as we increase our exposure to different geographies, and the Direction of pace of change in our customer end-markets and the level of uncertainty in the geopolitical landscape increases.
The Board, however, views an increasing pace of change as a new constant and the business is change well placed to respond positively to these changes, with an effective framework to manage the associated risks effectively.
25 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Operational Description Link to strategy Impact Mitigation Accelerate Organic Loss of proprietary data could Ascentials IT function maintains and tests network Loss, misuse Growth undermine the value that we derive from security, network resilience and business continuity plans, our intellectual property.
and monitors emerging threats to ensure our preparations or theft of and responses are current.
proprietary, We have an obligation to protect Each part of the business develops its own clearly customer and employee data and loss or defined security objectives in collaboration with the employee or misuse of this data could result in a loss central IT function, which are reviewed and updated on a of reputation, and regulatory sanctions regular basis by divisional senior management.
Cyber risk and the controls and mitigations in place to manage it are reviewed by the Audit Committee and the There is a risk of financial loss through Board at a Group level.
successful phishing attacks or other We train our employees and raise their awareness on cyber infiltration.
how to behave with regard to information security best practices, particularly phishing and social engineering.
We have established a formal project to ensure readiness ahead of the implementation of the Global Data Protection Regulations from May 2018.
Accelerate Organic Our events are held at specific locations We maintain close relationships with major venue Venue Growth which may become unavailable for use providers, and maintain contingency plans to move through damage, or may become events or dates if necessary.
availability, available only on uneconomic terms.
Business continuity plans are in place to minimise security and disruption and financial impact.
Our contractual terms Travel disruption or safety risks from a provide some protection against the risk of late access variety of causes such as natural cancellation.
disasters, civil disorder, political We maintain insurance cover in respect of certain event instability and terrorism may prevent cancellation risks.
both customers and our own staff from We have a dedicated security function with relevant reaching the event location, or lead to experience and training to conduct security reviews of customers being unwilling to travel.
This includes preventative measures, crisis management procedures and business continuity plans.
Accelerate Organic Employees, customers, suppliers or We have developed a Group Crisis Management Plan, Business Growth assets may be directly or indirectly through which Ascentials executive leadership team impacted by adverse security or directs the business through any major incident or crisis resilience natural events.
which might severely disrupt operations, threaten business performance or damage reputation.
IT service interruption either through We are introducing a Group Travel Risk Management malicious attack, human error, lack of Programme to address duty of care obligations to our data centre capacity or other operational globally mobile workforce.
failure could interrupt all aspects of We have implemented a High-Availability Programme, the Group leading to lost revenue for including resilience between data centres, for our core transactional brands and damage to applications.
the reputation of our subscription We have a robust technical incident response process based brands.
We have a central business continuity plan as well as Dependency on key suppliers risks brand specific business continuity plans.
interruption to our business operations We have long-term contracts with our key suppliers and financial loss if a critical supplier which are professionally procured and include rigorous suffers a business interruption.
We see the risk of cyber attack as continuous and we look to maintain our response against the increasing Direction of sophistication of attacks.
Terrorism and the perception of increased terrorist risk have always received serious consideration and planning.
We have robust information security and event security frameworks change in place which we actively monitor and assess to preserve our resilience to these threats.
26 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Financial Description Link to strategy Impact Mitigation Accelerate Organic We have material exposures to different Our approach to management of foreign exchange Financial risk Growth currencies and fluctuations in these risk is set out in Note 33 to the financial statements currencies may affect the reported on page 106. financial results.
We have an experienced tax function, supported by professional advisers, who maintain a constructive As a global business, we are subject to relationship with tax authorities, and keep up to date with many forms of taxation in many different changes in tax legislation and in the development of our jurisdictions.
Tax law and administration business to enable effective tax planning.
is complex and tax authorities may We make full, accurate and timely disclosure in challenge our application of tax law, submissions to tax authorities who we work with potentially leading to lengthy and costly collaboratively to achieve early agreement and certainty disputes and material tax changes.
on complex matters whenever possible.
These risks are slightly increased due to the uncertainty and consequent currency volatility caused by Direction of Brexit, as well as the increased level of uncertainty around United States fiscal policy resulting from the political change in the US.
change Regulatory Description Link to strategy Impact Mitigation Accelerate Organic Change in regulation could make our Our legal team, supported by professional advisers, Regulation Growth current business models unprofitable or monitors changes in regulations and emerging best unsustainable.
practice in the sector and in key policy areas.
They are responsible for ensuring an appropriate compliance Increased revenues in geographies with framework, with effective policies, processes and more complex regulatory environments reporting.
Each division has individuals responsible for or expansion into new geographies can embedding regulatory compliance within the business.
increase the risk of regulatory breaches.
We have implemented a new training programme for key compliance areas, designed to be engaging and raise Compliance failures could lead to awareness of key compliance policies throughout the criminal and civil prosecution, including Company.
fines, censure, reputational damage and inability to trade in certain jurisdictions.
We view the level of regulatory risk as unchanged as although there are significant new regulations Direction of coming into effect, such as the General Data Protection Regulations, this is representative of a business as usual environment in which we have developed capabilities to respond to changing regulatory change environments accordingly.
