Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Principal risks and uncertainties The Board, with support from the Group Risk Committee and the Group Risk Department, undertakes a regular and robust assessment of the principal risks.
These risks have been summarised as those which would threaten its business model, future performance, liquidity and solvency.
The table below sets out the principal risks which Admiral has identified through its Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
The impact of those risks and actions taken to mitigate them are explained below.
Insurance Risk Reserving risk in the UK and International Insurance Admiral is exposed to reserving risk through its underwriting of motor and household insurance policies.
Claims reserves in the financial statements may prove inadequate to cover the ultimate cost of claims which are by nature uncertain.
This is a particular risk for motor insurance liabilities, where the amount payable for bodily injury claims particularly large claims can change significantly during the lifetime of the claim as a result of external risks such as changes in Ogden rates and impacts of increased levels of Periodic Payment Orders PPO.
Impact Mitigating Factors Adverse run-off leading to Admiral has a conservative reserving policy and continues to hold a material margin higher claims costs in the in its financial statement claims reserves above actuarially determined best estimates financial statements.
PPO claims are capital Best estimate reserves are estimated both internally and externally by independent actuaries.
intensive owing to increased For very large claims Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, which mitigates a portion of the loss.
uncertainty of the cost of Regular reviews of both settled and potential PPO cases are undertaken by the claims significant claims over a and actuarial teams, with independent actuarial opinions provided as part of the longer term.
Admirals investment portfolio is the result of a structured, disciplined and transparent investment process which considers settled and potential future PPOs.
Premium risk & Catastrophe risk The Group is exposed to the risk that claims cost on future business is higher than allowed for in the premiums charged to customers.
The Group is exposed to the risk of increased claims and reduced business volumes following both a UK and European recession.
Admiral is exposed to the risk of high losses due to the occurrence of man-made catastrophes or natural weather events.
Impact Mitigating Factors Higher claims costs and loss There are a number of aspects which contribute to Admirals strong UK underwriting results, including: ratios, resulting in reduced Experienced and focused senior management and teams in key business areas including pricing and profits or underwriting losses.
claims management A large flood or windstorm Highly data-driven and analytical approach to regular monitoring of claims and underwriting could cause extensive performance property damage both motor Capability to identify and resolve underperformance promptly through changes to key performance and household to a significant drivers, particularly pricing proportion of the portfolio, Continuous appraisal of and investment in staff, systems and processes.
leading to a large total claims Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, designed to mitigate the impact of very large individual or cost in relation to the event.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Strategic Report: Principle risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued Insurance Risk continued Reduced availability of co-insurance and reinsurance arrangements Admiral uses proportional co-insurance and reinsurance across its insurance businesses to reduce its own capital needs and increase return on the capital it does hold and to mitigate the cost and risk of establishing new operations.
There is a risk that support will not be available in the future if the results and or future prospects of either the UK business or more realistically one or more of the newer operations are not satisfactory to the coand or reinsurers.
Impact Mitigating Factors A potential need to raise Admiral mitigates the risk to its reinsurance arrangements by ensuring that it has a diverse range additional capital or reduce of financially secure partners.
dividends to support an Admiral continues to enjoy a long-term relationship with some of the worlds largest reinsurers.
Admiral also has relationships with a number of other reinsurers.
This could be in the form of equity or debt.
As well as UK Motor, long-term arrangements are also in place for UK Household and International businesses.
Return on capital might reduce compared to current levels.
Potential diminution of other revenue Admiral earns other revenue from a portfolio of products and other sources.
The level of this revenue could diminish due to regulatory or legal changes, customer behaviour or market forces.
Impact Mitigating Factors Lower profits from insurance Admiral continuously assesses the value to its customers of the products it offers, and makes operations and lower return changes to ensure the products continue to meet customer needs and offer good value.
Admiral seeks to minimise reliance on any single source by earning revenue from a range of products.
This would mitigate the impact of a regulatory change which might affect a particular product or income stream.
Group Risk Erosion of competitive advantage in UK Car Insurance Admiral typically maintains a significant combined ratio advantage over the UK market.
This advantage and or the level of underwriting profit and associated profit commission could be eroded.
This risk could be exacerbated by irrational competitor pricing and or new technologies used within the insurance market.
It may arise from new or existing competitors.
Impact Mitigating Factors A worse UK Car Insurance result Admirals focus remains on the wide range of factors that contribute to Admirals combined ratio and lower return on capital outperformance of the UK market.
Some are set out earlier in the Strategic Report, but in addition: employed.
Track record of innovation and ability to react quickly to market conditions and developments A sustained and uncorrected Keen focus on maintaining a low-cost infrastructure and efficient acquisition costs.
erosion of competitive advantage could affect the ability of Admiral to extend its reinsurance arrangements, which might in turn require Admiral to hold more capital.
34 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Failure of geographic and or product expansion Admiral continues to develop the UK Household, non-insurance operations such as Loans and expand its overseas operations.
One or more of the operations could fail to become a sustainable, profitable long-term business.
Product expansion into new areas could lead to unprofitable business and increased regulatory risk.
Growth in business plans exceeds the scale of infrastructure of the operation.
Impact Mitigating Factors Higher than planned losses Admirals approach to expansion and product development remains conservative, applying the test and potentially closure and learn philosophy that has proven successful for previous operations.
International Insurance costs and distraction of businesses have generally executed cautious launch strategies and are all backed by proportional key management.
reinsurance support which provides substantial mitigation against start-up losses in the early years.
A collective failure of these New price comparison businesses have aligned their marketing investment with the extent of businesses would threaten improvement in key performance indicators such as average cost per quote and conversion ratio.
Admirals objective to The Group also accepts partial disposals of equity to share start-up losses with partners.
diversify its earnings by The Directors are mindful of management stretch and regularly assess the suitability of the expanding into new markets infrastructure and management structure in place for Admirals new UK and International operations.
Reliance on UK price comparison distribution channel Admiral is dependent on the four main UK price comparison websites as an important source of new business and growth.
Growth in this distribution channel could slow, cease or reverse, or Admiral could lose one or more of the websites as a source of customers.
Impact Mitigating Factors A potentially material Admirals ownership of Confused.
com one of the leading UK price comparison websites which reduction in UK Car Insurance operates independently of the UK Car Insurance business helps to mitigate the risk of over-reliance new business volumes.
However, a more competitive Admiral also contributes materially to the revenues of other price comparison businesses and market might benefit the car therefore it is not considered probable that a material source of new business would be lost.
insurance business through lower acquisition costs.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Strategic Report: Principle risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued Counterparty Risk Admiral is primarily exposed to credit risk in the form of a default of reinsurer: b failure of banking or investment counterparty.
One or more counterparties suffer significant losses leading to a credit default.
Impact Mitigating Factors Additional capital may need to Admiral only conducts business with reinsurers of appropriate financial strength.
In addition, most be raised as a result of a major reinsurance contracts are operated on a funds-withheld basis, which substantially reduces credit risk, credit event, dependent on its as Admiral holds the cash received as collateral.
Concentrations of credit risk are managed by investing in liquidity funds which invest in a wide range Admiral would also need to of short duration, high quality securities.
Cash balances and deposits are placed only with highly rated ensure that it continues to credit institutions.
Some long-term investments are held in Government bonds to further mitigate the have sufficient liquid assets exposure to credit risk.
to meet its claims and other Admiral considers counterparty exposure frequently and in significant detail, and has in place liabilities as they fell due.
appropriate triggers and limits, to mitigate exposure to individual investment counterparties.
Market Risk Market risk arises as a result of fluctuations in the value of market prices of investment assets, liabilities, or the income from the Groups investment portfolio.
Impact Mitigating Factors Market volatility notably very significant The Groups low appetite for market risk results in an investment strategy that focuses reductions in risk free interest rates can on preservation of the amount invested, low volatility of returns and strong liquidity.
adversely impact the Group's solvency due to The majority of the portfolio is invested in high quality fixed income and other debt an increased regulatory valuation of claims securities, and money market funds in order to achieve these objectives.
liabilities, in particular in relation to longer The Groups mitigation for interest rate risk resulting from long duration PPO liabilities dated potential PPO claims.
includes a comprehensive level of reinsurance cover and continuing focus on strategies to ensure that the risks relating to both assets and liabilities are appropriately matched.
The Group has relatively low exposure to net assets currencies other than pounds sterling.
36 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Operational Risk Operational risk Operational risk arises within all areas of the business.
The principal categories of operational risk for Admiral are: People Information security Outsourcing Processes Business continuity Project risk IT Systems Customer outcomes Impact Mitigating Factors The risk of reductions in We aim to attract, retain and motivate quality staff to deliver quality customer service and achieve earnings and or value, through business objectives.
financial or reputational Succession planning is based on targeted recruitment, identifying potential leaders through internal loss, from inadequate or development, talent management and retention processes.
failed internal processes Internal controls are in place and monitored to mitigate the risk and the control framework is and systems, or from people regularly reviewed.
The internal audit function has an agreed cycle of testing of the adequacy and effectiveness of controls.
In particular: Regular review of the effectiveness of the Groups IT capability by Executive management and the Board.
Potential customer detriment Enhanced project governance and oversight of new systems implementations with external specialist and or potential regulatory review and assurance where required.
censure enforcement and or reputational damage as a Admiral continues to invest in its security programme in order to mitigate information security risks result of Admirals action.
Within IT there is a major incident team which is tasked with maintaining system availability, with Risk to Admiral occurs through business continuity and disaster recovery plans in place.
the losses that could occur if Data is backed up to allow for its recovery in the event of corruption.
the internal control framework Admiral monitors its outsourced and offshore activities, through ongoing supplier relationship and to manage these business performance management, with regular due diligence reviews.
Admiral operates the three lines of defence model for overseeing its products, processes and service.
Availability of systems and data At each stage of the customer journey customer outcomes are monitored, managed and reported in Integrity of data order to mitigate customer detriment.
Confidentiality of data Admiral purchases a range of insurance covers to mitigate the impact of a number of operational risks.
outcomes Legal and regulatory risk Failure to comply with legal or regulatory requirements and or changes.
Unexpected regulatory changes are introduced.
Impact Mitigating Factors Exposure to regulatory intervention, censure Mitigated by regular review of the Groups compliance with current and proposed and or enforcement action through fines and requirements including the General Data Protection Regulation and interaction other sanctions.
with regulators by Executive management and the Board.
There is investment in resources to prepare for a Partial Internal Model application.
The project will have regular progress updates with the Board and Regulators.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Stevens, CBE Chief Executive Officer 27 February 2018 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
