The Weir Group PLC 50 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Risk Review Principal risks and uncertainties As in any business, there are risks and uncertainties which could impact the Groups ability to achieve its objectives in the future.
The Groups risk management and assurance framework is designed to make this less likely by clearly identifying and seeking to mitigate key risks.
Strategy The Board has conducted a robust Severity of each risk: assessment of the principal risks, Existence and effectiveness of People alongside the Risk Appetite Statement actions and internal controls set out on page 47, meeting the which serve to mitigate the risk: Customers Boards responsibilities in connection The overall effectiveness of the with Risk Management and Internal Groups control environment, Technology Control detailed in the UK Corporate including assurance and any identified Governance Code.
Each of the principal control weaknesses or failings: and Performance risks is assigned an owner from amongst The extent to which each of the the Board or Group senior management principal risks could impact upon Risk Trend team and is either a standing agenda the Groups viability, in financial item at each Board meeting or subject or operational terms, due to their Increasing to formal periodic review by the Board.
potential effects on the business A summary of principal risks and the plan, solvency or liquidity.
Decreasing Groups mitigating controls is presented at every Board meeting.
The principal risks set out on pages 51 No change to55 are those which we believe to The Directors reviewed the Groups havethe greatest potential to impact our Viability Statement risk register, reassessed the validity of ability to achieve the Groups strategic the principal risks identified in the prior objectives or which have the greatest year and considered whether any new potential impact on the Groups principal risks have emerged or a risk solvencyor liquidity.
is no longer considered a principal risk.
The identified principal risks were subjected to a detailed assessment based on the following considerations: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 51 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Mapping our risks Key As part of the risk dashboard assessments 1 Technology we map our risks in terms of likelihood andinnovation 2 and impact, based on a defined rating of 2 IT security and continuity 1 unlikely or minor to 4 almost certain 3 Value Chain or critical.
Likelihood ratings are defined Excellence based on the period in which we expect 1 4 Political and social that a risk could materialise: impact ratings 3 4 5 Ethics, governance consider factors including strategic: financial: & control reputational: regulatory: people and property: 5 6 6 Staff recruitment, development & and safety, health and environment.
retention 7 Market Volatility All risks are assessed, including an 8 9 7 8 Safety, Health & assessment of any emerging risks, each Environment SHE time the risk dashboards are reviewed.
9 Contract risk Therisk trend is monitored over time and further mitigating controls identified where High risk appropriate.
Consideration is also given to Medium risk the relative priority of each risk in the overall risk dashboard.
Impact Minor 1 Moderate 2 Major 3 Critical 4 Impact on strategy Risk Review: Principal risks and uncertainties Technology and innovation Failure to innovate or to react to emerging technology developments, and therefore fail to ensure that the business continues to deliver sustainable and attractive solutions for our customers.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2017 The strength of our business is built upon Our existing research and development The pace of technological innovation a history of delivering innovative and initiatives within the business, at Weir continues to increase as we and our sustainable solutions for our customers.
Advanced Research Centre, are enhanced competitors seek to provide customers If we fail to keep abreast of market needs through partnerships with certain leading with solutions that improve the efficiency or to innovate solutions, we are at risk of universities around the world.
losing market share to our competitors and partnerships are designed to help the Recognising the strategic importance of lowering margins as demand will reduce.
Group develop game-changing solutions technology and innovation we recruited to our customers challenges.
a Chief Technology Officer during the year We devote skilled resource to reviewing to define the Groups Technology Vision and responding to developing technologies, and Strategy.
with our agreements with specialist Further information on progress made external parties to develop Internet in this area is set out in the Products and of Things IoT technology.
Technology section of the Sustainability Engineering strategies are in place at Review on page 57.
Group and divisional levels with strategic Risk trend innovation arenas defined as part of the innovation strategy.
Likelihood Unlikely 1 Possible 2 Likely 3 Almost Certain 4 The Weir Group PLC 52 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Risk Review: Principal risks and uncertainties continued Impact on strategy IT security and continuity Failure to maintain business systems or technical infrastructure that serves the business needs.
Failure to successfully execute changes to these business systems or technical infrastructure: together with failure to minimise disruption and maintain business as usual activity during technical infrastructure or business system changes.
Failure to adequately protect the business operations from cybercrime.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2017 Up-to-date data allows us to make informed We have an IT Governance Framework IT security and continuity continues to be decisions about our business.
Therefore, with a focus on structured change a matter of strategic priority for the Group we require reliable and efficient IT systems management techniques, including setting in an environment of ever increasing cyber and infrastructure to provide our data project governance levels in line with risk.
Progress to strengthen the requirements.
Breaches of our IT security Groups defences in this respect is being Policies, procedures and baseline standards could have serious consequences for our made through our IT Next programme.
in relation to cyber risk and IT security more business, including: interruption to business generally are continuously updated and rolled We continually review the effectiveness of operations: and loss of intellectual property out to operations.
A programme of user our key IT security controls in consultation and other sensitive data.
training in relation to cyber risk is in place.
There is regular The Group is investing in a significant IT reporting of unplanned outages and potential All security related incidents are reported transformation programme.
If this is not security breaches, with lessons learned to the Group Executive.
managed effectively, the consequences could across the Group.
include interruption to business operations Security Incident Responder teams monitor if data is unavailable due to unsuccessful our various security systems.
execution of change, impacting our ability to compete and our reputation in the market.
Risk trend At present, the Groups principal exposures to cybercrime relate to the misappropriation of cash and data.
Our revenue streams are largely protected as our products are not currently electronic in nature and we do not, as a rule, transact over the internet.
Impact on strategy Value Chain Excellence Failure to achieve Value Chain Excellence improvements and the associated reduction in costs and enhanced flexibility.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2017 If we fail to improve our value chain Regular KPI monitoring of the value chain Value chain remains an area of strategic management, we risk: throughout the organisation.
Value chain improvements continue to be recognised Losing the opportunity to invest The Groups operations are implementing year on year as the Group realises benefits capital into alternative value Value Chain Excellence initiatives amongst from its focused approach to these matters.
creating opportunities: other business improvement objectives.
Damaging our reputation and as a An updated and more focused VCE model Established Centres of Excellence drive cost consequence losing customers and has been successfully introduced.
savings, efficiencies and enhance delivery market share: standards whilst maintaining quality.
A programme of Value Chain Excellence Losing market position if the Group initiatives has been operating throughout the fails to demonstrate to customers the The Groups forward purchase commitments Group to drive value chain improvements.
value of our products and services: are being closely monitored to manage Incurring penalties as a result of late inventories at levels appropriate to market All businesses now complete VCE delivery contractual clauses: conditions.
self-assessments, including value Reducing margins by incurring unnecessary stream segmentation, model design Our credit risk management procedures are additional costs associated with late and improvement project identification.
under continuous appraisal and review.
remedial actions taken to avoid missing Initiatives to expand production in delivery targets: and We regularly monitor market activity to best-cost locations are reviewed and Failing to respond to market upturns or ensure we remain competitive.
the procurement function continues downturns quickly enough to respond to drive cost and quality improvements to market demand or manage costs.
through the Groups supply chain.
Risk trend Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 53 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategy Risk Trend Viability Statement People Technology Customers Performance Impact on strategy Political and social Adverse political action, or political and social instability, in territories in which we operate may result in strategic, financial or personnel loss to the Group.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2017 We operate across the globe and therefore Regular review of market attractiveness.
The US has approved significant corporate have to work within a wide range of political tax reform.
The new US tax code will Monitoring travel by Weir employees and social conditions.
Adverse events may significantly change the tax profile of to higher risk locations in accordance occur in the territories in which we operate the Groups US operations and provide with the Weir Group travel policy.
that may require us to act swiftly to protect opportunities for the Group resulting our people and our property and regulatory from a lowering of the US Federal Tax External expert risk assessments and changes could impact our competitiveness.
We will continue to respond to any regular monitoring in higher risk locations.
We need to be flexible and able to anticipate further US tax clarifications this year.
Contingency plans and exit strategy planning.
We continue to monitor the direction of Our strategic planning assists in Expansions into new territories are only Brexit negotiations and any potential impacts forecasting potential political and undertaken after rigorous assessment of directly on our UK manufacturing base.
the risks, including the social and political Risk trend situation within the territory.
Proactive monitoring of evolving policy and development of contingency plans as situations materialise.
Impact on strategy Ethics, governance and control Interactions with our people, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders are not conducted with the highest standards of integrity which devalues our reputation.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2017 We are unwilling to accept dishonest The Code of Conduct, supplemented with The governance and legislative environment or corrupt behaviour from our people, Group policies on related topics, provides in which the Group operates continues to or external parties acting on our behalf, a clear benchmark for how we expect our evolve and become more complex.
We whilst conducting our business.
If we fail business will be conducted.
routinely review operations in geographies to act with integrity, we are at risk of: where ethical standards may not be as well Regular training is provided using a range established as in other countries.
Reputational damage leading to a loss of mechanisms including Town Hall style of customers: sessions, online and induction training.
The Group has reinforced its commitment Increased scrutiny from regulators: to high standards of ethics and governance The financial control framework is continually Legal action from regulators including through the Code of Conduct and completed monitored for effectiveness.
fines, penalties and imprisonment: and a programme of training for key individuals.
Exclusion from markets important for Internal Audits remit includes regular review Risk trend our future growth.
of the anti-bribery and corruption and financial controls across the Group.
The Group Legal We expect all areas of the business to do team is responsible for monitoring compliance the right thing and conduct business in with the Code of Conduct.
compliance with procedures, applicable laws, Weir Group operating policies and A Whistleblower hotline is available to all the highest ethical standards.
Reports are investigated on a timely basis and summary reports provided to Group Executive and Board.
The Weir Group PLC 54 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Risk Review: Principal risks and uncertainties continued Impact on strategy Staff recruitment, development and retention Failure to recruit, develop or retain key management and staff may lead to disruption to the Groups operations, functions and processes.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2017 Our people represent our biggest asset Promotion of the Weir Group Values & A new Chief People Officer was and failure to attract, develop and retain Behaviours, Code of Conduct and HR Policies appointed during the year and tasked key management and staff would have a sets the standards and expectations for all our with the identification of key strategic detrimental impact on the Groups ability staff, reinforcing our stated commitment to priorities for Weirs go-forward people to deliver our key strategic objectives.
attracting and retaining the very best people.
High performer assessments are undertaken Senior Leadership and Regional As markets improve we need to continue to identify and develop our very best talent.
Conferences were held during 2017 to recruit high quality staff building on focused on the delivery of the four existing capability while recruiting skilled Succession plans are in place and periodically strategic pillars.
expertise in the right areas of the business reviewed for all of our key management.
Our new ENERGY performance Personal Development Plans are set and development framework was reviewed for the effective development of introduced during the year.
Risk trend We continue to offer competitive compensation and benefits packages.
Personal development programmes including Weir University and the Weir Leadership Programme are open to participation by high potential staff members and these continue to attract high calibre individuals.
Impact on strategy Market volatility Changes in key markets, including commodity prices affecting mining and oil and gas, have an adverse impact on customers expenditure plans.
This may include delaying existing expenditure commitments.
As markets improve we may fail to effectively upscale operations to meet customer needs.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2017 We need to remain sufficiently flexible to We maintain regular engagement with our Our core markets have seen continued allow us to anticipate downturns, to allow customers to understand their needs and improvements during the year, with us to adjust our operations accordingly, challenges, and ensure our business is customers planning for higher activity and equally to meet growth in demand appropriately aligned.
We continue to focus on technology when our customers markets are buoyant development, customer relationships and Improved demand planning and forecasting and therefore capital investment is high.
Value Chain Excellence to meet increasing including Sales and Operations Planning Otherwise, we are at risk of incurring demand from our key sectors.
unnecessary costs during downturns, and not maximising our potential for Risk trend Our strategic planning utilises extensive growth in buoyant markets.
market intelligence to assist in forecasting opportunities and dips in markets.
In challenging market conditions, our value chain risks are increased.
These We maintain contingency plans for downturns.
are described in more detail on page 52.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 55 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategy Risk Trend Viability Statement People Technology Customers Performance Impact on strategy Safety, Health and Environment SHE Failure to adequately protect our people and other stakeholders from harm associated with a breach in SHE standards.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2017 We operate in hazardous environments, The Weir Behavioural Safety system is in The Group continues to set higher andtherefore have a fundamental duty to place to reduce the risk of safety incidents.
benchmarks for SHE compliance and protect our people and other stakeholders roll out cohesive programmes to address In addition, there are initiatives to prevent from harm whilst conducting our business.
SHE risks and drive safe and sustainable the most common accident types.
The Weir As well as the personal impact on our working practices.
global SHE standards are continually reviewed.
peopleresulting from a failure to meet this obligation, we would also be at risk of: Improved SHE incident reporting tools The SHE Excellence Committee is responsible have been piloted and rolled out across the for monitoring performance and compliance Reputational damage leading to a Group to provide visibility and responsive with Group objectives, policies and standards loss of customers: actioning of any SHE related issues.
Legal action from regulators, including fines and penalties: and The Chief Executives Safety Committee Risk trend Exclusion from markets important for met 12 times during the year, committed our future growth.
to achieving the highest of SHE standards.
There is a formal SHE assurance programme with issues escalated as required through the reporting structures.
Impact on strategy Contract risk Failure to adequately manage contract risk and, as a result, commit to obligations which the Group is unable to meet without incurring significant unplanned costs.
In addition, failure to follow Group policies and procedures may lead to commitments without the desired level of contractual protections.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2017 We operate in an increasingly complex and The Group has policies and procedures for Contract management continues to competitive environment where customers contract acceptance and approval.
be an area of focus for the Group, given are not only highly focused on price and the competitive environment.
Group These are under continuous review and service but are also more challenging in policies and procedures continue to improvement to ensure they are adequate contract negotiations.
be reviewed and refreshed to provide for current and future circumstances.
employees with improved tools to As we offer a broader range of products and assist them in their contract training The tools and training available to employees services to our customers, including those and management activities.
responsible for contract management are that are more technologically advanced, we similarly under continuous review.
risk exposing the Group to reputational and Risk trend financial loss should our contract acceptance, negotiation and approval processes fail to protect the Group accordingly.
The Weir Group PLC 56 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of In making this statement, the Board the UK Corporate Governance Code carried out a robust assessment of 2014, the Directors have assessed the the principal risks facing the Group, viability of the Group over a three year including those that could threaten its period, taking into account the Groups business model, future performance, current position and the potential impact solvency or liquidity.
of the principal risks documented on pages 50 to 55 of the Annual Report.
While the review has considered all Based on this assessment, the Directors the principal risks identified by the confirm that they have a reasonable Group, the following risks were focused expectation that the Company will be on for enhanced stress-testing: market able to continue in operation and meet downturn, major site and customer its liabilities as they fall due over the shocks, significant loss of market share period to 31 December 2020. in key markets and regulatory shock.
The resulting scenarios were modelled The Directors have determined that as a series of individual one-off shocks, a three-year period to 31 December in combination with commodity price 2020 is an appropriate period over based market downturn scenarios.
Refer which to provide the viability statement.
to page 50 for the Groups principal risks, The Groups key markets are by nature specifying those risks considered during cyclical and therefore, while the Group this review.
operates a five-year strategic planning process, market cyclicality and the The geographical and sector diversification related lack of visibility over commodity of the Groups operations helps minimise prices, in particular, indicate that a period the risk of serious business interruption of three years is appropriate.
We believe or catastrophic damage to our reputation.
that this approach presents the Board While the Group remains exposed to and readers of the Annual Report with the cyclicality of the markets in which it a reasonable degree of confidence over operates, it continues to have a strong this longer term outlook.
balance sheet that provides capacity in which to operate.
In addition, our ability The strategic plan is a bottom up analysis to flex our cost base to reflect our existing prepared annually and submitted to the markets as evidenced by our recent Board for consideration.
The output of cost reduction programmes protects this plan is used to perform central debt our viability in the face of adverse and headroom profile analysis, which economic conditions and or additional includes a review of sensitivity to risks highlighted.
business as usual risks, such as profitgrowth, working capital variances While this review does not consider and return on capital investment.
This all of the risks that the Group may analysis, in conjunction with the current face, the directors consider that this year results and 2018 Budget, provides stress-testing based assessment of the basis for the viability model on the Groups prospects is reasonable which we have overlaid a number of in the circumstances of the inherent severe, but plausible events, to reflect uncertainty involved.
