Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 The Group operates in markets and an industry which by their The risk environment in which the Group operates does not nature are subject to a number of inherent gross risks.
During the year, the Directors have reviewed the is able to mitigate those risks by adopting different strategies Groups principal risks and have concluded that as the nature and by maintaining a strong system of internal control.
However, of the business and the environment in which it operates regardless of the approach that is taken, the Group must accept remain broadly the same, the principal risks it faces are largely a certain level of risk in order to generate suitable returns for unchanged.
However, some previously identified risks in respect shareholders, and for that reason the risk management process is of business transformation, including performance improvement closely aligned to the Groups strategy.
in the Plumbing & Heating businesses, have considerable overlap and so they have been combined, whilst the Directors have also The Board has a risk reporting framework that ensures it has concluded that with so many stakeholders interacting with the visibility of the Groups key risks, the potential impacts on the Groups operations, health and safety risk should be described Group and how and to what extent those risks are mitigated.
separately from other legislative risk.
Finally, the resolution of As part of its risk management process, the principal risks stated some of the Groups tax disputes with HMRC means that the in the Groups risk register are reviewed, challenged and updated Board no longer believes that this area represents aprincipal risk.
by the Board and monitored throughout the year.
Each operating business within the Group monitors a separate risk register.
The nature of risk is that its scope and potential impact These risk registers are used to determine strategies adopted by will change over time.
As such the list below should not be the Groups various businesses to mitigate the identified risks and regarded as a comprehensive statement of all potential risks are embedded in their operating plans.
and uncertainties that may manifest themselves in the future.
Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known Details of the Groups risk management processes are given in to the Directors, or which they currently deem immaterial, could the Corporate Governance report on page 56. also have an adverse effect on the Groups future operating In common with most large organisations the Group is subject results, financial condition or prospects.
to general commercial risks: for example, political and economic The table on pages 34 to 39 sets out, in no particular order, the developments, changes in the cost of goods for resale, current principal risks that are considered by the Board to be increased competition in its markets and the threat of emerging material, their potential impacts, the factors that mitigate them and disruptive competitors, material failures in the supply and those areas of the businesses strategies they potentially chain, failure to secure supply of goods for resale and or on impact.
The inherent risk before the operation of control is competitive terms, cyber-security breaches and failure of our stated for each risk area together with an indication of the current ITinfrastructure.
33 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation The Group sells and distributes building materials through a number of channels.
The number Changing Customer and Adverse effect Changes to market practice are tracked on an on-going basis and reported to the Board of outlets and channels where building materials can be purchased continues to grow with new Competitor Landscape on financial results.
competitors also entering the market.
These new entrants may operate business models which Inherent Risk: differ significantly from the traditional merchanting and retail and online formats from which the The Group is building multi-channel capabilities that complement its existing operations and l l l Group operates and may take market share.
provide its customers with the opportunity to transact with the Group through channels that Trend: best suit their needs.
At the same time, customer purchasing habits are evolving with increasing online transactions.
Strategy: A B E Customers preference for purchasing materials through a range of supply channels and not just The Groups strategy allows it to use sites flexibly.
Alternative space utilisation models through the Groups traditional competitors may affect the Groups performance and adversely are possible, including maintaining smaller stores and implanting additional services into impact the profitability of branch based operations.
Increasing price transparency could lead to a perception that the Group is less price competitive The development of new, innovative and competitive supply solutions is a key strength of leading to downward pressure on price and margins.
It works closely with customers and suppliers on a programme of continuous improvement designed to improve its customer proposition.
Pricing strategies across the Group are regularly reviewed and where necessary refined to ensure they remain competitive.
Colleague recruitment, The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably qualified staff is an important driver of the Inability to develop and The Groups employment policies and practices are kept under regular review.
retention and succession plans Groups overall performance.
The Group may also be exposed to skills shortages in certain execute development Staff engagement and turnover by job type is reported to the Executive Committee regularly do not deliver the required skills areas which can result in salary cost pressures.
Succession plans are established for the most senior positions within the andexperience The strength of the Groups customer proposition is underpinned by the quality of people Competitive disadvantage.
Group and these are reviewed annually.
Inherent Risk: working throughout the Group, particularly in customer facing roles.
Many of them have l The Groups reward and recognition systems are actively managed to ensure high levels of worked for Travis Perkins for some considerable time, during which they have gained valuable Trend: employee engagement.
product and customer knowledge and expertise.
Strategy: A D A wide range of training programmes are in place to encourage staff development, The Group faces competition for the best people from other organisations.
Ensuring the whilst management development programmes are available to those identified for more retention, proper development of employees and that robust succession plans exist for key seniorpositions.
positions is important if the Group is not to suffer an adverse effect on its prospects.
Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked regularly to ensure that the Group remains competitive and the Group operates incentive structures to ensure that high performing colleagues are adequately rewarded and retained.
Supplier dependency, The Group is the largest customer to a number of its suppliers.
In some cases, those suppliers Adverse effect on Making decent returns is one of the Groups cornerstones which requires it to treat both relationships and disintermediation are large enough to cause significant supply difficulties to the Group if they are unable to meet financial results.
The commercial and financial teams have established strong leading to adverse impacts on their supply obligations due to either economic or operational factors.
relationships with the Groups key suppliers and work closely with them to ensure contracts Adverse effect ranging andprice that are beneficial to both parties and the continuity of quality materials.
Alternative sourcing may be available, but the volumes required and the time it may take those on reputation.
Inherent Risk: suppliers to increase production could result in significant stock-outs for some considerable To spread the risk where possible contracts exist with more than one supplier for key products.
l l time leading to poor customer service.
Trend: The Group has made a significant investment in its Far East infrastructure to support its direct The Group has increased the sourcing of products from overseas factories.
This has increased sourcing operation which allows the development of own brand products, thereby reducing the Strategy: A C E the Groups exposure to sourcing, quality, trading, warranty and currency issues, which again reliance on branded suppliers.
may lead to an adverse impact on customer service.
Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the factories producing products and the quality Manufacturers of building materials sold by the Group may also look to sell their products and the suitability of those products before they are shipped to the UK.
directly to end customers in the future diminishing the role of distributors such as merchanting and retail distribution businesses.
Unsafe practices result in harm Keeping the Groups colleagues, customers, suppliers and the public safe is a cornerstone Adverse effect on The Group continues to challenge its thinking and approach to improving its safety to colleagues, customers, suppliers of the business.
The Group operates over two thousand sites, many with complex and busy financial results.
performance through its now well established Stay Safe brand.
It also operates one of the largest vehicle fleets in the UK, distributing heavy and bulky Adverse effect Stay Safe performance is reviewed at all Plc Board Meetings, by the Executive Committee and materials.
Poorly implemented safety practices could result in significant harm to people which Inherent Risk: on reputation.
during the Groups regular Divisional leadership meetings.
l l would damage the companys reputation and could impact trading performance.
Trend: Incidents are monitored, investigated and corrective action taken to reduce the likelihood of similar incidents in future.
Strategy: C D E fide-risking the Groups operations, improving health and safety awareness and implementing improved ways of working are at the forefront of the Groups activities.
Further information on progress made during 2017 can be found in the Health and Safety report on pages 44 to 45.
Inherent risk: High Medium Low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing 34 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation The Group sells and distributes building materials through a number of channels.
Link to strategy: A - Customer innovation B Optimising network C Scale advantage D Portfolio management E Financial strength 35 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation The Group allocates capital The Group operates a number of different businesses in the UK which operate in different, Adverse effect on Return on capital is one of the Groups key performance indicators as shown on page 14. inefficiently or under invests in but complementary channels.
As the Groups markets continue to develop, it is investing financial results.
Responsibility for identifying and implementing opportunities to expand, improve or modify advantaged businesses and does to enhance its existing businesses and also to develop new propositions to better serve the Groups operations rests with each of the divisional boards, with capital being deployed or not achieve desired returns itscustomers.
re-deployed by the Group to those projects expected to achieve the best return on capital.
Inherent Risk: While the Group operates a disciplined capital allocation process, there is a risk that it may be Major projects are kept under review to monitor progress and ensure the deployment of capital l l over-investing in channels which may decline or that it may not be allocating sufficient capital remains appropriate.
Trend: to new propositions resulting in sub-optimal returns on capital.
Post implementation reviews are undertaken of all major projects and returns are monitored Strategy: A B E on an ongoing basis to ensure that the expected returns are achieved, but also to allow the Group to modify its capital allocation when appropriate.
Business transformation projects, The Group undertakes a variety of projects throughout its business in order to generate Adverse effect on All potentially significant projects are subject to detailed investigation, assessment and turnaround projects and M&A returns for its shareholders.
These projects are intended to transform the Groups core financial results.
activity fail to deliver the expected ITsystems, to develop its supply chain operations and its branch and store networks and to Adverse effect on Dedicated teams, including financial resource, are allocated to each project, with additional benefits, cost more or take longer materially improve performance in certain businesses which have underperformed in recent shareholdervalue.
expertise being brought into the Group to supplement existing resource when necessary.
to implement than anticipated years.
The Group also undertakes acquisition and disposal activity to optimise its portfolio ofbusinesses.
All strategic projects are closely monitored by the Executive Committee with regular reporting Inherent Risk: l l to the Board.
By their nature, such strategic projects are often complicated, interlinked and may result in Trend: a high level of change and require considerable resource to deliver them.
As a result, the Strategy: A B E expected benefits and the costs of implementation of each project may deviate from those anticipated at their outset.
Market conditions leading The Groups products are sold to businesses, tradesmen and retail customers for a broad Adverse effect on The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an assessment of likely to demand uncertainty range of end uses in the built environment.
The Groups markets are cyclical in nature and financial results.
competitor activity, market forecasts and possible future trends in products, channels of the performance of those markets is affected by general economic conditions and a number distribution and customer behaviour.
Inherent Risk: l l l of specific drivers of construction, RMI and DIY activity, including mortgage availability The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking system for lead indicators that influence the Trend: and affordability, housing transactions and the timing and nature of government activity to market for the consumption of building materials in the UK.
stimulate activity, net disposable income, house price inflation, consumer confidence, interest Strategy: A B E rates and unemployment.
Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect the Group are monitored by the Executive Committee and reported to the Board monthly by the Group CEO.
A significant downturn in economic conditions or alternatively major uncertainty about the future outlook could affect the levels of construction activity in the Groups markets and the Should market conditions deteriorate then the Board has a range of options dependent upon confidence levels of the Groups customers, which could reduce their propensity to purchase the severity of the change.
Historically these have included amending the Groups trading products and services from the Groups businesses.
stance, cost reduction, lowering capital investment and cutting the dividend.
Uncertainty caused by The result of the UK vote to leave the European Union has caused considerable market Adverse effect on It is still too early to determine the full impact of the decision to leave, but the Board is closely the UKs decision to leave uncertainty.
This has made the economic outlook more difficult to predict in the short term financial results.
monitoring market conditions and will react accordingly.
the EuropeanUnion and has resulted in significant volatility in the value of sterling against the principal currencies The Board has already taken steps to reduce some costs, but is carefully balancing the current used by the Group to pay for imported goods.
Inherent Risk: needs of the business against what may or may not occur in the future.
l l l Future trading relationships with foreign markets have yet to be determined and these may Trend: The Group continues to invest in the business where those investments are expected to result in higher tariffs or duties on imports of construction products as well as extended lead realise acceptable returns, but it is prepared to reduce activity levels should market conditions Strategy: A B E times on imported supplies or result in the need to source some products elsewhere.
construction industry and the distribution and logistics markets employ a significant number of non-UK nationals and the UK may become a less attractive place for them to work resulting in Where the cost of goods increases due to the exchange rate deteriorating or additional tariffs labour shortages and consequent salary cost pressures.
and duties, the Group will seek to pass those price increases through to its customers, but its ability to do so will depend upon market conditions at the time.
The effect on the Groups operations is unlikely to become clear until the UKs future trading relationships are determined.
The processes in place around the recruitment and retention of people are set out in the principal risk pertaining to such matters on page 34.
Inherent risk: High Medium Low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing 36 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation The Group allocates capital The Group operates a number of different businesses in the UK which operate in different, Adverse effect on Return on capital is one of the Groups key performance indicators as shown on page 14. inefficiently or under invests in but complementary channels.
Link to strategy: A - Customer innovation B Optimising network C Scale advantage D Portfolio management E Financial strength 37 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Defined benefit pension scheme The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its Adverse effect All the Groups final salary pension schemes are closed to new members, although they remain funding requirements could increase on-going obligations to provide current and future pensions for members of its defined benefit on financial condition.
Since 2015 individual employee contribution rates have been more closely linked to pensionschemes.
the cost of accrual which has resulted in the current service contribution of the Group being capped.
Inherent Risk: l l The level of contributions required from the Group to meet the benefits promised in the final For the Travis Perkins scheme, pensionable salary inflation has been capped at 3% per annum.
Trend: salary schemes will vary depending upon the funding position of those schemes.
The schemes investment policies are kept under regular review by the trustees in conjunction Strategy: D E While the Group has taken actions to manage the future cost, the cash funding of pension with the Group to ensure asset portfolios produce the desired level of return within an obligations could increase significantly due to a number of factors including poor performance acceptable risk profile.
of the pension fund investments, falling corporate bond and gilt yields and increasing longevity In 2017 an investment fide-risking plan established in 2015 was completed with hedging of pension scheme members.
strategies designed to limit the Schemes exposure to inflation and interest rate fluctuations being put in place.
Notwithstanding this the Group remains exposed to movements in member longevity, the value of pension scheme investments and falling corporate bond and gilt rates.
The Group has agreed deficit reduction payment plans for each of its defined benefit pension schemes with the Trustees of the schemes.
The repayment plans will remain in place until the next actuarial valuation, when in conjunction with the Scheme Trustees they will be reassessed to take into account the circumstances at the time.
Data security Incidents of sophisticated cyber-crime represent a significant and increasing threat to all Adverse effect The strategic demands of the business, the resources available to IT, the performance levels of key businesses including the Group.
A major breach of system security could result in system on financial results.
systems and IT security are kept under review by the Executive Committee with responsibility for Inherent Risk: l l disruption to both customer facing and financial systems and or the theft and misuse of monitoring and maintaining cyber security delegated to a data security committee.
Adverse effect on Trend: confidential data with consequential impacts on the Groups reputation or ability to trade.
Investments in best of breed solutions are made that continually adapt to mitigate the risk Strategy: A E associated with the most advanced threats.
Cyber security controls are in place to protect IT systems and data including firewalls, virus protection and penetration testing.
A programme of risk oriented reviews is undertaken to ensure the level of control around IT systems remains robust.
An IT disaster recovery plan exists together with a business continuity plan.
Arrangements are in place for alternative data sites for both trade and consumer businesses.
Off-site back-up routines are in place.
The changing regulatory The Group is subject to a broad range of existing and evolving governance, environmental, Adverse effect on the The Groups legal team is responsible for monitoring changes to laws and regulations that framework, including GDPR health and safety and other laws, regulations, standards and best practices which affect Companys reputation.
and new building regulations, the way the Group operates and give rise to significant compliance costs, potential legal Adverse effect on The Group has policies in place that set out the ways employees and suppliers are expected to increase the risk of nonliability exposure for non-compliance and potential limitations on the development of the branch operations.
Those expectations are widely disseminated using a range of methods to compliance andfines Groupsoperations.
ensure colleagues and suppliers understand their responsibilities to comply with the law and Adverse effect Inherent Risk: other regulations affecting the Group at all times.
Trend: The Board and the Executive Committee regularly monitor compliance with laws andregulations.
Strategy: A B C D E The Group operates a whistleblowing process that allows the anonymous reporting of non-compliance with health and safety, environmental, bribery and other laws and regulations.
Inherent risk: High Medium Low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing 38 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Defined benefit pension scheme The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its Adverse effect All the Groups final salary pension schemes are closed to new members, although they remain funding requirements could increase on-going obligations to provide current and future pensions for members of its defined benefit on financial condition.
Link to strategy: A - Customer innovation B Optimising network C Scale advantage D Portfolio management E Financial strength 39 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Main image: Adam Buttigieg Toolstation, Wellingborough Bottom right: Simona Platekova - Travis Perkins plc, Warrington 40
