A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management approach To recognise that timely and accurate monitoring, review, Effective risk management is key to the success of our communication and reporting of risk is critical to providing: business.
Risk is ultimately about future uncertainty, both early warning mechanism for the effective opportunities and threats, and future events which might management of risk occurrences: impact on our business performance.
Accordingly, we do not assurance to management, the Board and shareholders: seek to eliminate all risk, but to ensure that we only take risks a solid platform for growth: and that are relevant to our strategic goals and that risks should be a sound business resilience platform.
Our approach is to develop and maintain a risk framework to identify, monitor and manage Risk management process the principal risks we face, within the overall framework of our It is the responsibility of all of our colleagues to manage Business Resilience Programme.
Ultimately, accountability for risk management resides with the Board which is responsible for Risk management objectives ensuring that there is an adequate and appropriate risk The primary objectives of risk management at Ascential are: management framework and culture in place.
To recognise that risk is embedded in all activities and that The graphic below illustrates our approach to identifying the underlying risk culture and approach is key to effective and managing risk.
Ascential employs both a top-down and decision making.
Central functions and each operating To promote consistency and transparency in methodology, division has a risk committee comprising divisional leaders assessment and management processes.
and other functional heads, which are all attended by the To promote proactive recognition of external factors Company Secretary, the General Counsel and the Head of which present opportunities or uncertainties that could Security to provoke discussion and share best practice affect the achievement of our strategy and objectives.
Risk identification follows a standard To enable the design and implementation of controls that framework to assess impact and likelihood and risks are provide appropriate assurance and are cost effective.
ranked in order to better direct resources to those which have a higher potential impact.
The Board The Audit Committee Sets risk appetite taking into Considers reports from Monitors the adequacy and account strategic objectives management and the Audit effectiveness of internal control Conducts deep dives into Committee as part of its review and risk management systems specific principal risks of the effectiveness of the Ensures that a robust assessment Approves principal Group risks system of internal controls of the principal risks facing the Assesses impact of principal Company has been undertaken risks when analysing the Monitors and reviews the Companys long-term viability effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Executive Committee Internal Audit Prioritises principal risks Reviews divisional risk registers Reviews and assesses the internal Allocates resources to manage to agree aggregate risk register control environment with focus risks according to potential Identifies any emerging actions on control effectiveness, quality impact where Group wide action is and continuous improvement Communicates priorities to required Determines whether controls are the Business Reviews effectiveness of risk appropriate to provide financial, management procedures managerial and operating information that is accurate, reliable and timely Determines whether risks are appropriately identified and managed Divisional Risk Committees Assesses whether assets are appropriately safeguarded Identifies risks and risk owners Reviews progress with action Evaluates the systems established Scores impact of risk on a plans and current risks mitigated and unmitigated basis, Identifies emerging risks to ensure compliance with those policies, plans, procedures, laws according to the Companys Submits bottom-up risk registers and regulations which could have agreed risk scoring methodology to the Executive Committee a significant impact on the Identifies controls and Reports on effectiveness of risk Company mitigations to manage risk management procedures Agrees action plans to strengthen controls or address deficiencies 22 22 A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Developments in risk management in 2017 In addition to the Audit Committee receiving reports on the We continued to enhance our risk management policies effectiveness of internal control and risk management, the during the year.
A new and consistent reporting format for Board has added a deep dive review of one of the principal divisional risk registers was introduced along with a revised risks to its standard Board meeting agenda.
Reviews in 2017 risk scoring methodology to increase transparency and enable included macro-economic conditions including the impact more effective challenge of risk ratings and the efficiency of Brexit, cyber risk, people risk and new product and of controls.
Long-term viability statement The Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the Group The Directors also assessed the potential impact on the Companys in accordance with Provision C2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance prospects should certain risks to the business materialise.
This assessment has been based on a three-year timeframe, done by considering specific scenarios aligned to the principal risks covering the period to 31 December 2020, which is considered identified on pages 24 to 27, applied to stress test the long-range appropriate because it aligns with the Companys strategic planning financial forecast.
Of these, the five scenarios considered to have the and financial forecasting horizon, and because, in relation to viability, most serious impact on the financial viability of the Company were it provides a sufficiently long period for stress testing scenarios to be modelled in detail.
modelled through at least one complete business cycle.
The specific scenarios were: The Companys prospects have been assessed mainly with reference a global recession, designed to capture the impact of the most to the Companys strategic planning and associated long-range serious plausible manifestation of macro-economic risks: financial forecast.
This incorporates, as the first year, a detailed a major event venue being unavailable at short notice, with no bottom-up budget for each part of the business.
The budgeting equivalent alternative venue available: and planning process is thorough and includes input from most a serious safety and security incident at a major event: operational line managers as well as senior management, and forms a substantial breach of cyber security and associated loss of the basis for most variable compensation incentives.
data: and the loss of a major customer.
The Board also participates during the year in both strategic planning and reviewing the detailed bottom-up budgets.
The For each scenario, the modelling captured the impact on key outputs from this process include full financial forecasts of EBITDA, measures of profitability, cash flow, liquidity and debt covenant Adjusted earnings, cash flow, working capital and net debt.
Scenarios included the effects of plausible mitigation plans where appropriate.
In all cases modelled, the Group was able The Directors consider that the planning process and forecasts to continue to fund its operations and to comply with debt covenant provide a sound underpinning to managements expectations of the requirements.
Based on this assessment of prospects and stress test scenarios, The Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks together with its review of principal risks and the effectiveness of facing the Group, including those that could threaten its business risk management procedures, the Directors confirm that they have a model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This assessment reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in was made with reference to the Companys current position and operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2020. prospects, strategy and principal risks, including how these are managed.
