Principal risks and uncertainties LSEG Risk Governance OVERVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS: Strategic Risks Financial Risks Operational Risks Global economy Credit risk Technology Regulatory change and compliance Market risk Model risk Competition Liquidity risk Security threats Physical Transformation Capital risk Security threats Cyber Reputation Brand Change management Settlement and custodial risks Employees KEY: Risk Level Increasing Risk Level Static Risk Level Decreasing STRATEGIC RISKS Risks related to our strategy including the implementation of strategic initiatives and external threats to the achievement of our strategy.
The category also includes risks associated with reputation or brand values.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Global economy The footprint of the Group has continued to broaden, further As a diversified markets infrastructure business, we operate in a broad range of improving the geographical diversification of the Groups income equity, fixed income and derivative markets servicing clients who increasingly seek streams.
The Group mitigates the foreign exchange translation global products and solutions.
If the global economy underperforms, lower activity exposure created by ownership of overseas businesses by in our markets may lead to lower revenue.
matching, to the extent possible, the currency of its debt to the currency of its income streams.
This is supplemented as required The UK Brexit negotiations with the EU have added uncertainty into global markets.
by a hedging programme using market standard derivative Discussions between the UK and EU continued through 2017 and the European instruments.
Material foreign currency transactions relate mainly Council finally accepted in December that progress in the first phase of negotiations to mergers and acquisitions M&A and dividend related receipts was sufficient to move on and indicated that a transition period should not continue are hedged as required by Group Treasury Policy.
The Group performs regular analysis to monitor the markets and Stronger economic data and inflation concerns have dominated central bank official the potential impacts of market price movements on the business.
The Federal Open Market Committee FOMC increased the Fed Funds Activities include Key Risk Indicator tracking, stress testing, and target rate 3 times during the course of 2017.
In November the Bank of England BoE hedging.
We continue to actively monitor the ongoing increased the Bank Rate by 25bp.
Meanwhile the European Central Bank ECB has developments following the result of the UK referendum on leaving left rates unchanged though commenced a reduction in its quantitative easing the EU.
Committees have been established to assess and address programme.
The expected economic growth could fail to materialise and higher areas of impact on our operations and the Group has formulated rates could lead to a slowdown.
contingency plans with the objectives of continuity of market Ongoing geopolitical tensions continue to add uncertainty in the markets.
This, function and customer service in the event of a hard Brexit.
together with the continuing potential for political change through national elections The Financial Risk Committee closely monitors and analyses for instance, the upcoming Italian elections in March 2018, may impact confidence multiple market stress scenarios and action plans in order and activity levels.
This will be monitored closely.
to minimise any impacts stemming from a potential deterioration of the macroeconomic environment.
The stress scenarios are regularly reviewed and updated in response to changes in macroeconomic conditions.
Additional ad hoc analysis such as special credit reviews of counterparties are presented to the Financial Risk Committee for consideration where events dictate.
For more information, see Market trends and our response on pages 1215, and Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 120124.
46 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Regulatory change and compliance Changes in the regulatory environment form a key input into our The Group and its exchanges, other trading venues, CCPs, index administrators, strategic planning, including the political impact on our growth central securities depositories, trade repositories and other regulated entities strategies, both organic and inorganic.
We monitor regulatory operate in areas that are highly regulated by governmental, competition and developments continually and engage directly with regulatory other regulatory bodies.
and governmental authorities at national, EU and international levels.
The Group has developed contingency plans to address There is a risk that the UKs exit from the EU may lead to considerable regulatory the UKs exit from the EU and monitors developments closely.
There is a range of EU and UK measures which impact our business directly or indirectly including EU Benchmark Regulation, Securities Financing Transaction We continue to develop our relationships with the key political Regulation SFTR and Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II.
Together stakeholders in the EU, North America and Asia.
Potential impacts with MiFIR, its accompanying regulation, MiFID II came into force on 3 January from regulatory change are assessed and, depending on the 2018.
LSEG has delivered a series of key technological and procedural changes to impact, opportunities are developed and mitigating strategies prepare for the implementation of these new regulations.
In addition, several regulatory initiatives are ongoing, some of which directly affect As the various regulatory initiatives progress, there will be greater LSEG activities, especially in the context of the departure of the UK from the EU.
certainty with regard to their likely final form.
The Group continues This is the case with ongoing CCP regulatory initiatives, mainly EMIR Review and to focus on remaining well positioned to respond to regulatory CCP Recovery and Resolution.
In May and June 2017, the European Commission developments and further opportunities exist for the Group to proposed to review EMIR transaction-level requirements and the supervisory deliver solutions to help the market address the changing framework applicable to EU and third country CCPs.
These reviews and in particular, regulatory environment including those linked with the departure the proposal to introduce the option to impose enhanced supervision or location of the UK from the EU.
requirements on third country CCPs that are of systemic importance for the EU, The Group continues to maintain systems and controls to mitigate could have implications for the Groups CCPs.
The Group monitors these regulatory compliance risk.
Compliance policies and procedures are regularly developments in order to help the market address the changing regulatory reviewed to ensure that Group entities and staff are compliant environment through its multiple locations.
The European Commission made with applicable laws and regulations and uphold our corporate proposals to significantly transform the European Supervisory Authorities, principally standards.
All staff across the Group are subject to mandatory by empowering ESMA to be the central supervisor for a range of new financial compliance training.
entities including systemically important third country CCPs, third country benchmark administrators, data service reporting providers and as the approval authority for certain types of prospectuses.
However the nature of final political agreement on the proposal is highly uncertain.
The European Commission made proposals to introduce a prudential regime for investment firms which may affect the ability of proprietary trading firms to provide liquidity on LSEG markets.
In December 2017, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published final recommendations on the Basel III Framework, which as currently drafted could adversely impact CCP clearing volumes with implications for the Groups revenues.
However, in November 2016 the European Commission published proposed changes to the EU Capital Requirements Regulation which largely neutralise the effects for European clients and are currently being discussed with the other co-legislators.
The changes would allow CCP clearing members to reduce their exposure measures by the amount of initial margin received from clients for CCP cleared derivatives.
This would reduce leverage ratios, thus removing a financial barrier for clearing members to offer client clearing.
The EU Benchmarks Regulation came into effect on 1 January 2018 and FTSE Russell will need to apply for authorisation as a regulated benchmark administrator by 2020.
In many of our key jurisdictions, there is an increasing legislative and regulatory focus on cyber security, data flow and protection and emerging technology.
LSEG supports the regulatory efforts on these issues, as they increase the standards for clients, vendors and other third parties with whom we interact.
Regulators are monitoring and considering regulatory frameworks around the development of innovative financial services technologies, which are important for maintaining the resiliency in the market.
Negotiations also continue on a possible Financial Transaction Tax FTT.
During 2017 little progress was made, however a FTT could adversely impact volumes in financial markets.
In the US, there is a considerable and comprehensive review of the financial services regulatory framework, including in areas impacting our capital markets, post trade, information services and technology divisions.
We remain closely engaged with the relevant policymakers on these potential changes, which are likely to see progress in 2018.
There is a risk that one or more of the Groups entities may fail to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements to which it is, or becomes, subject.
In this event, the entity in question may be subject to censures, fines and other regulatory or legal proceedings.
For more information on regulatory changes, see Market trends and our response on pages 1215.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 47 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Competition Competitive markets are, by their very nature, dynamic, and the The Group operates in a highly competitive and global industry.
Continued effects of competitor activity can never be fully mitigated.
Senior consolidation has fuelled competition including between peers and service providers management and a broad range of customer-facing staff in all in different geographical areas.
business areas are actively engaged with clients to understand their evolving needs and motivations.
We have established a In our Capital Markets operations, there is a risk that competitors will improve their Group Relationship Programme to co-ordinate this across Group customer service, products, pricing and technology in a way that erodes our businesses globally.
There is strong competition for primary listings and capital raises from other global exchanges and regional centres.
We maintain a dedicated international The Group undertakes constant market monitoring and pricing team who promote the benefits of listing on our markets to international issuers, the revision to mitigate risks and ensure we are competitive.
global advisory community and other stakeholders.
Options for both debt and equity Commercial initiatives are aligned with our clients and this is funding are also increasing as private equity, venture capital and new options such as complemented by an ongoing focus on technology operations, crowd-funding and crypto-currencies are increasingly being considered.
The Group research and development.
will need to continue strong and collaborative dialogue with customers to ensure it remains responsive to their changing requirements.
In Post Trade Services, competition will continue to intensify as we see a shift towards open access and interoperability of CCPs and legislative requirements for mandatory clearing of certain OTC derivative products.
While this may create new business opportunities for the Group, competitors may respond more quickly to changing market conditions or develop products that are preferred by customers.
The Groups track record of working with customers and other financial market infrastructure providers, including the user focused model in LCH, will help us to continue to deliver innovative new products and services to meet evolving customer needs.
The Groups Information Services business faces competition from a variety of sources, notably from other venues that offer market data relating to securities that are traded on the Groups equity markets, as well as from index providers which offer indexes and other benchmarking tools which compete with those offered by the Group.
As the Information Services offering diversifies and seeks to meet customer needs for new data segments and asset classes, it is facing a broader range of competitors.
Furthermore, if the Groups share of equity trading were to come under further pressure, the Groups market data offering might be seen by current and prospective customers as being less valuable, which may adversely affect the Groups business, financial condition and operating results.
If competitors are quicker to access technology innovations such as artificial intelligence, they may achieve a valuable advantage which may impact the Groups relative profitability and ability to develop new services in a similar way.
Our integrated and business-led approach to technology research and development R&D will help us to manage this risk and the Group is well advanced in investigating and applying numerous new technology innovations, including in Information Services.
In Technology Services, there is intense competition across all activities and there are strong incumbents in some of our growth areas.
New entrants are increasing from both within and outside of our traditional competition base.
Start-ups, which may be sponsored by existing LSEG competitors or customers, are introducing new technology and commercial models to our customer base which we need to respond to with new products and services of our own.
Our continual client dialogue and investment in product management and planning are critical to understanding and managing the impact of changing customer requirements in our technology and other business lines.
Transformation The LSEG ERMF ensures appropriate Risk Management across the Given the current levels of change and alignment activity taking place across the Group, and the governance of the Group following a merger or Group.
The Group is exposed to transformation risks risk of loss or failure resulting acquisition is aligned and strengthened as appropriate.
The Group from change transformation.
This derives from internal organic change and performs regular reporting of change performance, including change required by the integration of acquisitions.
As part of the alignment ongoing alignment activity.
processes, the Group targets specific synergy deliveries.
Each major initiative is overseen by a steering committee which A failure to successfully align the businesses of the Group may lead to an increased monitors the associated risks closely and is typically chaired by the cost base without a commensurate increase in revenue: a failure to capture future Chief Financial Officer and includes Executive Committee product and market opportunities: and risks in respect of capital requirements, members.
Regular reports are submitted to the Executive regulatory relationships and management time.
Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Board.
The additional work related to M&A and alignment activities could have an adverse The Group has an effective track record of integrating acquisitions impact on the Groups day-to-day performance and or key strategic initiatives which and delivering tangible synergies.
This is supported by robust could damage the Groups reputation.
governance and programme management structures.
The size and complexity of the recent acquisitions have increased the Groups change management and transformation risks.
However, it has also increased its opportunities to compete on a global scale.
48 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Reputation Brand LSEG has policies and procedures in place which are designed to A number of the Groups businesses have iconic national brands that are wellensure the appropriate use of the Groups brands and to maintain recognised at international as well as at national levels.
The strong reputation of the integrity of the Groups reputation.
the Groups businesses and their valuable brand names are a key selling point.
LSEG actively monitors the use of its brands and other Any events or actions that damage the reputation or brands of the Group could intellectual property in order to prevent, identify and address adversely affect its business, financial condition and operating results.
Failure to protect the Groups intellectual property rights adequately could result in The Group protects its intellectual property by relying upon a costs for the Group, negatively impact the Groups reputation and affect the ability combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, of the Group to compete effectively.
Further, defending or enforcing the Groups trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and contractual arrangements with its affiliates, clients, customers, managerial resources, which could adversely affect the Groups business, financial suppliers, strategic partners and others.
FINANCIAL RISKS The risk of financial failure, reputational loss, loss of earnings and or capital as a result of investment activity, lack of liquidity, funding or capital, and or the inappropriate recording, reporting and disclosure of financial results, taxation or regulatory information.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Credit risk Clearing Clearing As CCP members continue to work towards strengthening of their CCPs in the Group are exposed to credit risk as a result of their clearing activities.
A balance sheets, the risk to LSEG CCPs of a member default reduces, default by a CCP clearing member that could not be managed within the resources although continuing geopolitical uncertainty continues and the of the defaulted clearing member, could adversely affect that CCPs revenues and its banking sectors of some countries remain stressed.
CCPs authorised in the EU are required to make a proportion of risks associated with clearing operations are further mitigated by: their regulatory capital available to cover default losses after the defaulters resources Strict CCP membership rules including supervisory capital, have been exhausted and prior to allocation of losses to non-defaulters and so, in financial strength and operational capability extreme circumstances, a default could lead to a call on the Group CCPs own capital skin-in-the-game.
CCPs may also be exposed to credit exposure to providers of The maintenance of prudent levels of margin and default funds infrastructure services such as Central Securities Depositaries CSDs and commercial to cover exposures to participants.
Members deposit margin, banks providing investment and operational services.
In addition, certain CCPs within computed at least daily, to cover the expected costs which the the Group have interoperability margin arrangements with other CCPs requiring clearing service would incur in closing out open positions in a collateral to be exchanged in proportion to the value of the underlying transactions.
volatile market in the event of the members default.
A default fund sized to cover the default of the 2 members with the largest The relevant clearing provider entities within the Group are therefore exposed to the exposures in each service using a suite of extreme but plausible risk of a default of other CCPs under such arrangements.
stress tests mutualises losses in excess of margin amongst the Non-Clearing clearing members: CCPs and other parts of LSEG Group are also exposed to credit risk as a result of Regular Fire Drills are carried out to test the operational placing money with investment counterparties on both a secured and unsecured soundness of the CCPs default management processes basis.
Losses may occur due to the default of either the investment counterparty or of the issuer of bonds bought outright or received as collateral.
Infrastructure providers are regularly assessed in line with policy Non-Clearing Policies are in place to ensure that investment counterparties are of good credit quality, and at least 95% of CCP commercial bank deposits are secured.
CCP and non-CCP counterparty concentration risk is consolidated and monitored daily at the Group level and reported to the Executive Committee and to the Board Risk Committee, including limits and status rating.
For more information on this risk see the Post Trade Services section of the Segmental Review on pages 2327, and Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 120124.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 49 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Market risk Clearing Clearing The margins and default funds referred to previously are sized to The Groups CCPs assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared protect against latent market risk.
The adequacy of these resources through their markets.
In the event of default of their clearing members, therefore, is evaluated daily by subjecting member and customer positions credit risk will manifest itself as market risk.
As this market risk is only present in the to extreme but plausible stress scenarios encapsulating not only event of default this is referred to as latent market risk.
The latent market risk historical crises, but theoretical forward-looking scenarios and includes interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, equity risk and commodity price decorrelation events.
All our CCPs are compliant with the risk as well as country risk, issuer risk and concentration risk.
This risk is greater if appropriate regulatory requirements regarding margin calculations, market conditions are unfavourable at the time of the default.
Latent market risk is monitored and managed on a day-to-day basis by the risk teams within the Non-Clearing clearing services.
Committees overseeing market risks meet on The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk as a result of its broadening a regular basis.
There are, however, also benefits of global diversification including reduced exposure to local events such as the UK Brexit vote.
Non-Clearing Foreign exchange FX risk is monitored closely and translation risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities and is managed by matching the currency of the Groups debt to its treasury investments.
Further increases in interest rates in 2018 may increase the earnings to protect key ratios and partially hedge currency net Groups exposure to these risks.
To ensure this is effective, and also to manage any local FX transaction risks, FX derivatives including cross-currency swaps are used under a control framework governed by LSEG Board approved policy.
The split between floating and fixed debt is managed to support the Groups target of maintaining an interest coverage ratio that underpins a good investment grade credit rating.
Authorised derivatives can be used to supplement a mix of floating rate loan borrowings and fixed rate bond debt to achieve the Groups Policy objective.
For more information on this risk, see Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 120124.
Liquidity risk Clearing Clearing The Groups CCPs have put in place regulatory compliant There are 2 distinct types of risk to which the Groups CCPs are exposed to that are liquidity plans for day-to-day liquidity management, including commonly referred to as liquidity risk market liquidity risk and funding liquidity contingencies for stressed conditions.
The Groups CCPs have risk.
The former is the risk that it may be difficult or expensive to liquidate a large or multiple layers of defence against liquidity shortfalls including: concentrated position and is addressed under market risk.
The latter is the risk that intraday margin calls, minimum cash balances, access to the CCP may not have enough cash to pay variation margin to non-defaulters or to contingent liquidity arrangements, and, for certain CCPs, access physically settle securities delivered by a non-defaulter that cannot be on-sold to a to central bank liquidity.
defaulter and this is the subject of this section.
Under the ERMF, CCP investments must be made in compliance The Groups CCPs collect clearing members margin and or default funds with the Group CCP Financial Risk Policy as well as the policies of contributions in cash and or in highly liquid securities.
To maintain sufficient the CCPs themselves.
These policies stipulate a number of Risk ongoing liquidity and immediate access to funds, the Groups CCPs deposit the Management standards including investment limits secured and cash received in highly liquid and secure investments, such as sovereign bonds and unsecured and liquidity coverage ratios.
Committees overseeing reverse repos, as mandated under EMIR: securities deposited by clearing members CCP investment risk meet regularly.
are therefore held in dedicated accounts with CSDs and or International Central Each CCP monitors its liquidity needs daily under stressed and Securities Depositaries ICSDs.
The Groups CCPs also hold a small proportion of unstressed assumptions and reports to the Group Financial Risk their investments in unsecured bank and money market deposits subject to the Committee each month.
The successful operation of these investment activities is contingent on general market conditions and there is no guarantee that such Non-Clearing investments may be exempt from market losses.
Requirements for liquidity including headroom requirements are set out in the Group Treasury Policy.
The Group maintains liquidity Non-Clearing facilities and monitors its requirements on an ongoing basis.
Liquidity risk in a non-clearing context is the risk that the firm may be unable to Stressed facility headroom is assessed using plausible downside make payments as they fall due.
Group Treasury risk is monitored daily and is managed within the constraints of a Board approved policy by the Group Treasury team, and is overseen by the Treasury Committee a subCommittee of the Financial Risk Committee chaired by the CFO.
An update on Group Treasury risks and actions is provided monthly to the Financial Risk Committee and to each meeting of the Board Risk Committee.
50 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Capital risk The Groups Capital Management Policy provides a framework Principal risks to managing the Groups capital are: to ensure the Group maintains suitable capital levels both at Group and solo entity levels, and effectively manages the risks In respect of regulated entities, capital adequacy compliance risk the risk that thereof.
The Groups Treasury Policy recognises the need to regulated entities do not maintain and report sufficient qualifying capital to meet observe regulatory requirements in the management of the regulatory requirements and capital reporting compliance risk the risk that Groups resources.
regulated entities fail to comply with capital reporting and regulatory obligations.
If a regulated entity in the Group fails to ensure that sufficient capital resources are The Risk Appetite approved by the Board includes components maintained to meet regulatory requirements, this could lead to loss of regulatory related to the Groups leverage ratios and capital risks: Key Risk approvals and or financial sanctions.
The Group maintains an ongoing review of the capital positions of its regulated entities to In respect of regulated and unregulated entities, commercial capital adequacy and ensure that they operate within capital limits which are overseen quality risk the risk that Group and solo entities do not maintain both sufficient by the Financial Risk Committee, the Executive Committee and quantity and quality of capital to meet commercial requirements and investment the Board.
The Group can manage its capital structure by varying return risk the risk that capital is held in subsidiaries or invested in projects that returns to shareholders, issuing new shares or increasing or generate a return that is below the Groups cost of capital.
The Board reviews dividend policy and Availability of debt or equity capital whether specific to the Group or driven by funding capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains general financial market conditions.
comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
The Group regularly assesses debt and equity markets to maintain access to new capital at reasonable cost.
The Group is mindful of potential impacts on its key metrics when considering changes to its capital structure.
OPERATIONAL RISKS The risk of loss, or other adverse consequences to the business, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Technology The performance and availability of the Groups systems are Secure and stable technology performing to high levels of availability continues to be constantly reviewed and monitored to prevent problems arising critical to the support of the Groups businesses.
Technology failures may impact our where possible and ensure a prompt response to any potential clients, potentially leading to a loss of trading or clearing volumes or impacting our service interruption issues.
The Group continues actively to identify, manage and mitigate The Group continues to consolidate its IT development and operations in its shared risks associated with the consolidation of IT development and services company LSEG Business Services Ltd and in the MillenniumIT operations.
Regular rigorous business impact and operational risk infrastructure to provide greater control and efficiency.
scenario analysis are performed in conjunction with the Group Risk and Group Business Continuity and Crisis Management There is a risk that as the Group continues to consolidate its IT development and functions to identify, assess and remedy potential system and operations, it creates single points of failure for multiple Group businesses, systems governance vulnerabilities.
The Groups technology teams mitigate the risk of resource The focus of activity in MillenniumIT means there is also a risk of resource over-stretch by ensuring prioritisation of key development and over-stretch to meet both the requirements of the Group and those of third operations activities, and resource utilisation and allocation are parties.
Continued innovation and investment in new trading information kept under constant review.
The MillenniumIT systems are systems can lead to further resource stretch in coping with increased volumes designed to be fault tolerant and alternative standby computer and new product development.
facilities are maintained to minimise the risk of system disruptions.
The Group also has dependencies on a number of third parties for the provision The Group actively manages relationships with key strategic of hardware, software, communication and networks for elements of its trading, IT suppliers to avoid any breakdown in service provision which clearing, settlement, data and other systems.
could adversely affect the Groups businesses.
Where possible the Group has identified alternative suppliers that could be engaged in the event of a third party failing to deliver on its contractual commitments.
The Group actively monitors new technological developments and opportunities such as blockchain and Artificial Intelligence AI.
For more information, see the Technology Services section of the Segmental Review on pages 3233.
Model risk Subsequent to the acquisition during the year of The Yield Book The Group defines model risk as the risk that a model may not capture the analytics platform from Citigroup Inc, the Group has embarked on essence of the events being modelled, or inaccuracies in the underlying calculation a programme of complete review of model policies and procedures potentially resulting in adverse consequences resulting from decisions based to ascertain whether enhancements are required to address on incorrect or missed model outputs.
The Financial Risk Committee reviews results of model validations carried out.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 51 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Security threats Physical Security threats are treated very seriously.
The Group has robust The Group is reliant upon secure premises to protect its employees and physical physical security arrangements.
assets as well as appropriate safeguards to ensure uninterrupted operation of its The Group is supported by the Centre for the Protection of National IT systems and infrastructure.
Infrastructure CPNI in the UK, with security teams monitoring Terrorist attacks and similar activities directed against our offices, operations, intelligence and liaising closely with police and global government computer systems or networks could disrupt our markets, harm staff, tenants and agencies.
Across major hubs covering the UK, Europe, the visitors, and severely disrupt our business operations.
Civil or political unrest could Americas and Asia, the Group maintains close monitoring of impact companies within the Group.
Long-term unavailability of key premises could geopolitical threats through a third party security monitoring lead to the loss of client confidence and reputational damages.
Where events are detected, retained response support services are mobilised internationally.
The Group has well established and regularly tested business continuity and crisis management procedures.
The Group risk function assesses its dependencies on critical suppliers and ensures robust contingency measures are in place.
Security threats Cyber Extensive IT measures aligned to the National Institute of The threat of cyber crime requires a high level of scrutiny as it has the potential to Standards and Technology NIST control framework are in place to have an adverse impact on our business.
Additionally, new emerging technologies both mitigate and monitor cyber security risks such as system such as cloud computing will change our cyber security risk.
Information Security teams monitor intelligence and liaise closely with police and global The Groups technology and operational support providers could suffer a security Government agencies as well as industry forums and regulators.
breach resulting in the loss or compromise of sensitive information both internal and external or loss of service.
A major information security breach could have a The Group continues to invest in and enhance its information significant negative impact on our reputation, financial costs for remediation, fines security control environment, cyber defences and operational and regulatory impacts and on the confidence of our clients.
process as it delivers to its Board approved Cyber Security Strategy.
Change management The senior management team is focused on the implementation The considerable change agenda is driven by both internal and external factors.
of the Groups strategy and the project pipeline in view of their Internal factors include the diversification strategy of the Group and its drive for importance to the Groups future success.
Each major project is technology innovation and consolidation.
External factors include the changing managed via a dedicated Programme Board overseen by regulatory landscape and requirements which necessitate changes to our systems members of the Executive Committee.
Software design methodologies, testing regimes and There are a significant number of major, complex projects and strategic actions test environments are continuously being strengthened underway concurrently, that, if not delivered to sufficiently high standards and to minimise implementation risk.
within agreed timescales, could have an adverse impact on the operation of core services, and revenue growth, as well as damaging the Groups reputation.
The volume of simultaneous change could also lead to a loss of client goodwill if the execution is not managed appropriately.
Synergies and cost benefits may not be delivered to anticipated levels.
For more information, see the Chairmans statement on pages 45, and the Chief Executives statement on pages 67.
Settlement and custodial risks Operational risk is minimised via highly automated processes The Groups CCPs are exposed to operational risks associated with clearing reducing administrative activities while formalising procedures transactions and the management of collateral, particularly where there are manual for all services.
While the Groups CCPs have in place procedures and controls The CSD mitigates IT risks by providing for redundancy of systems, to prevent failures of these processes, and to mitigate the impact of any such failures, daily backup of data, fully updated remote recovery sites and SLAs any operational error could have a material adverse effect on the Groups reputation, with outsourcers.
Liquidity for CSD operations is provided by business, financial condition and operating results.
In addition, the Group provides routing, netting and settlement services through its CSDs to ensure that cash and securities are exchanged in a timely and secure manner for a multitude of products.
There are operational risks associated with such services, particularly where processes are not fully automated.
A failure to receive funds from participants may result in a debiting of the Groups cash accounts which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and operating results.
52 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Employees We focus on a number of strategic enablers to ensure we attract The calibre and performance of our leaders and colleagues is critical to the success and retain the right calibre of talent for our business, and continue of the Group.
to facilitate a culture of high performance.
The Groups ability to attract and retain key personnel is dependent on a number We have a rigorous in-house recruitment and selection process, of factors.
This includes but not exclusively organisational culture and reputation, to ensure that we are bringing the best possible talent into the prevailing market conditions, compensation packages offered by competing organisation, in terms of their skills, technical capabilities, cultural companies, and any regulatory impact thereon.
These factors also encompass the fit and potential.
Groups ability to continue to have appropriate variable remuneration and retention We aim to remove barriers to our colleagues overall sense of arrangements in place, which help drive strong business performance and alignment engagement, proactively measuring how satisfied they are with to long-term shareholder value and returns, impact the size of the local labour force their working experience at LSEG, and the extent to which they with relevant experience, and the number of businesses competing for such talent.
would recommend it as a place to work.
We measure this Whilst the Group focuses very carefully on the attraction and retention of talent, if sentiment when they join the organisation, via our bi-annual unsuccessful it may adversely affect the Groups ability to conduct its business engagement survey Have Your Say, and via an exit survey for through an inability to execute business operations and strategies effectively.
those who choose to move on.
We use that feedback to inform our plans for improvement, and to identify and resolve any barriers to performance and engagement.
We recognise that the overall wellbeing of our colleagues is vital for our continued performance, and have introduced a proactive approach to wellbeing in the UK, which we are in the process of rolling out globally.
This looks to improve wellbeing across 5 dimensions: physical, mental, financial, social purpose, and work-life balance.
Career development remains a key enabler for success, and we have a carefully managed learning budget which enables us to take a coordinated approach, and focus investment in the development of colleagues.
We provide colleagues with a range of courses, materials and tools to support them in owning their development, and will be launching a Career Framework in 2018, to further support people in navigating the opportunities that are available for them at LSEG.
We also offer additional investment to identified key talent and executives, for instance, by providing coaches for key senior successors.
In terms of talent management, we always look to promote internally where possible.
We undertake a comprehensive annual review of critical roles, and ensure we have succession plans in place to minimise the impact of losing critical key personnel.
We monitor the attrition in each division and country, in addition to any critical staff turnover, so that mitigation can be taken where needed.
Performance management plays a key role in mitigating retention and performance risk at LSEG, and the Group operates a robust performance management and appraisal process for all colleagues, which links to how we utilise incentives and compensation to drive organisational performance.
This assesses performance against financial objectives, strategic deliverables, and the extent to which colleagues role model the Groups values and behaviours.
In terms of other reward approaches, critical high performers are offered Long Term Incentive Plans, aligned with the fulfilment of the Groups strategic goals and increases in shareholder value.
We also regularly benchmark our reward and incentive systems to ensure they are competitive.
For more information, see Our wider responsibility on pages 3435 and Remuneration Report on pages 7294.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 53
