40 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Risk management Meggitt seeks to operate within a low risk appetite range Group risk assurance map which summarises the assurance overall.
Effective risk management is required to deliver to activities taking place throughout the Group in relation to the this appetite while supporting the achievement of the Groups principal risks.
Where appropriate, insurance is used to manage strategy and business objectives.
Our risk management risks and our risk management procedures are shared with our framework is based on ISO 31000 and includes a formal insurers when assessing any potential exposures.
Our insurers process for identifying, assessing and responding to risk.
have provided funding via a bursary to enable more detailed reviews of certain risks to increase understanding of the key During 2017, we continued to refine our approach.
The Board drivers and enable more efficient action to address these, either approved an updated Group risk appetite statement with through mitigation or insurance.
These reviews have been well associated risk tolerances to ensure that identified risks are received by the risk owners for improving their ability to monitor managed within acceptable limits.
Comfort over the and assess their risks and by the insurers for providing a more management of these risks is demonstrated on the updated detailed analysis of the causes and their respective impacts.
Governance The responsibility for risk management operates at all levels throughout Meggitt: The Board The Board takes overall responsibility, determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving Meggitts strategic objectives: and overseeing the Groups risk governance structure and internal control framework.
During 2017, the Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This report describes those risks and how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Audit Committee The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing and ensuring the effectiveness of the risk management process to the Audit Committee.
Executive Committee Divisional and functional leadership are responsible for the management of risk and for compiling and maintaining their own risk registers, which outline risks at business unit and programme levels.
The Executive Committee as a whole regularly reviews the Groups principal risks, while individual members own specific risks.
After they have been identified, risks are a day-to-day basis, utilising effective Our process reviewed at a facility level and aggregated internal controls.
Group functions and Our risk management processes require for review at divisional and functional levels divisions monitor and oversee these identified risks throughout the Group to be owned by a named individual.
They must on a consistent basis before being activities, representing governance and submitted for the Groups regular review compliance at the second line.
The third review them regularly and consider related process.
line is the independent assurance over new risks.
Risk identification is embedded these activities provided by internal and within other processes, including strategy, The resultant Group Risk Register is external audits.
project and programme management, bid approvals and other operational activities.
subject to a detailed review and discussion by the Executive Committee which includes Meggitts corporate strategy is designed to Risk tolerance levels are flowed down to the discussion of risks which may not have optimise our business model and take risk, divisions and functions.
The likely been identified through the normal with the required controls, on an informed timeframe within which the impact of risks channels.
The Board assesses the outputs basis.
See pages 10 to 21 for a full description might be felt risk velocity and how we prioritise risks is considered as part of our from this process and takes comfort from of our business model and strategy.
To enable the 3 lines of defence risk assurance value to be created for our shareholders, we risk management strategy and feeds into model.
The first line represents operational set varying risk tolerances and associated our assessment of long term viability.
management who own and manage risk on criteria.
We accept and manage risk as described on the following page.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 41 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Risk heat map The heat map below shows the outcome of the risk identification and assessment processes used to compile the Group Risk Register.
This shows the relative likelihood and impact of the principal risks identified.
Risks rated as green or those with a low expected impact are not considered principal risks of the Group for inclusion in the Group Risk Register, although they may feature on divisional or functional risk registers and be managed at that level.
Strategic risks Medium to low tolerance for risks arising from poor business decisions or substandard execution of business objectives.
Business model 01 Product demand 02 01 10 Technology strategy 03 Operational risks Low to near-zero tolerance for risks arising from business processes 08 13 02 09 11 including the technical, quality, and project management or organisational risks associated with programmes and products.
Quality escape equipment failure 04 03 04 07 Business interruption 05 Project programme management 06 Customer satisfaction 07 06 05 12 Acquisition integration 08 IT systems failure 09 Supply chain Medium High Very high 10 Increasing risk impact Group change management 11 Corporate risks Low to near-zero tolerance for compliance and reputational risks including those related to the law, health, safety and the environment.
Legal & regulatory 12 Financial risks Medium to low tolerance for financial risks including taxation, pension funding, failure to provide adequate liquidity to meet our obligations and managing currency, interest rate and credit risks.
Taxation 13 Increasing probability frequency Very Highly Almost unlikely Unlikely Probable probable certain
