JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties trafficking, whistleblowing, data protection, The Groups risk management Risk management systems health and safety and environment.
framework The key features of the Groups risk The Groups trading companies are management systems are as follows: The Board is ultimately responsible supported by Group functions for for the management of risk in the Each trading business is required to finance, treasury, taxation, internal Group.
Our internal control and risk maintain an up to date risk register, audit, insurance, legal and company management framework is regularly which is reviewed at each quarterly secretarial, human resources and payroll monitored and reviewed by the business board meeting, identifies and information systems: the functional Board and the Audit Committee, key risks and assesses the likelihood heads report to a nominated Executive and comprises a series of policies, and impact of each risk before and Director.
The Board retains an oversight processes, procedures and after mitigation measures are taken.
role, receives regular reports on key organisational structures which are On an annual basis the risk registers issues and has a schedule of matters designed to ensure that the level of are submitted for analysis to the specifically reserved to it for decision, risk to which the Group is exposed is Group General Counsel and internal designed to ensure that it maintains full consistent with the Boards risk appetite audit.
This analysis is considered and effective control over appropriate and the Companys strategic objectives.
by the Board when determining strategic, investment, financial, The Board determines the Groups the Groups principal risks, and the organisational and compliance issues.
policies on risk, appetite for risk and areas of internal audit focus for the This schedule is subject to review by the levels of risk tolerance, and specifically forthcoming period.
approves: risk management policies and The Board also operates a Group The trading company managing plans: significant insurance and or legal Risk Committee GRC, which meets directors complete a risk claims and or settlements: acquisitions, quarterly and is chaired by Nick management review questionnaire disposals and capital expenditures: and Henry, with representation from on an annual basis which is a the Group budget, forecast and three functional heads including finance, self-assessment of operational year plan.
The Board has put in place a human resources, legal and company controls and compliance with documented organisational structure with secretarial, information services, Group policies, applicable laws strictly defined limits of authority from the insurance and internal audit.
The and regulations relating to their Board to operating units that have been main responsibilities of the GRC are business.
This enables business communicated throughout the businesses to identify and monitor operational managers to identify risks and focus and are well understood by the Executive risks and ensure that those risks are on mitigating strategies.
The reviews Directors, functional and business leaders being actively managed throughout the are submitted to the Group General who have delegated authority and specific Group: to support the Groups Internal Counsel and internal audit for responsibility for ensuring compliance with Control and Risk Management strategy analysis and reporting to the Board.
and implementing policies at corporate, and policy: and to review reports on divisional and business unit level.
Group Business reporting and Key Risks and Risk Maps prepared by functions and operating units are each performance reviews trading companies in order to monitor required to operate within this control and report on the types of risk within the The Group operates an annual environment and in accordance with Group and report on how effectively risk budgeting process and produces the established policies and procedures management is performed monitored quarterly forecasts which are reviewed covering areas including ethics, antiwithin each business unit trading and approved by the Board.
Monthly bribery and corruption, conflicts, treasury, company.
The minutes of the GRC are results are compared with budget employment, slavery and human reported to the Board.
and prior year, and individual business 19 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED reviews are conducted quarterly, which that management has adequate based on the risk evaluation process include a review of financial results.
The internal control systems in place described above are listed below.
On the businesses also compile a three year to report any weaknesses that basis that the Board considers that the strategic plan.
The Groups principal risks have not materially results of the analysis are utilised to changed, the categories of risks listed The Executive Directors hold quarterly determine future areas of internal below are similar to last year.
The Groups board meetings with each business audit focus.
decentralised business model and unit to discuss strategy, financial results geographical spread helps to mitigate the and forecasts, business needs and the A risk score is determined for each impact of each principal risk.
management of risks facing the business.
risk, based on the likelihood of the identified risk arising and the potential The Board has considered the potential Identifying and monitoring impact on the business of an adverse effect of the UKs exit from the European material risks outcome.
The risk score before Union throughout the year.
It considers and after mitigation is reviewed at that Brexit is unlikely to have a material Material risks are identified and business and Group level.
monitored as follows: impact on the Group, as its business interests and customer base in the The risk assessments are A risk evaluation process EU are not significant.
The Board will summarised and presented to the commences in the operating continue to track and consider the Board, which evaluates the principal companies with an annual exercise implications of Brexit and its potential risks of the Group by reference to to identify the significant operational impact as the terms of the UKs exit, the strategy and operating business and financial risks facing the both during and after transition, become environment.
This is supported by a clearer.
self-assessment internal control Principal risks and review questionnaire completed uncertainties by each operating company and submitted to internal audit.
This The most significant risks which the process is robust and challenging, Board considers may affect our business ensures that risks are identified and Changes in risk Risk description and potential impact Management and mitigation profile 2017 2018 Project delivery The failure to meet customer expectations on project Projects and contracts are subject to on-going review at levels An increase in size and delivery could have potentially significant adverse and frequencies appropriate to performance and potential risks.
volume of contracts financial and reputational consequences and could Our businesses employ industry experts to help ensure effective project increases project delivery potentially result in claims and litigation.
This together with established processes risk, but this is in proportion and procedures, reporting systems, management oversight, customer with the growth of the feedback and staff training and development is designed to mitigate the Group.
risk to successful project delivery.
Contractual risk As the Group continues to grow, wins larger contracts The Group utilises professional expertise to minimise risk in contract Marginally higher.
and operates in more geographies, sometimes with negotiation with customers and partners.
All major tenders, contracts and local partners, the Company is potentially exposed to joint ventures are referred to the Board for approval and limits of authority increased risks such as late payment or cost overruns.
are designed to ensure that contracts are reviewed and approved at appropriate levels prior to commitment.
In addition the project delivery and performance function referred to above provides assurance on delivery.
Recruitment and retention of key staff James Fisher has strong and experienced Our strategy to attract and retain talent includes graduate recruitment, No change.
management teams in its operational businesses and identifying and developing future leaders, regular appraisals, formal and informal depends on the skills, experience and competence training plans, succession planning, and appropriate remuneration incentives of all of its people to drive the business forward in including the extension of share schemes to key individuals.
We aim to develop established and new markets.
The Groups success talent from within.
Succession and talent development is regularly discussed at in delivering its strategic objectives depends on Board and trading company level.
There are several management development recruiting and retaining the right people in all areas programmes in place for individuals who have been identified as potential of our business and planning succession in key senior managers.
These programmes are defined to help develop and grow leadership positions.
The failure to attract, retain and the capabilities and behaviours required of senior managers so that we have develop personnel of the requisite calibre could have potential successors for key business roles.
These strategies are designed to an adverse impact on the business.
retain and motivate individuals and to ensure their commitment to the success of the business.
Staff turnover at senior levels within the Group remains low.
20 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Changes in risk Risk description and potential impact Management and mitigation profile 2017 2018 Health, safety and environment The Groups success is dependent on conducting its The Group places a particular emphasis on operational excellence No change.
business safely and in accordance with all applicable including the health, safety and security of its operations and the quality of regulatory requirements.
Our businesses are reliant services provided.
These key areas are continually monitored and reported on ensuring that a good reputation is maintained with to the Board.
We have policies and processes to safely and compliantly their customers.
An adverse operational incident manage our operations, to protect our employees and others, to react or failure to maintain appropriate levels of service appropriately to operational incidents and to deal quickly and effectively delivery would potentially damage the Groups with any safety or service failings.
reputation leading to financial and commercial consequences.
Financial risk The Group is exposed to a variety of financial The Group maintains relationships with a small key group of banks and 2016 was a period of risks which could adversely affect the financial reviews its funding mix and requirements at each Board meeting.
The high volatility in this performance of the Company.
The risks include Board discusses macro-economic issues and their potential impact on area.
2017 was less interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk.
An increase in interest rates or change in exchange The Group enters into bilateral facilities to spread its maturity profile and rates or credit restriction would have a financial aims to maximise the term of its revolving credit facilities.
centralised finance function oversees all key strategic finance matters and is responsible for treasury, tax, foreign exchange and funding requirements.
This includes the day-to-day management of the Groups liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
Forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps are entered into to mitigate the risks of adverse currency or interest rate movements.
The Group also seeks to secure payment in hard currency to mitigate exchange rate risk.
Energy markets The Group has significant operations across the The Group has exposure across the energy sector and to a broad The strategic risks are energy sector and serves a broad range of oil and range of end markets and differing geographies.
This, together with the reducing in proportion gas, nuclear and renewables customers.
maintenance of close relationships with key customers and suppliers, to the wider diversity of helps to mitigate the potential impact of market risks in the energy sector.
businesses within the A marked change in circumstances in individual Group.
market sectors, energy prices or change in Specifically with regard to the oil and gas sector, the Group has limited government regulation or policy may lead to exposure to the exploration phase and seeks longer-term contracts for reduced activity which can affect demand for the inspection, repair and maintenance work.
Groups products and services and impact financial performance.
Operating in emerging markets The Group has increasing activities in overseas Risk and internal control of overseas joint ventures is a key area of No change.
emerging markets and key growth economies which managements focus.
As businesses develop we monitor and review are often undertaken in association with local joint the structure of, and reporting lines for, our overseas operations and the venture partners.
This, together with legislative relations with third parties to ensure an appropriate form of command and restrictions, embargoes, sanctions and exchange control is maintained, dependent on the particular operating environment controls, has the potential for increasing the Groups and the nature and size of the business.
The Group allocates additional financial and governance risk exposure.
Any resource to areas of higher risk and has enhanced its internal audit significant failure to comply with laws or regulations reviews for overseas businesses which are supported by external audit could lead to liabilities and penalties.
Processes are in place that are designed to ensure that all businesses operate in accordance with legislative restrictions, embargoes, sanctions and exchange controls and the Groups policies and applicable laws.
Cyber security Attempts to cause harm to the Group and its The Groups IT systems are defended through the use of software There have been no businesses via digital channels could lead to theft, protection and processes which are regularly reviewed and tested.
These major security breaches fraud, interruption to business and damage to our defences include gateways, firewalls and threat detectors.
IT security or fraud in 2017 and the reputation.
information and updates are reviewed on a regular basis.
Group IT risk is unchanged.
systems were subjected to penetration tests and vulnerability scans during 2017 which were satisfactory.
Accounting and banking controls are regularly appraised to ensure they are appropriate, up to date and comply with recommended practice.
21 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T
