42 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Principal risks and uncertainties In accordance with the Groups risk management procedures, The risks outlined below, which are not presented in order of we have evaluated our risk disclosures and focused this priority, are those the Group believes are the principal ones it report on the principal risks.
Financial risks associated with a currently faces.
However, additional risks, of which the Group multinational business, including foreign exchange, are is unaware, or risks the Group currently considers to be less disclosed in the Chief Financial Officers review on pages 34 significant, could have a material adverse impact.
Link to strategic priorities Change in risk Risk velocity KPIs Financial performance Portfolio Increase High: I mpact within 6 months gross margin, organic revenue of risk occurring growth, underlying operating profit, return on trading assets, underlying Customers No change Medium: I mpact between 6 and 36 EPS growth and free cash flow months of risk occurring R&D investment Competitiveness Decrease Low: I mpact after more than 36 TRIR total recordable incident rate months of risk occurring Inventory turns New Culture STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Description Impact How we manage it Alignment of Group, divisional and functional strategy Failure to respond to Decreased Business model processes.
fundamental changes in our revenue and Dedicated full-service aftermarket organisation.
primarily the evolving Implementation of long-term customer agreements as part aftermarket.
This includes more of maintaining and monitoring pricing strategy.
durable parts requiring less Implementation of Meggitt Production System MPS in frequent replacement, a aftermarket operations.
KPIs: growing supply of surplus parts, Investment in research and development to maintain and Financial performance OE customers seeking greater enhance Meggitts intellectual property.
R&D investment control of their aftermarket Strengthened commercial function.
supply chain and accelerated pace of new aircraft deliveries leading to the earlier retirement of older aircraft.
Monitoring external economic and commercial environment Significant variation in demand Volatility in Product demand and long-lead indicators whilst maintaining focus on for products should civil underlying balanced portfolio.
aerospace, military and energy profitability.
business downcycles coincide, a Regularly communicating strategy to shareholders.
serious political, economic or Maintaining sufficient headroom in committed credit terrorist event that adversely facilities and against covenants in those facilities whilst affects the demand for air travel implementing appropriate cost-base contingency plans.
or industry consolidation KPIs: materially changes the Financial performance competitive landscape.
Failure to develop and Restriction of Management of technology development plans that align Technology strategy implement meaningful ability to compete technology readiness, market needs and financial returns technology strategies to meet on new using a gated process.
programmes with Focus on technology during Group strategy process.
consequent Recruiting first-class engineers and scientists with decrease in appropriate technology skills.
revenue and Ring-fenced budgets focused on longer-term technology profit.
KPIs: Financial performance Partnerships with government, academia and other companies to leverage our R&D budgets.
R&D investment OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description Impact How we manage it Defective product leading to Decreased Implementation of well-developed system safety analysis, Quality escape in-service failure, accidents, the revenue and verification and validation policy and processes, combined equipment failure grounding of aircraft or profit, damage to with quality and customer audits and industry certifications.
prolonged production operational Implementing MPS across the Group.
shut-downs for the Group and performance and Implementation of enhanced supplier quality assurance its customers.
KPIs: Financial performance Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 43 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OPERATIONAL RISKS continued Risk Description Impact How we manage it A catastrophic event such as an Decreased Group-wide business continuity and crisis management Business interruption earthquake the Group has a revenue and plans, subject to regular testing.
significant operational presence profit, damage to Comprehensive insurance programme, renewed annually in Southern California or fire operational and subject to property risk assessment visits.
could lead to infrastructure and performance and property damage which reputation.
prevents the Group from fulfilling its contractual KPIs: obligations.
Financial performance Failure to meet new product Failure to deliver Programme lifecycle management PLM processes Project programme development programme financial returns starting from rigorous commercial and technological management milestones and certification against readiness reviews of bids and contractual terms before requirements and successfully investment and entering into programmes.
transition new products into or significant Continuous review of programme performance through the manufacturing as production financial penalties PLM process including regular monitoring of the end market rates increase.
This also covers leading to performance of key OE programmes and the financial health lower than expected production decreased profit of customers.
volumes, including programme and damage to PLM process and engineering support applications, KPIs: cancellations.
combined with enhanced internal review process, to Financial performance stress-test readiness to proceed at each stage of key R&D investment programmes.
Delivery of applied research and technology objectives in line with Group strategy.
Incremental improvement in performance following MPS implementation and reorganisation of programme management to increase capability and focus on delivery and governance.
Active participation in customer rate-readiness processes.
Failure to meet customers cost, Failure to win Creation of dedicated aftermarket organisation.
Customer quality and delivery standards future Implementation of supplier excellence framework following satisfaction or qualify as preferred suppliers.
programmes, risk analysis and on-site assessments.
decreased Implementation of MPS combined with a programme revenue and lifecycle management process leading to step change in profit.
Reorganisation of programme management to increase capability and focus on delivery and governance.
KPIs: Development of commercial function and engineering Financial performance capability.
Inventory turns Increased utilisation of low-cost manufacturing base.
Regular monitoring of customer scorecards and ensuring responsiveness to issues via Voice of the Customer process.
Failure to integrate effectively Decreased Internal pre-acquisition due diligence supplemented by Acquisition the composites acquisitions revenue and external experts.
integration and or realise expected profit.
Implementation of MPS as part of proven post-merger financial returns in line with integration process led by incumbent divisional business case.
management, supported by experienced dedicated integration teams with a senior oversight committee.
PMO established to manage integration and delivery of financial model, including cost synergies.
KPIs: Financial performance Ongoing implementation of IT security strategy and A breach of IT security due to Decreased IT systems failure enhancement of IT security infrastructure, policies and cyber crime terrorism resulting revenue and procedures.
in intellectual property or other profit, damage to sensitive information being lost, operational Establishment of Group-wide intellectual property made inaccessible, corrupted or performance and protection programme.
Review of existing systems, third party service providers and users.
This also includes the risks, including resilience and disaster recovery processes, loss of critical systems such as undertaking mitigating action where appropriate.
KPIs: SAP due to badly executed Financial performance Implementation of rolling programme of system upgrades implementation or change of including SAP implementation to replace legacy systems.
control: poor maintenance, Roll-out of deployment and architectural review processes.
business continuity or back-up procedures and the failure of third parties to meet service level agreements.
Failure or inability of critical Decreased Implementation of supplier excellence framework combined Supply chain suppliers to supply unique revenue and with integrated commercial and procurement approach to products, capabilities or profit, damage to contractual terms and conditions including development of services preventing the Group operational long-term agreements.
from satisfying customers or performance and Maintenance of buffer inventory for critical and sole-source meeting contractual reputation.
Implementation of measures to mitigate counterfeit and fraudulent parts at high-risk facilities.
KPIs: Financial performance Inventory turns 44 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Principal risks and uncertainties continued OPERATIONAL RISKS continued Risk Description Impact How we manage it Failure to successfully, Decreased Creation of dedicated site consolidation and property Group change simultaneously, deliver the revenue and management teams.
management significant change programmes profit, increased Regular monitoring by Executive Leadership Team through currently in process and costs, damage to operational and project reviews.
planned, including site operational MPS implementation at new expanded sites.
KPIs: Financial performance Inventory turns CORPORATE RISKS Risk Description Impact How we manage it Significant breach of Damage to Continuing investment in compliance programmes.
Legal & regulatory increasingly complex trade reputation, Implementation of Board approved trade compliance, ethics compliance, bribery & loss of supplier and anti-corruption policies.
corruption, ethics, accreditations, Roll-out of global trade compliance IT solution and import environmental and health & suspension of compliance programme.
activity, fines Regular monitoring by Ethics and Trade Compliance from civil Committee, supported by ongoing trade compliance and criminal KPIs: programme including third party audits: and comprehensive proceedings.
ethics programme including training, anti-corruption policy, Financial performance external audits and Ethics line.
TRIR MPS implementation to enhance safety measures validated by third party audits.
FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Description Impact How we manage it Tax legislation is complex and Higher effective Monitoring international tax developments to assess Taxation compliance can be subject to tax rates resulting implications of future legislation.
Legislation, in decreased Maintenance of a low-risk rating with UK HMRC and other including response to the OECD profit.
tax authorities through open dialogue and, where possible, BEPS programme and that pre-agreement of arrangements to confirm compliance with recently introduced by the US legislation.
Presidential administration, is Assessment of options to mitigate impact of legislative subject to change, which could changes on the Groups effective tax rate.
KPIs: negate the effectiveness of the Use of multiple expert third party tax advisors.
Financial performance Groups current, wellestablished, tax-efficient international structures, including those used to finance acquisitions.
The key features of the risk the date of approval of the Annual Oversight of risk and internal management and internal control system Report and has been regularly reviewed control are described below, including those by the Audit Committee and approved The Board is responsible for risk relating to the financial reporting process, by the Board: and management and internal control and for as required under the Disclosure Guidance The forecasting, budget and strategic maintaining and reviewing its financial and and Transparency Rules DTR : plan processes.
The Board has Group policies key policies are taken into account the guidance provided by approved by the Board and other The Groups programmes for insurance and the FRC on Risk Management and Internal policies are approved by Group business continuity form part of our risk Control in carrying out its duties.
The system functions: management and internal control framework.
of internal control is designed to manage, but Process controls for example financial not to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve controls including the Group Finance business objectives and to provide Policies and Procedures Manual, the bid reasonable, but not absolute, assurance approval process, programme lifecycle against material misstatement or loss.
management reviews, IT security framework and risk management.
The The Groups functions are responsible for risk management process, which determining Group policies and processes.
enables the Group to identify, evaluate The businesses are responsible for and manage the Groups principal risks implementing them, with internal and or was in place throughout 2017 and up to external audits to confirm business unit Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 45 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The following features allow the Group to the above mentioned reviews and reports.
Considered the Group Risk Register to monitor the effective implementation of The Board confirms that it has not determine those risks which could policies and process controls by business identified any significant failings or potentially pose the most significant units: weaknesses in the Groups systems of risk threat to viability across the Group over A business performance review process management or internal control as a result this period and which should be including financial, operational and of information provided to the Board and modelled, including: compliance performance : resulting discussions.
A significant market downturn, of Semi-annual business unit and greater magnitude than both the divisional sign-off of compliance with after effects of 9 11 and the global Viability statement Group policies and processes: recession in 2008.
The downturn In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Compliance programmes and external was assumed to last for the full 2016 Code, the directors have assessed the audits including trade compliance, stress testing period, impacting both prospects of the Group over a period of five ethics, anti-corruption, health, safety civil aerospace and energy, with years from the balance sheet date the and environmental : military being unaffected as history Board having determined five years as the An effective internal audit function has shown : appropriate period for the reasons stated which, primarily, performs business unit A decline commensurate with losing below, taking account of its current reviews by rotation including finance, one of our most significant position and the potential impact of the programme management, IT, HR and customers, leading to a sharp loss of principal risks set out above.
ethics : and revenue across the full stress testing A whistleblowing line to enable period: and The Board selected the period of five years employees to raise concerns.
A set of reverse engineered for the following reasons: scenarios which deliberately just The Groups multi-year strategic plan To review the effectiveness of the system break covenants in our credit covers an initial five-year period.
of internal controls, the Board and Audit facilities or exceed our committed Modelling by the Group for periods of Committee applied the following processes facilities to assess the headroom over five years involves extrapolating and activities in 2017 and up to the date of against our risk based scenarios.
the trend in years three to five and thus approval of the Annual Report: Assessed the likelihood of bank and inevitably is more uncertain: Reviews of the risk management other debt facilities continuing to be The investment cycle for a typical process, risk register and risk appetite: available to the Group as existing engineering development programme is Written and verbal reports to the Audit facilities mature over the next five years: up to five years: Committee from internal and external Specifically assessed the impact of the Although individual platforms operate audit on progress with internal control UKs decision to leave the EU which is for periods of 30 years or more, our activities, including: not expected to be significant, for three five-year viability period aligns with the Reviews of business processes and key reasons: typical aerospace cycle, and the longer activities, including action plans to From a trade perspective the WTO term nature of our platform cycles, and address any identified control treaty for trade in civil aviation parts the support that brings to the weaknesses and recommendations provides for tariff free trade military expectation of viability beyond the for improvements to controls or is generally covered under separate formal five-year assessment period, is processes: trade arrangements, with non-tariff explained elsewhere in the Annual The results of internal audits: barriers not expected to threaten our Report: and Internal control recommendations ability to operate: The five-year viability period is made by the external auditors: and Levels of trade between the UK and consistent with the period over which Follow-up actions from previous other EU countries is not especially we consider risks covered by the Group internal control recommendations.
significant to Meggitt UK exports to Risk Register.
An independent review of internal audit the EU were 7% of Group revenues in effectiveness is to be performed by a 2017, whilst imports to the UK from In making this statement, the Board has third party: the EU were under 1% : and reviewed and discussed the overall process Regular compliance reports from the We have a significant amount of undertaken by management and has: Executive Director, Commercial and non-Sterling denominated revenue, Discussed and agreed key assumptions Corporate Affairs: costs and debt, meaning we have in the stress testing model used by Regular reports on the state of the benefited from the weakening of management: business from the Chief Executive and Sterling since the UKs decision to Considered the Groups current position Chief Financial Officer: leave the EU.
Remaining net and future prospects, the Groups A presentation on IT security activities transaction exposures are hedged strategy and principal risks and how and plans: forward giving us time to respond to these are managed as detailed in the Strategy reviews, review of the ten year further movements over time: and Strategic report: financial plan and review and approval of Specifically assessed the exposure to Assessed the outcome of the stressthe 2018 budget: cross border trade, in relation to testing, carried out using the Groups Written reports to the Ethics and Trade potential changes to import and export five-year strategic plan as the base Compliance Committee on the tariffs.
The five-year strategic plan effectiveness and outcomes of considers the Groups cash flows, whistleblowing procedures: and Based on the results of its review and as set dividend cover, net debt:EBITDA Reports on insurance coverage and out above, the directors have a reasonable covenant ratio and other key financial uninsured risks.
expectation that the Group will be able to ratios over the period.
These metrics continue in operation and meet its liabilities are assessed against the Group Risk The risk management and internal control as they fall due over the five-year period of Register to determine the most systems have been in place for the year their assessment.
impactful ones to stress test against, under review and up to the date of approval and this is carried out to evaluate the of the Annual Report, and are regularly potential impact of the Groups principal reviewed by the Board.
The Board monitors risks actually occurring: executive managements action plans to implement improvements in internal controls that have been identified following
