Strategic report RISK Emerging risk The Board has ultimate Emerging risks are considered a INVESTMENT RISK STRATEGIC RISKS responsibility for risk condition, situation or trend that could significantly affect the Groups financial SUSTAINED FUND FAILURE TO DELIVER ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND INEFFECTIVE PRODUCT, CLIENT management.
strength, competitive position or UNDERPERFORMANCE STRATEGY RETAIN CRITICAL STAFF AND GEOGRAPHIC reputation within the next five years.
DIVERSIFICATION To help the Board discharge its These are raised by the business and responsibilities, the Group has a challenged by Executive risk owners to Owner: Chief Investment Officer Owner: Chief Executive Officer Owner: ExCo Owner: Global Head of Distribution comprehensive approach to identifying, consider estimates of likelihood, impact monitoring, managing and mitigating risk, and timing.
Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end which is described in the Governance 2016: Low Change: 2016: Medium Change: 2016: Low Change: 2016: New to top 10 in 2017 Key risk themes impacts Framework section.
2017: Low Change: 2017: Low Change: 2017: Low Change: 2017: Medium As a business, we have a relatively low Our Enterprise Risk Management appetite for risk, particularly for those framework clearly defines essential that could lead to negative regulatory, There is a risk that our clients will not The risk of failure to achieve our The risk of failure to attract or retain The risk that our product range, information about the Groups risks and conduct and reputational outcomes.
meet their investment objectives, due to strategic objectives, through internal or the people critical to successfully distribution partnerships, client type or provides a process for escalation through poor relative performance by one or external factors, which would impair delivering investment outperformance geographic diversification are Conduct risk our governance structure, which enables more of our funds over a prolonged our ability to deliver value to our to our clients and all other aspects of ineffective at growing AUM particularly The Group defines conduct risks as risks continuous and robust oversight by the period.
in light of continued change and which result in customer detriment, Audit and Risk Committee and the Board.
disruption in the competitive landscape.
negative impact to market stability or Potential impact Potential impact Potential impact Risk appetite restrict effective competition.
Conduct Weak financial markets specific to our A failure to achieve one or more The unplanned departure of a member Potential impact An important part of the Boards remit is risk is not considered a separate risk funds or poor performance by our strategic objectives could result in a of our leadership team could lead to Our ability to generate fund inflows to determine our risk appetite and the category.
Risks in the strategic, investment fund managers may lead to our reduced pool of available profit for significant redemptions from our funds, and prevent outflows may be tolerances within which we must operate.
and operational risk categories may products being uncompetitive or distribution to shareholders.
This would failure to deliver our strategy or failure jeopardised by fundamental changes in This is defined as the amount and type result in conduct risk impacts.
otherwise unattractive to new or limit growth and potentially longterm to run our business efficiently, resulting distribution patterns or by a sustained of risk we are willing to accept in order existing clients.
This could result in viability.
in a material impact on corporate market preference for products we do Reputational risk to achieve our strategic and business clients not receiving their desired performance.
This would have a detrimental The risk of loss or other adverse impact objectives.
This takes into account the Mitigation controls investment outcomes, outflows from impact on profitability and shareholder arising from the unfavourable perception The Board sets the strategy and is Mitigation controls interests of our customers and Jupiter and the related decline in value.
of the Group on the part of clients, shareholders, as well as capital and responsible for ensuring the Group has Our culture is a key differentiator for revenues and a failure to attract new counterparties, employees, regulators, the right structure, leadership and us, enabling us to attract, motivate and Mitigation controls other regulatory requirements.
business and thus not meet our shareholders, other stakeholders, the culture to execute it.
retain talented individuals, which in turn We continually analyse our markets to strategic growth objectives.
The Board formally considers our risk media or the general public.
We give ensure we maintain a diverse product appetite, taking into account our The Board and the Executive Committee treats reputational risk as a potential Mitigation controls autonomy coupled with personal suite that appeals to existing and regularly review the strategic options, strategic plans, the business environment impact that may arise from operational Jupiter maintains a diversified range of accountability, and encourage potential clients.
We focus on and the current and likely future opportunities and threats.
Plans, risks and operational risk incidents.
flexible investment products, and aims independence of thought and investment outperformance after fees.
budgets and targets are set to be condition of our business and operations.
to deliver longterm value to our clients challenge.
Our investment function is In response to the rising demand and Risk management process The Board sets our appetite for seven aligned with delivery of the strategic across different market conditions.
Our arranged around 12 strategies, supply of passive investment products, Our risk management process identifies goals.
Progress is monitored and where categories of risk.
These are: investment process seeks to meet providing a framework for repeatable we focus on the clear differentiation of the most significant risks we face.
All necessary corrective action is taken.
investment targets within clearly stated performance, but the teams themselves our active strategies and routes to ll Strategic risk these risks have a named owner, which risk parameters.
This culture and markets where active solutions are in ll Investment risk 2017 impact is either a member of the Executive structure gives us clarity of purpose strong demand.
Our welldefined We continued to deliver on our ll Operational risk Committee ExCo or, for a small number Our Investment Risk team works closely and helps us to attract and retain the product development process enables ll Capital adequacy risk strategic objectives by further of risks, the ExCo as a whole.
We define with fund managers to challenge fund best active fund managers.
We actively us to deliver new products or diversifying client type, product and ll Liquidity risk the potential impact of each key risk and risk profiles, assess the risks across the manage succession and transition.
enhancements, so we can target client ll Credit counterparty risk geographic reach.
monitor it using key risk indicators KRIs.
portfolios and to further develop our groups in a timely and efficient way.
ll Market risk We set thresholds for each KRI and use capabilities.
This challenge process is We believe that high levels of We continue to diversify our client In 2017 we undertook a comprehensive them to keep the Board informed about formally reported to, and overseen by, engagement and equity ownership base, distribution partners, geographies review of our strategy where we looked Definitions of these categories can be found the Groups position in relation to its risk our Risk Committee, which meets encourage our people to take personal and channels.
in the Governance Framework section.
in detail at achievements to date as appetite.
This enables us to identify quarterly and more frequently when responsibility for their work and to well as the challenges facing our trends and take action if it seems likely required.
strive to enhance our business.
We 2017 impact Risk overview industry as we look ahead.
We we will exceed this appetite.
maintain a remuneration philosophy Our strategy of diversifying by client, The Group is exposed to various risks, reaffirmed our strategy as a high 2017 impact and approach that continues to product and geography continued in such as investment and operational, in conviction active fund manager and The following section shows our We continued to enhance our promote a strong culture of 2017. pursuing its business objectives.
These established strategic goals and an assessment of the top 10 risks that we investment, risk management and performance and alignment of can be driven by internal and external underpinning financial plan compatible face, along with the Boards rating of research capabilities in 2017 through Expansion of our distribution channels employees and shareholder interests.
Understanding and managing with these goals.
each risk and how the significance of the the expansion and development of our and geographies successfully these risks is both a business imperative risk has changed during the year.
All our investment management teams.
2017 impact contributed towards increasing and a regulatory requirement.
top risks fall into the investment, strategic We have continued to invest in our diversification of inflows.
81% of our mutual fund AUM achieved and operational categories.
These risks people, expanding our fixed income The type and severity of these risks can above medium returns over a three We launched a number of new are not static, new and emerging risks and emerging market debt capabilities change quickly in a complex and year period 47% over one year.
products in 2017 for both UK and are considered and assessed by the and adding to our distribution resource competitive environment.
The framework Looking ahead, the generally strong international clients to enhance our Board throughout the year for inclusion across a number of key markets to is dynamic and forward looking to investment performance experienced in product diversification and offering to in this list.
ensure we can deliver both a high level ensure it considers both current and 2015 will need to be replicated in 2018 enable future growth.
of service to existing clients and attract emerging risks which could potentially to maintain strong threeyear new business.
18 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 INVESTMENT RISK STRATEGIC RISKS SUSTAINED FUND FAILURE TO DELIVER ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND INEFFECTIVE PRODUCT, CLIENT UNDERPERFORMANCE STRATEGY RETAIN CRITICAL STAFF AND GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSIFICATION Owner: Chief Investment Officer Owner: Chief Executive Officer Owner: ExCo Owner: Global Head of Distribution Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end 2016: Low Change: 2016: Medium Change: 2016: Low Change: 2016: New to top 10 in 2017 2017: Low Change: 2017: Low Change: 2017: Low Change: 2017: Medium There is a risk that our clients will not The risk of failure to achieve our The risk of failure to attract or retain The risk that our product range, meet their investment objectives, due to strategic objectives, through internal or the people critical to successfully distribution partnerships, client type or poor relative performance by one or external factors, which would impair delivering investment outperformance geographic diversification are more of our funds over a prolonged our ability to deliver value to our to our clients and all other aspects of ineffective at growing AUM particularly period.
in light of continued change and disruption in the competitive landscape.
Potential impact Potential impact Potential impact Weak financial markets specific to our A failure to achieve one or more The unplanned departure of a member Potential impact funds or poor performance by our strategic objectives could result in a of our leadership team could lead to Our ability to generate fund inflows fund managers may lead to our reduced pool of available profit for significant redemptions from our funds, and prevent outflows may be products being uncompetitive or distribution to shareholders.
This would failure to deliver our strategy or failure jeopardised by fundamental changes in otherwise unattractive to new or limit growth and potentially longterm to run our business efficiently, resulting distribution patterns or by a sustained existing clients.
in a material impact on corporate market preference for products we do clients not receiving their desired performance.
This would have a detrimental Mitigation controls investment outcomes, outflows from impact on profitability and shareholder The Board sets the strategy and is Mitigation controls Jupiter and the related decline in value.
responsible for ensuring the Group has Our culture is a key differentiator for revenues and a failure to attract new the right structure, leadership and us, enabling us to attract, motivate and Mitigation controls business and thus not meet our culture to execute it.
We give ensure we maintain a diverse product The Board and the Executive Committee Mitigation controls autonomy coupled with personal suite that appeals to existing and regularly review the strategic options, Jupiter maintains a diversified range of accountability, and encourage potential clients.
We focus on opportunities and threats.
Plans, flexible investment products, and aims independence of thought and investment outperformance after fees.
budgets and targets are set to be to deliver longterm value to our clients challenge.
Our investment function is In response to the rising demand and aligned with delivery of the strategic across different market conditions.
Our arranged around 12 strategies, supply of passive investment products, goals.
Progress is monitored and where investment process seeks to meet providing a framework for repeatable we focus on the clear differentiation of necessary corrective action is taken.
investment targets within clearly stated performance, but the teams themselves our active strategies and routes to risk parameters.
This culture and markets where active solutions are in 2017 impact structure gives us clarity of purpose strong demand.
Our welldefined We continued to deliver on our Our Investment Risk team works closely and helps us to attract and retain the product development process enables strategic objectives by further with fund managers to challenge fund best active fund managers.
We actively us to deliver new products or diversifying client type, product and risk profiles, assess the risks across the manage succession and transition.
enhancements, so we can target client geographic reach.
This challenge process is We believe that high levels of We continue to diversify our client In 2017 we undertook a comprehensive formally reported to, and overseen by, engagement and equity ownership base, distribution partners, geographies review of our strategy where we looked our Risk Committee, which meets encourage our people to take personal and channels.
in detail at achievements to date as quarterly and more frequently when responsibility for their work and to well as the challenges facing our required.
We 2017 impact industry as we look ahead.
We maintain a remuneration philosophy Our strategy of diversifying by client, reaffirmed our strategy as a high 2017 impact and approach that continues to product and geography continued in conviction active fund manager and We continued to enhance our promote a strong culture of 2017. established strategic goals and an investment, risk management and performance and alignment of underpinning financial plan compatible research capabilities in 2017 through Expansion of our distribution channels employees and shareholder interests.
the expansion and development of our and geographies successfully investment management teams.
2017 impact contributed towards increasing We have continued to invest in our diversification of inflows.
81% of our mutual fund AUM achieved people, expanding our fixed income above medium returns over a three We launched a number of new and emerging market debt capabilities year period 47% over one year.
products in 2017 for both UK and and adding to our distribution resource Looking ahead, the generally strong international clients to enhance our across a number of key markets to investment performance experienced in product diversification and offering to ensure we can deliver both a high level 2015 will need to be replicated in 2018 enable future growth.
of service to existing clients and attract to maintain strong threeyear new business.
19 Strategic report RISK CONTINUED STRATEGIC RISKS OPERATIONAL RISKS SUSTAINED MARKET DECLINE BREXIT OPERATIONAL CONTROL FAILURE OF A CRITICAL CYBER CRIME REGULATORY CHANGE ENVIRONMENT OUTSOURCE PARTNER Owner: ExCo Owner: ExCo Owner: Joint Chief Operating Officers Owner: Joint Chief Operating Officers Owner: Chief Executive Officer Owner: General Counsel Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end 2016: Low Change: 2016: New to Top 10 in 2017 2016: Medium Change: 2016: High Change: 2016: Medium Change: 2016: Medium Change: 2017: Medium Change: 2017: Medium 2017: Medium Change: 2017: High Change: 2017: Medium Change: 2017: Medium Change: The risk of a severe market and Due to the uncertainty regarding the We could suffer a material error The failure or nonperformance of a The risk that a successful cyberattack The risk that changes in regulation economic downturn which affects all implications of Brexit, the risk that we executing a key business process, or third party provider who we rely on for or fraud attempt could result in the loss restrict or impact our ability to do fund managers and all asset types are not ready to comply with post from our systems or business premises business processing may lead to us of clients assets or data or cause business or that we fail to implement across all geographic markets.
Brexit requirements which could restrict being unavailable.
failing to deliver the required service to significant disruption to key systems.
changes required to meet new our ability to operate within the EU.
our clients and or regulatory non regulatory requirements.
Potential impact Potential impact Potential impact compliance.
A secular downturn could result in a Potential impact A significant error or breach of a client A significant attack could undermine Potential impact reduction in assets under management An unexpected change in regulation agreement may result in additional Potential impact client confidence in our ability to Our ability to do or support our leading to a decline in revenue and for example, the loss of delegation costs to redress the issue and could Our relationships with stakeholders may safeguard assets, which could affect business may be inhibited, which could capital levels.
There may be additional rights from our fund management lead to outflows.
The unavailability of be jeopardised if we provide our ability to retain existing clients and lead to negative financial outflows as investors switch to non function in London, could mean that our key systems or business premises inadequate service, resulting in the loss attract new business.
Regulatory censure and financial assets.
we are not operationally ready to could mean we are unable to act on of clients or regulatory or financial negative financial consequences.
the related negative publicity could comply with postBrexit requirements behalf of our clients and or perform censure and negative financial damage our clients confidence in us Mitigation controls Mitigation controls which delays our ability to manage, other timecritical activities to ensure consequences.
and affect our ability to generate new Our investment philosophy allows our We commit considerable human and distribute and market our funds to the smooth running of our business.
fund managers to pursue their own Mitigation controls technological resources to preventing a investors in EU countries.
This could investment styles and the flexibility to Mitigation controls We subject all third parties who provide cyber security incident.
Our server Mitigation controls result in reduced inflows and increased adjust strategies as far as possible to We have efficient and wellcontrolled us with critical services to a high level environments are housed in two data We continually monitor regulatory outflows over the period.
retain value during unfavourable market processes and maintain a of ongoing oversight, through our centres provided by a specialist third developments to assess potential conditions.
We have a broad range of Mitigation controls comprehensive Enterprise Risk established Supplier Management party and offer fully resilient and business implications.
We invest in the investment strategies which enables us In advance of Brexit, we have Management framework as described framework, giving us assurance that secure facilities.
We have established a expertise, systems and process change to offer products suitable for different substantive plans to relocate the in detail in the Governance review.
We they meet our required standards.
security awareness programme to necessary to enable compliance with market conditions.
Management Company activities for have continuity and business Jupiter has formal guidelines for extend knowledge and understanding regulatory requirements by the required the SICAV product range to a legal resumption planning in place to support managing and overseeing all third within the business.
We maintain a robust We regularly review our discretionary entity domiciled in Europe.
We have party relationships, ensuring they practices from the ISO 27001 controls compliance culture and require all expenditure and cost base to ensure implemented remote working, including receive a level of scrutiny that reflects framework with additional reference to relevant employees to undertake sustainability.
Our strong capital position Throughout the current period of core system access for all our essential their potential risk to our business.
SANS Critical Security Controls in order training on regulatory matters.
Our and relatively low cost base means we uncertainty, we are maintaining close staff if they cannot travel to our offices.
to prioritise our technology defences.
Compliance departments monitoring are well placed to cope with this risk.
dialogue and communication lines with 2017 impact If our normal business systems or We have produced an extensive Cyber programme ensures we adhere to both UK and EU regulators to ensure One of our critical suppliers is rated as premises become unavailable, we have Security Incident Response plan to regulatory controls.
2017 impact we remain aware of and responsive to high risk as a consequence of our alternative premises including a ensure departmental heads can Our assessment of capital adequacy in the latest industry guidance with the overall assessment.
We have engaged 2017 impact dedicated office suite equipped with all adequately respond to the growing 2017 included the modelling of five support of specialist experts.
extensively with that supplier during We continued to invest substantial time of our critical business systems.
stress tests to ensure that the Group 2017 to ensure that appropriate and resource throughout 2017 into our remained adequately capitalised under 2017 impact 2017 impact remedial action is being taken.
This has 2017 impact main regulatory project, MiFID II.
Jupiter severe but plausible conditions.
The The Brexit Working Group, established A Governance, Risk and Controls resulted in a number of improvements We integrated Threat Intelligence and met its regulatory obligations under analysis concluded that we could in 2016, has been working with senior programme was initiated in early 2017 such that the operational service monitoring with an industry leading MiFID II by the 2018 effective date.
We continue to pay dividends and would representatives from across the to review the Groups organisational received is now generally good and Managed Services Security Provider have put in place appropriate remain adequately capitalised over the business and specialist industry experts design, corporate governance, controls, the overall level of risk has been and further enhanced our Cyber procedures and controls which will threeyear planning horizon without to develop a plan that we believe management information and reduced.
defence layers by deploying multiple enable monitoring of our ongoing needing to raise additional capital.
ensures we are wellpositioned to preparations for compliance with the machine learning and behavioural compliance with MiFID II.
One direct continue to operate within the EU with The risk rating nevertheless remains as requirements of SMCR.
modelling systems to detect advanced impact of MiFID II was the Groups Increased diversification by product minimal disruption.
high while work continues with this threats.
decision to bear research costs strategy and asset class has reduced The Group continues to work to supplier to ensure that the progress incurred on behalf of funds in its own our exposure to market direction.
Significant progress was made on the formalise its control environment achieved is fully embedded and The Cyber Essentials Plus accreditation corporate income statement from 2018. design of the proposed Management through the further development of its sustained over time.
Markets continued to rise in 2017 Company, selection of a preferred processes and the depth of its controls.
Good progress was made in building on the strong performance location and preparation of the During 2017 this was evidenced by preparation for GDPR and SMCR.
The risk of a regulatory application.
We rate the risk business process mapping reviews market correction is therefore as medium in recognition of the short being conducted across the investment considered more likely and we have timeframe to implement and the lifecycle and CASS oversight processes increased the risk rating to Medium.
ongoing uncertainty with fund to improve effectiveness and efficiency.
20 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC RISKS OPERATIONAL RISKS SUSTAINED MARKET DECLINE BREXIT OPERATIONAL CONTROL FAILURE OF A CRITICAL CYBER CRIME REGULATORY CHANGE ENVIRONMENT OUTSOURCE PARTNER Owner: ExCo Owner: ExCo Owner: Joint Chief Operating Officers Owner: Joint Chief Operating Officers Owner: Chief Executive Officer Owner: General Counsel Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end Board risk rating at year end 2016: Low Change: 2016: New to Top 10 in 2017 2016: Medium Change: 2016: High Change: 2016: Medium Change: 2016: Medium Change: 2017: Medium Change: 2017: Medium 2017: Medium Change: 2017: High Change: 2017: Medium Change: 2017: Medium Change: The risk of a severe market and Due to the uncertainty regarding the We could suffer a material error The failure or nonperformance of a The risk that a successful cyberattack The risk that changes in regulation economic downturn which affects all implications of Brexit, the risk that we executing a key business process, or third party provider who we rely on for or fraud attempt could result in the loss restrict or impact our ability to do fund managers and all asset types are not ready to comply with post from our systems or business premises business processing may lead to us of clients assets or data or cause business or that we fail to implement across all geographic markets.
