STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 41 RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT As a global company, JLT faces a range of risks, any of which has the potential to impact on the achievement of our strategic business objectives and our reputation, as well as providing opportunity in the right circumstances.
JLTS INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK FULLY ACCOUNTABLE FOR THE IDENTIFICATION, ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF RISK PROVIDES POLICY ADVICE, GUIDANCE AND CHALLENGE TO THE 1ST LINE INDEPENDENTLY ASSESSES RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL EFFECTIVENESS In early 2017, JLT also completed a review of its international JLTS INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK 3LOD model, which resulted in a number of enhancements JLT Three Lines of Defence being rolled out during the year, including: The Group operates a 'Three Lines of Defence' 3LOD designating all international local risk and compliance model as a core component of its governance arrangements, teams as 1st Line of Defence '1LOD', clarifying their role as shown above.
and responsibilities, and ensuring a clear delineation from The current 3LOD model has been in place and operating for the 2nd Line of Defence '2LOD' : and five years across the Group, and has been subject to iterative strengthening the 2LOD support and oversight of enhancements during that time.
JLT completed an internal international operations.
review of its 3LOD model in the UK businesses during 2016, building upon the solid governance framework already in place.
JLT regularly reviews its governance arrangements through JLT successfully implemented the recommendations of the Board and Audit & Risk Committee ARC effectiveness review during 2017, which were focused on delivering: reviews which are carried out on an annual basis.
More detail can be found in the Corporate Governance and Audit & Risk enhanced accountability and ownership of risk within the Committee Reports on pages 57 to 74. businesses, ensuring that the right people with the right skills are available to the businesses and close to decision making processes: clear, skilled roles for the control functions in the second line of defence, providing specialist advice and strong oversight to the businesses internationally: and an enhanced focus on risk management disciplines across the business.
42 STRATEGIC REPORT Key JLT policies include: AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEES Anti-bribery and corruption Anti-money laundering and fraud JLT has implemented a consistent governance model across Gifts and entertainment Conflicts of interest the Group, run through local Boards and business level ARCs Market abuse and insider dealing Complaints 'Entity ARCs', which are operated as committees of each Board HR related policies IT Security and are overseen by them.
There are over 20 Entity ARCs, most Data protection Sanctions chaired by a Non-Executive Director who, in most instances, is also independent of the JLT Group.
The relevant management Each business maintains an Operating Procedures Manual, team including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, which contains all key procedures for the business to conduct Chief Financial Officer and others as required attend Entity itself in a compliant and sustainable manner.
ARC meetings to present their view of the risk and compliance environments across their businesses.
Group Risk & Compliance and Group Internal Audit also attend these meetings and provide RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK independent reporting and challenge to ensure that there is JLTs risk management framework was refreshed and adequate discussion of relevant issues, including key risks and strengthened during 2016, referencing several recognised mitigating controls.
standards such as the Institute of Risk Management and ISO 31000.
The revised framework was rolled out during 2017.
During 2017, JLT introduced a series of subject matter briefing It is based on seven risk categories IT, Finance, Operations, sessions for all Non-Executive Directors across the Group.
Strategic, People, Legal & Compliance and Service & Markets, These sessions focused on the General Data Protection each of which has a Group level sponsor whose daily role Regulation GDPR and financial controls.
is aligned to the subject matter.
The Group specialists are The following diagram shows the interaction of 3LOD within engaged in defining the Group level risk profile, which is used the governance model.
The membership, terms of reference in deriving the Principal Risks shown on pages 43 to 45 and in and key areas of focus of the Group Audit & Risk Committee arriving at the Viability Statement on pages 95 and 96. are outlined in the Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages In addition to the above, the businesses maintain their own 67 to 74. risk registers and risk reporting, which are produced by each executive team and regularly reviewed by their local Entity ARC.
JLT GROUP PLC BOARD The Entity ARCs consider the key risks and any mitigating JLT GROUP PLC AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE action that can be taken to keep the identified risks within the risk appetite of the firm, as well as assessing new emerging Entity Group Risk & Group Internal risks and opportunities.
Boards Compliance Audit PRINCIPAL RISKS Entity Audit Risk External & Committees Audit The principal risks faced by the Group are summarised in the st nd rd 1 line 2 Line 3 Line table on pages 43 to 45.
The Business Control Functions Internal & External Audit FINANCIAL RISKS INTERNAL CONTROLS The principal financial risks are also discussed in more detail in Underpinning JLTs governance is a suite of policies, which are the Finance Directors Review on pages 38 and 39. authored and managed by the relevant Group function, signed off by the relevant senior Group executive and accessible to employees via the Groups intranet Policy Portal.
There is also a revolving mandatory programme of e-learning modules for employees to take throughout the year, reinforcing the policy messages.
Adherence to the Groups policies is monitored Charles Rozes by the functions who own them and by Group Internal Audit, Finance Director who refer to them during the course of their audits, which are 28 February 2018 reported to the local Entity ARCs and to the Group ARC.
In parallel, the Groups Compliance team provides assurance that local regulation is adhered to and that clients' interests are at the heart of everything we do.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 43 RISKS NATURE OF RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIC RISKS Economic Instability JLTs business is driven more by economic activity and Global business operations diversified across a broad range of growth than by re insurance market rates, since greater territories and industry sectors.
levels of corporate activity generally drive greater demand Well funded balance sheet and access to liquidity.
There is a risk that economic Annual strategy review at Board and Group Executive Committee.
Strategy & Change Strategy: there are risks to the Companys strategic plan Annual strategy review by the Board and the Group Executive Management arising from changes in the external environment, such Committee.
as markets e. g. consolidation, customer behaviour Formal three year strategic planning process for every business e. g. disintermediation, technology e. g. disruptive revised annually, which includes consideration of material risks to the technologies and political developments such as Brexit, business plan.
as well as risks arising from acquisitions, strategic change Acquisition due diligence and risk assessment processes.
initiatives and the execution of the Companys strategy.
Brexit - Investments made to strengthen operations in Europe to reduce potential impact on serving clients and the access to markets in the EU.
Change management: JLT is an agile organisation that Programme governance over strategic change initiatives.
seeks to ensure it maximises opportunities for the benefit of clients and other stakeholders, and is well controlled and resilient.
There is a risk that the appetite of the Group for change exceeds its capability and capacity to deliver and absorb change s effectively.
Reputation JLT recognises the strategic importance and value Formal recruitment processes and employee vetting.
of its reputation and takes a wide range of measures to Client & third party due diligence and governance.
Damage to reputation can potentially occur as Sanctions anti money laundering screening.
a result of any principal risk crystallising.
At a macro level there is a risk of reputational impact Group Procurement function with supplier screening process.
arising from the conduct of employees and parties we Group crisis management team, plan, reputational management plan work with in the course of our business, falling outside of and public relations agency.
our values, policies and expectations.
OPERATIONS RISKS Business Interruption Loss of physical site: the Group operates from over Dedicated Group Business Continuity Management function that provides 100 offices in 41 territories across the world, with a oversight of plans and solutions, and co-ordinates responses to events.
number of key strategically important sites.
There is a Detailed Group Business Continuity policy and procedures for each risk of a business interruption due to a large, business unit.
Regular independent review and testing of business continuity plans.
Loss of IT: The Group is reliant on the ability to process Group Procurement function with supplier screening process.
its transactions on behalf of its clients.
Risks arise from Formal contracts and service level agreements in place with all non-performance or failure of IT, whether in-house or outsourcing providers or IT suppliers.
from an outsourcing provider IT supplier, malicious act Dedicated IT Security function.
and or cyber-crime, and internal operational issues.
Monitoring of compliance with Group IT Security policy and service level agreements.
Regular IT disaster recovery plan testing by each business unit.
PEOPLE RISKS Loss of Key Staff The Groups principal asset is its people: there is a risk Distinctive entrepreneurial, collaborative and team oriented culture Teams that the organisation may not be able to attract and and environment.
Effective staff reward and retention strategies.
Effective staff appraisal and development programmes.
IT RISKS Information Security Intermediaries and pension administrators process and Risk based monitoring and reviews performed by Group Information & Cyber retain confidential data in the normal course of business.
Security and Group Internal Audit.
Risks relate to loss of customer records or breach of Regular reporting to business Audit and Risk Committees.
confidentiality due to inadequate security and other IT platform security - Data Loss Prevention tools and processes, firewall, key controls.
identity and access management, network access controls, network and security event monitoring, penetration testing, and server maintenance.
Mobile device encryption: restrictions on USB devices and access to personal email.
Non-Technical and Technical Group Information Security policies and standards and all staff training.
44 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS NATURE OF RISK MITIGATION LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Data Privacy Risks arising from non-compliance with or Group-wide information classification schema.
Regular reviews of misinterpretation of local or international data privacy highly confidential data and corresponding controls and protections.
Group Data Protection policy and training for all staff.
Data loss prevention tools and processes.
Mobile device encryption: restrictions on USB device, and access to personal email.
Records Management policy including retention and archiving.
Technical Group IT Security policies and standards.
Formal General Data Protection Regulation GDPR implementation programme.
E&O claims Intermediaries run a risk of incurring a loss if the operating Common operating procedures and compliance policy in each business.
procedures in place across the Group in relation to Staff training in errors and omissions avoidance.
market security, placement and claims are not complied Central and regional risk and compliance monitoring.
with or alleged negligence breach of contract in the Strong procedural and systems controls.
provision of services advice becomes apparent.
Market security processes, monitoring and Insurer Impairment Plan.
A global policy of proportionate liability capping wherever practicable.
Litigation Non E&O Litigation risk can arise from a number of different Dedicated Legal and M&A function with oversight responsibilities.
litigation sources such as: Staff training in HR policies and procedures.
M&A litigation e. g. breach of Sale & Purchase Formal recruitment processes based upon HR and legal advice.
Agreement : breach of employment law: and tortious liability arising from the recruitment of individuals.
Competition Engagement in anti-competitive anti-trust practices could Group Competition Risk policy.
Anti-trust result in infringement of competition anti-trust laws and Staff training and awareness in competition laws and regulations.
Bribery and Risks relating to the engagement in corrupt practices Group Anti-bribery & Corruption policies including Gift and Corruption could result in a breach of bribery & corruption legislation Entertainment and Third Party Payments & Approvals policies.
Client & third party due diligence and governance.
Staff training and awareness in anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations.
Group Financial Crime team oversight.
Regulatory The Groups footprint brings with it an increasingly Dedicated first and second line of defence compliance functions.
complex regulatory landscape to be anticipated and Group Compliance policies and staff training programmes on managed.
There is a risk that JLT may fail to take into regulatory topics.
consideration the requirements leading to legal and or Regulatory monitoring programmes.
Risk can also arise from a regulator conducting a review of past business activities which causes it to revise its view of the product proposition and could result in regulatory sanction, fines and remediation costs.
Sanctions As a global company supporting international clients, Group Sanctions policy.
brokers run the risk of engaging with sanctioned Systems screening and sweeping.
territories and or individuals entities which could give Staff training and awareness on sanctions risk and compliance rise to a breach in sanctions export control orders.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 45 RISKS NATURE OF RISK MITIGATION FINANCIAL RISKS Liquidity Financing Risk that the Group is not able to meet its obligations Multiple banking facilities.
when they fall due, or can do so only at excessive cost.
This risk may occur through: Financial planning and forecasting.
lack of undrawn credit facilities.
Group Cash Management policy & process.
inability to obtain financing, including refinancing at maturity.
Foreign Exchange The Group has foreign exchange exposures to: Prudent management of transactional currency exposures through a risk arising from the need to convert currencies into structured hedging programme.
GBP for reporting purposes: and Regular review and sensitivity analysis of currency translation impacts risk arising from revenues and costs being denominated to financial reports.
Centralised hedging of material transactional exposures.
Reporting and auditing of hedging and exposures.
Counterparty Counterparty risk can arise for JLT from two key sources: Board approved Investment and Counterparty policy to limit the - Banks: risk of loss of own cash, fiduciary funds, concentration of funds and exposure with any one counterparty.
investments & deposits, derivative assets & trade Defined Cash and Investments policy.
receivables as a result of bank failure.
Active management and monitoring of counterparty limits, financial strength and credit profile of key counterparties.
Regular review by Board and Audit & Risk Committee of counterparty limits, ratings, credit default swap spread rates, utilisation levels and compliance with applicable regulation.
- Re Insurers: JLT owes a duty of care to place clients' Market security due diligence.
business with security, which may reasonably be Group Market Security team.
regarded as being sufficiently sound financially to meet Insurer Impairment Plan.
potential claims as they may fall due.
In the event of insurer impairment, this could result in client detriment and damage to the broker client relationship s. Also, in the event of JLT having been adjudicated not to have exercised reasonable endeavours to mitigate this risk, it could result in an E&O claim.
Defined Benefit Risk of adverse financial impact as a consequence of Appropriate scheme investment strategy and diversification.
Scheme liabilities increase in the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme deficit.
Triennial actuarial valuations and regular trustee funding updates.
Regular review of long term fide-risking strategy.
Regular scheme membership data verification.
Regular review of employer covenant.
Regular monitoring and reporting of scheme asset performance and liability positions.
Interest Rate Risk of volatility of earnings and cash flows arising Group Treasury management of cash balances.
from exposure to movements in interest rates.
This may Interest rate hedging programme.
also impact the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme assets Financial planning and forecasting.
Financial Reporting The risk of inaccurate accounting and reporting, internally Group Accounting policy.
Attestation process for financial reporting.
Financial reporting policy and procedures.
Internal and external audit of financial controls and reports.
Fraud Risks relating to the theft or misuse of JLT and Group Treasury policy, procedures & controls.
IT system access management and restrictions.
Segregation of client and company funds.
46 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We see it as essential to act in the interests of all our stakeholders in particular our clients, our colleagues, our shareholders and our trading partners in order to build a sustainable, long term business: one that balances risk with opportunity and that makes a positive contribution to the communities in which we live and work.
We also recognise that one of the key duties which our Directors have under the Companies Act 2006 the Act is to promote the success of JLT for the benefit of its shareholders, whilst having regard to the interests of the Company's broad range of other stakeholders and wider social responsibilities.
In this section we review the activities of the Group over the past year in terms of how we have sought to fulfil our environmental, social and governance responsibilities.
Our CR Steering Group actively pursues the achievement MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE of higher standards in both our socially responsible behaviours RESPONSIBILITY and our capacity to measure and benchmark those behaviours Our approach to Corporate Responsibility CR has a strong for our stakeholders.
focus on the interests of our clients.
Our clients increasingly This Steering Group includes senior representation for each of seek evidence that their service providers are well governed, JLTs main operating companies, worldwide.
These designated and that we make a sustainable, positive contribution to solving representatives are responsible for driving CR activity at a local the challenges that face our communities, our society and level and liaise closely with the Steering Group.
The Group's the environment.
It is therefore integral to our success that approach to charitable giving is coordinated by the Group JLT demonstrates high standards of CR not only delivering Charities Committee.
the best commercial outcomes for our clients, but also taking every opportunity to do so in the most socially responsible and sustainable way.
At JLT our functional teams - including HR, Property Services, Procurement, Finance, Risk and Marketing have a strong focus on delivering CR-related projects.
Each of our businesses across the Group is also closely involved and colleagues around the world regularly volunteer for a wide range of activities.
The Group's CR strategy and activities are coordinated by the CR Steering Group, which has Board, Group Executive Committee and senior management membership.
We are constituents of the FTSE4Good index.
FTSE4Good evaluates companies performance in the areas of Environmental, Social and Governance responsibility.
Our continued presence in the index reflects our ongoing commitment to corporate responsibility.
