01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for ensuring that Risk management Second line of defence an appropriate and effective system of A key component of the Manual is the risk control and oversight internal control and risk management is Group Risk Framework, which requires all Assists the Board to formulate and then in place across the Group.
The framework business units to establish processes for implement the approved risk appetite of risk management and internal controls identifying, evaluating and managing the and limit framework, risk management centres on clear delegated authorities to risks facing the business.
plans, risk policies, risk reporting and ensure Board oversight and control of risk identification processes: and The Risk Committee is constituted by important decisions.
The framework is the Board for the purpose of assisting the Reviews and assesses the risktaking underpinned by the Group Code of Board in providing leadership, direction activities of the first line of defence, Business Conduct, which sets out the and oversight of the Groups overall risk where appropriate challenging the ethical standards the Board requires of appetite, risk tolerance and strategy, and actions being taken to manage and itself, employees, agents and others for monitoring the effectiveness of the risk control risks and approving any working in the Group.
The framework is management framework and adherence significant changes to the controls designed to manage rather than eliminate to the various risk policies.
the risk of failure to achieve business Committee also has authority to review objectives, and can only provide Third line of defence and approve changes made to the Group reasonable and not absolute assurance independent assurance risk framework and risk policies, approve against material misstatement or loss.
Provides independent assurance changes to risk limits within the overall on the design, effectiveness and Board approved risk appetite, approve the Internal control implementation of the overall system Groups top risks, and oversee, and advise The Group Governance Manual the of internal control, including risk the Board, on the current and potential Manual sets out delegated authorities management and compliance.
future risk exposures of the Group.
Regular and establishes the requirements for activities are detailed in the report on subsidiaries to seek approvals from or Formal review of controls pages 115 to 119. report to Group Head Office.
Groupwide A formal evaluation of the systems of standards are established through policies The Groups risk governance internal control and risk management is and other governance arrangements, arrangements, which support the carried out at least annually.
The report is which are also included in the Manual.
Board, the Risk Committee and the Audit considered by the Audit Committee and Internal controls and processes, based on Committee, are based on the principles Risk Committee prior to the Board reaching the provisions established in the Manual, of the three lines of defence model: risk a conclusion on the effectiveness of the are in place across the Group.
These taking and management, risk control and systems in place.
This evaluation takes include controls for the preparation of oversight, and independent assurance.
place prior to the publication of the financial reporting.
The operation of Annual Report.
these controls and processes facilitates First line of defence As part of the evaluation, the Chief the preparation of reliable financial risk taking and management Executive and Chief Financial Officer of reporting and the preparation of local Takes and manages risk exposures each business unit, including Group and consolidated financial statements in accordance with the risk appetite, Head Office, certify compliance with the in accordance with the applicable mandate and limits set by the Board: Groups governance policies and the risk accounting standards and requirements Identifies and reports the risks that the management and internal control of the SarbanesOxley Act.
These Group is exposed to, and those that requirements.
The Group Risk function controls include certifications by the are emerging: facilitates a review of the matters identified Chief Executive and Chief Financial by this certification process.
This includes Officer of each business unit regarding Promptly escalates any limit breaches the assessment of any risk and control the accuracy of information provided or any violations of risk management issues reported during the year, risk and for use in preparation of the Groups policies, mandates or instructions: control matters identified and reported by consolidated financial reporting and the Identifies and promptly escalates the other Group oversight functions and assurance work carried out in respect significant emerging risk issues: and the findings from the reviews undertaken of US reporting requirements.
by Groupwide Internal Audit, which Manages the business to ensure full The Board has delegated authority to the carries out riskbased audit plans across compliance with the Group risk Audit Committee to review the framework the Group.
Issues arising from any external management framework as set out in and effectiveness of the Groups systems regulatory engagement are also taken the Manual, which includes the Group of internal control.
The Audit Committee is into account.
Risk Framework and risk policies as well supported in this responsibility by the as approval requirements, among other assurance work carried out by Groupwide requirements.
Internal Audit and the work of the business unit audit committees, which oversee the effectiveness of controls in each respective business unit.
Details of how the Audit Committee oversees the framework of controls and their effectiveness on an ongoing basis, is set out more fully in the report on pages 105 to 114. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 99 Risk management and internal control continued Board Nomination Remuneration Risk Audit & Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee 1st line 2nd line 3rd line of defence of defence of defence Executives Group Chief Executive Chief Executive Committee Group Executive Chief Financial Group Regulatory Group Chief Committee Officer Director Risk Officer Group Executive Balance Sheet & Risk Committee Capital Management Committee Management Technical Group Emerging Actuarial Credit Risk Risk Assessment Committee Committee Committee Group Solvency II Group Security Technical Oversight Information Security Committee Committee Committee Group Finance Group Compliance Group Security Group Risk Group-wide Internal Audit Key Boardlevel committees Executive personnel Exec Management committees GHO functions Direct reporting line Regular communication and escalation For the purposes of the effectiveness Effectiveness of controls The Board confirms that there is an ongoing review, the Group has followed the FRC In accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the process for identifying, evaluating and Guidance on Risk Management, Internal UK Corporate Governance Code and managing the significant risks faced by Control and Related Financial and Business provision C. 2.1 of the HK Corporate the Group, which has been in place Reporting.
In line with this guidance, the Governance Code, the Board reviewed throughout the period and up to the date certification provided above does not the effectiveness and performance of the of this report, and confirms that the system apply to certain material joint ventures system of risk management and internal remains effective.
where the Group does not exercise full control during 2017.
This review covered management control.
In these cases, the all material controls, including financial, Group satisfies itself that suitable operational and compliance controls, risk governance and risk management management systems and the adequacy arrangements are in place to protect the of the resources, qualifications and Groups interests.
However, the relevant experience of staff of the Groups Group company which is party to the joint accounting, internal audit and financial venture must, in respect of any services it reporting functions.
The review identified provides in support of the joint venture, a number of areas for improvement and comply with the requirements of the the necessary actions have been or are Groups internal governance framework.
100 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
