01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Risk factors A number of risk factors affect Prudentials Higher credit defaults and wider credit challenges related to market fluctuations operating results and financial condition and liquidity spreads resulting in and general economic conditions may and, accordingly, the trading price of its realised and unrealised credit losses: continue to emerge.
The risk factors mentioned below Failure of counterparties who have For some nonunitlinked investment should not be regarded as a complete and transactions with Prudential eg banks products, in particular those written in some comprehensive statement of all potential and reinsurers to meet commitments of the Groups Asian operations, it may not risks and uncertainties.
The information that could give rise to a negative impact be possible to hold assets which will provide given is as of the date of this document, and on Prudentials financial position and on cash flows to match those relating to any forwardlooking statements are made the accessibility or recoverability of policyholder liabilities.
This is particularly subject to the reservations specified below amounts due or, for derivative true in those countries where bond markets under ForwardLooking Statements.
transactions, adequate collateral not are not developed and in certain markets Prudentials approaches to managing risks being in place: where regulated premium and claim values are explained in the Report on the risks are set with reference to the interest rate Estimates of the value of financial facing our business and how these are environment prevailing at the time of policy instruments becoming more difficult managed section of this document.
This results in a mismatch due to the because in certain illiquid or closed duration and uncertainty of the liability cash markets, determining the value at which Risks relating to Prudentials flows and the lack of sufficient assets of a financial instruments can be realised is business suitable duration.
While this residual asset highly subjective.
Processes to Prudentials businesses are liability mismatch risk can be managed, it ascertain such values require inherently subject to market cannot be eliminated.
Where interest rates substantial elements of judgement, fluctuations and general economic in these markets remain lower than those assumptions and estimates which may conditions used to calculate premium and claim values change over time : and Uncertainty, fluctuations or negative over a sustained period, this could have a trends in international economic and Increased illiquidity, which also adds to material adverse effect on Prudentials investment climates could have a material uncertainty over the accessibility of reported profit.
adverse effect on Prudentials business and financial resources and may reduce In the US, Jackson writes a significant profitability.
Prudential operates in a capital resources as valuations decline.
amount of variable annuities that offer macroeconomic and global financial market This could occur where external capital capital or income protection guarantees.
environment that presents significant is unavailable at sustainable cost, The value of these guarantees is affected by uncertainties and potential challenges, For increased liquid assets are required to market factors such as interest rates, example, government interest rates remain be held as collateral under derivative equity values, bond spreads and realised low in the US, the UK and some Asian transactions or redemption restrictions volatility and policyholder behaviour.
countries in which Prudential operates.
are placed on Prudentials investments Jackson uses a derivative hedging in illiquid funds.
In addition, significant Global financial markets are subject to programme to reduce its exposure to redemption requests could also be uncertainty and volatility created by a market risks arising on these guarantees.
made on Prudentials issued funds and variety of factors.
These factors include the There could be market circumstances while this may not have a direct impact reduction in accommodative monetary where the derivatives that Jackson enters on the Groups liquidity, it could result in policies in the US, the UK and other into to hedge its market risks may not cover reputational damage to Prudential.
The jurisdictions together with its impact on the its exposures under the guarantees.
The potential impact of increased illiquidity valuation of all asset classes, effects on cost of the guarantees that remain unhedged is more uncertain than for other risks interest rates and the risk of disorderly will also affect Prudentials results.
such as interest rate or credit risk.
repricing of inflation expectations and In addition, Jackson hedges the guarantees global bond yields, concerns over In general, upheavals in the financial on its variable annuity book on an sovereign debt, a general slowing in world markets may affect general levels of economic basis with consideration of the growth, the increased level of geopolitical economic activity, employment and local regulatory position and, thus, accepts risk and policyrelated uncertainty and customer behaviour.
As a result, insurers variability in its accounting results in the potentially negative sociopolitical events.
may experience an elevated incidence of short term in order to achieve the claims, lapses, or surrenders of policies, The adverse effects of such factors could appropriate result on these bases.
In and some policyholders may choose to be felt principally through the following particular, for Prudentials Group IFRS defer or stop paying insurance premiums.
items: reporting, the measurement of the Jackson The demand for insurance products may variable annuity guarantees is typically less Reduced investment returns arising on also be adversely affected.
In addition, sensitive to market movements than for the the Groups portfolios including there may be a higher incidence of corresponding hedging derivatives, which impairment of debt securities and loans, counterparty failures.
If sustained, this are held at market value.
However, which could reduce Prudentials capital environment is likely to have a negative depending on the level of hedging and impair its ability to write significant impact on the insurance sector over time conducted regarding a particular risk type, volumes of new business, increase the and may consequently have a negative certain market movements can drive potential adverse impact of product impact on Prudentials business and its volatility in the economic or local regulatory guarantees, and or have a negative balance sheet and profitability.
For results that may be less significant under impact on its assets under management example, this could occur if the recoverable IFRS reporting.
and profit: value of intangible assets for bancassurance agreements and deferred Also, in the US, fluctuations in prevailing acquisition costs are reduced.
New interest rates can affect results from www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 391 Risk factors continued Jackson which has a significant spread A significant part of the profit from In addition, if a sovereign default or other based business, with the significant M&G Prudentials insurance operations is such events described above were to proportion of its assets invested in fixed related to bonuses for policyholders occur, other financial institutions may also income securities.
In particular, fixed declared on withprofits products, which suffer losses or experience solvency or annuities and stable value products written are broadly based on historical and current other concerns, and Prudential might face by Jackson expose Prudential to the risk rates of return on equity, real estate and additional risks relating to any debt of such that changes in interest rates, which are not fixed income securities, as well as financial institutions held in its investment fully reflected in the interest rates credited Prudentials expectations of future portfolio.
There is also risk that public to customers, will reduce spread.
This profit could be perceptions about the stability and spread is the difference between the rate lower in a sustained low interest rate creditworthiness of financial institutions of return Jackson is able to earn on the environment.
and the financial sector generally might be assets backing the policyholders liabilities adversely affected, as might counterparty Prudential is subject to the risk of and the amounts that are credited to relationships between financial institutions.
potential sovereign debt credit policyholders in the form of benefit If a sovereign were to default on its deterioration owing to the amounts increases, subject to minimum crediting obligations, or adopted policies that of sovereign debt obligations held rates.
Declines in spread from these devalued or otherwise altered the in its investment portfolio products or other spread businesses that currencies in which its obligations were Investing in sovereign debt creates Jackson conducts, and increases in denominated this could have a material exposure to the direct or indirect surrender levels arising from interest rate adverse effect on Prudentials financial consequences of political, social or rises, could have a material impact on its condition and results of operations.
economic changes including changes in businesses or results of operations.
governments, heads of state or monarchs Prudential is subject to the risk of On 29 March 2017 the UK submitted the in the countries in which the issuers are exchange rate fluctuations owing to formal notification of its intention to located and the creditworthiness of the the geographical diversity of its withdraw from the EU pursuant to Article sovereign.
Investment in sovereign debt businesses 50 of the Treaty on the European Union, as obligations involves risks not present in Due to the geographical diversity of amended.
Following submission of this debt obligations of corporate issuers.
In Prudentials businesses, Prudential is notification, the UK has a maximum period addition, the issuer of the debt or the subject to the risk of exchange rate of two years to negotiate the terms of its governmental authorities that control the fluctuations.
Prudentials operations in the withdrawal from the EU.
If no formal repayment of the debt may be unable or US and Asia, which represent a significant withdrawal agreement is reached between unwilling to repay principal or pay interest proportion of operating profit based on the UK and the EU, then it is expected the when due in accordance with the terms of longerterm investment returns and UKs membership of the EU will such debt, and Prudential may have limited shareholders funds, generally write automatically terminate two years after the recourse to compel payment in the event of policies and invest in assets denominated submission of the notification of the UKs a default.
A sovereign debtors willingness in local currencies.
Although this practice intention to withdraw from the EU.
The or ability to repay principal and to pay limits the effect of exchange rate UKs decision to leave the EU will have interest in a timely manner may be affected fluctuations on local operating results, it political, legal and economic ramifications by, among other factors, its cash flow can lead to significant fluctuations in for both the UK and the EU, although these situation, its relations with its central bank, Prudentials consolidated financial are expected to be more pronounced for the extent of its foreign currency reserves, statements upon the translation of results the UK.
The Group has several UK the availability of sufficient foreign into pounds sterling.
This exposure is not domiciled operations, including exchange on the date a payment is due, the currently separately managed.
The M&G Prudential, and these may be relative size of the debt service burden to currency exposure relating to the impacted by a UK withdrawal from the EU.
the economy as a whole, the sovereign translation of reported earnings could The outcome of the negotiations on the debtors policy toward local and impact financial reporting ratios such as UKs withdrawal and any subsequent international lenders, and the political dividend cover, which is calculated as negotiations on trade and access to the constraints to which the sovereign debtor operating profit after tax on an IFRS basis, countrys major trading markets, including may be subject.
divided by the dividends relating to the the single EU market, is currently unknown.
The impact of gains or Moreover, governments may use a variety As a result, there is ongoing uncertainty losses on currency translations is recorded of techniques, such as intervention by their over the terms under which the UK will as a component of shareholders funds central banks or imposition of regulatory leave the EU, whether any transitional within other comprehensive income.
controls or taxes, to devalue their arrangements will be agreed between the Consequently, this could impact currencies exchange rates, or may adopt UK and the EU, the possibility of a lengthy Prudentials gearing ratios defined as debt monetary and other policies including to period before negotiations are concluded, over debt plus shareholders funds.
The manage their debt burdens that have a and the potential for a disorderly exit by the Groups surplus capital position for similar effect, all of which could adversely UK without a negotiated agreement.
This regulatory reporting purposes may also be impact the value of an investment in uncertainty may increase volatility in the affected by fluctuations in exchange rates sovereign debt even in the absence of a markets where the Group operates and with possible consequences for the degree technical default.
Periods of economic create the potential for a general downturn of flexibility that Prudential has in uncertainty may affect the volatility of in economic activity and for further or managing its business.
market prices of sovereign debt to a greater prolonged interest rate reductions in some extent than the volatility inherent in debt jurisdictions due to monetary easing and obligations of other types of issuers.
392 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Prudential conducts its businesses The European Unions Solvency II Directive the MiFID II Directive, which recently subject to regulation and came into effect on 1 January 2016.
This came into force in the EU and the EU associated regulatory risks, measure of regulatory capital is more General Data Protection Regulation that including the effects of changes volatile than under the previous Solvency I comes into force in May 2018.
In addition, in the laws, regulations, policies regime and regulatory policy may evolve regulators in a number of jurisdictions in and interpretations and any under the new regime.
The European which the Group operates are further accounting standards in the Commission began a review in late 2016 of developing local capital regimes: this markets in which it operates some aspects of the Solvency II legislation, includes potential future developments Changes in government policy and which is expected to continue until 2021 in Solvency II in the UK as referred to legislation including in relation to tax, and covers, among other things, a review above, National Association of Insurance capital control measures on companies of the Long Term Guarantee measures.
Commissioners reforms in the US and individuals, regulation or regulatory Prudential applied for, and has been including any implications from the interpretation applying to companies in the granted approval by the UK Prudential recently enacted US tax reform legislation financial services and insurance industries Regulation Authority to use the following and amendments to certain local statutory in any of the markets in which Prudential measures when calculating its Solvency II regimes in some territories in Asia.
There operates, or decisions taken by regulators capital requirements: the use of an internal remains a high degree of uncertainty over in connection with their supervision of model, the matching adjustment for UK the potential impact of these changes on members of the Group, which in some annuities, the volatility adjustment for the Group.
circumstances may be applied selected US Dollardenominated business, The DoddFrank Act provides for a retrospectively, may adversely affect and UK transitional measures.
Prudential comprehensive overhaul of the financial Prudential.
The adverse impact from also has permission to use deduction and services industry within the US including these changes may affect Prudentials aggregation as the method by which the reforms to financial services entities, product range, distribution channels, contribution of the Groups US insurance products and markets.
The full impact competitiveness, profitability, capital entities to the Groups solvency is of the DoddFrank Act on Prudentials requirements, risk management calculated, which in effect recognises businesses remains unclear, as many of approaches, corporate or governance surplus in US insurance entities in excess of its provisions are primarily focused on structure and, consequently, reported 250 per cent of local US Risk Based Capital the banking industry, have a delayed results and financing requirements.
There is a risk that in the effectiveness and or require rulemaking or Also, regulators in jurisdictions in future changes are required to be made other actions by various US regulators over which Prudential operates may impose to the approved internal model and these the coming years.
There is also potential requirements affecting the allocation of related applications which could have a uncertainty surrounding future changes to capital and liquidity between different material impact on the Group Solvency II the DoddFrank Act under the current US business units in the Group, whether on capital position.
a geographic, legal entity, product line or changes are subject to regulatory approval, other basis.
Regulators may change the there is a risk that the approval is delayed or Prudentials designation as a GSII was level of capital required to be held by not given.
In such circumstances, changes reaffirmed on 21 November 2016.
As a individual businesses or could introduce in our risk profile would not be able to be result of this designation, Prudential is possible changes in the regulatory appropriately reflected in our internal subject to additional regulatory framework for pension arrangements and model, which could have a material impact requirements, including a requirement to policies, the regulation of selling practices on the Groups Solvency II capital position.
submit enhanced risk management plans and solvency requirements.
Furthermore, such as a Groupwide Recovery Plan, a The UKs decision to leave the EU could as a result of interventions by governments Systemic Risk Management Plan and a result in significant changes to the legal and following recent financial and global Liquidity Risk Management Plan to a Crisis regulatory regime under which the Group economic conditions, there may continue Management Group CMG comprised of operates, the nature and extent of which to be changes in government regulation an international panel of regulators.
are uncertain while the outcome of and supervision of the financial services negotiations regarding the UKs withdrawal The GSII regime also introduces capital industry, including the possibility of higher from the EU and the extent and terms of requirements in the form of a Higher Loss capital requirements, restrictions on any future access to the single EU market Absorption HLA requirement.
While this certain types of transactions and enhanced remains unknown.
requirement was initially intended to come supervisory powers.
into force in 2019, this has now been Currently there are also a number of other Recent shifts in the focus of some national postponed to 2022.
The HLA is also now global regulatory developments which governments toward more protectionist intended to be based on the ICS.
The IAIS could impact Prudentials businesses in or restrictive economic and trade policies has announced that the implementation its many jurisdictions.
These include the could impact on the degree and nature of ICS will be conducted in two phases DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and of regulatory changes and Prudentials a fiveyear monitoring phase followed Consumer Protection Act DoddFrank competitive position in some geographic by an implementation phase.
During the Act in the US, the work of the Financial markets.
This could take effect, for monitoring phase, Internationally Active Stability Board FSB on Global example, through increased friction in Insurance Groups, for which Prudential Systemically Important Insurers GSIIs, crossborder trade or measures favouring satisfies the criteria, will be required to the Insurance Capital Standard ICS being local enterprises such as changes to the report on compliance with the ICS to the developed by the International Association maximum level of nondomestic ownership groupwide supervisor on a confidential of Insurance Supervisors IAIS, the by foreign companies.
basis, although these results will not be Markets in Financial Instruments Directive used as a basis to trigger supervisory www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 393 Risk factors continued action.
The Common Framework The resolution of several issues became effective on 9 June 2017 but ComFrame for the Supervision of affecting the financial services applicability of the remaining components Internationally Active Insurance Groups industry could have a negative of the rules has been delayed until 1 July will more generally establish a set of impact on Prudentials reported 2019.
There is a risk that new regulations common principles and standards results or on its relations with introduced may have a material adverse designed to assist regulators in addressing current and potential customers effect on the sales of the products by risks that arise from insurance groups Prudential is, and in the future may be, Prudential and increase Prudentials with operations in multiple jurisdictions.
subject to legal and regulatory actions in exposure to legal risks.
the ordinary course of its business, both Various jurisdictions in which Litigation, disputes and regulatory in the UK and internationally.
Such actions Prudential operates have created investor investigations may adversely affect may relate to the application of current compensation schemes that require Prudentials profitability and regulations for example the Financial mandatory contributions from market financial condition Conduct Authoritys FCA principles and participants in some instances in the event Prudential is, and may in the future be, conduct of business rules or the failure to of a failure of a market participant.
As a subject to legal actions, disputes and implement new regulations.
These actions major participant in the majority of its regulatory investigations in various could involve a review of types of business chosen markets, circumstances could contexts, including in the ordinary course sold in the past under acceptable market arise in which Prudential, along with of its insurance, investment management practices at the time, such as the other companies, may be required to and other business operations.
These legal requirement in the UK to provide redress make such contributions.
actions, disputes and investigations may to certain past purchasers of pensions and relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses The Groups accounts are prepared in mortgage endowment policies, changes and operations that are specific to accordance with current International to the tax regime affecting products, and Prudential, or that are common to Financial Reporting Standards IFRS regulatory reviews on products sold and companies that operate in Prudentials applicable to the insurance industry.
industry practices, including, in the latter markets.
Legal actions and disputes may The International Accounting Standards case, lines of business it has closed.
arise under contracts, regulations Board IASB introduced a framework Current regulatory actions include the including tax or from a course of conduct that it described as Phase I which, under UK businesss undertaking to the FCA to taken by Prudential, and may be class its standard IFRS 4 permitted insurers to review annuities sold without advice after actions.
Although Prudential believes that continue to use the statutory basis of 1 July 2008 to its contractbased defined it has adequately provided in all material accounting for insurance assets and contribution pension customers.
This will respects for the costs of litigation and liabilities that existed in their jurisdictions result in the UK business being required regulatory matters, no assurance can be prior to January 2005.
In May 2017, the to provide redress to certain such provided that such provisions are IASB published its replacement standard customers, the ultimate amount of which sufficient.
Given the large or indeterminate on insurance accounting IFRS 17, remains uncertain.
amounts of damages sometimes sought, Insurance Contracts, which will have the Regulators may also focus on the approach other sanctions that might be imposed and effect of introducing fundamental changes that product providers use to select the inherent unpredictability of litigation to the statutory reporting of insurance thirdparty distributors and to monitor and disputes, it is possible that an adverse entities that prepare accounts according to the appropriateness of sales made by them.
outcome could have an adverse effect on IFRS from 2021.
The European Union will In some cases, product providers can be Prudentials reputation, results of apply its usual process for assessing held responsible for the deficiencies of operations or cash flows.
whether the standard meets the necessary thirdparty distributors.
The Group is Prudentials businesses are reviewing the complex requirements of In the US, there has been significant conducted in highly competitive this standard and considering its potential attention on the different regulatory environments with developing impact.
The effect of changes required standards applied to investment advice demographic trends and continued to the Groups accounting policies as a delivered to retail customers by different profitability depends upon result of implementing the new standard is sectors of the industry.
As a result of managements ability to respond currently uncertain, but these changes can reports relating to perceptions of industry to these pressures and trends be expected to, amongst other things, alter abuses, there have been numerous The markets for financial services in the the timing of IFRS profit recognition.
The regulatory inquiries and proposals for UK, US and Asia are highly competitive, implementation of this standard is also legislative and regulatory reforms.
This with several factors affecting Prudentials likely to require significant enhancements includes focus on the suitability of sales of ability to sell its products and continued to IT, actuarial and finance systems of the certain products, alternative investments profitability, including price and yields Group, and so will have an increase on the and the widening of the circumstances offered, financial strength and ratings, Groups expenses.
under which a person or entity providing range of product lines and product quality, investment advice with respect to certain Any changes or modification of IFRS brand strength and name recognition, employee benefit and pension plans would accounting policies may require a change investment management performance, be considered a fiduciary subjecting the in the way in which future results will historical bonus levels, the ability to person or entity to certain regulatory be determined and or a retrospective respond to developing demographic trends, requirements, such as those adopted adjustment of reported results to customer appetite for certain savings by the US Department of Labor DoL.
Elements of the DoL fiduciary duty rules, In some of its markets, Prudential faces including the impartial conduct standards, competitors that are larger, have greater 394 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults financial resources or a greater market policyholders, and on the Groups financial which are complex, in its processes.
The share, offer a broader range of products flexibility.
In addition, the interest rates longterm nature of much of the Groups or have higher bonus rates.
Further, Prudential pays on its borrowings are business also means that accurate records heightened competition for talented and affected by its credit ratings, which are in have to be maintained for significant skilled employees and agents with local place to measure the Groups ability to periods.
Further, Prudential operates in an experience, particularly in Asia, may limit meet its contractual obligations.
extensive and evolving legal and regulated Prudentials potential to grow its business environment which adds to the operational Prudential plcs longterm senior debt is as quickly as planned.
complexity of its business processes rated as A2 by Moodys, A by Standard & and controls.
In Asia, the Groups principal competitors Poors, and A by Fitch.
These ratings are all include global life insurers such as Allianz, on a stable outlook.
These factors, among others, result in AXA, and Manulife together with regional significant reliance on and require Prudential plcs shortterm debt is rated as insurers such as AIA and Great Eastern, significant investment in information P1 by Moodys, A1 by Standard & Poors, and multinational asset managers such as technology IT, compliance and other and F1 by Fitch.
Franklin Templeton, HSBC Global Asset operational systems, personnel and Management, J. P. Morgan Asset The Prudential Assurance Company processes.
In most Limiteds financial strength is rated Aa3 by As part of the implementation of its markets, there are also local companies Moodys, AA by Standard & Poors, and business strategies, Prudential has that have a material market presence.
These ratings are all on a commenced a number of change initiatives stable outlook.
M&G Prudentials principal competitors to be established across the Group, some of include many of the major retail financial Jacksons financial strength is rated AA which are interconnected and or of large services companies and fund management by Standard & Poors and Fitch, A1 by scale, that may have material financial and companies including, in particular, Aviva, Moodys, and A by AM Best.
These reputational implications if such initiatives Janus Henderson, Jupiter, Legal & General, ratings have a stable outlook.
fail either wholly or in part to meet their Schroders and Standard Life Aberdeen.
objectives and could place strain on the Prudential Assurance Co. Singapore Pte operational capacity of the Group.
These Jacksons competitors in the US include Ltds financial strength is rated AA by initiatives include the combination of M&G major stock and mutual insurance Standard & Poors.
This rating is on a and Prudential UK & Europe, the proposed companies, mutual fund organisations, stable outlook.
demerger of M&G Prudential and the banks and other financial services All ratings above are stated as at intended sale of part of the UK annuity companies such as Aegon, AIG, Allianz, 13 March 2018. portfolio.
In addition, Prudential outsources AXA Financial Inc. Brighthouse, Lincoln several operations, including a significant Financial Group, MetLife and In addition, changes in methodologies and part of its back office and customerfacing Prudential Financial.
criteria used by rating agencies could result functions as well as a number of IT in downgrades that do not reflect changes Prudential believes competition will functions, resulting in reliance upon the in the general economic conditions or intensify across all regions in response operational processing performance of its Prudentials financial condition.
to consumer demand, digital and other outsourcing partners.
technological advances, the need for Adverse experience in the Although Prudentials IT, compliance and economies of scale and the consequential operational risks inherent in other operational systems, models and impact of consolidation, regulatory actions Prudentials business could processes incorporate controls designed to and other factors.
Prudentials ability to disrupt its business functions manage and mitigate the operational and generate an appropriate return depends and have a negative impact on model risks associated with its activities, significantly upon its capacity to anticipate its results of operations there can be no assurance that such and respond appropriately to these Operational risks are present in all of controls will always be effective.
Prudentials businesses, including the risk human error among other reasons, from both Prudential and its outsourcing operational and model risk incidents do Downgrades in Prudentials partners of direct or indirect loss resulting happen periodically and no system or financial strength and credit from inadequate or failed internal and process can entirely prevent them although ratings could significantly impact external processes, systems or human there have not been any material events to its competitive position and damage error, the effects of natural or manmade date.
Prudentials legacy and other IT its relationships with creditors or catastrophic events such as natural systems and processes, as with operational trading counterparties disasters, pandemics, cyberattacks, systems and processes generally, may be Prudentials financial strength and credit acts of terrorism, civil unrest and other susceptible to failure or security breaches.
ratings, which are used by the market to catastrophes or from other external measure its ability to meet policyholder Such events could, among other things, events.
Exposure to such events could obligations, are an important factor harm Prudentials ability to perform disrupt Prudentials systems and affecting public confidence in Prudentials necessary business functions, result in operations significantly, which may result products, and as a result, its the loss of confidential or proprietary data in financial loss and reputational damage.
Downgrades in exposing it to potential legal claims and Prudentials ratings as a result of, for Prudentials business is dependent on regulatory sanctions and damage its example, decreased profitability, increased processing a large number of transactions reputation and relationships with its costs, increased indebtedness or other across numerous and diverse products, customers and business partners.
Similarly, concerns could have an adverse effect on and it employs a large number of models, any weakness in administration systems its ability to market products, retain current and user developed applications, some of www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 395 Risk factors continued such as those relating to policyholder being considered a target by cyber Global commitments to limit climate records or meeting regulatory criminals.
Further, there have been recent change were recently agreed and requirements or actuarial reserving changes to the threat landscape and the governmental and corporate efforts to processes could have a material adverse risk from untargeted but sophisticated transition to a lowcarbon economy in the effect on its results of operations during and automated attacks has increased.
coming decades could have an adverse the effective period.
Developments in data protection impact on global investment assets.
In worldwide such as the EU General Data particular, there is a risk that this transition The proposed demerger of Protection Regulation that comes into including the related changes to M&G Prudential carries with it force in May 2018 may also increase the technology, policies and regulations and execution risk and will require financial and reputational implications for the speed of their implementation, could significant management attention Prudential following a significant breach of result in some sectors such as but not The proposed demerger of its or its thirdparty suppliers IT systems.
limited to the fossil fuel industry facing M&G Prudential Prudentials UK To date, Prudential has not identified a significantly higher costs and a disorderly business, is subject to a number of factors failure or breach which has had a material adjustment to their asset values.
This including prevailing market conditions, impact in relation to its legacy and other IT could lead to an adverse impact on the transfer of the Hong Kong business from systems and processes.
However, it has value and the future performance of the The Prudential Assurance Company been, and likely will continue to be, subject investment assets of the Group if climate Limited to Prudential Corporation Asia to potential damage from computer considerations are not effectively Limited and approvals from regulators and viruses, attempts at unauthorised access integrated into investment decisions and shareholders.
Therefore there can be no and cybersecurity attacks such as denial fiduciary and stewardship duties.
Where certainty as to the timing of the demerger, of service attacks which, for example, can Prudentials investment horizons are long or that it will be completed as proposed or cause temporary disruption to websites term, the relevant assets are potentially at all.
Further, if the proposed demerger is and IT networks, phishing and disruptive more exposed to the longterm impact completed, there can be no assurance that software campaigns.
either Prudential plc or M&G Prudential Prudential is continually enhancing its will realise the anticipated benefits of the Adverse experience relative to IT environment to remain secure against transaction, or that the proposed demerger the assumptions used in pricing emerging threats, together with increasing will not adversely affect the trading value products and reporting business its ability to detect system compromise and or liquidity of the shares of either or both of results could significantly affect recover should such an incident occur.
In addition, preparing Prudentials results of operations However, there can be no assurance that for and implementing the proposed In common with other life insurers, the such events will not take place which may demerger is expected to require significant profitability of the Groups businesses have material adverse consequential time from management, which may divert depends on a mix of factors including effects on Prudentials business and managements attention from other mortality and morbidity levels and trends, financial position.
policy surrenders and takeup rates on guarantee features of products, investment The failure to understand and Attempts by third parties to performance and impairments, unit cost of respond effectively to the impacts access or disrupt Prudentials administration and new business of transitional and physical risks IT systems could result in loss of acquisition expenses.
associated with climate change trust from Prudentials customers, could adversely affect Prudentials Prudential needs to make assumptions reputational damage and results of operations and its about a number of factors in determining financial loss long-term strategy the pricing of its products, for setting Prudential and its business partners are Climate change poses potentially reserves, and for reporting its capital levels increasingly exposed to the risk that significant risks to Prudential and its and the results of its longterm business third parties may attempt to disrupt the customers, not only from the physical operations.
For example, the assumption availability, confidentiality and integrity impacts of climate change, driven by that Prudential makes about future of its IT systems, which could result in specific climaterelated events such as expected levels of mortality is particularly disruption to key operations, make it natural disasters, but also from the relevant for its UK annuity business, where difficult to recover critical services, damage transition risks, associated with the shift payments are guaranteed for at least as assets and compromise the integrity and to a lowcarbon economy.
long as the policyholder is alive.
Prudential security of data both corporate and conducts rigorous research into longevity customer.
This could result in loss of trust The climate risk landscape continues to risk, using industry data as well as its own from Prudentials customers, reputational evolve and is moving up the agenda of substantial annuitant experience.
As part damage and direct or indirect financial many regulators, governments, non of its pension annuity pricing and reserving loss.
The cybersecurity threat continues governmental organisations and investors.
policy, Prudentials UK business assumes to evolve globally in sophistication and For example, the Financial Stability Board that current rates of mortality continuously potential significance.
Prudentials FSBs Task Force for Climaterelated improve over time at levels based on increasing market profile, growing Disclosures recommendations were adjusted data and informed by models customer interest in interacting with their published in 2017 to provide a voluntary from the Continuous Mortality insurance providers and asset managers framework on corporate climaterelated Investigation CMI as published by the through the internet and social media, financial disclosures following the FSBs Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
improved brand awareness and the concern that there may be systemic Assumptions about future expected levels classification of Prudential as a GSII could risk in the financial system related to of mortality are also of relevance to the also increase the likelihood of Prudential climate change.
396 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit Certain of Prudentials subsidiaries are Prudentials Articles of GMWB of Jacksons variable annuity restricted by applicable insurance, Association contain an exclusive business.
If mortality improvement rates foreign exchange and tax laws, rules and jurisdiction provision significantly exceed the improvement regulations that can limit remittances.
Under Prudentials Articles of Association, assumed, Prudentials results of operations In some circumstances, this could limit certain legal proceedings may only be could be adversely affected.
Prudentials ability to pay dividends to brought in the courts of England and shareholders or to make available funds Wales.
This applies to legal proceedings A further factor is the assumption that held in certain subsidiaries to cover by a shareholder in its capacity as such Prudential makes about future expected operating expenses of other members against Prudential and or its Directors levels of the rates of early termination of of the Group.
and or its professional service providers.
products by its customers known as It also applies to legal proceedings persistency.
This is relevant to a number Prudential operates in a number between Prudential and its Directors and of lines of business in the Group, especially of markets through joint ventures or Prudential and Prudentials professional for Jacksons portfolio of variable annuities.
and other arrangements with third service providers that arise in connection Prudentials persistency assumptions parties, involving certain risks that with legal proceedings between the reflect a combination of recent past Prudential does not face with respect shareholder and such professional experience for each relevant line of to its consolidated subsidiaries service provider.
This provision could business and expert judgement, especially Prudential operates, and in certain markets make it difficult for US and other where a lack of relevant and credible is required by local regulation to operate, nonUK shareholders to enforce experience data exists.
Any expected through joint ventures and other similar their shareholder rights.
change in future persistency is also arrangements.
For such Group operations, reflected in the assumption.
If actual levels management control is exercised in Changes in tax legislation may of future persistency are significantly conjunction with other participants.
The result in adverse tax consequences different than assumed, the Groups results level of control exercisable by the Group Tax rules, including those relating to the of operations could be adversely affected.
depends on the terms of the contractual insurance industry, and their interpretation Furthermore, Jacksons variable annuity agreements, in particular, the allocation of may change, possibly with retrospective products are sensitive to other types of control among, and continued cooperation effect, in any of the jurisdictions in which policyholder behaviour, such as the between, the participants.
In addition, the Prudential operates.
Significant tax takeup of its GMWB product features.
level of control exercisable by the Group disputes with tax authorities, and any could also be subject to changes in the change in the tax status of any member of In addition, Prudentials business may be maximum level of nondomestic ownership the Group or in taxation legislation or its adversely affected by epidemics and other imposed on foreign companies in certain scope or interpretation could affect effects that give rise to a large number jurisdictions.
Prudential may face financial, Prudentials financial condition and results of deaths or additional sickness claims.
reputational and other exposure including of operations.
Significant influenza epidemics have regulatory censure in the event that any occurred a number of times historically of its partners fails to meet its obligations but the likelihood, timing, or the severity under the arrangements, encounters of future epidemics cannot be predicted.
financial difficulty, or fails to comply with The effectiveness of external parties, local or international regulation and including governmental and standards such as those pertaining to the nongovernmental organisations, prevention of financial crime.
In addition, in combating the spread and severity a significant proportion of the Groups of any epidemics could have a material product distribution is carried out through impact on the Groups loss experience.
arrangements with third parties not As a holding company, Prudential controlled by Prudential and is therefore is dependent upon its subsidiaries dependent upon continuation of these to cover operating expenses and relationships.
A temporary or permanent dividend payments disruption to these distribution The Groups insurance and investment arrangements, such as through significant management operations are generally deterioration in the reputation, financial conducted through direct and indirect position or other circumstances of the subsidiaries, which are subject to the third party or material failure in controls risks discussed elsewhere in this such as those pertaining to the prevention Risk Factors section.
of financial crime could adversely affect the results of operations of Prudential.
As a holding company, Prudentials principal sources of funds are remittances from subsidiaries, shareholderbacked funds, the shareholder transfer from longterm funds and any amounts that may be raised through the issuance of equity, debt and commercial paper.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 397
