American p02-22 22 03 2018 09:59 Page 20 P R I N C I P A L R I S K S day activities being carried out by third parties.
There are Criminal Corporate Offence therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The The Company has zero tolerance for tax evasion.
Shares in the Board notes JPMAMs policy statements in respect of Social, Company are purchased through intermediaries or brokers and Community, Environmental and Human Rights issues, as outlined no funds flow directly into the Company.
As the Company has no below, in italics.
The Board also discusses JPMAMs policies in this employees, the Boards focus is to ensure that the risk of the area with corporate engagement personnel during the course of Companys service providers facilitating tax evasion is also low.
its annual visits to the Managers New York office.
To this end it seeks assurance from its service providers that JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible effective policies and procedures are in place.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, nonPrincipal Risks financial issues such as social and environmental factors have the The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and those that would threaten its business model, future governance ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies performance, solvency or liquidity.
The risks identified and the deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues ways in which they are managed or mitigated are summarised specific to their industry.
JPMAM is also a signatory to the United below.
Nations Principles of Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG With the assistance of JPMF, the Risk Committee has drawn up criteria into their processes when making stock selection decisions a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we are reviewed and noted by the Board.
These key risks fall broadly implement the principles is available on request.
under the following categories: The Manager has implemented a policy which seeks to restrict Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the future investments in securities issued by companies that have been prices of the Companys investments.
This market risk identified by an independent third party provider as being involved comprises three elements equity market risk, currency risk in the manufacture, production or supply of cluster munitions, and interest rate risk.
The Board considers the split in the depleted uranium ammunition and armour and or anti-personnel portfolio between small and large companies, sector and mines.
Shareholders can obtain further details on the policy by stock selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and contacting the Manager.
has set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and reported on by JPMF.
The Board monitors the The Modern Slavery Act 2015 the MSA implementation and results of the investment process with the Manager.
However, the fortunes of the portfolio are The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human significantly determined by market movements in US equities, trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation.
the rate of exchange between the US dollar and sterling and As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods interest rate changes.
This is a risk that investors take having and services, the MSA does not apply directly to it.
The MSA invested into a single country fund.
requirements more appropriately relate to JPMF and JPMAM.
JPMorgans statement on the MSA can be found on the following Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment website: https: www.
com corporate Corporatestrategy, poor asset allocation or the level of gearing, may Responsibility document modern-slavery-act.
pdf lead to underperformance against the Companys benchmark index and its peer companies, resulting in the Companys Greenhouse Gas Emissions shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board mitigates this risk by insisting on diversification of investments through its The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon and reported on regularly by the Managers.
JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
the Directors with timely and accurate management JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on information, including performance data and attribution managing social and environmental risk in project finance.
analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the investment manager, who attends the majority of Board meetings, and reviews data 2 0 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7 S
