PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk mitigation Principal risks and uncertainties Specific attention is paid to currency-induced credit risk due to the high share of loans denominated in foreign currencies in the Risk management is a critical pillar of the Groups strategy.
The vulnerability to exchange rate depreciation is perform it effectively, it is essential to identify emerging risks and monitored on a frequent basis to be able to promptly implement an uncertainties.
The principal risks that could adversely impact on the action plan, when and as needed.
The ability to withstand certain Groups performance, financial condition and prospects are exchange rate depreciation is incorporated into the credit presented below.
Performance may be affected by additional risks underwriting standards, which also include applying significant and uncertainties other than those listed below and some as-yetcurrency devaluation buffers for uncharged borrowers.
In addition, unknown risks that emerge in the future.
More details regarding the Group holds significant capital against currency-induced credit risk management practices can be found on pages 60-69. risk.
Given the experience and knowledge built throughout the recent currency volatility, the Group is in a good position to promptly The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal mitigate emerging exchange rate depreciation risks.
risks facing the Group in order to determine whether to adopt the going concern basis of accounting and during its assessment of the In 2017, the government enacted a law aimed at reducing the long-term viability of the Groups operations as set out in the Going economys dependence on foreign currency by requiring loans for Concern and Viability Statements on pages 111 to 112. amounts of less than GEL 100,000 to be disbursed in local currency.
Principal risk This and other initiatives have helped to reduce the share of loans The Group faces currency-induced credit risk due to the high share denominated in foreign currencies in TBC Banks retail portfolio of loans denominated in foreign currencies in the Groups portfolio.
The potential for further GEL depreciation is one of the most 2.
Principal risk significant risks that could negatively impact on portfolio quality due The Groups performance may be compromised by adverse to the large presence of foreign currencies on the Groups balance developments in the economic environment.
Unhedged borrowers could suffer from increased debt burden when their liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are amplified.
A slowdown of economic growth in Georgia would have an adverse impact on the repayment capacity of the borrowers, restraining their Risk description future investment and expansion plans.
These occurrences would be A significant share of the Groups loans and a large share of the reflected in the Groups portfolio quality and profitability and would also total banking sector loans in Georgia is denominated in currencies impede the portfolio growth rates.
Negative macroeconomic other than the GEL, particularly the USD.
As of 31 December 2017, developments could compromise the Groups performance through 1 the National Bank of Georgia reported that 58.1% of total banking various parameters, such as rising unemployment rates, increasing retail sector loans were denominated in foreign currencies.
As of the sector default rates, falling property values, worsening loan same date, 59.7% of the Groups total gross loans and advances to collateralisation, or falling debt service capabilities of companies customers before provision for loan impairment were denominated suffering from decreasing sales.
Potential political and economic instability in the neighbouring and The income of many customers is directly linked to USD via main trading partner countries could negatively impact the economic remittances, or exports in case of business borrowers.
Nevertheless, outlook of Georgia through a worsening current account eg decreased customers may not be protected against significant fluctuations in the exports, tourism inflows, remittances and foreign direct investments.
GELs exchange rate against the currency of the loan.
Risk description In 2017, the USD GEL exchange rate appreciated by 2.1% YoY, As the Group operates primarily in, and sources nearly all its supported by the relative stability of major trading partners revenue from Georgia, its business, financial condition and operating currencies and the solid improvement in external inflows.
The USD results are, and will continue to be, highly dependent on the general GEL exchange rate remained volatile throughout the year due to the economic conditions in the country.
free-floating exchange rate regime and Georgias small forex market.
However, the amplitude of volatility remained within the During 2011-17, the Georgian economy recorded average real GDP acceptable range.
In 2017, economic growth recovered significantly to 5.0%, compared with 2.8% in 2016.
The sharp The National Bank of Georgia operates effectively under its improvement was primarily driven by a recovery in exports, tourism inflation-targeting framework.
However, the GEL remains in free and remittance inflows.
float and is exposed to many internal and external factors that in some circumstances could result in devaluation against the USD.
Georgias economy is open, liberal, well diversified and reasonably reformed.
While it has shown resilience during international or regional crises, it is still exposed to many internal and external developments.
These could result in lower growth or, in some severe 1 excluding Credo Bank effect, which obtained banking licence in March 2017 circumstances, a contraction of the economy.
56 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Risk mitigation Risk mitigation To decrease its vulnerability to economic cycles and adverse The Group undertakes stress-testing and sensitivity analysis to developments, the Group identifies and limits its exposure to cyclical quantify extra capital consumption under different scenarios.
Such industries within its risk appetite framework.
analyses indicate that the Group holds sufficient capital to steadily meet the minimum regulatory requirements.
The Group has in place a macroeconomic monitoring process that relies on close, recurrent observations of the economic Capital forecasts, as well as the results of the stress-testing and developments in Georgia, as well as its neighbouring countries, to what-if scenarios, are actively monitored with the involvement of the identify early warning signals indicating imminent economic risks.
Banks Management Board and Risk Committee to ensure prudent This system allows the Group to promptly assess significant management and timely actions when needed.
In addition, under the economic and political occurrences and analyse their implications new capital adequacy framework, the Pillar 2 minimum capital for the loan portfolio.
The identified implications are duly translated requirements can be reduced by the amount equal to the additional into specific action plans with regards to reviewing the underwriting capital needed, as a result of the increased risk-weighted assets standards, risk appetite metrics or limits, including the limits for due to the technical effect of GEL devaluation.
each of the most vulnerable industries.
Principal risk Additionally, the stress-testing and scenario analysis applied during The Group is exposed to regulatory risk.
the credit review and portfolio monitoring processes enable the Group to have an advance evaluation of the impact of The Groups activities are highly regulated and thus face regulatory macroeconomic shocks on the business and the portfolio.
The local regulator, the National Bank of Georgia, can increase the prudential requirements across the whole sector as well as for Resilience towards a changing macroeconomic environment is specific institutions within it.
Therefore, the Groups profitability and incorporated into the Groups credit underwriting standards.
As performance may be compromised by an increased regulatory such, borrowers are expected to withstand certain adverse economic burden, including higher capital requirements.
developments through prudent financials, debt-servicing capabilities and conservative collateral coverage.
Risk description The Bank is regulated by the National Bank of Georgia.
Principal risk mandatory capital adequacy ratios, the regulator sets lending limits The Group encounters the capital risk of not meeting the minimum and other economic ratios, including, inter alia, lending, liquidity and regulatory requirements, which may compromise growth and investment ratios.
Under the Georgian banking regulations, the strategic targets.
Bank is required, among other things, to comply with minimum reserve requirements and mandatory financial ratios and regularly The Bank is regulated by the National Bank of Georgia.
The Bank is also regulated by respective tax regulations and various terms of its funding and other arrangements code or other relevant laws in Georgia.
require compliance with certain capital adequacy and other ratios.
Local regulatory requirements are more conservative than the Following the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchanges current Basel standards.
At the same time, the local regulator has premium segment, the Group became subject to increased the right to impose additional regulations on a bank if it perceives regulations from the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
excessive risks and uncertainties in that lender or in the market.
In addition to its banking operations, the Group also offers other Risk description regulated financial services products, including leasing, insurance The National Bank of Georgia has introduced a new capital adequacy and brokerage services.
framework that came into force in December 2017.
The updated regulation divides the current capital requirement across Pillar 1 The Groups current operations in Azerbaijan through TBC Kredit and Pillar 2 buffers that are introduced gradually over a four-year are required to comply with the local regulations.
The Banks capitalisation as of December 2017 stood at 13.4% and 17.5% against the regulatory minimum requirement of The Groups operations remain in full compliance with all relevant 10.3% and 12.9% for Tier 1 and Total capital, respectively.
The ratios legislation and regulations.
are well above the respective regulatory minimums.
The Group is also subject to financial covenants in its debt From January 2018, the National Bank of Georgia has fully phased agreements.
For more information, see page 242 in the Groups out the Basel I and Basel II III capital adequacy standards and Audited Financial Statements.
replaced them with the updated capital framework, which is more compliant with the Basel III guidelines.
More information about the Risk mitigation new regulation can be found in the Risks, Ethics and Compliance The Group has established systems and processes to ensure full Committee RECC report on pages 123-125. regulatory compliance.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED The dedicated compliance department reports directly to the Chief The National Bank of Georgias new capital framework introduced Executive Officer and bears the primary responsibility for regulatory a concentration buffer under Pillar 2 that helps to ensure that compliance.
However, compliance is embedded in all levels of the the Group remains adequately capitalised to mitigate Banks operations.
The Groups RECC is responsible for regulatory compliance at the 6.
Liquidity risk is inherent in the Groups operations.
In terms of banking regulations and Georgias taxation system, the While the Board believes that the Group currently has sufficient Group is closely engaged with the regulator to ensure that new financial resources available to meet its obligations as they fall due, procedures and requirements are discussed in detail before their liquidity risk is inherent in banking operations and can be implementation.
These include an overreliance on, or an inability to access, a particular source of funding, as well as Although decisions made by regulators are beyond the Groups changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena, such as the control, significant regulatory changes are usually preceded by a global financial crisis that commenced in 2007. consultation period that allows all lenders to provide feedback and adjust their business practice.
Access to credit for companies in emerging markets is significantly influenced by the level of investor confidence and, as such, any factors affecting investor confidence eg a downgrade in credit 5.
Principal risk ratings, central bank or state interventions, or debt restructurings The Group is exposed to concentration risk.
in a relevant industry could influence the price or availability of funding for companies operating in any of these markets.
Banks operating in developing markets are typically exposed to both single-name and sector concentration risks.
Risk description Throughout 2017, the Group was in compliance with the risk appetite The Group has large individual exposures to single-name borrowers limits, as well as the minimum liquidity requirements set by the whose potential default would entail increased credit losses and National Bank of Georgia, which introduced a liquidity coverage ratio high impairment charges.
This is in addition to the Basel III guidelines, under which a conservative approach was applied to the weighting of mandatory The Groups portfolio is well diversified across sectors, resulting in reserves and to the deposit withdrawal rates, depending on the only a moderate vulnerability to sector concentration risks.
However, concentration of client groups.
should exposure to common risk drivers increase, the risks are expected to amplify correspondingly.
As of 31 December 2017, the net loan to deposits plus international financial institution funding ratio stood at 92.5%, the liquidity Risk description coverage ratio at 112.7%, and the net stable funding ratio at 124.4%.
The Groups loan portfolio is diversified, with maximum exposure to All are comfortably above the National Bank of Georgias minimum a single industry ie energy and utility standing at 8.4%.
Considering requirements or guidance for such ratios.
the macroeconomic outlook, this figure is reasonable and demonstrates adequate credit portfolio diversification.
Risk mitigation To mitigate this risk, the Group holds a solid liquidity position and The exposure to the 20 largest borrowers stands at 12.4%, which is performs an outflow scenario analysis for both normal and stress in line with the Banks target of alleviating concentration risk.
circumstances to make sure that it has adequate liquid assets and cash inflows.
The Group maintains a diversified funding structure to Risk mitigation manage respective liquidity risk.
The Board believes there is The Group constantly checks the concentrations of its exposure to adequate liquidity to withstand significant withdrawals of customer single counterparties, as well as sectors and common risk drivers, deposits, but the unexpected and rapid withdrawal of a substantial and introduces limits for risk mitigation.
amount of deposits could have a material adverse impact on the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations and or As part of its risk appetite framework, the Group limits both prospects.
As part of its liquidity risk management framework, the single-name and sector concentrations.
Any considerable change in Group has a liquidity contingency plan in place outlining the risk the economic or political environment, in Georgia or neighbouring indicators for different stress scenarios and respective action plans.
countries, will trigger the Groups review of the risk appetite criteria to mitigate emerging risk concentrations.
Stringent monitoring tools are in place to ensure compliance with the established limits.
In addition, the Bank has dedicated restructuring teams to manage weakened borrowers.
When it is deemed necessary, clients are transferred to such teams for more efficient handling and, ultimately, to limit resulting credit risk losses.
58 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 7.
Principal risk Risk description Any decline in the Groups net interest income or net interest No major cyber-attack attempts have targeted Georgian commercial margin could lead to a reduction in profitability.
Nonetheless, the Groups rising dependency on IT systems increases its exposure to potential cyber-attacks.
Net interest income accounts for the majority of the Groups total income.
Consequently, fluctuations in its NIM affect the results of Risk mitigation operations.
High competition on the local banking sector could drive The Group actively monitors, detects and prevents risks arising from interest rates down, compromising the Groups profitability.
Staff monitor the developments on both local and same time, the cost of funding is largely exogenous to the Group and international markets to increase awareness of emerging forms of is derived based on both the national and international markets.
Intrusion prevention and Distributed Denial of Service DDoS protection systems are in place to protect the Group from Risk description external cyber-threats.
Security incident and event monitoring The majority of the Groups total income derives from net interest systems, in conjunction with respective processes and procedures, income.
Consequently, the Groups results of operations are affected are in place to handle cyber-incidents effectively.
by fluctuations in its NIM.
Processes are continuously updated and enhanced to respond to In 2017, the NIM decreased by 1.3 pp YoY to 6.5%, which the Bank new potential threats.
A data recovery policy is in place to ensure had expected and included in the forecast that provides the basis for business continuity in case of serious cyber-attacks.
The decrease in the net interest margin is mainly caused by the 9.
Principal risk faster repricing of the assets than liabilities, through the competition External and internal fraud risks are part of the operational risk for newly disbursed loans and through prepayment of loans at times inherent in the Groups business.
Considering the increased when market interest rates are falling.
complexity and diversification of operations together with the digitalisation of the baking sector, fraud risks are evolving.
Unless Finally, the Group limits its direct exposure to the LIBOR and local proactively managed, fraud events may materially impact the refinancing rates or, where this is not feasible, prices them Groups profitability and reputation.
appropriately between assets and liabilities.
As of 31 December 2017, GEL 2,532 million in assets 19.5% and GEL 1,308 million in Risk description liabilities 11.8% were floating, related to the LIBOR FED ECB External fraud events may arise from the actions of third parties deposit facility rates.
During the same period, GEL 1,786 million of against the Bank.
Most frequently, this involved events related to assets 13.8% and GEL 2,131 million of liabilities 19.2% were banking cards and cash.
Internal fraud arises from actions committed floating, related to the National Bank of Georgias refinancing rate.
by the Banks employees and such events happen less frequently.
Risk mitigation During the reporting period, the Group faced few instances of fraud The high current margin levels, increase in fee and commission events which had an immaterial impact on the Groups profit and income and continuous cost optimisation efforts represent a safeguard loss statement the details on the largest case in 2017 are against margin declines, posing profitability concerns for the Group.
The Group has also launched an enhancement programme for Nonetheless, fraudsters are adopting new techniques and margin management, including an adequate pricing framework and approaches to exploit various possibilities to illegally obtain funds.
profitability analysis, to assist in decision making.
In cases where Therefore, unless properly monitored and managed, the potential loans are extended on fixed rather than floating terms, the interest impact can become material.
rate risk is adequately translated into price premiums, safeguarding against changes in the interest rates.
Risk mitigation The Group actively monitors, detects and prevents risks arising from The Group expects margins to stabilise in the medium term.
There are permanent monitoring processes in place Group expects that the decreasing margins will be compensated in for the timely detection of unusual activities.
The risk and control practice by increased fee and commission income and decreased self-assessment exercise focuses on identifying residual risks in key unit cost spent per transaction.
processes, subject to respective corrective actions.
Given our continuous efforts to monitor and mitigate fraud risks, together with 8.
Principal risk the high sophistication of our internal processes, the Bank ensures The threat posed by cyber-attacks has increased in recent years timely identification and control of fraud-related activities.
The risk of potential cyber-attacks, which have become more sophisticated, may lead to significant security breaches.
Such risks change rapidly and require continued focus and investment.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59
