RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management Overview Risk management objectives and principles The Group operates a strong and independent, business-minded risk management system.
Its main objective is to contribute to the sustainability of risk-adjusted returns through the implementation of an efficient risk management system.
The Group has adopted four primary risk management principles to better accomplish its major objectives: Govern risks transparently to obtain understanding and trust.
Consistency and transparency in risk-related processes and policies are preconditions for gaining the trust of various stakeholders.
Communicating risk goals and strategic priorities to governing bodies and providing a comprehensive follow-up in an accountable manner are key priorities for staff responsible for risk management.
Manage risks prudently to promote sustainable growth and resiliency.
Risk management acts as a backstop against excessive risk-taking.
Capital adequacy management and strong forward-looking tools and decision-making ensure the Groups sustainability and resiliency.
Ensure that risk management underpins the implementation of strategy.
Staff responsible for risk management provide assurance on the feasibility of achieving objectives through risk identification and management.
Identifying and adequately pricing risks, as well as taking risk mitigation actions, support generating the desired returns and achieving planned targets.
Use risk management to gain a competitive advantage.
Comprehensive, transparent and prudent risk governance facilitates understanding and trust from multiple stakeholders, ensuring the sustainability and resilience of the business model and the positioning of risk management as the Groups competitive advantage and strategic enabler.
Risk management framework The Groups risk management framework incorporates all necessary components for comprehensive risk governance and is comprised of enterprise risk management, credit, financial and non-financial risk management, risk reporting and supporting IT infrastructure, cross-risk analytical tools and techniques such as capital adequacy management and stress-testing.
The following diagram depicts the risk management framework.
60 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Group risk management framework Enterprise risk management Risk appetite Risk strategy Business planning Credit risk Financial risk Non-financial risk Corporate MSME Retail Market Liquidity Operational Other Risk organisation Governance Three lines Performance Committees Policies Risk culture and governance structure of defence management Risk reporting and analytics Risk reporting Systems Infrastructure, IT and systems and data Credit process Risk models, Asset and Liability Management Operational risk methodologies ALM and liquidity modelling and processes and processes risk modelling and processes Credit risk modelling Cross-risk Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and stress-tests analytics TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Governance The Group conducts its risk management activities within the framework of its unified risk management system.
The involvement of all governance levels in risk management, clear segregation of authorities and effective communications between different entities facilitate clarity regarding the Groups strategic and risk objectives, adherence to the established risk appetite and sound risk management.
The Groups governance structure ensures adequate oversight and accountability, as well as clear segregation of duties.
The Board and the Supervisory Board have joint overall responsibility to set the tone at the top of the Group and monitor compliance with the established objectives, while the Management Board governs and directs the Groups daily activities.
Risk, Ethics and Board Board Audit Committee Compliance Committee Supervisory Risk, Ethics and Supervisory Board Audit Committee Board Compliance Committee Management Operational Risk Risk Committee ALCO Committee Board Enterprise Credit Financial Operational Functions: risk risk risk risk Risk management structure Committees: Loan approval committees Restructuring and Collections committees The risk governance structure consists of three board levels, including the Board, Supervisory Board and Management Board.
All three boards have dedicated risk committees.
The Board and Supervisory Board each have a Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee that supervises the risk profile and risk governance practice within the Group, as well as an Audit Committee that is responsible for implementing key accounting policies and facilitating internal and external auditor activities.
The Management Boards Risk Committee was established to guide the Group-wide risk management activities and monitor major risk trends to ensure that the risk profile complies with the established risk appetite.
The Management Boards Operational Risk Committee makes decisions related to operational risk governance while the Assets and Liabilities Management Committee ALCO is responsible for the implementation of asset-liability management policies.
The Board, Supervisory Board and the Banks senior management govern risk objectives through the Risk Appetite Statement, which establishes the desired risk profile and risk limits for different economic environments.
The statement also sets monitoring and reporting responsibilities, as well as escalation paths for different trigger events, and limits breaches, which prompt risk teams to frame and implement established mitigation actions.
To effectively incorporate the Groups risk appetite into day-to-day operations, Risk Appetite Statement metrics are cascaded into more granular limits at the business unit level, establishing risk allocation across different segments and activities.
The process of setting and cascading the risk appetite is undertaken in parallel with the business planning process.
The interactive development of business and risk plans aligns the plans by solving risk-return trade-offs in the process and increases the feasibility of achieving targets.
The Board level oversight, coupled with the permanent involvement of senior management in the Groups risk management and the exercise of top-down risk allocation by the enterprise risk management function, ensures clarity regarding risk objectives, intense monitoring of the risk profile against the risk appetite, the prompt escalation of risk-related concerns and the establishment of remediation actions.
62 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance The daily management of individual risks is based on the three lines of and tools.
Stress-testing at both the transaction and portfolio defence principle.
While business lines are the primary owners of risks, levels forms part of the regular risk management activities.
risk teams act as the second line of defence by sanctioning transactions, Consistency of risk management practices within the Group is tools and techniques for risk identification, analysis, measurement, also an important task of the ERM.
A risk management function monitoring and reporting.
The committees established at operational dedicated to promoting consistency ensures that the risks are levels are charged with making transaction-level decisions as part of a identified, measured and governed in an optimal manner within framework comprised of clear and sophisticated delegations of authority the Group, and reported and understood on a consolidated basis.
based on the four-eyes principle.
All new products and projects pass The Group-wide approach to risk management was underpinned through risk teams to ensure that risks are comprehensively analysed.
and enhanced further due to the recent acquisition of two These control arrangements guarantee that the Group makes informed significant financial institutions.
decisions that are adequately priced and that any risks exceeding the Generating adequate return on risk plays a crucial role in the Groups established targets are not taken.
Credit, liquidity, market, sustainability of the business model.
Risk inputs for pricing are operational and other non-financial risks are each managed by designed in a way to serve as a backdrop against excessive risk dedicated teams.
taking and guarantee that the Group takes adequately priced risks.
The Groups strong and independent risk-management structure Credit risk management enables the fulfilment of all required risk management functions As a provider of banking services, the Group is exposed to the risk within the second line of defence by highly skilled professionals, with of loss due to the failure of a customer or counterparty to meet its a balanced mix of credentials in banking and real sectors in local obligations to settle outstanding amounts in accordance with agreed and international markets.
Credit risk is the most material risk faced by the Group since it is engaged mainly in traditional lending activity with a simple In addition to the risk teams subordinated to the chief risk officer, balance sheet.
Thus, the Group dedicates significant resources to the compliance department reports directly to the CEO and is its management.
specifically in charge of anti-money laundering and compliance risk management.
As a third line of defence, the internal audit Due to the significant reliance on foreign currencies in Georgias department is responsible for providing independent and objective economy, currency-induced credit risk is a significant component of assurance and recommendations to the Group to promote the credit risk, which relates to risks arising from foreign currencyfurther improvement of operations and risk management.
denominated loans to unhedged borrowers in the Groups portfolio.
Credit risk also includes concentration risk, which is the risk related Enterprise risk management to credit portfolio quality deterioration due to large exposures The centralised enterprise risk management ERM function is in place provided to single borrowers or groups of connected borrowers, to ensure the effective development, communication and or loan concentration in certain economic industries.
implementation of risk strategy and risk appetite across the Group.
The ERM function facilitates cross-risk activities such as aggregation, The major objectives of credit risk management are to put in place a analytics and reporting and addresses issues that are not specific to a sound credit approval process for informed risk-taking and procedures single type of risk.
Accordingly, the ERM function complements the role for effective risk identification, monitoring and measurement.
of other risk functions to ensure the coverage of key risk activities and responsibilities and builds capabilities in a centralised team.
The major The Group adopts segmentand product-specific approaches for ERM functions can be summarised as follows: prudent and efficient credit risk management.
Therefore, the Risk appetite development, cascading and monitoring are corporate, MSME and retail portfolios are managed separately to essential elements of the Groups strategy.
A risk budget is address the specifics of individual segments.
Corporate and MSME allocated to individual business lines to ensure achievement of except micro borrowers have larger exposures and are managed aggregated metrics.
on an individual basis, whereas micro and retail borrowers are Internal capital adequacy assessment is a continuous process managed on a portfolio basis.
Major credit risk functions can be within the Group to ensure adequate calculation of unexpected summarised as follows.
losses and prompt respective mitigation actions to assure solvency.
Economic capital is assessed for all material risks of Credit approval the Group, such as credit, financial, operational and market The Group strives to ensure a sound credit-granting process by risks.
Additionally, individual economic capital calculations are establishing well-defined lending criteria and building up an supplemented by enterprise-wide stress-tests.
Based on the efficient process for the assessment of a borrowers risk profile.
selected stress scenarios, the Group calculates losses and A comprehensive credit risk assessment framework is in place projects capital adequacy ratios.
This exercise helps the Group to with clear segregation of duties among parties involved in the credit define the capital buffers that are to be held to meet the analysis and approval process.
The credit assessment process is regulatory requirements under predefined stress scenarios.
distinct across segments, being further differentiated across various Stress-testing exercises are one of the crucial tools for effective product types to reflect the differing natures of these asset classes.
risk identification, measurement and mitigation.
In that regard, Corporate, SME and larger retail and micro loans are assessed on the Group continuously advances its stress-testing capabilities an individual basis, whereas the decision-making process for smaller retail and micro loans is largely automated.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED After a thorough assessment of borrowers requirements, credit Apart from the measures in place throughout the underwriting analysts in the case of corporate and loan officers in the case of SME process, the Group actively monitors and assesses the quality of loans borrowers prepare a presentation containing certain key information denominated in foreign currencies through stress-testing exercises in relation to the potential borrower and submit it for review to the and holds sufficient capital buffers against unexpected losses.
business underwriting risk management unit.
An underwriting risk manager ensures that the project analysis provided by the credit analyst In the event of material currency depreciation, the Group has tools in loan officer is complete, all risks and mitigating factors are identified place to accelerate its monitoring efforts, identify customers with and adequately addressed, and the loan is properly structured.
Business potential weaknesses, and introduce prompt mitigation.
underwriting risk managers specialise in a particular sector to be aware of current industry trends and developments.
Credit concentration risk The Group is exposed to concentration risk, defined as potential For exposures above GEL 5 million, a risk report assessing the credit deterioration in portfolio quality due to large exposures or individual application and recommending a decision is issued for a loan industries.
It has established a set of tools to efficiently manage approval committee to review.
A multi-tiered system of loan approval concentration risk and, particularly, concentrations of single names committees is in place with different approval levels to consider the and sectors in the portfolio.
borrowers overall indebtedness and risk profile.
These committees are responsible for reviewing credit applications and approving The Group is subject to concentration limits on single names and exposures, with different committees based on the size and risk of the largest 20 borrowers and is focused on optimising the structure the loan.
At the highest level, the Chief Executive Officer, corporate and quality of the latter portfolio.
In addition, the Group imposes business director and chief risk officer are involved.
In addition, limits on individual sectors with more conservative caps applied for loans to the 20 largest borrowers or for amounts exceeding 5% of high-risk sectors, which are defined based on comprehensive the Banks regulatory capital would require review and approval of analysis of industry cycles and outlook.
Credit concentrations are monitored monthly.
Trends in the Loan officers submit the credit applications for retail and micro risk positions are analysed in detail and corrective actions are exposures to the respective underwriting risk management units.
recommended should new sources of risk or positive Depending on the amount of the loan, a loan approval committee developments emerge.
will review the loan request based on specified limits as to the risk level of the customer.
Along with managing concentration levels in the portfolio, the Group estimates unexpected losses and respective economic capital for Underwriting of unsecured retail loans, point-of-sale loans and concentrations of both single name borrower and sectors using the credit cards is largely automated with decisions based on internal Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, thus ensuring that sufficient capital is scorecard models and ratings provided by the credit bureau.
Different scorecard models are developed based on the type of product and the borrowers segment, taking into consideration Collateral policies various internal and external data.
The performance of scorecard Collateral represents the most significant credit risk mitigation tool models is closely monitored to ensure that decisions are in line with for the Group, making effective collateral management one of the predefined risk limits.
Collateral on loans extended by the Group may include, but is not limited to, real estate, cash Currency-induced credit risk deposits, vehicles, equipment, inventory, precious metals, securities The Group faces currency-induced credit risk, given that a large part and third-party guarantees.
The collateral accepted against a loan of its exposure is denominated in foreign currency, in line with the depends on the type of credit product and the borrowers credit risk.
Georgian economys significant reliance on currencies other than The Group has a largely collateralised portfolio in all its segments the GEL.
However, limits have been established within the risk with real estate representing a major share of collateral.
appetite framework to ensure that the Group continues its efforts toward minimising the share of foreign currencies in the portfolio.
A centralised unit for collateral management governs the Groups view and strategy in relation to collateral management and ensures Various management tools and techniques are applied to mitigate that collateral serves as an adequate mitigating factor for credit risk the inherent currency-induced credit risk in the loan book, management purposes.
The collateral management framework encompassing all phases of credit risk management.
In addition, in consists of a sound independent appraisal process, a haircut system the beginning of 2017, the government introduced a legislative throughout the underwriting process, monitoring and revaluations.
initiative to support reducing the banking sectors reliance on foreign currencies.
As part of this initiative, all loans to individual borrowers Throughout the underwriting process, provided collateral is in amounts of less than GEL 100,000 should be disbursed in GEL.
appraised by the Groups internal appraisal function in accordance with internal policies.
In specific instances, such as lending to The Group applies conservative lending standards to unhedged related parties and material transactions, external appraisers borrowers with exposures denominated in foreign currencies to validate these appraisals.
The internal appraisal group is part of the ensure that they can withstand a certain amount of forex collateral management unit and is independent from the loandepreciation without credit quality deterioration.
64 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance granting process to ensure that adequate appraisals are obtained Collection functions for retail and micro loans support customers and proper procedures are followed.
When appraising collateral, who are experiencing difficulties in fulfilling their obligations.
Such the Group applies haircuts to the assets market value based on customers may miss payments or notify the Group about their the property type and its location.
A centralised team monitors retail borrowers in delinquency which, coupled with branches efforts, Collateral of significant value is re-evaluated annually through aims to maximise collection.
The debt managed through FICO on-site visits by internal appraisers.
Statistical methods are used software is applied for early collection processes.
Collection to monitor the value of collateral of non-significant value.
strategies are defined based on the size and type of exposure.
Specific strategies are tailored to different sub-groups of customers, reflecting respective risk levels, so that greater effort is dedicated to Credit monitoring customers with a higher risk profile.
The Groups risk management policies and processes are designed to identify and analyse risk in a timely manner and monitor adherence Retail and micro loans are generally transferred to the recovery unit to predefined limits by means of reliable and timely data.
The Group at 60-90 days past due.
Collateralised loans are transferred to the dedicates considerable resources to gain a clear and accurate internal recovery unit, whereas the Group collaborates with external understanding of the credit risk faced across various business segments.
collection agencies for unsecured loans.
To recover collateralised loans, the recovery plan is outlined considering the individual The Group uses a robust monitoring system to react promptly to borrowers specifics and may involve loan repayments under revised macro and micro developments, identify weaknesses in the credit schedules or the sale of collateral.
Collection agencies generally portfolio and outline solutions to make informed risk management negotiate with the borrowers so that the full repayment of the loan decisions.
Monitoring processes are tailored to the specifics of or loans can be rescheduled and repaid accordingly.
individual segments, as well as encompassing individual credit exposures, overall portfolio performance and external trends that Once the exposure is transferred to the recovery unit, if the Group is may impact on the portfolios risk profile.
Early warning signals unable to negotiate acceptable terms with the borrower, the Group serve as an important advance alert system for the detection of may initiate collateral repossession, which is usually a standard credit deteriorations, leading to mitigating actions.
process with limited legal complications, and may include court, arbitration or notary procedures.
Restructuring and recovery units The Boards RECC reviews reports relating to the credit quality of are supported by qualified incumbent lawyers for efficient the loan portfolio quarterly.
By comparing current data with accomplishment of litigation and repossession processes.
historical figures and analysing forecasts, the management believes that it can identify risks and respond to them by amending its policies in a timely manner.
Provision assessment In assessing the credit risk and calculating provisions according to IAS 39, the Group takes into account three components: i the Restructuring and collections probability of default by the counterparty on its contractual The Group uses a comprehensive portfolio supervision system to obligations: ii current exposures to the counterparty and potential identify weakened credit exposures and promptly take early utilisation of undrawn credit liabilities, from which the Group remedial actions when necessary.
The collection and recovery assessed the exposure at default: and iii the likely loss ratio on the processes are initiated when the borrower does not meet the agreed defaulted obligations the loss given default.
According to the payments or the borrowers financial standing is weakened, Groups policy, asset and contingent liability loss reserves must be potentially jeopardising the repayment of the credit.
maintained at an adequate level to absorb all estimated incurred losses in the Groups credit portfolio at any given point in time.
Dedicated restructuring and recovery units manage weakened borrowers across all business segments, with collection and Starting from 1 January 2018, the Group moved to the new recovery strategies tailored for business segments and individual provisioning methodology in line with IFRS 9 requirements.
The restructuring units primary goal is to The updated methodology makes it possible to assess loan-loss rehabilitate the borrower and transfer the exposure back to the provisions and allowances accurately with the incorporation of performing category.
The sophistication and complexity of the forward-looking information.
Along with methodology development, rehabilitation process differs based on the type and size of the an IT tool for provisioning was implemented.
Corporate and SME borrowers are transferred to the recovery unit when there is a strong probability that a material During 2016-17, significant work was performed to develop the portion of the principal amount will not be paid, and the main impairment methodology and models per IFRS 9 requirements stream of recovery is no longer the borrowers cash flow.
and set up the respective systems and processes.
The project was undertaken with the support of Deloitte.
Representatives of the Loan recovery plans may include all available sources of loan Groups risk, finance and IT departments were responsible for the recovery, such as selling the borrowers assets, realising collateral methodology and IT tool implementation.
The Groups goal in the recovery process is to negotiate a loan recovery strategy with the borrower The new models are more complex and make it possible to and secure cash recoveries to the extent possible, or to negotiate incorporate expectations of macro developments based on repayment through the sale or repossession of collateral.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED predefined scenarios.
Under the IFRS 9 methodology, the Bank Additionally, the Group applies stress-tests and what-if scenario classifies its exposures in three stages: analyses and monitors the National Bank of Georgias minimum liquidity Stage I assets for which no significant increase of credit risk ratio.
In 2017, the National Bank of Georgia introduced its own LCR for since initial recognition is identified: liquidity risk management purposes.
In addition to the Basel III Stage II assets for which significant increase in credit risk since guidelines, the ratio applies conservative approaches to the weighting of initial recognition is identified: and mandatory reserves and deposit withdrawal rates depending on the Stage III credit-impaired exposures.
From September 2017, the Bank also monitors compliance with the National Bank of Georgias LCR limits.
In The implementation of IFRS 9 has resulted in a one-time impact of GEL addition to the total LCR limit, the National Bank of Georgia has also 64 million, which will be passed directly to IFRS equity.
The impact did defined limits per currency for the GEL and foreign currencies.
not affect the Banks profit and loss statement or capital adequacy.
The LCR is calculated by reference to the qualified liquid assets divided by 30-day cash net outflows.
It is used to help manage short-term Financial risk management liquidity risks.
The NSFR is calculated by dividing available stable Liquidity risk management funding by required stable funding.
It is used for long-term liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group either may not have sufficient management to promote resilience over a longer time horizon by financial resources available to meet all its obligations and creating additional incentives for the bank to rely on more stable sources commitments as they fall due, or may only be able to access those of funding on a continuing basis.
Market liquidity risk is the risk that the Group cannot easily offset or Both funding and market liquidity risks can emerge from a number eliminate a position at the then-current market price because of of factors that are beyond the Groups control.
Due to financial inadequate market depth or market disruption.
To manage market market instability, factors such as a downgrade in credit ratings or liquidity risk, the Group follows the Basel III guidelines on highother negative developments may affect the price or ability to access quality liquidity asset eligibility to ensure that the Groups highfunding necessary to make payments in respect of the Groups quality liquid assets can be sold without causing a significant future indebtedness.
movement in price and with minimum loss of value.
Liquidity risk is managed by the financial risk management and In addition, the Group has a liquidity contingency plan, which forms treasury departments and monitored by the Management Boards part of the overall prudential liquidity policy.
The plan is designed to Risk Committee or the Assets and Liabilities Management ensure that the Group can meet its funding and liquidity Committee ALCO within their predefined functions.
requirements and maintain its core business operations in deteriorating liquidity conditions that could arise outside the The principal objectives of the Groups Liquidity Risk Management ordinary course of its business.
Policy are to: i ensure the availability of funds to meet claims arising from total Funding and maturity analysis liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments, both actual and The Groups principal sources of liquidity include customer deposits and contingent, at an economic price: accounts, borrowings from local and international banks and financial ii recognise any structural mismatch existing within the Groups institutions, subordinated loans from international financial institution statement of financial position and set monitoring ratios to manage investors, local interbank short-duration term deposits and loans, funding in line with the Groups well-balanced growth: and proceeds from sales of investment securities, principal repayments on iii monitor liquidity and funding on an ongoing basis to ensure that loans, interest income and fee and commission income.
approved business targets are met without compromising the Groups risk profile.
The Board believes that a strong and diversified funding structure is one of the Groups differentiators.
The Group relies on relatively The Management Board reviews the Liquidity Risk Management stable deposits from Georgia as the main source of funding.
To Policy, which is then presented to the Board and the Supervisory maintain and further enhance its liability structure, the Group sets Board for approval.
targets for retail deposits in its strategy and sets loan-to-deposit ratio limits.
Liquidity risk is categorised into two risk types: funding liquidity risk and market liquidity risk.
The Group also sets deposit concentration limits for large deposits and deposits of non-Georgian residents in its deposit portfolio.
The Funding liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to Board believes that the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet its efficiently meet both expected and unexpected current and future current onand off-balance-sheet obligations.
For further cash flows without affecting either its daily operations or its financial information on the management of liquidity risk, please refer to condition under both normal conditions and during a crisis.
To Note 36 to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.
manage funding liquidity risk, the Group has an internally developed model using a liquidity coverage ratio LCR and a net stable funding ratio NSFR, both under Basel III liquidity guidelines.
66 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Market risk The Group employs an advanced framework for the management of The Group follows the Basel Committees definition of market risk interest rate risk by establishing appropriate limits, monitoring as the risk of losses in onand off-balance-sheet positions arising compliance with them and preparing forecasts.
Interest rate risk is from movements in market prices.
These risks are principally a managed by the financial risk management department and is risks pertaining to interest-rate related instruments and equities in monitored by the ALCO, which decides on actions that are necessary the trading book financial instruments or commodities held for for effective interest rate risk management and follows up on their trading purposes : and b foreign exchange risk and commodities implementation.
The major aspects of interest rate risk management risk throughout the Group.
development and the respective reporting are periodically provided to the Management Board, the Supervisory Board, the Board and the Risk, The Groups strategy is not to be involved in trading financial Ethics and Compliance Committees.
instruments or investments in commodities.
Accordingly, the Groups only exposure to market risk is foreign exchange risk in The Group measures four types of interest-rate risk based on the source its structural book, comprising its regular commercial banking of the risk: i re-pricing risk: ii yield curve risk: iii basis risk: and iv activities which have no trading, arbitrage or speculative intent.
The Group considers numerous stress scenarios, including different yield curve shifts and behavioural adjustments to cash flows such as Foreign exchange risk deposit withdrawals or loan prepayments, to calculate the impact on Due to the Georgian economys significant reliance on foreign one-year profitability and enterprise value.
Appropriate limits are set by currencies, movements in foreign exchange rates can adversely affect the Supervisory Board and the Management Boards Risk Committee.
This risk stems from the open currency positions created due to mismatches in foreign currency assets and Under the ICAAP framework, the Group reserves capital in the amount liabilities.
The National Bank of Georgia requires the Bank to monitor of the adverse effect of possible parallel yield curve shift scenarios on both balance-sheet and total aggregate balance including off-balancenet interest income over a one-year period for Basel II Pillar 2 capital sheet open currency positions and to maintain the latter within 20% of calculation purposes.
In addition, the Group has developed stress-tests the Banks regulatory capital.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the in accordance with Basel II requirements to ensure that the Bank can Bank maintained an aggregate balance open currency position of 1.5%.
withstand severe but probable stress scenarios.
In addition, the Supervisory Board sets further limits on open currency positions.
The ALCO has set limits on the level of exposure by currency Counterparty risk and for total aggregate position that are more conservative than those Through performing banking services, as lending in the interbank set by the National Bank of Georgia and the Supervisory Board.
The money market, settling a transaction in the interbank foreign exchange heads of the treasury and financial risk management departments market, entering into interbank transactions related to trade finance or separately monitor the Banks compliance with these limits daily.
investing in securities, TBC Bank is exposed to the risk of losses due to Compliance with these limits is also reported daily to the Management the failure of a counterparty bank to meet its obligations.
Board and periodically to the Supervisory Board and its Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee.
On the Group-wide level, foreign-exchange risk To manage counterparty risk, the Bank defines limits on an individual is monitored and reported monthly.
A value-at-risk analysis following basis for each counterparty and as well on a portfolio basis by limiting the Basel guidelines is used to assess the Banks minimum capital the expected loss from both treasury and trade finance exposures.
As of requirements under the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process 31 December 2017, TBC Banks interbank exposure was concentrated ICAAP framework monthly.
with banks that external agencies, such as Fitch, Moodys and Standard and Poors, have assigned high A-grade credit ratings.
Interest rate risk management Interest rate risk arises from potential changes in market interest rates Non-financial risk management that can adversely affect the value of the Groups financial assets and Operational risk management liabilities.
This risk can arise from maturity mismatches of assets and One of the main risks that the Group faces is operational risk, which liabilities, as well as from the re-pricing characteristics of such assets is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes and and liabilities.
The deposits and most of the loans offered by the Group systems, human error, fraud or external events.
It includes legal risk are at fixed interest rates, while a portion of the Groups borrowing is but excludes strategic and reputational risk.
However, reputational risk based on a floating interest rate.
management is also given high importance and priority and is an integral part of the organisations overall risk culture.
The Groups floating rate borrowings are, to a certain extent, hedged because the National Bank of Georgia pays a floating interest rate on the The Group is exposed to many types of operational risk, including: minimum reserves that TBC Bank holds with it.
Furthermore, many of fraudulent and other internal and external criminal activities: TBC Banks loans to and deposits from customers contain a clause breakdowns in processes, controls or procedures: and system failures allowing it to adjust the interest rate on the loan deposit in case of or cyber-attacks from an external party with an intention to make the adverse interest rate movements, thereby limiting exposure to interest Groups services or supporting infrastructure unavailable to its intended rate risk.
The management also believes that TBC Banks interest rate users, which in turn may jeopardise sensitive information and financial margins provide a reasonable buffer to mitigate the effect of a possible transactions of the Group, its clients, counterparties or customers.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Moreover, the Group is subject to the risks that cause disruption to Various policies, processes and procedures are in place to control and systems performing critical functions or business disruption arising mitigate operational risks, including: from events wholly or partially beyond its control, for example, natural enacting an outsourcing risk management policy, which enables the disasters, transport or utility failures, etc, which may result in losses or Group to control outsourcing vendor risk arising from adverse reductions in service to customers and or economic losses to the Group.
events and risk concentrations due to failures in vendor selection, insufficient controls and oversight over a vendor and or services The operational risks discussed above are also applicable where the provided by a vendor and other impacts to the vendor: Group relies on outside suppliers of services.
Considering the fastimplementing procedures to analyse systemic flaws and take changing environment and sophistication of both banking services and corrective measures to prevent the reoccurrence of significant losses possible fraudsters, the importance of constantly improving processes, involving the operational risk management department in the controls, procedures and systems is heightened to ensure risk approval process for new products and services to minimise risks prevention and reduce the risk of loss to the Group.
relating thereto: and developing a special operational risk awareness programme for the To oversee and mitigate operational risk, the Group has established an Groups employees and providing regular training to further operational risk management framework, an overarching document that strengthen the Groups internal risk culture.
outlines the general principles for effective operational risk management and defines the roles and responsibilities of various parties involved in During 2017 particular attention was given to operational risk the process.
Policies and procedures enabling effective management of concerns arising from an incidence of identity fraud in the fourth operational risks are an integral part of the framework.
Using an apostilled power of attorney, which was ultimately confirmed as fraudulent by the account owner, a third The Management Board ensures a strong internal control culture party was able to gain access to our clients bank account and within the Group, where control activities are an integral part of withdraw approximately US$ 800,000 in cash.
The Board sets the operational risk appetite and the reoccurrence of this type of fraud, extra control measures were Operational Risks Committee oversees compliance with the limits.
The added to the Banks identity verification process and its Operational Risks Committee discusses the Groups operational risk corresponding policies.
profile and risk minimisation recommendations on a regular basis.
Compliance The operational risk management department acts as second line of The compliance department is a key body executing the Banks defence.
It is responsible for implementing the framework and compliance function, has a formal status and is independent from appropriate policies and procedures to enable the Group to manage operating structural units and business lines.
The compliance operational risks, as well as monitoring operational risk events, risk functions role is executed by a compliance officer, who acts as a exposures against risk appetite and material control issues.
compliance adviser and coordinator, addressing compliance issues The department is also responsible for the day-to-day management in structural units or business lines.
The chief compliance officer of operational risks using various techniques.
These include but are reports quarterly to the Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee, not limited to: with a disciplinary reporting line to the CEO.
running risk and control self-assessments, which are aimed at detecting possible gaps in operations and processes with the The department is responsible for the Groups compliance and purpose of suggesting appropriate corrective actions: reputational risk management.
It implements and monitors the forming an internal risk event database for further quantitative fulfilment of requirements of the following policies: and qualitative analysis: the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Policy: performing internal control to detect systematic errors in the Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption and Anti-Facilitation of Tax banking operations, internal fraud events and monitoring key risk Evasion Policy: indicators: the Related-Party Transaction Policy: conducting scenario and root-cause analyses: the Share Dealing Policy: and providing business advisory services regarding non-standard the Whistleblowing Policy.
cases as well as assessments of new products and procedures: monitoring IT incident occurrence and overseeing activities The compliance department manages regulatory risk by conducting targeted at solving identified problems: and root cause analyses of customer complaints, the operational risk obtaining insurance policies to transfer the risk of losses from event database, internal audit findings and litigation cases.
Based on operational risk events.
the outcomes of these analyses, it then initiates changes to internal instructions or gives recommendations to the Banks structural The operational risk management department has reinforced its units on relevant process amendments.
The compliance officer has internal control, risk assessment teams and methodologies to further the role of educator and adviser on compliance issues.
The fine-tune the existing control environment.
The same applies to the set compliance department delivers training courses via distanceof actions directed to homogenise operational risk management learning and face-to face sessions to existing staff members and processes throughout the Groups member companies.
The operational newcomers, and promotes a compliance culture within the Group.
risk management department reports to the chief risk officer.
68 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance As part of its ongoing operations in 2017, the National Bank of Additionally, the Groups management understands that it bears Georgia has conducted a thematic inspection of the Bank covering the responsibility to a diversified group of domestic and international past six years.
Over this period, it has identified a certain number of investors and needs to embrace the rules and mechanisms of transactions in connection with which the Bank was required to pay protecting customers and maintaining the confidence of investors penalties in the aggregate amount of GEL 1.9 million.
The majority of and financial markets.
The Groups directors strive to establish the these transactions were related to few companies, which were tone from the top, which sets out the messages describing and considered not to be properly identified and the amount of a single illustrating the core components of good conduct.
penalty for most of these transactions did not exceed GEL 1,000.
In managing conduct risk, the Group entrusts different departments However, the National Bank of Georgia noted the progress that the and divisions with carrying out the task of managing, mitigating and Bank has made to date, as well as the planned actions going eliminating the conduct risk across all the Groups operations with forward, and assessed the level of anti-money laundering and clients and other stakeholders.
The compliance and operational risk counter-terrorist financing controls as acceptable.
The Bank paid departments cooperate to create a unified conduct risk management these penalties from the appropriate provisions that had been framework and assist the business lines and departments in: created for similar actions and operations in the previous years and, 1. developing and maintaining policies and procedures to ensure accordingly, there was no impact on the Banks profit and loss that the respective departments and individual employees statement in the 2017 results.
comply with the provisions set out by regulatory provisions, best practice and the Groups internal handbook: The new EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR will come 2. maintaining a liaison with the compliance department regarding into force on 25 May 2018, which will apply mainly to our holding the administration of policies and procedures and the company, TBC Bank Group PLC.
Given the fact that the Groups investigation of complaints regarding the conduct of the operations are mainly in Georgia, which is outside EU, the impact of department, its manager and or its employees: GDPR on the Group will be limited.
However, the Group is in the 3. ensuring that product information provided to clients by the process of assessing the scope, given that the GDPR applies to front-line employees is accurate and complete, and is conveyed entities outside the EU offering goods and services into the EU, and both in written and oral form in a simple and understandable developing respective actions.
way regardless of the level of sophistication of a given client: 4. maintaining records of client conversations and emails that contain sensitive and sales-related information, including information Information Security Steering Committee pertaining to the acquisition of new clients and making complex An Information Security Steering Committee has been established and product offers to existing and prospective clients: charged with continuously improving information security and business 5. delivering timely on-boarding training for new employees continuity management processes and minimising information security regarding proper conduct and ensuring that all employees stay risks.
The committee has been formed to centralise the information up to date on evolving compliance standards within the Group security function, including physical security, HR security, data security, through periodic training: IT security and business continuity.
6. developing an open culture that encourages employees to speak up without fear of punishment.
Specifically, this means setting up The Group invests in effective information security risk management, processes for the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest, incident management and awareness programmes, which are enhanced creating ethical incentives and bonus formulas, and aligning with automated tools that ensure acceptable levels of information incentives and disciplinary practices to the Groups risk appetite: and security risk within the organisation.
Whenever preventive controls are 7. employing qualified staff and sufficient human and technological not applicable, comprehensive business continuity and incident resources to investigate, analyse, implement and monitor sales response plans ensure the Groups ability to operate on an ongoing basis and after-sales activities.
and limit losses in the event of a severe business disruption.
The above approach ensures that the management of conduct risk is Conduct risk not limited to risk management units, including the compliance Conduct risk is defined as the risk to the delivery of fair outcomes department, but is fully embraced by the front-line departments and for customers and other stakeholders.
that the proper conduct is fully integrated into required job skills.
The Groups business holds a unique place of trust in the lives of more than 2.2 million customers throughout Georgia.
Therefore, Viability statement preserving market confidence through the protection of our The assessment of principal risks underpins the Viability Statement customers interests is of utmost importance for the financial in the Directors Report for 2017, see pages 111 to 112.
The stability of the Group and the attainment of its strategic objectives.
assessment involved consideration of the Groups current financial position over three years of coverage ending 1 January 2021, which The Groups employees undertake and perform their responsibilities is relevant to the strategic considerations of the Group.
They are critical to maintaining trust and confidence in its operations and upholding the important values of trust, loyalty, prudence and care.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 INFOCUS YEARS OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PETRE OTSKHELI WINGED PAINTER 1936 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AREAS OF FOCUS ARTS PEOPLE SPORTS CULTURE INFOCUS YEARS OF OUR PEOPLE
