Mondi Group 34 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Our principal risks O ur principal risks proactive approach to risk management Our internal control environment is designed to safeguard the Groups assets, ensure compliance with laws and regulations and provide reasonable assurance that the Groups business objectives will be achieved.
Risk management is by nature a dynamic magnitude of the impact in the event that and approved by the individual operating and ongoing process.
Our well-defined the risk event occurs.
The risk rating matrix committees.
The most significant risks are approach is flexible to ensure that it remains is based on the residual risk that the Group reported to the Group executive committee relevant at all levels of the business, and faces after taking into consideration the and subsequently to the audit committee dynamic to ensure we can be responsive internal control environment and other and Boards.
The Boards also consider The risk management process ensures that particularly important given the diversity changes in current principal risks and review the various operating committees in the of the Groups locations, markets and emerging risks during the year.
The Boards business units review the principal risks in production processes.
have established specific risk tolerance levels their respective businesses and identify the for each category of risk.
In combination with the audit committee, actions and controls in place to mitigate the the Boards have conducted a robust The audit committee is responsible for risks.
Management assurance is provided assessment of the principal risks to which reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness on both a formal and an informal basis Mondi is exposed and they are satisfied that of the Groups internal control and risk and risk management is embedded in all the Group has effective systems and controls management processes.
The committee decision-making processes, with ongoing in place to manage its principal risks within performs an annual review of the risk review by the Boards and risk assessments the risk tolerance levels established.
management policy and plan, including forming part of all investment decisions.
consideration of acceptable risk tolerance The details of the review and the risk In establishing the overall risk levels for the Group.
Each of the Groups management framework and processes on management framework: significant risks are reviewed in detail by which the Groups risk review is based are the audit committee through the course e The Boards and their committees have set out below.
This report only addresses of the year, considering the detailed risk approved the Groups financial, business our most significant risks.
description, the controls and mitigating conduct, operating, and administrative actions in place and the resultant residual policies, including those relating to Our risk management framework risk exposure.
As in prior years, in 2018 delegation of signing authorities and Our risk management and internal control the committee will continue to focus on information security.
The policies provide framework is designed to address all the the significant risks to the Group and the a framework for the Groups internal significant strategic, financial, operational, actions taken to mitigate these risks.
control environment and outline required and compliance risks that could undermine standards of behaviour.
Business units The sustainable development committee our ability to achieve our business are required to ensure that they adhere monitors and reviews material safety, objectives in the future.
to approved Group policies and that they health, environment and other sustainable have implemented their own supporting The Boards have overall responsibility for development risks.
Sustainability risks policies where appropriate.
setting the Groups strategy and have put in are considered throughout the Group place procedures for identifying, evaluating, e In line with the approved delegation and on an annual basis the sustainable and managing the related risks.
They have of authorities such as the approval of development risks are reviewed and approved the Groups risk management major capital investments, acquisitions, updated at both business unit and framework and are responsible for and disposals, specific matters Group level by the Group sustainable monitoring and maintaining the effectiveness are reserved for board or executive development team before being reviewed of the Groups risk management activities committee approval.
and approved by the executive committee and internal control processes.
The Boards and the Boards.
e The audit committee approves the annual determine the Groups risk appetite, internal audit plan and the Boards approve Business units are required to conduct an using a risk rating matrix which takes into the annual budget and three-year plan.
annual, detailed review of their risks and consideration both the likelihood and the compile a risk register which is reviewed Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 35 Our internal control environment With our structured approach the control environment is subject to regular oversight and review to ensure that there are no significant deficiencies, that control weaknesses are identified and addressed, and that new or emerging risks are identified early and monitored regularly.
The three levels of assurance in our internal control environment comprise: Operational Management review Independent management and assurance assurance e The Groups organisational e Management is responsible e The Group has a centrally structure is regularly reviewed.
for continually reviewing the coordinated internal audit Where circumstances dictate, Groups operating and financial function, which makes use of local changes to the organisational performance, including monthly competency, and reports directly structure are recommended to the management accounts.
executive committee or Boards to The Groups reporting cycle e Speakout provides a confidential ensure it remains relevant.
includes the monthly flash hotline for reporting irregularities.
and management reports, a e Key policies and procedures Follow up is coordinated by internal quarterly outlook, and the annual covering all main areas of business audit and reported on at each budget and three-year plan.
conduct are approved by the audit committee meeting.
Detailed monthly management Boards and each business unit is e External assurance is provided reports and variance analyses required to adhere to these overall through external audit which is comparing actual and planned Group policies.
designed to detect material errors results are prepared.
These regular e Management is responsible and material irregularities that reviews are designed to ensure for continually reviewing impact the financial statements.
ongoing monitoring of financial their entitys operating and e The Group is registered with, performance and early financial performance and for and subject to, regular audits identification of potential issues preparing and reviewing monthly by a number of standard setting and or emerging risks.
e A number of Group functions e Twice a year, all financial e Mondi is subject to regular review have been established to provide managers are required to and vetting by external regulatory oversight, central coordination, and complete an internal control bodies as well as non-regulatory management of certain specialised assessment and provide written parties, including annual insurance risk areas.
These include: confirmation of compliance with assessments, sustainable information technology, Group Group policies and procedures.
development assurance, and business unit controlling, This formal confirmation highlights and information security sustainable development, safety any control weaknesses or penetration testing.
and health, treasury and tax.
Each function has board-approved policies in place against which conduct throughout the Group is assessed.
e Regular reviews of financial and operating performance, progress of significant capital investment projects and plans, and a detailed assessment of current market conditions take place at Group level and, in more depth, at business unit level.
Mondi Group 36 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Our principal risks Our most significant risks 1.
Industry productive capacity Over the course of the past year, the audit 2.
Product substitution committee has reviewed each of the principal 12 3 1 14 3.
Fluctuations and variability in selling risks set out below.
In evaluating the Groups prices or gross margins risk management and internal control 4.
Country risk processes, the committee has considered 11 4 5.
Capital structure both internal and external audit reports and 6.
Currency risk received confirmation from the finance heads 7.
Tax risk of the business units that financial control 8 frameworks have operated satisfactorily.
Cost and availability of raw materials 10 7 6 13 9.
Energy security and related The majority of the Groups most significant input costs risks are long-term in nature and in general 10.
Technical integrity of our 2 do not change significantly in the short-term.
15 operating assets 9 In considering the ever increasing competition 11.
Environmental impact for talent in a number of the markets in 12.
Employee and contractor safety which the Group operates, the Boards have 13.
Attraction and retention of key skills 5 included attraction and retention of key skills and talent and talent as a significant risk, as the only 14.
Reputational risk Likelihood change from the prior year.
Information technology risk Strategic Financial Operational Compliance Strategic risks Risk tolerance: The industries and geographies in which we operate expose us to specific long-term High risks which are accepted by the Boards as a consequence of the Groups chosen strategy and operating footprint.
Key person responsible: While there have been no significant changes in our strategic risk exposure during the Peter Oswald Chief Executive Officer year, we continue to monitor recent capacity announcements and the developments in the process as the UK seeks to exit the European Union.
The executive committee and Boards monitor our exposure to these risks and evaluate investment decisions against our overall exposures so that our strategic capital investments and acquisitions take advantage of the opportunities arising from our deliberate exposure to such risks.
1 Industry productive capacity Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities Plant utilisation levels are the main driver of profitability in paper mills.
New capacity We monitor industry developments in terms of changes in capacity and utilisation additions are usually in large increments which, through their impact on the levels, as well as trends and developments in our own product markets.
supply demand balance, influence market prices.
Unless market growth exceeds We routinely review our asset portfolio and capacity utilisation levels to drive capacity additions, excess capacity may lead to lower selling prices.
In our performance and safeguard our assets.
converting operations, investments in newer technology may lower operating Our strategic focus on production at low cost and innovation activities to achieve costs and provide increased product functionality, increasing competition and cost advantages and produce higher value added responsibly produced and impacting margins.
sustainable products, combined with our focus on growing markets and consistent investment in our operating capacity, ensures that we can remain competitive.
2 Product substitution Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities Changing global socio-economic and demographic trends and consumption Our ability to meet changes in consumer demand depends on our capacity patterns, and increased public awareness of sustainability challenges affect the to correctly anticipate change and develop new products on a sustainable, demand for Mondis products.
Customers needs and purchasing power are changing in emerging markets.
Opportunities also exist for us to take market share from substitutes produced by Substitution may be to different products not produced by Mondi or to different our competitors.
Our focus is on products enjoying positive substitution dynamics solutions meeting the same customer requirement.
and growing regional markets as we work with our customers to develop new markets and new products.
Factors that may positively or negatively impact the demand for our products include reduced weight of packaging materials, increased use of recycled materials, electronic Our broad range of converting products provides some protection from the effects substitution of paper products, substitution of plastic packaging, increased demand of substitution between paper and plastic-based packaging products.
for high-quality printed material, certified and responsibly produced goods, and specific material qualities.
Impact Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 37 3 Fluctuations and variability in selling prices or gross margins Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities Our selling prices are determined by changes in capacity and demand for our Our strategic focus is on higher growth markets and products where we enjoy a products, which are, in turn, influenced by macroeconomic conditions, consumer competitive advantage through innovation, proximity or production cost.
spending preferences, and inventory levels maintained by our customers.
We continue to invest in our high-quality, cost advantaged asset base to ensure we Changes in prices differ between products and geographic regions and the timing maintain our competitive cost position and continue to further develop businesses and magnitude of such changes have varied significantly over time.
Gross margins with better long term fundamentals.
in our downstream converting operations are impacted by fluctuations in key input We are committed to meeting service levels and product quality requirements.
costs which cannot be passed on to customers in all cases.
Our high levels of vertical integration reduce our exposure to price volatility of our key input costs.
In our downstream operations the focus is on passing through our main material costs to sales prices.
Our financial policies and structures take the inherent price volatility of the markets in which we operate into consideration.
4 Country risk Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities We have production operations across more than 30 countries: some in We actively monitor all countries and environments in which we operate.
jurisdictions where the political, economic and legal systems are less predictable Regular formal and informal interaction with government officials, local than in countries with more developed institutional structures.
Political or economic communities and business partners assist us to remain abreast of changes and upheaval, inflation, changes in laws, nationalisation, or expropriation of assets may new developments.
have a material effect on our operations in those countries.
The Boards have approved specific country risk premiums to be added to Uncertainties remain over the outcomes of the UKs decision to exit from the the required returns on investment projects in those countries where risks are European Union.
deemed to be higher and new investments are subject to rigorous strategic and commercial evaluation.
Where we have large operations in higher risk locations, we maintain a permanent internal audit presence and operate asset protection units.
We are in the process of reviewing how we assess, monitor and manage risks in our supply chain, including the use of country-based risk assessment tools and databases.
Our geographic diversity and decentralised management structure, utilising local resources in countries in which we operate, reduces our exposure to any specific jurisdiction.
Financial risks Risk tolerance: Our approach to financial risk management is set out in more detail in the Strategy Medium to Low review and Group financial performance.
We aim to maintain an appropriate capital structure and to conservatively manage our financial risk exposures in compliance with Key person responsible: all laws and regulations.
Andrew King Chief Financial Officer Despite ongoing short-term currency volatility and increased scrutiny of the tax affairs of multinational companies, our overall residual risk exposure remains similar to previous years, reflecting our conservative approach to financial risk management.
5 Capital structure Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities A strong and stable financial position increases our flexibility and provides us with We operate a central treasury function under a board-approved treasury policy.
the ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise.
We provide regular reporting to the Boards on our treasury management policies.
Compliance with treasury policies at operating level is monitored by our Our ability to raise debt and or equity financing is significantly influenced by general central treasury function and we engage external advisors to review our central economic conditions, developments in credit markets, equity market volatility, and treasury function.
We aim to maintain an investment grade credit rating and we have access to a Failure to obtain financing at reasonable rates could prevent us from realising our variety of sources of funding with varying maturities.
strategy and have a negative impact on our competitive position.
Mondi Group 38 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Our principal risks Financial risks 6 Currency risk Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities We operate in more than 30 countries and are thus exposed to the effect of We fund our entities in their local currencies to minimise translation risk.
changes in foreign currency rates.
The impact of currency fluctuations affects us This exposes us to interest rate risk from these currencies which we aim because of mismatches between the currencies in which our operating costs are to manage through interest rate swaps and fixed rate borrowings.
incurred and those in which revenues are received.
Balance sheet exposure and material forecast future capital expenditure Key operating cost currencies that are not fully offset by local currency transactions are hedged.
We do not permit speculative currency positions.
denominated revenues include the South African rand, Polish zloty, Swedish krona, We do not hedge our exposure to projected future sales or purchases and and Czech koruna: while the revenues generated in US dollar, Russian rouble and our businesses respond to currency fluctuations through changes in selling UK pound sterling are greater than operating costs incurred in those currencies.
prices or increasing the level of exports where competitiveness improves as In addition, appreciation of the euro compared with the currencies of the other key currencies weaken.
paper producing regions or paper pricing currencies, notably the US dollar, would Our strategic focus on sustainable value and driving performance along the reduce the competitiveness of the products Mondi produces in Europe compared value chain provides inherent cost advantages, protecting us from adverse with imports from such key paper-producing regions which could potentially lead to currency fluctuations.
7 Tax risk Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities We operate in a number of countries all with different tax systems.
We make The Boards have approved the Groups tax policy.
We aim to manage our affairs significant intragroup charges, the basis for which is subject to review during conservatively and our operations are structured tax efficiently to take advantage of tax audits.
In addition, the international tax environment is becoming more onerous, requiring We have dedicated tax resources throughout the Group supported by a centralised increasing transparency and reporting and in-depth scrutiny of the tax affairs of Group tax team.
We obtain external advisory opinions for all major tax projects, such as acquisitions and restructuring activities, and make use of external benchmarks where possible.
Arms length principles are applied in the pricing of all intra group transactions in accordance with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development guidelines.
Operational risks Risk tolerance: A low residual risk tolerance is demonstrated through our focus on operational excellence, Low investment in our people and commitment to the responsible use of resources.
Our investments to improve our energy efficiency, engineer out our most significant Key people responsible: safety risks, improve operating efficiencies, and renew our equipment continue to Peter Oswald Chief Executive Officer, reduce the likelihood of operational risk events.
However, the potential impact of any John Lindahl Group Technical and such event remains unchanged.
Sustainability Director 8 Cost and availability of raw materials Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities Access to sustainable sources of raw materials is essential to our operations.
We are committed to acquiring our raw materials from sustainable, responsible sources and avoiding the use of any controversial or illegal supply.
We are involved We have access to our own sources of wood in Russia and South Africa and we in multi-stakeholder processes to address challenges in meeting the global purchase wood, paper for recycling, pulp, and polymers for film production to meet demand for sustainable, responsible fibre and we encourage legislation supporting our needs in the balance of our operations.
the local collection of recycled materials.
Wood prices and availability may be adversely affected by reduced quantities The sustainable management of our forestry operations is key in managing our of available wood supply that meet our standards for Chain-of-Custody CoC overall environmental impact, helping to protect ecosystems, and developing certified or Controlled Wood and initiatives to promote the use of wood as a resilient landscapes.
We have built strong forestry management resources in Russia renewable energy source.
and South Africa to actively monitor and manage our wood resources in those countries.
We continue to certify our forests with credible external certifications.
We have multiple suppliers for each of our operations and our centralised procurement teams work closely with our operations in actively pursuing longerterm agreements with strategic suppliers.
We have developed an internal monitoring and risk assessment system to understand and manage the performance of our suppliers and their adherence to our Suppliers Code of Conduct.
We are working to improve our understanding and management of sustainability risks within our supply chain.
We support the introduction of legislation to address human rights issues, such as the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, and are committed to achieving more transparency in the supply chain to address the risks.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 39 9 Energy security and related input costs Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities Mondi is a significant consumer of electricity which is generated internally and We monitor our electricity usage, carbon emission levels and use of renewable purchased from external suppliers.
Most of our larger operations have high levels of electricity self-sufficiency.
Where we do not generate electricity from biomass and by-products of our We focus on improving the energy efficiency of our operations by investing in production processes, we are dependent on external suppliers for raw materials improvements to our energy profile and increased electricity self-sufficiency, while such as gas, oil and coal.
reducing ongoing operating costs and carbon emission levels.
Increasing energy costs contribute significantly to increasing chemical, fuel, and Where we generate electricity surplus to our own requirements, we may sell such transportation costs which are often difficult to pass on to customers.
We also generate income from the sale of green energy credits in certain of our operations at prices determined in the open market.
As an energy-intensive business, we face potential physical and regulatory risks related to climate change.
We focus on optimising the use of biomass-based fuels in order to reduce our use of fossil-based energy sources.
10 Technical integrity of our operating assets Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities We have five major mills which account for approximately 75% of our total pulp and Our capital investment programme supports the replacement of older equipment paper production capacity, and a significant consumer packaging manufacturing to improve both reliability and integrity, and our proactive repair and maintenance facility in Germany.
strategy is designed to improve production reliability and minimise breakdown risks.
If operations at any of these key facilities are interrupted for any significant We conduct detailed risk assessments of our high-priority equipment and have length of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position specific processes and procedures in place for the ongoing management and or performance.
Accidents or incidents such as fires, explosions, or large machinery breakdowns We actively monitor all incidents and have a formal process which allows us to or the inability of our assets to perform the required function effectively and share lessons learnt across our operations, identify emerging issues, conduct efficiently whilst protecting people, business, the environment and stakeholders benchmarking, and evaluate the effectiveness of our risk reduction activities.
could result in property damage, loss of production, reputational damage, and or Our Fire Protection programme is supported by independent loss prevention audits safety incidents.
and we take out property insurance cover for key risks.
11 Environmental impact Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities We ensure that we are complying with all applicable environmental, health We operate in an environmentally high-impact sector and need to manage the associated risks and responsibilities.
and safety requirements where we operate.
Our own policies and procedures, at or above local policy requirements, are embedded in all our operations Our operations are water, carbon and energy intensive: consume materials such and are supported through the use of externally accredited environmental as fibre, polymers, metals and chemicals: and generate emissions to air, water management systems.
We are the custodian of more than two million hectares of forested land.
We consider potential impacts on constrained resources, loss of biodiversity and We focus on a clean production philosophy to address the impact from ecosystems negatively impacted by our forestry and manufacturing operations.
We emphasise the responsible management of forests and associated ecosystems and protect High Conservation Value areas.
We are subject to a wide range of international, national and local environmental We ensure that we manage our forests responsibly and implement measures to laws and regulations, as well as the requirements of our customers and protect biodiversity.
expectations of our broader stakeholders.
Costs of continuing compliance, potential restoration and clean-up activities, and increasing costs from the effects We collaborate with stakeholders to contribute to addressing sustainability of emissions have an adverse impact on our profitability.
challenges such as creating a circular economy for plastics.
The impacts of climate change such as rising frequency and intensity of water We undertake compliance assessments in relation to regulatory requirements such shortages, floods and storms worldwide and pests and diseases also have the as the EU Industry Emissions and Energy Efficiency Directives to determine future potential to impact on our operations and forests.
12 Employee and contractor safety Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities We operate large facilities, often in remote locations.
Accidents incidents cause We have a goal of zero harm and aim to continuously advance our 24-hour safety injury to our employees or contractors, property damage, lost production time, mindset and safety culture.
We continually monitor incidents and close calls and and or harm to our reputation.
actively transfer learnings across our operations.
Risks include: fatalities, serious injuries, illness, disease, and substance abuse.
We apply an externally accredited safety management system and conduct regular audits of our operations to ensure our facilities remain fit-for-purpose.
We have implemented a project to engineer out the most significant risks in our operations supported by robust controls and procedures for operating those assets.
We provide extensive training to ensure that performance standards and practice notes are communicated and understood and our incentives are impacted by the non-achievement of safety milestones.
Mondi Group 40 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Our principal risks Operational risks 13 Attraction and retention of key skills and talent Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities Our success is driven by our people.
Key to our long-term success is attracting, Our culture and values play a key role in empowering and inspiring our people.
retaining, recruiting and developing a skilled and committed workforce.
These are highlighted by various Inspire programmes and collaboration initiatives throughout our operations.
We have a zero tolerance policy towards discrimination Access to the right skills, particularly management and technical skills is critical and we provide equal opportunities for all employees.
to support the performance and growth of our business.
Operations in remote locations make attracting and retaining skilled employees challenging.
To attract skills and talent we are investing in employer branding.
We have implemented measures to monitor and manage succession planning, staff Losing skills or failing to attract new talent to our business has the potential to turnover, internal placements and training.
undermine our ability to drive performance and deliver on our strategic objectives.
We are engaged in fair and transparent recruitment practices, and have reviewed and updated our diversity as well as our labour and human rights policies.
We ensure competitive compensation levels through benchmarking and continue to support and invest in Group-wide as well as local training programmes.
We regularly conduct performance and development reviews at a local level and carry out a Group-wide employee survey approximately every two years.
Through a confidential reporting hotline, Speakout, employees can raise concerns about conduct that may be contrary to our values.
Compliance risks Risk tolerance: We have a zero tolerance approach to compliance risks.
Our strong culture and values, Low emphasised in every part of our business, with a focus on integrity, honesty and transparency, underpins our approach.
Key person responsible: Andrew King Chief Financial Officer 14 Reputational risk Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities Non-compliance with the legal and governance requirements and globally We operate a comprehensive training and compliance programme, supported by established responsible business conduct in any of the jurisdictions in which we self-certification and reporting, with personal sanction for failure to comply with operate and within our supply chain could expose us to significant risk if not actively Group policies.
Failure to successfully manage relationships with our stakeholders could Our legal and governance compliance is supported by a centralised legal disrupt our operations and adversely impact the Groups reputation.
compliance team and is subject to regular internal audit review.
These requirements include laws relating to the environment, exports, price We engage with our stakeholders through formal and informal processes controls, taxation, competition compliance, human rights, and labour.
such as our Socio-economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT and Community Fines imposed by authorities for non-compliance are severe and, in some cases, Engagement Plans.
legislation can result in criminal sanction for entities and individuals found guilty.
We have a confidential reporting hotline, Speakout, enabling employees, Areas of weaker governance also present the challenge of addressing potential customers, suppliers, managers and other stakeholders to raise concerns about human rights issues in our operations and supply chain.
The introduction of conduct that may be contrary to our values.
human rights legislation, such as of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 has further We increasingly work with our suppliers to identify and assess risks and promote highlighted the need to identify and address potential risks of child labour, forced or responsible business conduct in the value chain.
bonded labour and human trafficking in our supply chain.
15 Information technology risk Potential impact Monitoring, mitigation and independent assurance activities Many of our operations are dependent on the availability of IT services and an We have a comprehensive IT security policy approved by our Boards.
extended interruption of such services may result in plant shutdown and an inability We conduct regular threat assessments and utilise external providers to evaluate to meet customer requirements.
and review our security policies and procedures.
Cyber crime continues to increase and attempts are increasingly sophisticated, Where possible, we have redundancies in place, our system landscape is based on with the consequences of successful attacks including compromised data, well-proven products, and we have cyber crime insurance.
financial fraud, and system shutdowns.
We operate an extensive training and awareness programme for all our users.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 41 Viability statement The Group meets its funding requirements from a variety of sources as more fully As part of the approval of this integrated described in the financial statements.
report, the Boards have assessed the The Boards are satisfied that the Group will Groups prospects and viability.
The Boards have sufficient liquidity to meet its needs believe that the three-years to December over the planning horizon.
In the scenarios 2020 is an appropriate period over which evaluated, the Group remains within its key a reasonable expectation of the Groups financial covenant ratio in terms of which longer-term viability can be evaluated.
its net debt to trailing 12-month underlying In coming to this view, the Boards have EBITDA ratio must not exceed 3.5 times.
considered the inherent volatility in Taking into account the Groups long-term commodity prices and exchange rates, the strategy, the principal risks described time taken for new investments in pulp and above, and the results of the downside paper production capacity to be introduced scenario assessments, the directors into the market, typical new product have a reasonable expectation that the development cycles, and the Groups Group remains viable over the period of capital structure.
Given the strategic risks the assessment.
described above, the Boards believe that the ability to assess the Groups longerGoing concern term viability beyond this period becomes The directors have reviewed the Groups increasingly less predictable.
budget, considered the assumptions Mondis geographical spread, product contained in the budget, and reviewed diversity, and large customer base mitigate the significant risks which may impact potential risks of customer or supplier the Groups performance in the near liquidity issues.
These include an evaluation of the management in implementing profit current macroeconomic environment and improvement initiatives, which include reasonably possible changes in the Groups ongoing investment in operations, plant trading performance.
optimisation, cost-cutting, and restructuring and rationalisation activities, have The Groups financial position, cash flows, consolidated the Groups leading positions liquidity position, and borrowing facilities in its chosen markets.
are described in the annual financial statements.
At 31 December 2017, Mondi The Boards have considered the Groups had 791 million of undrawn, committed current financial position, strategy and debt facilities.
The Groups debt facilities plans for the next three years, marking the have maturity dates of between 1 and 8 end of the Groups formal planning horizon.
years, with a weighted average maturity The Groups budget and plan has been of3.8 years.
tested for severe, but plausible, downside Based on our evaluation the Boards scenarios linked to the Groups principal considered it appropriate to prepare risks.
These include lower packaging and the financial statements on the going uncoated fine paper prices and weaker concern basis.
Given the Groups geographical spread, the potential impact of exchange Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt rate fluctuations has also been evaluated, the going concern basis in preparing including a weaker US dollar euro exchange the Integrated report and financial rate and stronger emerging market statements 2017. currencies.
Based on the results of these scenarios, the Boards are satisfied that the Group will be able to respond to such circumstances through various means which may include a reduction of capital expenditure and further rationalisation and or restructuring, to ensure that the Group can continue to meet its ongoing obligations.
