Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties Managing our PRINCIPAL RISKS The effective management of risk is essential for delivering our strategic objectives.
As such, risk management is built into our day-to-day activities and forms an integral part of how we operate.
Fluctuations in exchange rates Compliance with laws and regulations Moderate Low 3 1 We have operations which sell and purchase goods in foreign We operate in a large number of jurisdictions and, consequently, currencies and whose results we record in a variety of different are subject to wide-ranging laws and regulations.
We are therefore exposed to any significant changes in Any failure by the Group or its representatives to comply exchange rates.
with relevant laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal liabilities, leading to significant fines and penalties Impact or the disqualification of the Group from participation in Unexpected variations in the Companys results.
government-related contracts for a period of time.
In the Reduced profitability and cash flow.
event of a failure to comply with export control regulations, the Group could also be exposed to restrictions being placed Mitigation upon its ability to trade.
Forward foreign exchange contracts cover up to 75% of Impact forecast transactional exposures up to 18 months ahead.
Reduced sales, profitability and cash flow.
Natural hedging strategy, matching invoicing and purchasing currencies where practical.
Foreign currency investments hedged with borrowings in the Diversion of management resources resulting in lost same currency wherever possible.
Regular monitoring, including sensitivity analyses to Penalties arising from breach of laws and regulations.
understand the impact of exchange rate movements on the Inability to attract and retain talent.
Mitigation 2017 update Strong culture, internal control framework and policies.
On average, Sterling weakened relative to most other Ethics training provided to all employees.
currencies over the year, which had a positive impact on our reported results from a translational perspective, albeit to a Formal export controls compliance procedures in place, including strict product classification and transaction lesser extent than in 2016. screening protocols.
Our hedging policy continued to provide certainty and reduce Comprehensive insurance covers all standard categories of volatility to the Groups cash flows.
Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure to contractual liability.
2017 update The Group continued to take a number of actions aimed at further mitigating this risk.
These included formalisation and enhancement of the sales control framework in China, roll-out of conflicts of interest training and voluntary disclosure programme in China, Taiwan and South Korea, repeat anti-bribery and corruption reviews, deployment of anti-bribery and corruption as well as fair competition face-to-face workshops and introduction of alignment of values and incentives.
We continue to ensure that we are responsive to issues raised through the Groups ethics hotline.
For more details of our ethics programme see pages 46 to 47.
34 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key: Link to strategy Risk appetite Assessment Change in risk level Innovative solutions Very low Very low Higher 1 Market presence Low Low Same 2 Expanding globally Moderate Moderate Lower 3 Operational excellence High High New risk 4 NR Capital deployment Very high Very high 5 Information security Acquisitions Low Moderate 1 3 As with most organisations of a similar size and complexity, our Integration of the operations and personnel of acquired businesses face both internal and external information security businesses can be a complex process.
Potential risks therefore exist risks, the nature and complexity of which are constantly changing, that the planned benefits from the acquisition may not be becoming more sophisticated and unpredictable.
In addition, achieved as a result of problems encountered during integration regulatory responsibilities in relation to data protection are of the acquired business, incorrect assumptions made in the becoming increasingly stringent, including the implementation of business case, changing market conditions, or issues which were the General Data Protection Regulation 'GDPR' from May 2018. not identified during the due diligence process.
Further, the Company could be exposed to past acts or omissions of the Impact acquired business.
Delay or impact on decision making through lack of available Impact reliable data or disruption of service.
Failure to attract sufficient numbers of high quality businesses Loss of commercially sensitive or personal information.
to meet our growth targets.
Reduced service to customers due to poor information handling Failure to achieve the benefits outlined in the business case.
Failure to identify new markets.
Mitigation Reduced profitability and cash flow.
Our businesses employ a number of physical and logical control Unforeseen liabilities.
measures designed to reduce the risk of a breach in information security arising.
Mitigation Our systems are monitored against unauthorised access.
Rigorous financial, commercial and legal assessment of target A programme of continuous improvement focusing businesses involving external consultants as appropriate.
on information security risks evaluates whether the Strict authority levels which, subject to size, involve review Groups existing controls in this area would benefit from by the Board for such transactions.
Comprehensive representations and warranties in Employees receive online and face-to-face awareness training purchase agreements.
of information security risks and controls.
Cyber risk and security is reviewed regularly by the Board to Regular review of the acquired businesses against the address the evolving landscape.
The Group has appointed a Group Head of Information Risk 2017 update Governance and a GDPR training programme is being rolled out There continued to be a healthy level of acquisition activity in our to employees throughout the organisation.
We participated in this activity, making four bolt-on acquisitions, and we continue to look for additional opportunities.
We have been careful to maintain our rigorous financial, commercial and legal due diligence and disciplines, which has meant that we have also excluded ourselves from a number of potential deals.
Spectris plc 35 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Strategy execution Competitive activity Low 4 3 Very low The Groups strategic priorities are set out on pages 8 and 9.
The nature of the markets in which we operate means that all of our businesses are exposed to risk from competitor activity.
The Group considers that, as with any undertaking of this kind, there is necessarily inherent risk associated with the successful Impact execution and delivery of the Groups strategic priorities.
The risks associated with some of the Groups strategic priorities Reduced financial performance arising from competitive are addressed in their own right for example, how we develop threats both from third parties and customers bringing new products and how we acquire other businesses.
Other relevant components of the Groups strategy concern: Mitigation the Groups desire to transition the business to achieving a Ongoing monitoring of competitor activity and trends in larger proportion of sales through the provision of services, the markets in which we compete.
software and solutions to customers, rather than products Maintain market-leading positions through strong customer alone: and relationships and significant investment in R&D.
during the year, the Group launched a comprehensive Diversified portfolio of products and markets limits the overall Group-wide productivity improvement programme, Project risk from any single competitor.
Over the medium term, this programme will deliver improvements in productivity, both within and across our Develop operational excellence initiatives that enable our operating companies, reducing complexity where appropriate businesses to react quickly to changes in customer and whilst preserving the entrepreneurial culture of our businesses.
We will also evaluate potential structural improvements 2017 update that can leverage Spectris scale and optimise both efficiency and effectiveness.
We maintained high levels of investment in R&D, investing 105 million 6.9% of sales, with our operating businesses Impact bringing new products and solutions to market during the year Failure to realise the Groups plans for enhanced efficiency to sustain and strengthen our strong customer relationships and and profitability.
Failure to realise the Groups growth plans.
Reduced profitability and cash flow.
People Mitigation Programme management disciplines, including a dedicated programme management office.
The Group needs to attract, develop, motivate and retain the right Talent management programme.
people to achieve our operational and strategic targets.
Effective Dashboard reporting against key growth initiatives.
talent management is essential to deliver our current and future A measured approach over time is being targeted, rather than business requirements.
Therefore, the Board has agreed to a radical change.
introduce people as a new principal risk.
This is not reflective of deterioration in this risk but in recognition of the ongoing change Enhanced risk management and reporting.
programmes underway within the Group.
2017 update Impact During 2017, we continued to make good strategic progress in Failure to recruit and retain key staff leading to reduced transitioning our customer offering towards the provision of innovation and progress against the Groups strategic aims.
solutions encompassing hardware, software and services.
Four small acquisitions were completed, adding further software, Mitigation service and testing capability.
The acquisition of Omnicon provides During the first half of 2017, the Group appointed a Director complementary software and service capability to our existing of Human Resources and a number of initiatives designed to software business within HBM, and we were pleased to complete mitigate this risk have now taken place or are under the first bolt-on for Millbrook.
During the year, we completed the development, including: sale of Microscan to Omron, recognising that this business is not consistent with the Group strategy.
In terms of the development developing a cohesive recruitment brand centred around the of the data analytics strategy, we have entered into an agreement use of LinkedIn: and to put EMS into a joint venture with Macquarie Capital which will a detailed review of Board and Executive succession plans give this business access to the Macquarie Capital network with was undertaken by the Nomination Committee in its market-leading environmental monitoring market offering.
Similarly, progress has been made in respect of Project Uplift 2017 update where a dedicated programme management office has been established, a detailed diagnostic and planning phase completed During 2017, we began a number of initiatives to mitigate this and a series of actionable plans created, with implementation of risk.
These initiatives will be built on during 2018. these beginning in 2017.
36 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Supply chain dependencies and disruption Political and economic risks Moderate 3 Low 2 We are exposed to the risk that some of the components we We operate in a range of end-user markets around the world source, particularly for custom-built items or ageing products, are and may be affected by political, economic or regulatory provided by a single supplier and are therefore vulnerable to developments in any of these countries.
Material adverse changes interruption of supply.
in the political and economic environments in the countries in which we operate have the potential to put at risk our ability to Our businesses also manufacture components using proprietary execute our strategy.
technologies at a number of locations.
Impact Our ability to supply products to customers could be adversely impacted by a disaster or other disruptive event at any of Reduced profitability and cash flow.
Mitigation Impact Maintain a broad spread of markets, products and customers Inability to fulfil customer orders, resulting in lost sales and to limit risks associated with any given territory.
Monitor market intelligence so that we can respond quickly Increased costs reduce profitability.
Ensure we remain structured in a way that enables us to take prompt action in the event of a material change in the Mitigation trading environment.
Strategic sourcing teams source cost-effective suppliers across a Ensure we maintain a strong balance sheet and range of markets whilst validating suppliers business processes, financial position.
2017 update Alternative sources of supply actively sought to reduce dependency upon single-source suppliers.
The Groups balanced geographical mix, with similar exposure to North America, Europe and Asia Rest of the world, enabled it to Safety stock levels established for critical components.
benefit from an improvement in trading conditions in each region.
Business continuity plans and disaster prevention measures in place for all material manufacturing locations.
The Group continues to monitor and control its exposure to those countries where continuing economic uncertainties exist Business interruption insurance.
and, in particular, we are evaluating carefully the implications Strong contract review process.
for the Group arising from the result of the UKs decision to leave the European Union Brexit.
2017 update As far as potential trading exposures are concerned, exports We continued to identify and qualify secondary sources of supply from the UK into the European Union represent less than 3% where key dependencies have been identified.
During the year, a of Group sales, whilst imports into the UK from the European Group Vice President Supply Chain was appointed to support and Union represent less than 1% of Group sales.
The acquisition of drive the following: Concept Life Sciences in January 2018 will not materially impact Continued focus on the Group's critical suppliers based on trading flows to and from the UK.
Our cost base in the UK is specialist independent spend analysis.
Underpinning of indirect spend that has been afforded by As a consequence, we believe that Brexit presents only limited Project Uplift.
short-term direct impact for the Group.
The main near-term risk Ongoing identification and delivery of cross-operating company for the Group arising from Brexit stems from broader savings potential.
uncertainty which could inhibit investment and increase market volatility, ultimately hindering growth in the UK and beyond.
A Brexit Risk Committee has been established and an evaluation of the potential costs of moving to World Trade Organisation rules has been performed.
The impact on the Group is not expected to be significant and there are a number of mitigating actions which can be undertaken.
The Group will continue to monitor carefully any additional exposure arising as the full implications of Brexit become clearer.
Spectris plc 37 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Intellectual property New product development 2 Very low 2 Moderate In support of the Groups business model to provide The development of new technologies and products necessarily  solutions to its customers, the Group involves risk, including: has continued to take a holistic approach towards intellectual the product being more expensive or taking longer to develop property protection and management.
The Group owns and than originally planned: registers patents and trademarks and maintains trade secrets, the product failing to reach the commercialisation phase: and confidential information and copyright as well as exploiting the market for the product being smaller than intellectual property through licensing.
The key risks are that the Group may inadvertently infringe third-party rights and that the Group may not hold sufficient Impact rights to prevent competitors independently developing similar Reduced profitability and cash flow.
There are also risks that intellectual property may Loss of market share.
be lost through failure to implement controls to safeguard confidential information or actively manage registered Failure to recoup investment in innovation.
Mitigation Impact Regular strategic evaluations of product portfolios and Reduced profitability and cash flow.
the markets in which we compete, ensuring that our investment in new products is targeted so as to maximise Loss of market share.
Failure to recoup investment in innovation.
Project management disciplines are in place across our product Mitigation development programmes and audits provide assurance that these disciplines are applied consistently.
Policies and procedures in place requiring all of our businesses to: Work closely with customers to ensure that we develop solutions tailored to their specific needs.
maintain a watching brief on new third-party patent applications and competitor activity: Maintain customer involvement throughout the life-cycle of product development to product launch through, for example, ensure adequate protection for key intellectual property, beta evaluations.
including registration where appropriate: New product developments are based on standard platforms, undertake specific freedom-to-operate technical reviews prior customised through high added-value applications engineering.
to commencing new product development, acquisitions or licences: and 2017 update register intellectual property where appropriate.
Formal strategy reviews are conducted annually and Maintain a portfolio of intellectual property assets such that are supplemented with regular updates with each no single patent, trade secret or trademark is sufficiently operating company.
important to present a material risk to the ongoing success These reviews often result in targeted investment in new of the Company.
product platforms, upgrades to existing products and services and bolt-on acquisitions.
2017 update In 2017, several important new products were launched and During the year, we continued a programme of intellectual further software, service and testing capability was added property audits and also reviewed the management and through our acquisition programme.
A programme of guidance and training in good information protection processes was implemented with an initial focus on higher risk jurisdictions.
