Risk Management Risk MANAGEMENT We recognise that effective management of risk is essential for Oversight delivering our strategic objectives.
As such, risk management is In addition, the Executive Committee and key functional personnel built into our day-to-day activities and forms an integral part of in the Group consider those risks to the Groups strategic objectives how we operate.
which are not addressed within the business units and develop appropriate approaches to managing and mitigating these.
These Committed to managing risk effectively key Group risks are analysed against a lines of defence framework The Group has a well-established process which delivers visibility which involves mapping the principal Group risks to: and accountability for risk management across our businesses.
a first line of defence comprising the key controls and sources of This process forms part of the Groups overall internal control risk mitigation implemented by our business units: framework, as described on page 61. a second line of defence consisting of various Group functions Risk management process which, together with the Executive Directors, shapes the policy framework within which the first line of defence operates and Our approach to risk management incorporates both bottom-up provides oversight and monitoring of the same: and and top-down elements to the identification, evaluation and a third line of defence identifying sources of assurance over the management of risks and all risks are evaluated with reference to the Groups achievement of its strategic objectives, as outlined effectiveness of risk management activity.
The overall effectiveness of the Groups risk management and mitigation processes is reviewed regularly by the Executive Directors Our business units are required to undertake formal risk and twice yearly by the Audit and Risk Committee.
A formal management reviews at least twice a year.
This involves the use evaluation of the Groups risk appetite has also been completed in of a consistent framework for the assessment of significant risks respect of each of the Groups principal risks.
with respect to impact, likelihood and the time frame in which the risk could materialise.
Risks are assessed both before and During the year, people-related risk was identified as an additional after the effect of controls and mitigating actions have been Group-level risk.
This concerns risk relating to the Groups ability to taken into account.
recruit, develop and retain the talent required to deliver upon our strategy as the Group implements changes to the operating model Overall ownership for each risk, together with responsibility for and seeks to deliver an increasing proportion of revenues from mitigating actions, is clearly assigned and communicated.
resulting risk registers are then subject to review on an ongoing basis as part of regular operational reviews.
This ensures that The key potential risks and uncertainties facing the Groups ability risk management is embedded in day-to-day management to deliver its strategy, together with mitigating actions, are processes and decision-making as well as in the annual described on the following pages.
Overall responsibility: Audit and Risk Committee and Group Board Determining the Groups risk appetite Oversight of the Groups internal control and risk management framework First line of defence: Business units Day-to-day ownership of risk management Second line of defence: Key Group functions programmes and Executive Directors Shaping policy and control Evaluation of risks impacting the framework Group as a whole Monitoring and oversight of risk management by business units Third line of defence: Independent assurance Assurance over the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management framework Spectris plc 33
