BAE Systems 66 Annual Report 2017 How we manage risk Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives and the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
Our principal 68 risks continuously, associated action plans reviewed, Project risks are reported and monitored in Board appropriate contingencies provisioned and Group-mandated format Contract Review The Board has overall responsibility for thisinformation reported through established Packs, which are reviewed by management determining the nature and extent of the risk management control procedures.
The financial it is willing to take, and ensuring that risks are performance of projects is reported and managed effectively across the Group.
The Board has conducted a review of the monitored using Contract Status Reports, effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk Risk is a regular agenda item at Board meetings which form part of the Contract Review Pack.
management and internal control processes, and the Board reviews risk as part of its annual These include programme margin metrics, including financial, operational and compliance strategy review process.
This provides the which are reviewed regularly by the Executive controls and risk management systems, in Board with an appreciation of the key risks Committee and Board.
Project margin is accordance with the UK Corporate Governance within the business and oversight of how recognised after making suitable allowances Code.
The Company has developed a system theyare being managed.
for technical and other risks related to of internal controls that was in place throughout performance milestones yet to be achieved.
The Board delegates oversight of certain 2017 and to the date of this report.
riskmanagement activities to the Audit In addition, every six months, the businesses As with any system of internal control, the andCorporate Responsibility committees complete an Operational Assurance Statement policies and processes that are mandated in asfollows: OAS, which is a mandated policy under the the Operational Framework are designed to Operational Framework.
The OAS is in two Audit Committee manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure parts: a self-assessment of compliance with The Audit Committee monitors the Groups to achieve business objectives and can only the Operational Framework: and a report key risks identified by the risk assessment provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance showing the key financial and non-financial processes and reports its findings to the Board against material misstatement or loss.
risks for the relevant business.
It is also responsible for reviewing Financial and non-financial risks reviews undertaken by Internal Audit and in detail the effectiveness of the Groups thework of the external auditors, the OAS Financial risks expose the Group to potential system of internal control policies, and forms the Groups process for reviewing the costs which are quantifiable on the basis procedures for the identification, assessment effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
thattheir probability and impact can be and reporting of risk.
understood adequately and related to the Executive Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee financial statements.
The key financial and non-financial risks The Corporate Responsibility Committee Non-financial risks cannot be assessed readily identified by the businesses from the risk monitors the Groups performance in managing in financial terms and, therefore, cannot be assessment processes are collated and reviewed the Groups significant non-financial risks, reflected reliably in the financial statements.
by the Executive Committee to identify those including those arising in respect of business issues where the cumulative risk, or possible conduct, health and safety, and the Process reputational impacts, could be significant.
The Committee reports its Businesses findings to the Board on a regular basis.
Management responsibility for the management The responsibility for risk identification, of the Groups most significant non-financial Approach analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests risks is determined by the Executive Committee.
withthe line management of the businesses.
The Groups Risk Management Policy is The OAS and non-financial risk registers are They are also responsible for reporting and setoutin the Operational Framework, the reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee monitoring key risks in accordance with Groupsdetailed governance framework.
to monitor the status and progression of established processes under the Groups The Groups approach to risk management mitigation plans, and these key risks are Operational Framework.
isaimed at the early identification of key risks, reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Groups risk management process is set mitigating the effect of those risks before out in the Risk Management Policy, a mandated Principal risks theyoccur and dealing with them effectively policy under the Operational Framework, The Board has carried out a robust assessment ifthey crystallise.
and, in respect of projects, in the Lifecycle of the principal risks facing the Company, The Group is committed to the protection Management Framework, a core business including those that would threaten its ofits assets, which include human resources, process under the Operational Framework.
business model, future performance, solvency intellectual and physical property, and Further guidance is provided by a Risk and liquidity.
Such risks have been identified financialresources, through an effective risk Management Maturity self-assessment tool.
as principal based on the likelihood of management process, underpinned where occurrence and the potential impact on the Identified risks are documented in risk appropriate by insurance.
Group, and have been identified through the registers showing: the risks that have been application of the policies and processes Reporting within the Group is structured identified: characteristics of the risk: the basis outlined above.
These risks, together with sothat key issues are escalated through for determining mitigation strategy: and details of how they are being mitigated and themanagement team and ultimately to whatreviews and monitoring are necessary.
managed, are detailed on pages 68 to 71. theBoard where appropriate.
The underlying Each risk is allocated an owner who has principles of the Groups risk management authority and responsibility for assessing processes are that risks are monitored andmanaging it.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 67 Operational 76 Framework Risk management framework Board Overall responsibility for risk management Monitoring Audit Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Non-financial Risk Register Non-financial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting Executive Committee Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Non-financial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting Businesses Integrated Business Plan Core Business Process Annual long-term strategy and five-year plan for each business Operational Assurance Statement Mandated Policy Six-monthly management self-assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework and summary of key risks Chief Executives Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly top-level review of the key operational, financial and non-financial performance issues within the business, and significant forthcoming bids and events Quarterly Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly management review of the performance of each of the Groups businesses against their objectives, measures and milestones Lifecycle Management Contract Review Core Business Process Monthly management review of project performance and issues to ensure that appropriate decisions and actions are taken Monitoring and reporting Business Risk Risk Management Policy Mandated Policy 1.
Analysis Financial and non-financial risks Risks analysed for impact and probability recorded in risk registers to determine gross exposure 4.
Evaluation Risk owners identified and action plans implemented Risk exposure reviewed Robust mitigation strategy subject to regular and rigorous review and risks prioritised As defined in the Groups Operational Framework.
