BAE Systems 68 Annual Report 2017 Our principal risks Risks are identified based on the likelihood of occurrence andthe potential impact on the Group.
The Groups principal risks are identified below, together with a description of how we mitigate those risks.
Defence spending The Group is dependent on defence spending.
In 2017, 92% of the Groups sales were Lower defence spending by the The business is geographically spread across US, UK and defence-related.
Groups major customers could international defence markets: havea material adverse effect In the US, after seven months under a Continuing Resolution Defence spending by governments can fluctuate ontheGroups future results that maintained funding at the prior years level, the fiscal depending on change of government policy, andfinancial condition.
year 2017 defence budget ultimately rose by approximately otherpolitical considerations, budgetary 4%.
Whilst the fiscal year 2018 budget remains under a constraints, specific threats and movements Continuing Resolution, the bipartisan budget agreement intheinternational oil price.
passed on 9 February 2018 would increase the US defence There have been constraints on government budget by approximately 10% over current levels, reflecting expenditure in a number of the Groups principal continued growth in defence spending to $700bn 518bn markets, in particular in the US and UK.
A National for the fiscal year ending 30 September 2018.
This budget Security Capability Review is being undertaken by agreement increases the budget caps for two years and the Cabinet Office, and a Modernising Defence extends the Continuing Resolution to 23 March 2018 to allow Programme was announced in January 2018 by lawmakers to pass a 2018 spending bill.
The US business has the Defence Secretary.
The outcome of both is become adept at managing through Continuing Resolutions aimed to be announced by the summer of 2018. and brief government shutdowns, mitigating any short-term interruptions across our portfolio.
The result of the EU referendum in the UK has The UK is Europes largest defence market and, after a ledto a period of uncertainty and, in the longer term, there is a risk relating to the Groups ability periodof budgetary decline, defence spending has stabilised.
The 2017 Spring Budget reinforced previous commitments to participate in further collaborative defence programmes in Europe.
toincrease defence spending, as well as the continued pledgeto maintain spending at 2% of GDP.
In Saudi Arabia, regional tensions continue to dictate that defence remains a high priority.
The diverse product and services portfolio is marketed across arange of defence markets.
BAE Systems benefits from a large order backlog, with established positions on long-term programmes in the US, UK, Saudi Arabia and Australia.
BAE Systems has a growing portfolio of commercial businesses, including commercial avionics and the commercial areas of the Applied Intelligence business.
We will support the government in achieving its aim to ensure that the UK maintains its key role in European security and defence post-Brexit, and to strengthen bilateral relationships with key partners in Europe.
This will be important for ongoing collaboration in the development of defence capabilities.
Government customers The Groups largest customers are governments.
The Group has long-standing relationships Deterioration in the Groups principal Government customers have sophisticated procurement andsecurity arrangements with a number of government relationships resulting andsecurity organisations with which the Group can have itsgovernment customers, including its three inthe failure to obtain contracts or long-standing relationships with well-established and largest customers, the governments of the expected funding appropriations, understood terms of business.
US, UKand Saudi Arabia, and their agencies.
adverse changes in the terms of its In the event of a customer terminating a contract for Itisimportant that these relationships and arrangements with those customers convenience, the Group would typically be paid for work arrangements are maintained.
or their agencies, or the termination doneand commitments made atthe time of termination.
ofcontracts could have a material In the defence and security industries, adverse effect on the Groups future governments can typically modify contracts results and financial condition.
fortheir convenience or terminate them at shortnotice.
Long-term US government contracts, for example, are funded annually andare subject to cancellation if funding appropriations for subsequent periods are notmade.
Governments also from time to timereview their terms of trade and underlying policies and seek to impose such new terms andpolicies when entering into new contracts.
The Groups performance on its contracts withsome government customers is subject tofinancial audits and other reviews which canresult in adjustments to prices and costs.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 69 Description Impact Mitigation 3. International markets The Group operates in international markets.
BAE Systems is an international company The occurrence of any such events The Group has a balanced portfolio of businesses across a conducting business in a number of regions, could have a material adverse effect number of markets internationally.
The Group benefits from including the US and the Middle East.
on the Groups future results and alarge order backlog, with established positions on long-term financial condition.
programmes in the US, UK, Saudi Arabia and Australia.
The risks of operating in some countries include: social and political changes impacting the The Groups policy is to hedge all material firm transactional business environment: economic downturns, currency exchange rate exposures.
political instability and civil disturbances: the The Groups contracts are often long-term in nature and, imposition of restraints on the movement of consequently, it may be able to mitigate these risks over capital: the introduction of burdensome taxes theterms of those contracts.
ortariffs: change of government policy and regulations in the UK, US and all other relevant Political risk insurance is held in respect of export contracts jurisdictions: and the inability to obtain or notstructured on a  basis.
maintain the necessary export licences.
BAE Systems has a well-established legal and regulatory The Group is exposed to volatility arising compliance structure aimed at ensuring adherence to frommovements in currency exchange rates,  and identifying restrictions that particularly in respect of the US dollar, euro, couldadversely impact the Groups activities, including Saudiriyal and Australian dollar.
beenvolatility in currency exchange rates in theperiod since the EU referendum in the UK.
In July 2017, the High Court of England and Wales ruledthat the UK government has been acting lawfully in granting defence export licences to theKingdom of Saudi Arabia.
The Court of Appeal is currently considering whether to permitan appeal of the High Courts decision.
Competition in international markets The Groups business is subject to significant competition in international markets.
The Groups business plan depends upon The Groups business and future The Group has an international, multi-market presence, itsabilityto win and contract for high-quality results may be adversely impacted abalanced portfolio of businesses, leading capabilities newprogrammes, an increasing number of ifit is unable to compete adequately andatrack record of delivery on its commitments to whichare expected to be in markets outside and obtain new business in the itscustomers.
markets in which it operates.
The Group continues to invest in research and development, The Group is dependent upon US and UK andto reduce its cost base and improve efficiencies, to government support in relation to a number remaincompetitive.
ofitsbusiness opportunities in export markets.
In the UK, export contracts can be structured on a  basis and government support canalso involve military training, ministerial support for promotional activities and financial support through UK ExportFinance.
In the US, most of the Groups defence exportsales are delivered through theForeign Military Sales process, under which the importing government contracts withthe US government.
BAE Systems 70 Annual Report 2017 Our principal risks continued Description Impact Mitigation 5.
Laws and regulations The Group is subject to risk from a failure to comply with laws and regulations.
The Group operates in a highly-regulated Failure by the Group, or its sales BAE Systems has a well-established legal and regulatory environment across many jurisdictions and representatives, marketing advisers compliance structure aimed at ensuring adherence to regulatory issubject, without limitation, to regulations orothers acting on its behalf, to requirements and identifying restrictions that could adversely relating to import-export controls, money comply with these regulations could impact the Groups activities.
laundering, false accounting, anti-bribery result in fines and penalties and or Internal and external market risk assessments form an andanti-boycott provisions.
It is important that the suspension or debarment of the important element of ongoing corporate development the Group maintains a culture in which it focuses Group from government contracts andtraining processes.
on embedding responsible business behaviours orthe suspension of the Groups and that all employees act in accordance with export privileges, which could A uniform global policy and process for the appointment therequirements of the Groups policies, haveamaterial adverse effect ofadvisers engaged in business development is in effect.
includingtheCode of Conduct, at all times.
BAE Systems continues to reinforce its ethics programme globally, Export restrictions could become more Reduced access to export markets driving the right behaviours by supporting employees in making stringentand political factors or changing could have a material adverse effect ethical decisions and embedding responsible business practices.
international circumstances could result in on the Groups future results and The special compliance officer, appointed pursuant to theGroup being unable to obtain or maintain financial condition.
commitments concerning ongoing regulatory compliance made necessary export licences.
in the course of the 2011 settlement with the US Department ofState, concluded his monitorship in May 2014 and, at the invitation of BAE Systems, agreed to remain in a limited capacity for a limited further period of time.
Contract risk and execution The Group has many contracts, including a small number of large contracts and fixed-price contracts.
In 2017, 47% of the Groups sales were generated The inability of the Group Contract-related risks and uncertainties are managed under by its 15 largest programmes.
At 31 December todeliveron its contractual theGroups mandated Lifecycle Management process.
2017, the Group had five programmes with order commitments, the loss, expiration, A leadership development programme for project directors backlog in excess of 1bn.
suspension, cancellation or hasbeen deployed across the Group, covering the leadership termination of any one of its large A significant portion of the Groups revenue is competencies required to manage complex projects containing contracts or its failure to anticipate derived from fixed-price contracts.
Actual costs significant levels of risk and uncertainty.
technical problems or estimate may exceed the projected costs on which the accurately and control costs on A significant proportion of the Groups largest contracts are fixed prices are agreed and, since these contracts fixed-price contracts could have with the UK Ministry of Defence.
In the UK, development can extend over many years, it can be difficult amaterial adverse effect on the programmes are normally contracted with appropriate levels of topredict the ultimate outturn costs.
Groups future results and risk being initially held by the customer and contract structures financialcondition.
It is important that the Group maintains a culture are used to mitigate risk on production programmes, including in which it delivers on its projects within tight where the customer and contractor share cost savings and tolerances of quality, time and cost performance overruns against target prices.
in a reliable, predictable and repeatable manner.
The Group has a well-balanced spread of programmes and significant order backlog which provides forward visibility.
The Group has limited exposure to fixed-price design and development activity which is in general more risk intensive than fixed-price production activity.
Robust bid preparation and approvals processes are well established throughout the Group, with decisions required to betaken at the appropriate level in line with clear delegations ofauthority.
Contract awards and cash profiles The Group is dependent on the award timing and cash profile of its contracts.
The Groups profits and cash flows are Amounts receivable under the The Groups balance sheet continues to be managed dependent, to a significant extent, on the Groups defence contracts can conservatively in line with its policy toretain an investment timingof, or failure to receive, award of besubstantial and, therefore, the grade credit rating and to ensure operating flexibility.
defencecontracts and the profile of cash timing of, or failure to receive, awards The Group monitors a rolling forecast of its liquidity receiptson its contracts.
and associated cash advances and requirements to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet milestone payments could materially itsoperational needs and maintain adequate headroom.
affect the Groups profits and cash flows for the periods affected, thereby reducing cash available to meet the Groups cash allocation priorities, potentially resulting in theneed to arrange external funding and impacting itsinvestment grade credit rating.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 71 Description Impact Mitigation 8.
Pension funding The Group has an aggregate funding deficit in its defined benefit pension schemes.
In aggregate, there is an actuarial deficit Increases in pension scheme In theUK, new employees have been offered membership betweenthe value of the projected liabilities deficitsmay require the Group ofdefined contribution rather than defined benefit schemes ofthe Groups defined benefit pension toincrease the amount of cash since April 2012 and, inthe US, employees have not accrued schemesand the assets they hold.
contributions payable to these salary-related benefits in defined benefit schemes since schemes, thereby reducing cash January2013.
The funding deficits may be adversely affected available to meet the Groups bychangesin a number of factors, including In November, the 2017 UK triennial funding valuations and, othercash allocation priorities.
investment returns and anticipated members where necessary, deficit recovery plans were agreed with the longevity.
trustees and certified by the scheme actuaries after consultation with the Pensions Regulator.
The funding deficit across the UKschemes at 31 March 2017 was 2.1bn.
Based on the newfunding valuations, the Group will increase current annual deficit recovery payments to the UK schemes to 220m a yearfrom 1 April 2018.
The deficits in each of the schemes areexpected to becleared between 2021 and 2026.
Under thelast agreement made in 2014, all scheme deficits were onlyprojected to be cleared in 2026.
Information technology security The Group could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats.
The security threats faced by the Group Failure to combat these risks The Group has a broad range of measures in place, including includethreats to its information technology effectively could negatively impact appropriate tools and techniques, to monitor and mitigate infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access the Groups reputation among its thisrisk.
toits proprietary or classified information and customers and the public, cause thepotential for business disruptions associated disruption to its business operations, with information technology failures.
and could result in a negative impact on the Groups future results and financial condition.
People The Groups strategy is dependent on its ability to recruit and retain people with appropriate talent and skills.
Delivery of the Groups strategy and business The loss of key employees or The Group recognises that its employees are key to delivering planis dependent on its ability to compete inabilityto attract the appropriate itsstrategy and business plan, and focuses on developing the torecruit and retain people with appropriate people on a timely basis could existing workforce and hiring talented people to meet current talentand skills, including those with innovative adversely impact its ability to deliver and future requirements.
its strategy, meet the business plan The Group has well-established graduate recruitment and and, accordingly, have a negative The Groups business plan is targeting an apprenticeship programmes and, in order to maximise the impact on the Groups future increasing level of business in international export contribution that its workforce can make to the performance resultsand financialcondition.
markets outside the US and UK.
It is important ofthe business, has an effective through-career capability that the Group recruits and retains management development programme.
with thenecessary international skills and In order to seek to maximise its talent pool, the Group is experience inthe relevant jurisdictions.
committed to creating a diverse and inclusive environment forits employees.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have anadverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Group.
Strategic report The Strategic report was approved by the board of directors on 21 February 2018.
