Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 51 Principal risks Understanding our risk prole Understanding Balfour Beattys risk prole and establishing the most effective way to manage, accept or transfer risk is central to the Groups decision-making process.
As such, the Board has made a robust assessment of the principal risks which the Group faces, the controls in place to remove or mitigate these risks and also whether these risks represent new, increased or decreased threats.
The Group recognises that its risk prole comprises interlinked and discrete risks.
The principal risks as set out below should therefore beconsidered alongside the viability statement on page 57 and the discussion on financial risk factors and going concern on page 47.
Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Health and safety Increased Safety and Sustainability Committee Safe Risk description What impact it might have The Group works on significant, complex and Failure to manage these risks gives the potential for significant harm to, or even the death of, potentially hazardous projects which require employees, subcontractor staff or members of the public, as well as the potential for criminal continuous monitoring and management of prosecutions, significant fines, debarment and reputational damage.
How it is mitigated Causes Balfour Beatty has detailed health and safety policies, procedures and initiatives to Some common themes where health minimise such risks.
These are reviewed and monitored by management and external andsafety risks could arise are recognised verication bodies.
and communicated, including: Each business has experienced health and safety professionals in place who provide advice risk identication assessment and support and undertake regular reviews.
processes that fail to deliver risk The Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board, as well as business-level Health and eliminationor mitigation Safety executive leadership teams, meet regularly throughout the year to develop a consistent approach to health and safety best practice.
failure in safety leadership management of subcontractors Training programmes including behavioural are in place.
not brieng people properly before Zero Harm action plans continue to be implemented and monitored.
settingthem to work Risk movement failure to follow procedures Lagging performance indicators continue to improve however the upper limits for fines ongoing change programme and andscope for prosecution have increased.
performance pressures, which may have an effect on people and their ability to remain focused on health and safety risks.
Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Work winning No change Group Tender and Investment Committee Trusted Risk description What impact it might have Failure to identify, price, and execute the right Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs versus scope, time to complete, impact of volume and quality of bids and investment ination and exchange rates, and failure to understand specication changes and contractual opportunities to maintain a profitable, terms and how best to manage them could cause financial losses.
sustainable order book and deliver value In the event of disagreement with, failure of, or poor delivery performance by a joint venture to stakeholders.
partner, the Group could face financial and reputational risks.
Causes If any of the assumptions behind investment decisions prove incorrect, the profitability Inaccuracy in: ofthose investments could be reduced.
assumptions behind investment decisions How it is mitigated costs versus scope and time calculations Consistent and shared policies and minimum commercial expectations including acceptable margins.
project programme and task duration estimates A wide and ongoing range of training initiatives across all disciplines within the Group including design and specications not fully Cash is our Compass and High Value Selling to drive increased commercial awareness and an developed or understood understanding of expectations on margins and cost.
assessment of the impact of ination All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and tendering processes as part of the gateway andexchange rates review process.
c ontract management Commercial contractual reviews are conducted by key commercial and legal staff.
negotiation of terms and conditions Dened delegated authority levels are in place for approving all tenders and assessment of customers liquidity infrastructure investments.
creditworthiness Reviews are conducted following all tenders to ensure lessons are learnt, captured and assessment of joint venture partners appliedto future tenders.
Before entering into a joint venture agreement, the Group reviews the relevant skills, experience, resources and values of joint venture partners to understand how they complement its own.
Investment appraisals are performed and reviewed by experienced professionals.
The Group analyses the risks associated with revenues and costs and, where appropriate, establishes contractual and other risk mitigations.
com AR2017 52 Principal risks Understanding our risk prole continued Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Project execution No change Group management Trusted Risk description What impact it might have Failure to deliver projects at the required Failure to manage or deliver against contracted customer requirements on time, on budget specication on time and on budget to meet and to an appropriate quality could result in issues such as contract disputes, rejected the expectations of customers and minimise claims, design issues, liquidated damages, cost overruns, failure to achieve customer the risk of delay-related damages and savings and costs to rectify defective work which in turn harm Balfour Beattys profitability defect liabilities.
Causes The Group may also be exposed to long-term obligations including litigation and costs torectify Failure to implement, maintain and defective or unsafe work.
challengeoperational and commercial Execution failure on a high-prole project could result in significant reputational damage controls as detailed within checklists at and costs.
Gatereviews 4-6 allowing: How it is mitigated unrealistic programming targets An increased focus on identifying and reporting risks, including the accuracy of cost and non-availability of specialist resource cash forecasting.
unrealistic progress assessments and Consistent application of strong commercial management and contract costto complete judgements administration processes.
overly-optimistic claim Targeted recruitment of key staff within project delivery teams and senior management, recovery assumptions together with ongoing and focused training of staff via the Balfour Beatty Academy.
incomplete visibility and appreciation of Ongoing project resource reviews.
scale of commercial judgements Gateway process embedded within each business and held on the Business Management inaccurate and or incomplete cost and System to increase accuracy and consistency within work winning and project delivery.
value data or failure to analyse and report correctly, which could arise due to poor Site Mobilisation Hub in place to facilitate early and effective start-up on site.
training, lack of supervision, lack of Use of innovative and cost effective engineering and technical solutions.
accountability or fear of reporting bad news Planning and programming is undertaken to mitigate unforeseen events and changes.
failings in administering the contract terms Drive for defect-free delivery is being embedded at all levels.
to safeguard or protect future claims, change and extensions of time EOTs.
Professional indemnity cover in place to provide further financial safeguards.
Balfour Beatty monitors the performance of joint ventures, joint venture partners, subcontractors and suppliers throughout the lifecycle of a project.
Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Data governance and Increased Group management Trusted cyber security Risk description What impact it might have Breach of the Data Protection Act or the Crystallisation of this risk has the potential for: General Data Protection Regulation GDPR the business facing legal proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting in business and or key company data or other condential disruption, losses, fines and penalties and reputational damage information is lost, stolen or compromised.
a reduction or loss of competitive advantage including loss of intellectual property Causes a negative impact on customer relationships, including loss of confidence Failure to correctly assess and prepare for: exclusion from bidding opportunities.
the new GDPR How it is mitigated the ongoing threat of cybercrime Data Protection Ofcers embedded throughout the businesses to ensure breaches are malicious intent and or targeted attack reported promptly and risks are appropriately escalated to the Group Data Protection officer for consideration and assessment.
breakdown of key security software or management system.
Data protection programme covering policies, procedures and approved access levels in place alongside a comprehensive training plan.
The Groups exposure has been reduced via a significant reduction in approved suppliers.
All data is stored in secure data centres with strengthened back-up procedures.
Regular review and communication of the ever-changing cyber threats and how they manifestthemselves in practical guidance that all employees and contractors understand.
Use of up-to-date anti-viral software and increased patching of key software.
All employees are trained in and must comply with information security management obligations.
Risk movement The potential risk exposure has increased as a result of the higher level of fines which willbeenforceable under The General Data Protection Regulation.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 53 Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Uncertainty within our No change The Board Expert economic environment Risk description What impact it might have The effects of national or market trends, Any significant changes in the level or timing of customer spending or investment plans could political or regulatory change including adversely impact the Groups strategy, business model, revenue or profitability in the short or the UKs exit from the EU and the change medium term.
of administration in the US, or new Restrictions to the availability of skilled labour and competitively priced materials will lead developments in infrastructure expenditure toaloss of competitive advantage and a devaluation of the business.
or procurement may cause customers to Financial failure of a customer, including any government or public sector body, could result re-evaluate existing or future projects.
Causes How it is mitigated Failure to plan for any potentially negative The Groups strategy to focus on the more resilient and stable infrastructure markets and impacts, or to capture any opportunities geographies will help mitigate this risk.
The effect of spending changes in any one market is thatmay be presented could lead to: mitigated by the Groups broad exposure to infrastructure markets and the continued need customers postponing, reducing or forinfrastructure spending.
Balfour Beatty also mitigates the effects of such market conditions changing expenditure plans by continuing to adapt its business model.
wider than expected uctuations in ination The Group is actively monitoring the potential impacts of the UK exiting the EU including increased competition eg in the UK from potential market stimulation by the UK Government, freedom of movement, finance costs, foreign investors acquiring competitors exchange rates and commodity prices.
A dedicated Group-wide forum is in place for this increased supply chain risks eg solvency, purpose and issues a Brexit position paper for external audiences which is updated every people and materials second month.
reduced revenue or pressure on margins.
The financial solvency and strength of counterparties is always considered before contracts are signed and such assessments are updated and reviewed whenever possible during the project lifecycle.
The business also seeks to ensure that it is not over-reliant on any one counterparty.
Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: People No change The Board Expert Risk description What impact it might have Inability to attract and retain required levels Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled people could harm the Groups ability to win of skilled and competent staff to meet the orperform specic contracts, grow its business and meet its strategic objectives.
A high level of staff turnover or low employee engagement could result in a drop in confidence Causes in the business within the market, customer relationships being lost and an inability to focus Perceived limitations to internal on business improvements.
career development How it is mitigated Lack of recognition and reward The Balfour Beatty Academy has been established in the UK to provide professional development and knowledge sharing opportunities and to ensure employees feel valued Failure of businesses to promote goodnews stories andspecialisms are recognised.
Failure to maintain a culture of pride Regular reviews of remuneration arrangements to ensure they are appropriate to help inthe workplace theGroup attract, motivate and retain key employees.
Lack of a diverse workforce Strong employee communication channels are in place celebrating individual, business Restrictions in the availability of andGroup-level successes.
An annual Group-wide employee engagement survey is undertaken to measure engagementand appropriate actions are developed and communicated.
Recruitment and retention rates are measured and regularly reviewed across all parts ofthe business.
Afnity networks have been established to create a diverse and inclusive working environment.
Emerging talent is supported via a range of graduate, apprenticeship, trainee and industrial placement internship schemes including The 5% Club see page 32.
Competency frameworks within core job families identify and support the development ofkeyknowledge, skills and expertise.
The talent review process focuses on succession and the talent pipeline is supported byvarious development initiatives across the Group.
com AR2017 54 Principal risks Understanding our risk prole continued Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Realising the No change The Board All transformation programme Risk description What impact it might have The momentum gained via the policies, Failure to capture fully the benets of Build to Last could result in the Groups ability to deliver process, and practices of Build to Last sustained profit being jeopardised.
isnot maintained and potential benets How it is mitigated arenot realised.
Ensuring Build to Last continues to deliver the Groups standard operating procedures Causes isastrategic priority for the Group and is being led by the Group Chief Executive.
To enable the transformation programme Controls include: to succeed, a culture of adhering to the continuing to embed the Build to Last culture within each business unit Build to Last principles must be continued senior leadership communication across the businesses is clear and frequent and enhanced.
new systems and processes are deployed with training plans and in agreed phases Failing to grow this culture could result from: employee surveys form a key part of the programme ineffective communication leaders throughout the business frequently monitor the delivery and impacts inadequate resourcing financial, physical ofthe programme and people senior leadership is well experienced in delivering business transformation successfully.
complacency within core disciplines new systems and processes being used without appropriate controls being in place and or tested.
Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Financial strength No change The Board Trusted Risk description What impact it might have Inability of the Group to maintain the financial Failure to deliver effectively the required financial strength will mean the Group: strength required to operate its business and fails to meet financial covenant tests, as set out in its nancing facility agreements, deliver its objectives.
thatwould lead to an event of default if not remedied within a specic grace period Causes fails to pass the required tests that allow it to continue to adopt the going concern basis Failure to manage financial risks, including ofpreparing the financial statements forecasting material exposures, and the loses the ability to compete for key long-term contracts that are critical to the delivery financial resources of the Group that underpin ofitslong-term objectives and viability.
its ability to: How it is mitigated meet ongoing liquidity obligations so that The Group operates with a centralised treasury function that is responsible for managing itremains a going concern keynancial risks, cash resources and the availability of liquidity and credit capacity.
meet financial covenants as set out in The Group maintains significant undrawn term committed bank facilities with a banking nancing facility agreements groupof high credit-quality to underpin the liquidity requirements of the Group.
maintain the confidence of customers The Group maintains significant bank and surety bonding facilities to deliver trade finance andkey markets and therefore continue requirements of the Group on an ongoing basis.
The Group operates standardised reporting, forecasting and budgeting financial processes.
This allows monitoring of the impact of business decisions on financial performance over future time horizons.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 55 Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Supply chain Decreased Group management Lean Risk description What impact it might have Supply chain partners are not able to meet Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result in the Group having to nd a replacement the Groups operational expectations and orundertaking the task itself.
This could result in delays, additional costs or a reduction in requirements including availability, financial quality owing to lack of expertise.
stability, technical ability, quality, safety, Mistreatment of suppliers, subcontractors and their staff, or poor ethical standards in the environmental, social and ethical.
supply chain, could lead to legal proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting in business Causes disruption, losses, fines and penalties, reputational damage and debarment.
Supply chain failure risk, exacerbated How it is mitigated during, and when emerging from, The Group aims to develop long-term relationships with key subcontractors, working closely tougheconomic conditions with them to understand their operations and dependencies.
Over-reliance on a limited number Contingency plans in place to address subcontractor failure including replacement supplier list.
of suppliers Lessons are learnt from supply chain performance.
Retention of subcontracted parties inbuoyant markets All UK trade suppliers and subcontractors are assessed using the Constructionline service thatcollects, assesses and monitors standard company information through a question set Inadequate assessment of supply aligned to PAS 91, the industry-standard pre-qualication questionnaire.
chain partner capabilities and process including safety, ethics, quality, material The risk management framework and the gateway review process allow for early stewardship, child labour, forced labour Gates1-4 and ongoing Gate 6 assessment of the appropriateness of resource allocation andmodern slavery and dependencies.
Failure to accurately assess project My Contribution programme generates ideas for more effective procurement and resourcing.
resource requirements and key deliverables The Group obtains project retentions, bonds and or letters of credit from subcontractors, Unethical treatment of the supply chain.
where appropriate to mitigate the impact of any insolvency.
Key supplier audits within projects to ensure they are in a position to deliver consistently against requirements.
Group-wide Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct, and related policies andprocedures in place.
Risk movement Increased rigour in the pre-qualication processes, consolidation of the supply chain andimproved monitoring of supplier performance.
Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Business conduct compliance No change The Board Trusted Risk description What impact it might have The Group operates in various markets Failure by the Group, or employees and third parties acting on its behalf or in partnership, that present business conduct-related to observe the highest standards of integrity and conduct could result in legal proceedings risks involving fraud, bribery or corruption, including prosecution under the UK Bribery Act, investigations or disputes resulting in whether by its own staff or via third parties business disruption, losses, fines and penalties, reputational damage and debarment.
such as agents, partners or subcontractors.
How it is mitigated Those risks are higher in some countries and The Business Integrity function promotes, monitors, assesses awareness of and provides sectors.
Overall, the construction industry training on, the Code of Conduct.
The function provides reports to the Audit and Risk hasa higher risk prole than other industries.
Committee and has the full support of the Board.
Causes Each business unit, supported by the Business Integrity function, is responsible for C orruption embedding the Code of Conduct.
B ribery The Group has a range of risk assessment, due diligence and procurement controls that are Fraud, deception, false claims or designed to identify and manage risks with third parties.
false accounting Independent third-party whistleblowing hotline and dedicated email are in place and actively U nfair competition promoted.
All in-scope complaints are independently investigated by the Business Integrity Human rights abuses, such as child function and appropriate action is taken, where necessary.
and other labour standards generally, Balfour Beatty works with a limited number of agents, all of whom undergo a due diligence illegal workers, human trafcking and approval process.
andmodern slavery Unethical treatment of and by thesupply chain Risk of ethics and values being compromised as a result of commercial pressures Other emerging ethical risks.
com AR2017 56 Principal risks Understanding our risk prole continued Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Legal and regulatory No change The Board Trusted Risk description What impact it might have The Group does not comply with all legal, The business could face legal proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting in business taxand regulatory requirements.
disruption, losses, fines and penalties, reputational damage and exclusion from bidding.
Causes Such action could also impact upon the valuation of assets within that territory.
A failure to recognise or adapt to How it is mitigated changes in applicable laws affecting The Group monitors and responds to tax, legal and regulatory developments and requirements theGroups businesses.
in the territories in which it operates.
Such changes may include: Local legal and regulatory frameworks are considered as part of any decision to conduct obligations as a result of government business in a new country.
regulatory enquiry and enforcement actions Appropriate and responsive policies, procedures, training and risk management processes adverse changes of law, including changes arein place throughout the business.
to tax law local procurement laws exclusion from bidding or blacklisting.
Risk: Owner: Build to Last pillar: Legacy pension liabilities No change The Board Lean Risk description What impact it might have The Group is exposed to significant dened Failure to manage these risks adequately could lead to the Group being exposed to significant benefit pension risks.
additional liabilities due to increased pension deficits.
Causes How it is mitigated The Group is unable to ensure that the The Group constructively engages with the trustees of the pension funds to ensure trustees of the pension funds react effectively that they are taking appropriate advice and the funds assets and liabilities are being to or manage: managed appropriately.
changes in interest rates The Groups main UK fund has hedged in excess of 80% of its exposure to interest rate andination movements.
ination or life expectancy trends intervention by regulators or legislators investment performance of thefundsassets.
More generally and in addition to its principal risks Balfour Beatty faces significant risks and uncertainties that are common to many companies including financial and treasury, communications and marketing, wider information security, business continuity and crisis management, and hazard risks.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017
