Strategic report performance Risk factors The risks discussed below, separately or in combination, could have An event such as a significant operational incident, legal proceedings a material adverse effect on the implementation of our strategy, our or a geopolitical event in an area where we have significant activities, business, financial performance, results of operations, cash flows, could reduce our credit ratings.
This could potentially increase financing liquidity, prospects, shareholder value and returns and reputation.
costs and limit access to financing or engagement in our trading activities on acceptable terms, which could put pressure on the groups liquidity.
Credit rating downgrades could also trigger a requirement for Strategic and commercial risks the company to review its funding arrangements with the BP pension Prices and markets our financial performance is impacted by trustees and may cause other impacts on financial performance.
In the fluctuating prices of oil, gas and refined products, technological change, event of extended constraints on our ability to obtain financing, we could exchange rate fluctuations, and the general macroeconomic outlook.
be required to reduce capital expenditure or increase asset disposals in order to provide additional liquidity.
See Liquidity and capital resources Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and on page 251 and Financial statements Note 27. demand and margins can be volatile.
Political developments, increased supply from new oil and gas sources, technological change, global Joint arrangements and contractors varying levels of control economic conditions and the influence of OPEC can impact supply and over the standards, operations and compliance of our partners, demand and prices for our products.
Decreases in oil, gas or product contractors and sub-contractors could result in legal liability and prices could have an adverse effect on revenue, margins, profitability reputational damage.
If significant or for a prolonged period, we may have to We conduct many of our activities through joint arrangements, write down assets and re-assess the viability of certain projects, which associates or with contractors and sub-contractors where we may may impact future cash flows, profit, capital expenditure and ability to have limited influence and control over the performance of such maintain our long-term investment programme.
Our partners and contractors are responsible for the in oil, gas and product prices may not improve margin performance as adequacy of the resources and capabilities they bring to a project.
If there could be increased fiscal take, cost inflation and more onerous these are found to be lacking, there may be financial, operational or terms for access to resources.
The profitability of our refining and safety risks for BP.
Should an incident occur in an operation that BP petrochemicals activities can be volatile, with periodic over-supply or participates in, our partners and contractors may be unable or unwilling supply tightness in regional markets and fluctuations in demand.
to fully compensate us against costs we may incur on their behalf or on Exchange rate fluctuations can create currency exposures and impact behalf of the arrangement.
Where we do not have operational control of underlying costs and revenues.
Crude oil prices are generally set in US a venture, we may still be pursued by regulators or claimants in the dollars, while products vary in currency.
Many of our major project event of an incident.
development costs are denominated in local currencies, which may be Digital infrastructure and cyber security breach of our digital subject to fluctuations against the US dollar.
security or failure of our digital infrastructure including loss or misuse of Access, renewal and reserves progression our inability to access, sensitive information could damage our operations, increase costs and renew and progress upstream resources in a timely manner could damage our reputation.
adversely affect our long-term replacement of reserves.
The oil and gas industry is subject to fast-evolving risks from cyber threat Delivering our group strategy depends on our ability to continually actors, including nation states, criminals, terrorists, hacktivists and replenish a strong exploration pipeline of future opportunities to access insiders.
A breach or failure of our digital infrastructure including control and produce oil and natural gas.
Competition for access to investment systems due to breaches of our cyber defences, or those of third opportunities, heightened political and economic risks in certain parties, negligence, intentional misconduct or other reasons, could countries where significant hydrocarbon basins are located and seriously disrupt our operations.
This could result in the loss or misuse of increasing technical challenges and capital commitments may adversely data or sensitive information, injury to people, disruption to our business, affect our strategic progress.
This, and our ability to progress upstream harm to the environment or our assets, legal or regulatory breaches and resources and sustain long-term reserves replacement, could impact legal liability.
Furthermore, the rapid detection of attempts to gain our future production and financial performance.
unauthorized access to our digital infrastructure, often through the use of sophisticated and co-ordinated means, is a challenge and any delay Major project delivery failure to invest in the best opportunities or or failure to detect could compound these potential harms.
These could deliver major projects successfully could adversely affect our financial result in significant costs including the cost of remediation or performance.
We face challenges in developing major projects, particularly in Climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy geographically and technically challenging areas.
Operational challenges policy, legal, regulatory, technology and market change related to the and poor investment choice, efficiency or delivery at any major project issue of climate change could increase costs, reduce demand for our that underpins production or production growth could adversely affect products, reduce revenue and limit certain growth opportunities.
Changes in laws, regulations, policies, obligations, social attitudes and Geopolitical exposure to a range of political developments and customer preferences relating to the transition to a lower carbon consequent changes to the operating and regulatory environment economy could have a cost impact on our business, including increasing could cause business disruption.
compliance and litigation costs, and could impact our strategy.
Such changes could lead to constraints on production and supply and access We operate and may seek new opportunities in countries and regions to new reserves.
Technological improvements or innovations that where political, economic and social transition may take place.
support the transition to a lower carbon economy, and customer Political instability, changes to the regulatory environment or taxation, preferences or regulatory incentives related to such changes that alter international sanctions, expropriation or nationalization of property, fuel or power choices, such as towards low emission energy sources, civil strife, strikes, insurrections, acts of terrorism and acts of war may could impact demand for oil and gas.
Depending on the nature and disrupt or curtail our operations or development activities.
These may speed of any such changes and our response, this could adversely in turn cause production to decline, limit our ability to pursue new affect the demand for our products, investor sentiment, our financial opportunities, affect the recoverability of our assets or cause us to performance and our competitiveness.
See Climate change on incur additional costs, particularly due to the long-term nature of many page 50. of our projects and significant capital expenditure required.
Events in or relating to Russia, including trade restrictions and other Competition inability to remain efficient, maintain a high quality sanctions, could adversely impact our income and investment in or portfolio of assets, innovate and retain an appropriately skilled workforce relating to Russia.
Our ability to pursue business objectives and to could negatively impact delivery of our strategy in a highly competitive recognize production and reserves relating to these investments could market.
Our strategic progress and performance could be impeded if we are Liquidity, financial capacity and financial, including credit, unable to control our development and operating costs and margins, or exposure failure to work within our financial framework could impact to sustain, develop and operate a high-quality portfolio of assets our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
We could be adversely affected if competitors offer superior terms for access rights or licences, or if our innovation in areas such as Failure to accurately forecast or work within our financial framework exploration, production, refining, manufacturing, renewable energy or could impact our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
Trade and new technologies lags the industry.
Our performance could also be other receivables, including overdue receivables, may not be recovered negatively impacted if we fail to protect our intellectual property.
and a substantial and unexpected cash call or funding request could disrupt our financial framework or overwhelm our ability to meet our obligations.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary 57 Our industry faces increasing challenge to recruit and retain skilled and Compliance and control risks experienced people in the fields of science, technology, engineering and US government settlements failure to comply with the terms of our mathematics.
Successful recruitment, development and retention of settlement with the US Environmental Protection Agency related to the specialist staff is essential to our plans.
Gulf of Mexico oil spill may expose us to further penalties or liabilities or Crisis management and business continuity failure to address an could result in suspension or debarment of certain BP entities.
incident effectively could potentially disrupt our business.
Failure to satisfy the requirements or comply with the terms of the Our business activities could be disrupted if we do not respond, or are administrative agreement with the US Environmental Protection Agency perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to any major crisis or EPA, under which BP agreed to a set of safety and operations, ethics if we are not able to restore or replace critical operational capacity.
and compliance and corporate governance requirements, could result in suspension or debarment of certain BP entities.
Insurance our insurance strategy could expose the group to material uninsured losses.
Regulation changes in the regulatory and legislative environment could increase the cost of compliance, affect our provisions and limit our BP generally purchases insurance only in situations where this is legally access to new growth opportunities.
Some risks are insured with third parties and reinsured by group insurance companies.
Uninsured losses could have a Governments that award exploration and production interests may material adverse effect on our financial position, particularly if they arise impose specific drilling obligations, environmental, health and safety at a time when we are facing material costs as a result of a significant controls, controls over the development and decommissioning of a field operational event which could put pressure on our liquidity and cash and possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or non-renewal flows.
Royalties and taxes tend to be high compared with those imposed on similar commercial activities, and in certain jurisdictions there is a degree of uncertainty relating to tax law Safety and operational risks interpretation and changes.
Governments may change their fiscal and Process safety, personal safety, and environmental risks regulatory frameworks in response to public pressure on finances, exposure to a wide range of health, safety, security and environmental resulting in increased amounts payable to them or their agencies.
risks could result in regulatory action, legal liability, business interruption, Such factors could increase the cost of compliance, reduce our increased costs, damage to our reputation and potentially denial of our profitability in certain jurisdictions, limit our opportunities for new licence to operate.
access, require us to divest or write down certain assets or curtail or Technical integrity failure, natural disasters, extreme weather or a cease certain operations, or affect the adequacy of our provisions for change in its frequency or severity, human error and other adverse pensions, tax, decommissioning, environmental and legal liabilities.
events or conditions could lead to loss of containment of hydrocarbons Potential changes to pension or financial market regulation could also or other hazardous materials or constrained availability of resources used impact funding requirements of the group.
Following the Gulf of Mexico in our operating activities, as well as fires, explosions or other personal oil spill, we may be subjected to a higher level of fines or penalties and process safety incidents, including when drilling wells, operating imposed in relation to any alleged breaches of laws or regulations, which facilities and those associated with transportation by road, sea or could result in increased costs.
Ethical misconduct and non-compliance ethical misconduct or There can be no certainty that our operating management system or breaches of applicable laws by our businesses or our employees could other policies and procedures will adequately identify all process safety, be damaging to our reputation, and could result in litigation, regulatory personal safety and environmental risks or that all our operating activities action and penalties.
will be conducted in conformance with these systems.
See Safety and Incidents of ethical misconduct or non-compliance with applicable laws security on page 47. and regulations, including anti-bribery and corruption and anti-fraud laws, Such events or conditions, including a marine incident, or inability to trade restrictions or other sanctions, or non-compliance with the provide safe environments for our workforce and the public while at recommendations of the ethics monitor appointed under the terms of our facilities, premises or during transportation, could lead to injuries, the EPA settlements, could damage our reputation, result in litigation, loss of life or environmental damage.
As a result we could face regulatory action and penalties.
regulatory action and legal liability, including penalties and remediation Treasury and trading activities ineffective oversight of treasury and obligations, increased costs and potentially denial of our licence to trading activities could lead to business disruption, financial loss, operate.
Our activities are sometimes conducted in hazardous, remote regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation.
or environmentally sensitive locations, where the consequences of such events or conditions could be greater than in other locations.
We are subject to operational risk around our treasury and trading activities in financial and commodity markets, some of which are Drilling and production challenging operational environments and regulated.
Failure to process, manage and monitor a large number of other uncertainties could impact drilling and production activities.
complex transactions across many markets and currencies while Our activities require high levels of investment and are sometimes complying with all regulatory requirements could hinder profitable conducted in challenging environments such as those prone to natural trading opportunities.
There is a risk that a single trader or a group of disasters and extreme weather, which heightens the risks of technical traders could act outside of our delegations and controls, leading to integrity failure.
The physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas field, regulatory intervention and resulting in financial loss, fines and and cost of drilling, completing or operating wells is often uncertain.
We potentially damaging our reputation.
See Financial statements may be required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations because of Note 27. a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or Reporting failure to accurately report our data could lead to regulatory irregularities in geological formations, equipment failures or accidents, action, legal liability and reputational damage.
adverse weather conditions and compliance with governmental requirements.
External reporting of financial and non-financial data, including reserves estimates, relies on the integrity of systems and people.
Failure to report Security hostile acts against our staff and activities could cause harm data accurately and in compliance with applicable standards could result to people and disrupt our operations.
in regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.
Acts of terrorism, piracy, sabotage and similar activities directed against our operations and facilities, pipelines, transportation or digital infrastructure could cause harm to people and severely disrupt operations.
Our activities could also be severely affected by conflict, civil strife or political unrest.
Product quality supplying customers with off-specification products could damage our reputation, lead to regulatory action and legal liability, and impact our financial performance.
Failure to meet product quality standards could cause harm to people and the environment, damage our reputation, result in regulatory action and legal liability, and impact financial performance.
The Strategic report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary on 29 March 2018.
58 See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
