Risk identication and escalation 48 Risk management framework Reinforcing a strong culture of risk management Oversight Audit & Risk Committee Business environment risk Policy tone from the top Common risk infrastructure Executive risk steering group Strategic risk Process | People | Technology Risk process Risk management community of practice Strategic Business Units & Enabling Functions Operating risk 1.
Monitor The Gated Lifecycle Key project risks assessed at each gate Contract Commissioning Defects liability Initial enquiry Tender Mobilisation Execution negotiations &handover period Gate 1 Gate 2 Gate 3 Gate 4 Gate 5 Gate 6 Gate 7 Gate 8 End of Initial Tender Tender Contract Pre-commencement Monitoring Project defects Go No Go Go No Go submission signing and control completion liability approval approval approval approval period Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance mitigation and controls Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 49 Introduction Balfour Beattys risk management process continues to evolve to ensure it is reective of the shape of the business and its operations.
In 2017, the Enterprise Risk management team was repositioned to be fully aligned with the Internal Audit function to further sharpen the focus on the Groups internal risk and control environment.
The Group recognises that a consistent, agile and responsive approach to risk management is crucial tothesustainable delivery of its business objectives.
Oversight To meet the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board accepts overall responsibility for risk management and determines the nature and extent of the principal risks to be taken and assesses the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems that are in place to mitigate impacts.
The business has in place several well established processes including the Gated Lifecycle and Project on a Page to enable senior leadership to engage with the work winning and operational teams to understand the Groups risk exposure and manage it correctly.
Common risk infrastructure The dynamic structure of the Groups risk management process allows the Group Chief Executive to monitor the risk prole of the business via the Executive Risk Steering Group.
Members of the steering group act as the executive sponsor for risk management within their business and functions and as such are in a position to directly inuence custom and practice.
The steering group undertook a reassessment of the Group Risk Register in 2017 including mapping and assessing the internal control environment against an updated and more granular probability and impact matrix.
Risk process The Enterprise Risk management team engages with the wider risk management leadership teams in a number of ways including Strategic Business Unit committees, a community of practice and day-to-day liaison.
This two-way information share involves disseminating best practice on risk management across the enabling functions and businesses to ensure consistency of assessment and treatment of risk.
As part of the Build to Last programme the application of effective risk management has been greatly improved and this culture will be further embedded in 2018 with the launch of Group Minimum Expectations for Risk Management.
Assessment The Gated Lifecycle remains central to Balfour Beattys risk management process with a mandatory assessment of risk and risk appetite being made at each review gate.
In-house project management includes assessment and subsequent rating of risk and reinforcement of the importance of adherence to the Groups commercial policies and practices.
com AR2017 50 Risk management framework Reinforcing a strong culture of risk management continued Risk appetite Understanding risk is at the heart of Balfour Beattys decision-making process.
An ongoing appraisal of the Groups risk prole is made by the Board.
The level of risk the Group is willing to accept is dened as its risk appetite and has been set in the context of the interaction between risk assessment processes and its ability to mitigate and exert control over existing and emerging risks.
Risk appetite within any organisation must be dynamic and determined by senior leaders and practitioners to ensure it is embedded in critical business processes.
Strategic priorities Build to Last Lean Expert Trusted Safe Deliver value to Ensure we Be the construction We must ensure our customers have the best partner of choice the health and by improving engineering, design for our customers safety of everyone operational and project and supply chain who comes into efficiency and management by delivering on contact with eliminating waste capabilities.
right through the supply chain.
Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Balfour Beatty is In order to deliver the best Balfour Beatty must Conducting business in committed to the solutions to customers and deliver on its promises asafe way and providing a transformation programme.
stakeholders Balfour Beatty to stakeholders.
Zero Harm environment for strives to remain at the Balfour Beattys people and In driving out unnecessary The Group has a low vanguard of innovation stakeholders is paramount.
cost and improving appetite for risks around and skill development.
efficiencies it is essential to customer delivery.
The Groups appetite for take some operational risk.
Controlled and understood safety risk is zero.
Work winning risks can be taken whilst Such risks must not be at Health and safety seeking to mitigate Read more on p51 the expense of achieving significant repercussions.
Read more on p51 the overall lean objective.
Project execution The Group has a moderate The Groups risk appetite for Read more on p52 Transformation appetite for expert risk.
programme Data governance Economic environment Read more on p54 Transformation Read more on p52 Read more on p53 programme Transformation Read more on p54 People programme Read more on p53 Supply chain Read more on p54 Read more on p55 Financial strength Transformation programme Read more on p54 Legacy pension Read more on p54 liabilities Business conduct Read more on p56 Read more on p55 Legal and regulatory Read more on p56 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017
