Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 39 Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including those that could threaten its strategic objectives, business operating model, future financial performance and regulatory compliance commitments.
The principal risks and uncertainties are outlined in the table below: Strategic and business risk Definition The risk to the Banks earnings and profitability arising from its strategic decisions, change in the business conditions, improper implementation of decisions or lack of responsiveness to industry changes.
Risk appetite statement Risk Mitigation Direction Performance against targets Regular monitoring by the Board Increased The Groups strategic and Performance against strategic and the Executive Committee of The Groups strategic and business business risk appetite states and business targets does not business and financial performance operating environments are subject that the Group does not meet stakeholder expectations.
against strategic agenda and to ongoing changes primarily driven intend to undertake any long This has the potential to damage risk appetite.
The balanced by market competition, economic to medium-term strategic the Groups franchise value business scorecard is the primary outlook and regulation.
actions that would put at and reputation.
mechanism to support the Board and assesses management risk its vision of being a performance against key targets.
leading specialist lender, Use of stress testing to flex core backed by a strong and business planning assumptions to dependable saving franchise.
assess potential performance under The Group adopts a long-term stressed operating conditions.
sustainable business model Regulatory and economic The Groups robust underwriting Increased which, while focused on niche environment standards and its focus on The Groups strategic and business sub-sectors, is capable of The regulatory and economic professional landlords have risk profile is impacted by the adapting to growth objectives environment are important helped mitigate the impact of the uncertainty surrounding Brexit factors impacting the strategic regulatory changes and enabled to negotiations and potential future and external developments.
In Group to continue to grow its share changes to regulatory standards.
particular, the emerging regulatory of the sector.
underwriting standards and tax changes impacting the Buy-to-Let The Group has continued to utilise sector have resulted in a general and enhance its stress testing slowdown in the sector.
capabilities to assess and minimise potential areas of macroeconomic vulnerabilities.
Term Funding Scheme withdrawal The Groups funding plan ensures Increased The withdrawal of the Term a diverse funding profile and The full impact of the TFS Funding Scheme TFS could initiatives have been put in place to withdrawal remains uncertain.
potentially increase competition replace TFS with a comprehensive for retail and wholesale savings Retail Mortgage Backed Securities resulting in increased funding RMBS programme.
In particular, there is an increased level of risk related to the refinancing of the TFS drawdowns in 4 years time.
Regulatory requirements The Group continues to invest Increased The potential for emerging in its IT and data management Performance against strategic regulatory requirements to increase capabilities to increase the ability and business targets does not the demands on the Groups to respond to regulatory change.
operational capacity and increase This has the potential to damage the cost of compliance.
A structured approach to change the Groups franchise value and management and fully leveraging reputation.
internal and external expertise allows the Group to respond effectively to regulatory change.
Reputational risk Definition The potential risk of adverse effects that can arise from the Banks reputation being sullied due to factors such as unethical practices, adverse regulatory actions, customer dissatisfaction and complaints or negative adverse publicity.
Reputational risk can arise from a variety of sources and is a second order risk the crystallisation of a credit risk or operational risk can lead to a reputational risk impact.
Risk appetite statement Risk Mitigation Direction Potential loss of trust and Culture and commitment to Unchanged The Group does not confidence that our stakeholders treating customers fairly and The Group has increased the size knowingly conduct business place in us as a responsible and fair being open and transparent and capabilities of its Risk and or organise its operations provider of financial services.
in communication with key Compliance function to ensure to put its reputation and stakeholders.
Established appropriate oversight and challenge franchise value at risk.
processes to proactively identify to how the Group discharges and manage potential sources its responsibilities to the of reputational risk.
40 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Credit risk Definition Potential for loss due to the failure of counterparty to meet its contractual obligation to repay a debt in accordance with the agreed terms.
Risk appetite statement Risk Mitigation Direction Individual borrower defaults All loans are extended only after Unchanged The Group seeks to maintain Borrowers may encounter thorough bespoke and expert The Group continues to observe a high quality lending idiosyncratic problems in repaying underwriting to ensure ability strong and stable credit profile portfolio that generates their loans, for example loss of a and propensity of borrowers to performance.
adequate returns, under job or execution problems with a repay and sufficient security in normal and stressed periods.
While most of case of default.
The portfolio is actively the Banks lending is secured, some borrowers may fail to maintain the Should there be problems with managed to operate within value of the security.
a loan, the collections and set criteria and limits based recoveries team works with on profit volatility, focusing customers unable to meet their on key sectors, recoverable loan service obligations to reach values, and affordability and a satisfactory conclusion while exposure levels.
The Group adhering to the principle of treating customers fairly.
aims to continue to generate sufficient income and control Our strategic focus on lending credit losses to a level such to professional landlords means that it remains profitable that properties are likely to be even when subjected to a well managed, with income from a diversified portfolio mitigating credit portfolio stress of a 1 in the impact of rental voids or 20 intensity stress scenario.
Lending to owner-occupiers is subject to a detailed affordability assessment, including the borrowers ability to continue payments if interest rates increase.
Lending on commercial property is more based on security, and is scrutinised by the Groups independent Real Estate team as well as by external valuers.
Development lending is extended only after a deep investigation of the borrowers track record and stress testing the economics of the specific project.
The Groups Transactional Credit Committee actively reviews and approves larger or more complex mortgage applications.
Macroeconomic downturn The Group works within portfolio Unchanged A broad deterioration in the limits on LTV, affordability, Although the UK economy has economy would adversely impact name, sector and geographic remained stable during 2017, the both the ability of borrowers to concentration that are approved economic outlook is uncertain repay loans and the value of the by the Risk Committee and the with the final terms of Brexit to Groups security.
These are reviewed on a be confirmed.
impact across the lending portfolio, semi-annual basis.
In addition, so even if individual impacts were stress testing is performed to to be small, the aggregate impact ensure that the Group maintains on the Group could be significant.
sufficient capital to absorb losses in an economic downturn and continue to meet its regulatory requirements.
Wholesale credit risk The Group transacts only with high Unchanged The Bank has wholesale exposures quality wholesale counterparties.
The Group continues to utilise both through call accounts used for Derivative exposures include a reserve account with the Bank transactional and liquidity purposes collateral agreements to mitigate of England, enabling it to eliminate and through derivative exposures credit exposures.
credit risk on most of its used for hedging.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 41 Market risk Definition Potential loss due to changes in market prices or values.
Risk appetite statement Risk Mitigation Direction Interest rate risk The Groups Treasury department Unchanged The Group actively manages An adverse movement in the overall actively hedges to match the The Group continues to assess market risk arising from level of interest rates could lead to timing of cash flows from assets interest on a monthly basis structural interest rate a loss in value due to mismatches in and liabilities.
ensuring that the interest rate risk positions.
The Group does the duration of assets and liabilities.
exposure is limited in the current not seek to take a significant economic environment.
interest rate position or a directional view on rates and it limits its mismatched and basis risk exposures.
Basis risk The Group strategically focuses on Unchanged A divergence in market rates products linked to administered Product design and hedging has could lead to a loss in value, as rates to keep control of yield.
enabled the Group to maintain the assets and liabilities are linked overall level of basis risk through to different rates.
Liquidity and funding risk Definition The risk that the Group will be unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Risk appetite statement Risk Mitigation Direction Increased Retail funding stress The Groups funding strategy is The Group actively maintains As the Group is primarily funded by focused on a highly stable retail The end of the Bank of England stable and efficient access Term Funding Scheme TFS may retail deposits, a retail run could put deposit franchise.
The large to funding and liquidity it in a position where it could not number of depositors provides create increased competition for to support its ongoing retail and wholesale funding.
diversification and a high proportion operations.
It also maintains of balances are covered by the FSCS and so there is no material risk of an appropriate level and Increased competition for retail savings driving up funding costs, a retail run.
quality of liquid asset buffer adversely impacting retention so as to withstand market levels and wider damage to In addition, the Group performs and idiosyncratic liquidityin-depth liquidity stress testing and OSB franchise.
maintains a liquid asset portfolio sufficient to meet obligations under stress.
The Group holds prudential liquidity buffers to manage funding requirements under normal and stressed conditions.
The Group proactively manages its savings proposition through both the Liquidity Working Group and the ALCO.
Finally, the Group has prepositioned mortgage collateral with the Bank of England which allows it to consider other alternative funding sources to ensure it is not solely reliant on retail savings.
The Groups funding plan ensures a diverse funding profile and initiatives have been put in place to replace TFS with a comprehensive Retail Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS programme.
The Groups funding plan ensures Increased Term Funding Scheme withdrawal The potential impact of the a diverse funding profile and The end of the Bank of England initiatives have been put in place to Term Funding Scheme TFS may withdrawal of the TFS programme is uncertain.
replace TFS with a comprehensive create increased competition for Retail Mortgage Backed Securities retail and wholesale funding.
42 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Solvency risk Definition The potential inability of the Bank to ensure that it maintains sufficient capital levels for its business strategy and risk profile under both the base and stress case financial forecasts.
Risk appetite statement Risk Mitigation Direction Key risks to solvency arise from Currently the Bank operates from Decreased OSB seeks to ensure balance sheet growth and a strong capital position and The Group has improved both that it is able to meet its unexpected losses which can result has a consistent record of its CET1 capital and total capital Board level capital buffer in the Banks capital requirements strong profitability.
position increasing its resilience requirements under a increasing or capital resources against unexpected losses.
being depleted such that it no The Bank actively monitors its particular, the Groups capital The Groups solvency risk longer meets the solvency ratios capital requirements and resources position was strengthened in as mandated by the PRA and Board against financial forecasts and May 2017 by the issuance of 60m appetite is constrained risk appetite.
plans and undertakes stress of Additional Tier 1 securities within the leverage ratio testing analysis to subject its AT1 securities.
We The regulatory capital regime is solvency ratios to extreme but manage our capital resources subject to change and could lead to plausible scenarios.
in a manner which avoids increases in the level and quality of excessive leverage and capital that the Group needs to hold The Bank also holds prudent levels to meet regulatory requirements.
of capital buffers based on CRD IV allows us flexibility in requirements and expected balance raising capital.
The Group engages actively with regulators, industry bodies, and advisers to keep abreast of potential changes and provide feedback through the consultation process.
Operational risk Definition The risk of loss or negative impact to the Group resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, or systems or from external events.
Risk appetite statement Risk Mitigation Direction Cyber data security risk A series of tools designed to identify Increased The Groups operational The risk of a loss of customer and prevent network system Whilst the Bank has made a series processes, systems and or proprietary data as a result of intrusions are deployed across of enhancements to its defences controls are designed to theft or through ineffective the Group.
with respect to IT security threats minimise disruption to data management.
during 2017, it recognises that the customers, damage to the threats to the industry continue to The effectiveness of the controls is Banks reputation and any grow both in respect of the volume overseen by a dedicated IT Security and the level of sophistication.
detrimental impact Governance Committee, with specialist IT security staff employed on financial performance.
The Bank actively promotes the continual evolution of Data risk The Bank continues to invest in and Increased The use of inaccurate, incomplete enhance its data management The increase in data risk has been its operating environment or outdated data may result in architecture, systems, governance primarily driven by the increased through the identification, a range of risks impacting risk and controls.
scale of operations and the multiple evaluation and mitigation management and reporting sources from which data is derived.
of risks, whilst recognising services.
that the complete Regulatory risk The Bank operates a series of Increased elimination of operational The operational risks arising from controls to identify any relevant The increase in regulatory change risk is not possible.
the management of a significant regulatory change at an early stage.
has to date been offset by the volume of regulatory change.
increase in the Banks change Regulatory related changes are management capacity.
Regulatory appropriately prioritised and change continues to be well resourced in order to ensure the managed with the appropriate timely implementation of any level of focus and oversight.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 43 Operational risk continued Risk appetite statement Risk Mitigation Direction Operational and IT resilience The Bank has established an Increased Banks should have business Operational Resilience Programme The increasing scale and resiliency, continuity monitoring that is delivering a Group-wide globalisation of operations together and plans in place to ensure an approach in respect to planning and with dependencies on a number ability to operate on an ongoing testing.
In addition, the programme of third party service and network basis and limit losses in the event is designed to highlight any areas providers.
The sophistication of of severe business disruption.
Technical failures including bugs, A range of back-up technologies network or data resulting in critical employed to provide real-time system outage.
These would replication on various critical include OSBs primary mortgage systems while disaster recovery origination and servicing systems, capabilities are tested annually.
savings processing system and core reporting and data management Real-time system performance systems leading to loss of service, monitoring established and a revenue, business performance and dedicated testing team in place.
Operational execution In order to mitigate incidents Increased and scalability materialising from manual The ongoing growth of the Bank The inability of the Bank to processes an established two-tier has challenged its automation automate current operational dependent and independent within programmes and resulted in an processes at the speed the business the first line risk-based quality increase in the number of manual requires in order to successfully control programme is in place.
Whilst key manual meet future growth.
processes are well managed and there is continuing investment in automation, the challenges presented by the pace of growth remain a key area of management focus.
Conduct risk Definition The risk that the Groups behaviours or actions result in customer detriment or negative impact on the integrity of the markets in which it operates.
Risk appetite statement Risk Mitigation Direction Product suitability The Group has a strategic Decreased The Bank considers its Whilst the Group originates commitment to provide simple, Whilst this risk has further reduced culture and behaviours in relatively simple products, there customer-focused products.
In in 2017 as a result of increased ensuring the fair treatment remains a risk that primarily legacy addition, a Product Governance awareness and dedicated of customers and in products may be deemed to be unfit framework is established to oversee oversight, the Bank remains aware maintaining the integrity for their original purpose in line with both the origination of new products of the changes to the regulatory of the markets in which it the current regulatory definitions.
and to revisit the ongoing suitability environment and their possible of the existing product suite.
operates a fundamental part of its strategy and a A dedicated Product Governance key driver to sustainable team which is part of an profitability and growth.
independent Conduct Risk team OSB does not tolerate any serves to effectively manage this risk.
systemic failure to deliver fair customer outcomes.
On Data protection In addition to a series of network Unchanged an isolated basis incidents The risk that customer data is system controls documented Despite a number of additional can result in detriment accessed inappropriately either as within as part of the operational controls being introduced in 2017 a consequence of network system risks the Bank performs extensive the network system threats owing to human and or intrusion or through operational root cause analysis of any data continue to evolve in both volume operational failures.
Where errors in the management of leaks in order to ensure that the and sophistication.
such incidents occur they the data.
appropriate mitigating actions are thoroughly investigated, are taken.
and the appropriate remedial actions are taken to address any customer detriment and to prevent recurrence.
44 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Compliance regulatory risk Definition The risk that a change in legislation or regulation or an interpretation that differs from the Groups will adversely impact the Group.
Risk appetite statement Risk Mitigation Direction Key compliance regulatory changes The Bank has an effective horizon Increased The Group views ongoing that impacted the Bank included scanning process to identify The Bank has historically conformance with regulatory PRAs Buy-to-Let underwriting regulatory change.
responded effectively to regulatory rules and standards across standards, certification regime changes however, the level all the jurisdictions in which under the SM&CR, PSD2, GDPR, All significant regulatory initiatives and sophistication of emerging it operates as a critical facet Criminal Finances Act, European are managed by structured regulation continues to increase.
The Group Fourth Money Laundering Directive, programmes overseen by the FCA guidance on automatic change management team does not knowingly accept capitalisation for residential and sponsored at Executive compliance risk which could mortgage customers.
result in regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to The Bank has proactively sought its reputation.
The Group will external expert opinions to support not tolerate any systemic interpretation of the requirements and validation of its response.
failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations Conduct regulation The Group has a programme Increased or codes of conduct Regulatory changes focused on of regulatory horizon scanning The regulatory environment has the conduct of business could force linking into a formal regulatory tightened and this is likely to relevant given its business changes in the way the Group change management programme.
continue, exposing the Group operating model.
carries out business and impose In addition, the focus on simple to increased risk.
products and customer oriented For example, the Financial Policy culture means that current Committees increased focus on practice may not have to change Buy-to-Let lending or tax changes significantly to meet new such as the Bank profits surcharge conduct regulations.
The Group proactively scans for emerging risks which may have an impact on its ongoing operations and strategy.
The Group considers its top emerging risks to be: Emerging risks Description Mitigation action Political and macroeconomic uncertainty As a result of the UK government triggering The Group has implemented robust monitoring Article 50 and the subsequent general processes and via various stress testing activity i. e. election result, there is an increased ad hoc, risk appetite and ICAAP understands how the likelihood of a period of macroeconomic Group performs over a variety of macroeconomic stress uncertainty.
The Groups lending activity scenarios and has subsequently developed a suite of is solely focused in the United Kingdom early warning indicators which are closely monitored and, as such, will be impacted by any to identify changes in the economic environment.
risks emerging from changes in the macroeconomic environment.
General data usage From 25 May 2018, the Group will comply The Group has mobilised a project with dedicated with GDPR.
This will result in increased resources to implement the GDPR as required.
regulatory requirements with respect to processing customer and employee personal and other data in the course of day-to-day business activities.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 45 RISK PROFILE PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW Strong Group originations performance was observed in 2017, Credit risk driven by performance across the Buy-to-Let SME segment.
Importantly, this lending was underwritten at sensible LTV Credit profile performance levels, where tightened underwriting policy, following the The Groups credit profile performed strongly in 2017, driven United Kingdoms decision to leave the European Union, by deep market knowledge of the specialist markets in which resulted in a greater clustering of LTV levels against the it operates, prudent lending policies and sound credit portfolio average.
Post-2011 lending, incorporating enhanced risk management.
lending criteria, continued to make up an increasing proportion of the Groups total loans and advances to During the year, the Groups portfolio composition mix customers, where 38,500 loans have been underwritten with continued to evolve with pre-2011 lending prior to OneSavings only 137 loans being greater than three months arrears with aggregate loans totalling 18.4m with aggregate weighted Bank PLC being established continuing to run off.
problem loans reduced further in 2017 from 13.8m to 8.6m, following careful management by our experienced collections This portfolio mix shift, coupled with strong credit risk team.
The Groups acquired portfolios also continued to management and continuing favourable economic conditions, perform in line with expectations in terms of run-off rates and credit profile performance.
supported the portfolio arrears rate reducing to 1.2% as at 31 December 2017 excluding legacy problem loans The Groups funding lines and development finance businesses 31 December 2016: 1.4%.
delivered a strong performance in 2017, with no impairment recognised across either segment.
Segment Measure 31-Dec-2017 31-Dec-2016 Variance Commentary BTL SME New origination average LTV 70% 70% New lending average LTV remained stable Weighted average Interest Coverage Ratio 185% 171% 14% Resulting from a tightening of for new lending affordability rules Residential New origination average LTV 65% 66% -1% New lending average LTV reduced lending Percentage of new residential lending with 3.2% 2.6% 0.6% Increase in cases with LTI 4.5 a loan to income LTI greater than 4.5 Other key risk measures also performed strongly within the period: The specific tools available to assist customers vary by product and the customers status.
The various treatments considered Gross exposure to semi-commercial commercial lending for customers are as follows: remains low at 370.8m with weighted average LTV of 63% Gross exposure to residential development finance remains Temporary switch to interest only: a temporary account low at 143.8m with a further 78.0m committed with a change to assist customers through periods of financial weighted average LTV of 37.7% difficulty where arrears do not accrue at the original The Group has limited exposure to high LTV loans on contractual payment.
Any arrears existing at the properties worth more than 2m.
In total only 4% of the commencement of the arrangement are retained.
Groups loan portfolio is secured on properties valued at Interest rate reduction: the Group may, in certain greater than 2m with a LTV greater than 65%.
circumstances, where the borrower meets the required eligibility criteria, transfer the mortgages to a lower contractual rate.
Where this is a formal contractual change Forbearance the borrower will be requested to obtain independent Where borrowers experience financial difficulties which financial advice as part of the process.
impacts their ability to service their financial commitments Loan term extension: a permanent account change for under the loan agreement, forbearance may be used to customers in financial distress where the overall term of the achieve an outcome which is mutually beneficial to both the mortgage is extended, resulting in a lower contractual borrower and the Bank.
Payment holiday: a temporary account change to assist By identifying borrowers who are experiencing financial customers through periods of financial difficulty where difficulties pre-arrears or in arrears, a consultative process is arrears accrue at the original contractual payment.
Any initiated to ascertain the underlying reasons and to establish arrears existing at the commencement of the arrangement the best course of action to enable the borrower to develop are retained.
credible repayment plans and to see them through the period Voluntary assisted sale: a period of time is given to allow of financial stress.
borrowers to sell the property and arrears accrue based on the contractual payment.
Reduced monthly payments: a temporary arrangement for customers in financial distress.
For example, a short-term arrangement to pay less that the contractual payment.
Arrears continue to accrue based on the contractual payment.
46 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Capitalisation of interest: arrears are added to the loan taken by the Group, and on the subsequent sale where there has been a shortfall loss.
balance and are repaid over the remaining term of the facility or at maturity for interest only products.
A new The Group aims to proactively identify and manage forborne payment is calculated which will be higher than the accounts, utilising external credit reference bureau previous payment.
information to analyse probability of default and customer Full or partial debt forgiveness: where considered indebtedness trends over time, feeding pre-arrears watch list appropriate, the Group will consider writing off part of the reports.
Watch list cases are in turn carefully monitored and debt.
This may occur where the borrower has an agreed sale managed as appropriate.
and there will be a shortfall in the amount required to redeem the Groups charge, in which case repayment of the Throughout 2017, the Group continued to observe low levels of shortfall may be agreed over a period of time subject to an accounts in forbearance.
affordability assessment or where possession has been Analysis of forbearance measures undertaken in 2017 by forbearance type: 2016 year- 17 vs. 16 17 vs. 16 Number of 2017 yearNumber of end balance variance variance of accounts end balance accounts m number of balances Forbearance type 2017 m 2016 restated accounts m Interest only switch 35 3.8 60 6.3 -25 -2.5 Interest rate reduction 3 2.2 -3 -2.2 Term extension 29 4.9 31 5.9 -2 -1.0 Payment holiday 50 1.5 37 1.6 13 -0.1 Voluntary assisted sale 2 0.7 2 0.7 Payment concession reduced monthly payments 42 0.8 58 3.5 -16 -2.7 Capitalisation 3 0.1 -3 -0.1 Total 158 11.7 192 19.6 -34 -7.9 Analysis of forbearance measures undertaken in 2017 by loan type: 2016 year- 17 vs. 16 17 vs. 16 Number of 2017 yearNumber of end balances variance variance of accounts end balance accounts m number of balances Loan type 2017 m 2016 restated accounts m First charge owner-occupier 55 4.5 117 12.4 -62 -7.9 Second charge owner-occupier 77 1.6 60 1.3 17 0.3 Buy-to-Let 26 5.6 14 5.5 12 0.1 Commercial 1 0.4 -1 -0.4 Total 158 11.7 192 19.6 -34 -7.9 Note: The 2016 year end forbearance balances have been restated for second charge owner occupier to remove the related first charge balance, to align to the enhanced approach adopted for 2017. historically low impairment performance with a loan loss ratio Fair value of collateral methodology of 0.07% 31 December 2016: 0.16%.
Improved impairment The Group ensures that security valuations are reviewed on an performance was primarily driven by increased prudence in ongoing basis for accuracy and appropriateness.
Commercial assumptions introduced in 2016 following the UK referendum properties are subject to annual indexing, whereas residential vote to leave the EU, as well as lower underlying loan losses on properties are indexed against monthly house price index HPI data.
Where the Group identifies that an index is not acquired residential portfolios and the effect of increasing representative, a formal review is carried out by the Group property values.
Real Estate function to ensure that property valuations remain appropriate.
During the year, the Group made no changes to provisioning policy or methodologies utilised, however a number of key The Group Real Estate function ensures that newly inputs and estimates used within the collectively assessed underwritten lending cases are written to appropriate provisioning calculations were refreshed utilising the most valuations, where an independent assessment is carried recently available data and as per the standard governance out by an appointed, qualified surveyor accredited by RICS.
This drove an increase in impairment provision during the six months from 30 June 2017 to 31 December 2017 of Impairment performance 0.09%, versus the annualised loan loss reported for the period Low arrears, sensible loan to values and growth in loans and 30 June 2017 of 0.04%.
advances to customers resulted in the Group observing a Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 47 The Group continues to closely monitor impairment coverage levels: 31 December 31 December Impairment coverage review 2017 2016 Gross loans and advances to customers m 7,327.6 5,964.2 Provisions for impairment losses m 21.6 25.0 1 Incurred loss remaining m 7.9 8.4 2 Coverage ratio versus loans and advances % 0.40 0.56 3 Coverage ratio versus impaired balances % 36.2 41.5 1.
Incurred loss is the expected loss of the portfolio at the point of acquisition and is offset against the modelled future cash flows to derive the effective interest rate for the book.
The incurred loss protection is therefore recognised over the life of the book against the unwind of any purchase discount or premium through interest income.
Incurred loss remaining is this protection reduced by the cumulative losses observed since acquisition.
Coverage ratio versus loans and advances is the total collective and specific provisions plus incurred losses remaining versus gross loans and advances.
Coverage ratio versus impaired balances is the total collective and specific provisions plus incurred losses remaining versus impaired balances.
Impaired balances are defined as loans where a specific provision has been raised.
Personal loans are not included in impaired balances.
The coverage ratio with respect to loans and advances to In 2017 the Bank actively managed its liquidity and funding customers reduced to 0.40% from 0.56% as at 31 December profile within the confines of its risk appetite as set out in the 2016 driven by strong loans and advances growth.
Its liquidity ratio at 15.2% and liquidity coverage versus impaired balances remained strong at 36.2%.
The ratio LCR at 250% remain well above risk appetite and reduction in provision balances was primarily driven by the regulatory minimums.
resolution of a number of individually assessed legacy problem loans within the year.
Market risk The Bank proactively manages its risk profile in respect of Solvency risk adverse movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates The Bank has maintained an appropriate level and quality of and counterparty exposures.
The Bank accepts interest rate capital to support its prudential requirements with sufficient risk and basis risk as a consequence of structural mismatches contingency to withstand a severe but plausible stress between fixed rate mortgage lending, sight and fixed term scenario.
The solvency risk appetite is based on a stacking savings and the maintenance of a portfolio of high quality approach, whereby the various capital requirements Pillar 1, liquid assets.
Interest rate exposure is mitigated on a ICG, CRD IV buffers and Board and management buffers are continuous basis through portfolio diversification, reserve incrementally aggregated as a percentage of available capital allocation and the use of financial derivatives within limits CET1 and total capital.
set by ALCO and approved by the Board.
Solvency risk is a function of balance sheet growth, Interest rate risk profitability, access to capital markets and regulatory changes.
The Bank does not actively assume interest rate risk, does not The Bank actively monitors all key drivers of solvency risk and execute client or speculative securities transactions for its own takes prompt action to maintain its solvency ratios at account, and does not seek to take a significant directional acceptable levels.
The Board and management also assess interest rate position.
Limits have been set to allow solvency when reviewing the Banks business plans and management to run occasional unhedged positions in inorganic growth opportunities.
response to balance sheet dynamics and capital has been allocated for this.
Exposure limits are calibrated in accordance In 2017, the Bank strengthened its CET1 ratio by 0.4% to 13.7% with a  risk appetite, and are calibrated in and total capital ratio by 1.8% to 16.9% despite strong organic proportion to available CET1 capital in order to accommodate growth, demonstrating both the strength of internal capital balance sheet growth.
generation capabilities through profitability and the ability to raise additional capital in the market.
The Group sets limits on the tenor and rate reset mismatches between fixed rate assets and liabilities, including derivatives Liquidity and funding risk hedges, with exposure and risk appetite assessed with The Bank has a prudent approach to liquidity management reference to historic and potential stress scenarios cast through maintaining sufficient liquidity resources to cover atconsistent levels of modelled severity.
cashflow imbalances and fluctuations in funding under both normal and stressed conditions arising from market-wide and Throughout 2017 the Bank managed its interest rate risk Bank specific events.
The Banks liquidity risk appetite has been exposure within its risk appetite limits.
The Bank has also calibrated to ensure that the Bank always operates above the made significant progress in a project to replace its current minimum prudential requirements with sufficient contingency interest rate risk management system with a new system for unexpected stresses whilst actively minimising the risk of allowing greater functionality which will enhance the holding excessive liquidity which would adversely impact the management of interest rate risk.
Implementation of the financial efficiency of the business model.
newsystem is scheduled to be completed during the first halfof2018.
The Bank has successfully utilised the Bank of England FLS andTFS secured funding facilities to manage its liquidity throughout 2017, and continues to attract new retail savers and retain existing customers through loyalty-based product offerings.
48 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The Bank has an established Compliance function which Basis risk actively identifies, assesses and monitors adherence with Basis risk arises from assets and liabilities repricing with current regulation and the impact of emerging regulation.
reference to different interest rate indices, including positions which reference variable market, policy and managed rates.
In order to minimise regulatory risk, OSB maintains a proactive As with structural interest rate risk, the Bank does not seek to relationship with key regulators, engages with industry bodies take a significant basis risk position, but maintains defined such as UK Finance, and seeks external advice from our limits to allow operational flexibility.
auditors and or other third parties.
The Group also assesses the impact of upstream regulation on OSB and the wider As with structural interest rate risk, capital allocation has market in which we operate, and undertakes robust assurance beenset in proportion to Common Equity Tier 1 capital, with assessments from within the Risk and Compliance functions.
exposure assessed and monitored monthly across a range of business as usual and stressed scenarios.
Conduct risk The Bank considers its culture and behaviour in ensuring the Throughout 2017 the Bank managed its basis risk exposure fair treatment of customers and in maintaining the integrity of within its risk appetite limits.
the markets in which it operates to be a fundamental part of its strategy and a key driver to sustainable profitability and Operational risk growth.
OSB does not tolerate any systemic failure to deliver OSB continues to adopt a proactive approach to the management of operational risks.
The operational risk fair customer outcomes.
management framework has been designed to ensure a robust approach to the identification, measurement and On an isolated basis, incidents can result in detriment owing mitigation of operational risks, utilising a combination of both tohuman and or operational failures.
Where such incidents qualitative and quantitative evaluations in order to promote occur they are thoroughly investigated, and the appropriate an environment of progressive operational risk management.
remedial actions are taken to address any customer detriment The Groups operational processes, systems and controls are and to prevent recurrence.
designed to minimise disruption to customers, damage to the Banks reputation and any detrimental impact on financial OSB considers effective conduct risk management to be a performance.
The Bank actively promotes the continual product of the positive behaviour of all employees, influenced evolution of its operating environment through the by the culture throughout the organisation and therefore identification, evaluation and mitigation of risks, whilst continues to promote a strong sense of awareness recognising that the complete elimination of operational and accountability.
Strategic and business risk Where risks continue to exist, there are established processes The Board has clearly articulated the Banks strategic vision to provide the appropriate levels of governance and oversight, and business objectives supported by performance targets.
together with an alignment to the level of risk appetite stated The Bank does not intend to undertake any medium to by the OSB Board.
long-term strategic actions which would put at risk the Banks vision of being a leading specialist lender in its chosen A strong culture of transparency and escalation has been markets and being backed by a strong and dependable cultivated throughout the organisation, with the operational saving franchise.
risk function having a Group-wide remit, ensuring a risk management model that is well embedded and consistently To deliver against its strategic objectives and business applied.
In addition, a community of Risk Champions plan, the Bank has adopted a sustainable business model representing each business line and location have been based ona focused approach to core niche markets identified.
Operational Risk Champions ensure that the where its experience and capabilities give it a clear operational risk identification and assessment processes competitive advantage.
are established across the Group in a consistent manner.
Risk Champions are provided with appropriate support and The Bank remains highly focused on delivering against its core training by the Operational Risk function.
strategic objectives and strengthening its market position further through strong and sustainable financial performance.
Regulatory and compliance risk The Bank is committed to the highest standards of regulatory Reputational risk conduct and aims to minimise breaches, financial costs The Bank considers reputational risk to be a second order risk and reputational damage associated with non-compliance.
which is likely to be the result of a failure related to one of its However, given the growing scale and complexity of regulatory other principal risks.
The Bank monitors reputational risk changes, it is acknowledged that there may be isolated through tracking media coverage, customer satisfaction instances whereby the Banks interpretation and response scores, the share price and net promoter scores provided to new regulatory requirements reflects the Banks specific bybrokers.
circumstances and its desire to give the best customer outcomes.
