50 Strategic Report | Risk management Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT Focus on mitigation The policy sets out the Groups risk appetite as well mitigation process, and concluded by the end Effective risk management as roles and responsibilities.
The Board believes of September 2017.
The individual risk reports that the behaviour of individuals across the are assessed by the Central Risk Committee is fundamental to our business is key to under-pinning an effective risk and consolidated into a Group risk report.
ability to meet both our management culture.
Across the Group, use of The report includes a much more robust the Inmarsat Values helps promote the right set description of the Groups risk profile with short-term and longerof values to support effective risk management.
targeted mitigation actions to reduce the risks.
term strategic objectives Due to the risk assessments focusing more As required by the policy, management operates on strategic objectives, the new process a risk management process to identify, assess, contributes to the achievement of strategic mitigate and report significant risks within the goals.
Both these objectives based risk RISK FRAMEWORK business and to report to the Board on how workshops and risk workshops on information Risk comes hand-in-hand with business those risks are being managed.
Risks are initially assets, using the same process, are important opportunity.
Risk is not something that should be identified and reviewed in each business unit components of Inmarsats project to obtain driven out of the business but rather something and area, then on a quarterly basis risk reports ISO 27001 certification.
to be identified, intelligently assessed and are formally reviewed by senior management managed.
The aim is not to eliminate all risks, on a central Risk Committee representing each The Board regularly and as part of the financial but to foster a culture supportive of effective component part of the business.
These risks year end process, reviews the Groups principal risk management by encouraging appropriate are assessed and consolidated in a systematic risks and the actions being taken to mitigate risk taking in order to achieve the Companys way to identify the Groups principal risks.
As part of the long range business objectives.
The Groups approach to risk The Groups principal risks are further discussed plan and risk management processes particularly, is brought together in an overarching risk and reviewed by the Executive team, and the Board determines the level of risk carried management policy.
This policy together with each quarter, the resulting Group risk report and the extent of mitigating activity required the risk assessment and mitigation process, is discussed by the Audit Committee and the to deliver an acceptable level of risk.
The Board have been implemented in order to evolve Board, who has overall responsibility for the risk defines the risk governance framework and risk management into more focus on strategic management framework.
sets the overall risk strategy and the Audit and business objectives, focus on mitigation Committee reviews the risk management Starting in 2016, risk workshops were held across of the largest risks, and to comply with ISO 27001 framework and the effectiveness of internal the Group following the new risk assessment and in support of this ongoing cyber security project.
controls particularly with regard to financial RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS INMARSAT PLC BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD Defines the risk governance Reviews the risk management Reviews the risk management framework, risk culture and principles framework and the effectiveness of framework and the effectiveness of internal controls, risk management internal controls, risk management Sets overall risk strategy and policy systems and major risk initiatives systems and major risk initiatives Approves risk levels across the Group Reviews the internal audit programme Responsible for an effective system and reports of internal controls Approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities CENTRAL RISK COMMITTEE Reviews the risk profile against risk appetite and makes recommendations to management in relation to risk profile, strategy and key controls Reviews the sustainability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies Assesses major risk-related projects BUSINESS OPERATIONS Implement migration strategies
