Strategic report performance How we manage risk BP manages, monitors and reports on the principal risks and Oversight and governance throughout the year functional uncertainties that can impact our ability to deliver our strategy of leadership, the executive team, the board and relevant committees meeting the worlds energy needs responsibly while creating provide oversight of how significant risks to BP are identified, assessed long-term shareholder value.
These risks are described in the Risk and managed.
They help to ensure that risks are governed by relevant factors on page 57. policies and are managed appropriately.
Our management systems, organizational structures, processes, BPs group risk team analyses the groups risk profile and maintains standards, code of conduct and behaviours together form a system of the group risk management system.
Our group audit team provides internal control that governs how we conduct the business of BP and independent assurance to the group chief executive and board as to manage associated risks.
whether the groups system of internal control is adequately designed and operating effectively to respond appropriately to the risks that are significant to BP.
BPs risk management system BPs risk management system and policy is designed to be a consistent Risk oversight and governance and clear framework for managing and reporting risks from the groups operations to the board.
The system seeks to avoid incidents and Key risk oversight and governance committees include the following: maximize business outcomes by allowing us to: Executive committees Understand the risk environment, identify the specific risks and assess the potential exposure for BP.
Executive team meeting for strategic and commercial risks.
Determine how best to deal with these risks to manage overall Group operations risk committee for health, safety, security, potential exposure.
environment and operations integrity risks.
Manage the identified risks in appropriate ways.
Group financial risk committee for finance, treasury, trading and cyber risks.
Monitor and seek assurance of the effectiveness of the management of these risks and intervene for improvement where necessary.
Group disclosure committee for financial reporting risks.
Group people committee for employee risks.
Report up the management chain and to the board on a periodic basis on how significant risks are being managed, monitored, assured and G roup ethics and compliance committee for legal and regulatory the improvements that are being made.
Resource commitment meeting for investment decision risks.
Our risk management activities Board and its committees Day-to-day risk Business and Oversight and management strategic risk governance BP board.
Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee.
Identify, Plan, manage Set policy and manage and performance monitor principal Geopolitical committee.
report risks and assure risks See Board activity in 2017 on page 72, committee reports on pages 77-89 and Risk management and internal control on page 113.
Facilities, Business Executive and Board assets and segments and corporate Risk management processes operations functions functions As part of BPs annual planning process, we review the groups principal risks and uncertainties.
These may be updated throughout the year in response to changes in internal and external circumstances.
We aim for a consistent basis of measuring risk to allow comparison on a Day-to-day risk management management and staff at our facilities, like-for-like basis, taking into account potential impact and likelihood, and assets and functions seek to identify and manage risk, promoting safe, to inform how we prioritize specific risk management activities and compliant and reliable operations.
BP requirements, which take into invest resources to manage them.
account applicable laws and regulations, underpin the practical plans developed to help reduce risk and deliver these safe, compliant and reliable operations as well as greater efficiency and sustainable financial results.
Business and strategic risk management our businesses and functions integrate risk management into key business processes such as strategy, planning, performance management, resource and capital allocation, and project appraisal.
We do this by using a standard framework for collating risk data, assessing risk management activities, making further improvements and planning new activities.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 55 Our risk profile Safety and operational risks The nature of our business operations is long term, resulting in many Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks of our risks being enduring in nature.
Nonetheless, risks can develop The nature of the groups operating activities exposes us to a wide range and evolve over time and their potential impact or likelihood may vary of significant health, safety and environmental risks such as incidents in response to internal and external events.
associated with releases of hydrocarbons when drilling wells, operating facilities and transporting hydrocarbons.
We identify high priority risks for particular oversight by the board and its various committees in the coming year.
Those identified for 2018 are Our operating management system helps us manage these risks and listed in this section.
These may be updated throughout the year in drive performance improvements.
It sets out the rules and principles response to changes in internal and external circumstances.
The which govern key risk management activities such as inspection, oversight and management of other risks, for example technological maintenance, testing, business continuity and crisis response planning change or the transition to a lower carbon economy, is undertaken in the and competency development.
In addition, we conduct our drilling normal course of business and in the executive team, the board and activity through a global wells organization in order to promote a relevant committees.
consistent approach for designing, constructing and managing wells.
There can be no certainty that our risk management activities will Security mitigate or prevent these, or other risks, from occurring.
Hostile acts such as terrorism or piracy could harm our people and disrupt our operations.
We monitor for emerging threats and Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties we face are set vulnerabilities to manage our physical and information security.
out in Risk factors on page 57.
Our central security team provides guidance and support to our businesses through a network of regional security advisers who advise Risks for particular oversight by the board and its and conduct assurance with respect to the management of security committees in 2018 risks affecting our people and operations.
We continue to monitor The risks for particular oversight by the board and its committees in threats globally and maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business 2018 have been reviewed and updated.
These risks remain the same continuity management plans.
Compliance and control risks Strategic and commercial risks Ethical misconduct and legal or regulatory non-compliance Financial liquidity Ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable laws or regulations could External market conditions can impact our financial performance.
Supply damage our reputation, adversely affect operational results and and demand and the prices achieved for our products can be affected by shareholder value, and potentially affect our licence to operate.
a wide range of factors including political developments, global Our code of conduct and our values and behaviours, applicable to all economic conditions and the influence of OPEC.
employees, are central to managing this risk.
Additionally, we have We seek to manage this risk through BPs diversified portfolio, our various group requirements and training covering areas such as financial framework, liquidity stress testing, regular reviews of market anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, competition conditions and our planning and investment processes.
anti-trust law and international trade regulations.
We seek to keep abreast of new regulations and legislation and plan our response to Geopolitical them.
We offer an independent confidential helpline, OpenTalk, for The diverse locations of our operations around the world expose us to employees, contractors and other third parties.
Under the terms of the a wide range of political developments and consequent changes to 2014 settlement with the US Environmental Protection Agency, an the economic and operating environment.
Geopolitical risk is inherent ethics monitor is reviewing and providing recommendations concerning to many regions in which we operate, and heightened political or BPs ethics and compliance programme.
social tensions or changes in key relationships could adversely affect the group.
Trading non-compliance We seek to manage this risk through development and maintenance of In the normal course of business, we are subject to risks around our relationships with governments and stakeholders and by becoming trading activities which could arise from shortcomings or failures in our trusted partners in each country and region.
In addition, we closely systems, risk management methodology, internal control processes or monitor events and implement risk mitigation plans where appropriate.
Cyber security We have specific operating standards and control processes to manage The targeted and indiscriminate threats to the security of our digital these risks, including guidelines specific to trading, and seek to monitor infrastructure continue to evolve rapidly and are increasingly prevalent compliance through our dedicated compliance teams.
We also seek to across industries worldwide.
The oil and gas industry is subject to maintain a positive and collaborative relationship with regulators and the evolving risks from a variety of cyber threat actors, including nation industry at large.
states, criminals, terrorists, hacktivists and insiders.
A cyber security breach could disrupt our business, injure people, harm the environment or our assets, or result in legal or regulatory breaches.
We seek to manage this risk through a range of measures, which include cyber security standards, security protection tools, ongoing detection and monitoring of threats and testing of cyber response and recovery procedures.
We collaborate closely with governments, law enforcement agencies and industry peers to understand and respond to new and emerging cyber threats.
We build awareness with our staff, share information on incidents with leadership for continuous learning and conduct regular exercises including with the executive team to test response and recovery procedures.
56 See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
