Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Risk management 51 controls.
This includes reviewing the internal of doing business.
We manage the risks based the going concern basis of accounting and audit programme and related reports to on a balance of risk and reward determined when assessing the prospects of the Group for ensure that all key mitigating controls are through careful assessment of both the potential the purpose of preparing the Viability Statement being periodically reviewed and where issues probability and impact as well as risk appetite.
which can be found on page 55.
The Going are identified that they are being addressed Risk appetite is considered as part of the Concern statement is provided on page 99 on a timely basis.
Assurance on broader risk compilation of business cases, annual business in the Directors Report.
controls is provided by a combination of internal plan and budget and long range business plan.
Our principal risks are discussed on the next few management information, internal audits, There will be a balance of risk and opportunity pages and are as summarised in the Preliminary external audits and Board oversight.
There is also considered as we take our investment decisions.
Results Statement distributed on 9 March 2018. an externally supported whistleblowing facility.
We consider reputational as well as financial These have been subject to robust assessment impact, recognising the value attributable to The management of risk is embedded in our and review.
This summary, however, is not intended our brand.
The Group faces a number of ongoing everyday business activities and culture, with all our to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks and operational risks including damage to satellites employees and contractors having an important uncertainties affecting our business and are and ground network operations, financial role to play.
The diligence applied by our workforce not listed in any order of priority.
planning, potential compliance issues, litigation, to consider risk is reflected in business cases credit and foreign exchange risk and the risks In identifying the principal risks set out which are submitted for approval and ongoing associated with dealing with tax authorities below we have disclosed those risks that we projects have risks reported on a regular basis.
The importance of currently consider to be the most significant these risks will vary over time and is kept under to the Group at the date of this Annual Report.
Although many of the risks The risk trend for each principal risk at the influencing our performance are macroeconomic date of this Annual Report has been assessed The Group faces a number of risks that may and likely to affect the performance of businesses as either stable, increasing or reducing in size, adversely affect our strategic and business generally, others are particular to our operations measured in both net impact and net probability objectives, operations, liquidity, financial in mobile satellite services.
and compared to a year ago.
The principal position, reputation or future performance, risks are identified below and we have not all of which are wholly within our control In accordance with the provisions of the UK indicated against each risk how it principally or known to us.
Some such risks may currently Corporate Governance Code, the Board has relates to our strategy, noting that all risks be regarded as immaterial and could turn out taken into consideration the principal risks in will impact the strategy to some extent.
We accept risk is an inherent part the context of determining whether to adopt PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We show against each Strategic priorities Movement risk how it links to our Capture maximum number Establish our data Transform our operating Increased 1 3 5 strategy see page 12 of broadband platforms platform and business environment and the movement of No change Reposition L-band for Create a high-performance each risk during the year.
2 4 Decreased new growth opportunities organisation Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement We may fail to optimally assess our market, technological We have professional, experienced teams who focus on 1.
Failure to changes, customer requirements, capacity needs and large scale programmes and develop close relationships expand into competitors strategy and therefore not target market with third parties we use to deliver them.
We critically review the broadband opportunities.
We may fail to effectively address the our detailed business cases before we proceed and regularly market by significant changes going on in the industry, eg price assess our progress against the original business cases.
attracting new and capacity, plus a greater focus on digital enablement.
We thoroughly review and approve major development customers and We may develop next generation broadband services of new services or technology.
We work closely with our successfully that will not meet these market opportunities or fail partners to ensure our services, technology and capacity migrating existing to meet customer requirements or capacity needs, or meet the demand from our customers.
We are investing in L-band customers these developments could have delays or cost overruns new broadband satellites, Inmarsat-6 and GX-5 to meet impacting on our market position, revenue or returns customer capacity demands.
We adapt our product and Link to strategy: on investment.
We may fail to roll-out new services services portfolio to address technological developments.
Competitors We seek to identify new customers and to migrate existing 1 may launch disruptive technology.
customers who would benefit from our new services.
We establish the necessary focused sales and marketing 3 capability to effectively deliver a good business opportunity for Inmarsat and its partners.
We have started to focus on digital offerings as an additional value add to customers.
52 Strategic Report | Risk management Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 2.
Failure to at We may not be able to maintain our market share We have professional, experienced teams who focus on of L-band business or we may fail to keep up with the large scale programmes and develop close relationships least maintain business needs or requirements of our customers.
with the third parties we use to deliver them.
We critically our existing The L-band business currently makes up a large portion review our detailed business cases before we proceed L-band business of our revenue stream and is vital to the continued and regularly assess our progress against the original growth of the business.
We may fail to optimally assess our business cases.
We thoroughly review and approve major Link to strategy: market, technological changes, customer requirements, development of new services or technology.
We work closely capacity needs and competitors strategy and therefore with our partners to ensure our services, technology and 2 not target market opportunities.
We may fail to roll-out capacity meet the demand from our customers.
We seek to 3 new services including migrating existing customers, identify new customers and to migrate existing customers which could be due to upgrade costs, or our developments who would benefit from our new services.
could have delays or cost overruns.
Our competitors To ensure that our product offering remains relevant to our may provide better products to the market and at customers, we are investing in the next generation of L-band more competitive prices.
satellites Inmarsat-6, exploring strategies for extending the life of our existing L-band satellites, and investing in L-band product innovation, for example low price terminals.
We are reviewing market opportunities, for example IoT and Big Data, to create new business streams which will continue to use our L-band services.
Failure to We may fail to optimally assess our market, technological We work closely with our partners to ensure our services changes, customer requirements, capacity needs and and technology meet the demand of our customers successfully competitors strategy to exploit the aviation In-Flight and that we can identify demand from new customers.
seize the Aviation Connectivity IFC market opportunity.
We may fail to We are investing in new broadband satellites GX-5 and passenger develop a competitive technology roadmap, competitive Inmarsat-6 to meet customer capacity demands.
connectivity pricing, obtain applicable licences or fail to deliver on We have established the necessary sales and marketing opportunity or have delays in our contracts.
Our competitors may capability to effectively deliver an unparalleled IFC provide better products to the market sooner than Link to strategy: experience for airlines and passengers.
We will ensure us and at more competitive prices.
Our access to we deliver on existing contracts.
We will ensure that the the market may be restricted by regulatory and 1 EAN network is operational on a timely basis with the capacity issues.
satellite component provided by Inmarsat and the ground 3 The risk has increased during 2017 due to competitive to air capability from Deutsche Telekom as an expert pressure, potential contract delivery risks and finalising delivery partner.
We may not be able to grow our existing levels of revenue We work closely with our partners to ensure our services 4.
Failure in the maritime industry through either competitor and technology meet the demand of our customers, to maintain pressure, further decline in the overall maritime sector and to identify new customers as well as migrate existing and grow or our inability to identify adequate opportunities in the customers who would benefit from our new services.
The Maritime business currently makes We have well-established business relationships with business up a large portion of our revenue stream and is vital partners and have signed some significant strategic alliance to the continued growth of the business.
We may fail to Link to strategy: agreements with well-known and respected maritime optimally assess our market, technological changes, organisations for long-term Fleet Xpress commitments.
customer requirements, capacity needs and competitors 1 We have launched Fleet One to support smaller fishing strategy and exploit market opportunities.
We may also vessels and offer cyber as a service, both of which provide 2 lose our GMDSS authorisation or a competitor may additional market opportunities for us.
We may fail to roll-out new services 3 including migrating existing customers.
We are investing in a differentiated platform and service offering designed to provide both additional value to our customers and enhance our customer relationships.
We are aiming to implement a new solutions-based We will build partnerships with software and application 5.
Failure to strategy rather than being a product-only based solution.
developers to deliver value added solutions for use on deliver the We may fail to correctly assess market needs.
Solutions a risk that the transition to offer solutions and digital We are able to encourage these relationships through strategy services may fail, be further delayed, not meet market offering open source technology which attracts a wide needs, have scalability issues, have cost overruns Link to strategy: range of interest from different technology partners.
We are exploring opportunities for applications 1 in maritime, mining, agriculture, transportation, logistics, etc.
2 3 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Risk management 53 Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 6.
Failure We face risks when we launch our satellites and while We successfully launched two satellites in 2017: Inmarsat-5 they are in operation.
There are only a few companies F4 and Inmarsat S EAN.
We have a highly experienced of satellites who provide services to build and launch satellites and space engineering team at satellite manufacturing sites to or networks if they encounter problems, our launch may be delayed check design, production and testing activities and deploy Link to strategy: or fail.
Our satellites, our control of them or our network an experienced team to prepare for satellite launches.
may fail technically or be sabotaged.
Our network may The team is presently involved in the manufacturing and 1 not be able to cope with the demand from users.
testing of the GX5 and Inmarsat-6 satellites.
Our network may suffer a cyber attack that damages We build in a high degree of redundancy in our satellite 2 our service offering and reputation.
We have 24-hour Elements of our ground network may fail or be damaged, monitoring of our satellites and network by sophisticated 3 which may affect our ability to provide services to our monitoring systems and knowledgeable staff who ensure 5 partners and customers.
any necessary action is taken promptly.
The risk has decreased during 2017 due to the two We buy insurance to compensate for the financial loss successful satellite launches, improved ground network in the event a satellite or ground network element is resilience and continued successful cooperation between damaged or lost.
our space engineering team and satellite manufacturers.
We have disaster recovery plans for satellite and network operations which are regularly tested to ensure contingency plans work.
We are focused on ensuring our systems operate with a high degree of cyber security protection which is covered below in a separate risk.
Failure We rely on our distribution channel for part of our We build strong relationships with all our partners, revenue and they might not sell our services effectively including through the Inmarsat World conference where of critical or competitively.
We have critical GX and FX contracts we bring together partners and developers.
We provide customers and which require careful management to ensure successful the partners with excellent services to sell in their markets.
We may not meet customer needs with We encourage sharing of information and developing ideas channel some declining legacy products.
through direct meetings with our partners and through our regional and global conferences.
We have an effective Link to strategy: Relying on some critical customers may increase our credit management process in place, assessing the credit financial exposure if they fail to make payments for risk of new and existing customers.
We continue to improve the reliability of our satellites We provide our services to many government organisations 2 and services which are critical to our end-users.
We have around the world which may have conflicting requirements, simplified our standard contracts and pricing in order to and our revenue may be affected by governments 5 make it easier to do business with us.
We promote fair play reduction in spending and their other political priorities.
in our distribution channel and will not promote customer We may lose customers due to poor quality service churn.
We introduce new services with common delivery or operations, or fail to keep up with the business technologies and develop more competitive pricing needs of our customers.
We may fail to roll-out new strategies.
We continue to broaden our customer base services including migrating existing customers.
through sales strategies and new service offerings.
A competitor may buy a critical customer or partner.
Inmarsat Government operates with a proxy board to allow We may encounter delays in bringing new products and it to manage its business in accordance with U. S. requirements services to market.
Our inability to directly control our and compete effectively for U. S. Government business.
retail company or business specialising in U. S. Government contracts, may restrict our business activities.
Security risk We may suffer damage to satellites, networks, We maintain industry-standard security measures, and information data, systems, processes and our services have increased our investment in state-of-the-art cyber Link to strategy: to customers as a result of malicious or flawed code, countermeasures and enhanced cyber security operations unauthorised access, service denial, ransom coercion, to improve detection and response to incidences.
We are 1 or security compromise.
There is also a significant risk progressing with a project to obtain ISO 27001 certification.
of aggregated minor risks having an impact on service We have completed risk assessments on information assets 2 delivery.
Data or IP could be stolen.
This could also across the Group, and as a consequence, we are deploying have consequential impact on reputation, business appropriate controls.
3 plans and operations and future revenue from risk Through our One IT project we are building a modern computer 4 averse customers markets.
infrastructure that enhances protection of critical assets The risk has increased during 2017 due to the and data.
We are improving our processes to be compliant 5 continuously increasing external threat.
We have with the GDPR legislation.
made considerable progress and continue to invest We have improved our incident response capability.
to further reduce the constantly evolving risks.
We have disaster recovery and business continuity plans for important elements of our networks: contingency plans are tested regularly.
54 Strategic Report | Risk management Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 9.
Spectrum, We rely on radio spectrum, which has historically been We regularly improve the efficiency of our spectrum allocated without charge, to provide our services.
We must usage through innovation and system enhancement.
orbital slots agree how it is used in coordination with other satellite We also educate and inform regulators and governments and market operators and need to coordinate its ongoing availability.
as to the unique socio-economic contribution of our access risk We may not be able to coordinate usage in the future mobile satellite services.
We work with organisations such and or may be charged for the spectrum which could as the ITU, and participate in conferences such as the Link to strategy: affect our ability to provide services.
Channel World Radio Conference to brief them on the ongoing consolidation may drive down prices and ARPU.
need for our frequency allocations.
1 We require orbital slots to place our satellites in the We negotiate with other companies on orbital slots and 2 correct position to provide adequate coverage and the ability to achieve better spectrum usage and allocation.
We may not be able to obtain We monitor spectrum usage and assess whether there 5 adequate orbital slots or we may miss deadlines to are benefits to our partners, customers and ourselves bring orbital slots into use.
to migrate higher volume users to GX services.
Given the nature of the satellite business it is important We obtain in-country market access for our distribution to have access to all areas of the globe and provide channel as far as possible and make any licensing coverage world-wide.
This requires licensing from requirements as straightforward as possible for multiple national authorities.
We may not be able to our partners.
gain these licences for various reasons.
Market access may not be allowed in certain countries which restricts our services being offered.
Failure We rely on a limited number of third party suppliers We work closely with our suppliers to review programme and partners in the production of our satellites, launch plans, delivery quality and timing to ensure that they meet of critical providers systems, terminals and products and we may our requirements.
We have a highly experienced quality suppliers have limited control over availability, quality and delivery assurance team at satellite manufacturing sites to check Link to strategy: of these goods.
A satellite manufacturer or a supplier design and production activities and also at launch sites to the satellite manufacturer, may fail or have serious ahead of our satellite launches.
1 damage to a production facility that delays the delivery The Group Procurement departments reviews and actions of our satellite.
A satellite launch provider may additionally reduce the risk, for example exploring dual sourcing and 2 have a launch failure which affects the timing of our assessing suppliers quality, technical know-how planned launches.
A competitor may buy a critical and financial viability.
A critical supplier may fail financially We can operate in an agile way to seek new satellite or one of their systems may fail.
5 launch providers if required as we did to secure an The risk has decreased during 2017 due to work in alternative provider for the delayed Inmarsat S EAN Group Procurement.
We may fail to keep up with the developing business In developing products and services, we have processes 11.
Failure needs of our customers.
We may fail in developing which we continuously evolve and seek to improve to meet to effectively products and services that match their needs or the expectations of customers.
operationally encounter delays in bringing new products and We liaise closely with third parties across our ecosystem to deliver products services to market.
review requirements and then plan our delivery against these.
and services We may not be able to take to market our products and Our systems need to be agile to be able to respond to any Link to strategy: services for various reasons such as network satellite changing needs and having open network systems enables issues, capacity constraints and or technological this agility by us and our wider partners.
1 difficulties which would impact our ability to generate All significant product and service developments are revenues.
2 subject to approval and regular programme reviews to We may fail in our internal processes leading to identify critical issues, changes, delivery delays and violations of regulations, for example financial reporting 3 resolutions, and projected cost against budget.
An export control violation may affect able to prioritise investment activity to focus on new 5 service delivery.
requirements if this is felt appropriate.
The risk has decreased in 2017 due to systematic work We rely on a close relationship between our customer-facing with improving and documenting existing processes, business units, our operations team who deal directly with as well as implementing robust new systems and processes.
operating new products and services and the engineering and product teams.
We document and improve our internal processes.
We maintain an ongoing informed dialogue with investors, and ensure that internal and external expectations are aligned.
