HEAD 0 2ND LINE OUR RISKS Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 23 OUr risKs Like any other business, we are subject identified and addressed.
the Committee provides input on, to a number of risks and uncertainties, there may be risks that are not reasonably and oversight over, this risk management which are influenced by both internal foreseeable at the date of this report framework, including the identification, and external factors.
in this section, we such that the Group can assess fully their assessment and monitoring of the Groups describe the principal risks that could potential impact on the business.
Level 1 risks as well as any emerging or affect the Groups ability to deliver against escalated risks.
its strategy together with the controls and the order in which risks are presented activities in place to mitigate such risks.
below is not indicative of the relative each business function and regional potential impact on the Group.
operations head, in turn, is responsible for Risk factors formally identifying and assessing the risks Management of risk within his or her remit and measuring them Below we provide information on the against a defined set of criteria, while nature of each of the Groups principal the Board is accountable for carrying considering the likelihood of occurrence risks as identified by the Board.
not all out a robust assessment of the principal and potential impact to the Group.
these potential risks are listed: some risks that risks facing the Company, including those regional and functional risk profiles are the we are managing and monitoring in the threatening its customers, people, values, Groups Level 2 risks.
business are excluded because the Board reputation, business model, diverse brand considers that they are not material to the portfolio, future performance, solvency or the Groups risk management function, Groups long term strategy, performance or liquidity.
to assist the Board in this task, supported by an outsourced team from viability.
the Board formed a separate Board risk Barnett Waddingham, assists the Group Committee in april 2016, which is tasked management risk Committee, and in general, the diversity and geographical with reviewing the effectiveness of the ultimately the Board risk Committee, spread of the Groups assets provides Groups risk management framework in co-ordinating the risk management a natural hedge against many of the and overseeing the Groups principal processes and producing a consolidated principal risks identified on the following risks.
these principal risks are referred view.
the risk management process uses pages.
however, as with any business, to as Level 1 risks.
Below the Board risk a standardised approach to assess risks, the Board accepts that risks are inherent Committee sits the Group management including regular risk reviews and the in conducting a global business and that risk Committee, which is chaired by the updating of risk registers, to enable the our processes aim to provide reasonable, Group Chief executive Officer, and is highest risks to be escalated.
the process not absolute, assurance that the risks comprised of key executive personnel also clarifies Board expectations through significant to our business have been and supported by the head of internal Board of Directors Overall accountability for strategic risk management Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Support the oversight & challenge of the effectiveness of the Responsible for oversight of the Groups Groups internal controls and risk management with Enterprise Risk Management responsibility for the approval of the Groups annual report and accounts including the principal risks Group Management Risk Committee Group Internal Audit Operational accountability for management and control Review of effectiveness of internal controls of risks and implementation of mitigation measures HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2 ND LINE CONTINUED H OE UA RD R I0 1 SKS ST LINE HE COAD nt in 0 1 US eT D LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 OUr risKs COntinUeD risk appetite and is designed to focus Underpinning the work of the Board and the establishment within the Group, since on key risks, encourage accountability, Group management risk Committees and the formation of the risk Committee, of a holistic thinking, the use of management to help instill the new risk management robust risk management framework.
these information in risk management discussions framework within the Group, the risk changes will take effect following the and informed decisions to deliver management team held workshops and conclusion of the Company's 2018 annual improvement and actions where necessary.
training sessions with key stakeholders over General meeting.
risks at the individual hotel and project Review period level, Level 3 risks, are identified and the Board understands that risk the UK Corporate Governance Code managed by hotel general managers management is an iterative exercise, one requires the Company to issue a viability and financial controllers and the project which is never complete.
as such, the statement declaring whether the Directors owners, with support from the regional members of the Board risk Committee look expect that the Company will be able management teams.
forward to continued improvements in the to continue in operation over a relevant processes in 2018. period and meet its liabilities during Activities during 2017 that period after taking into account the Risk assessment the Board risk Committee met four times Groups current position and principal material risks are identified through in 2017, during which meetings it agreed risks.
the overriding aim is to encourage a detailed bottom up assessment as a new risk management framework, the Directors to focus on the longer term well as a holistic top down review.
the conducted an assessment of the Groups and be more actively involved in risk bottom up assessment encompasses principal, or Level 1, risks, and received management and internal controls.
the the identification, management and updates on these principal risks by the relevant period over which the Board is to monitoring of risks in each area of the designated risk owners.
assess the viability of the Company must be business, including at the hotel level, and longer than 12 months, and in this case the the Group management risk Committee, ensures that risk management controls are Board has selected a three year period.
in turn, met five times during the year.
embedded in the businesses operations.
a three year assessment period was in addition to supporting the Board risk the top down review led by the Board considered by the Directors to be Committee in assessing and monitoring the risk Committee, supported by the Group appropriate for several reasons: Groups principal risks, the management management risk Committee, evaluates risk Committee conducted more detailed the Groups operating environment, as First, the three-year period is in line analyses of several of the key risks.
One explained above, with a particular focus, with the Groups rolling financial such deep-dive analysis focused on in conjunction with the audit Committee, and capital expenditure planning, the threat of increasing costs of sale, on the cash flows of the Group.
particularly as many of the Groups particularly through third-party distribution financing facilities have three-year Risk committee channels.
this work included sophisticated maturities.
data analytics to help the team better the nominations Committee reviewed the second, the landscape of online understand and track its costs of sale structure of the Board's committees and competition has been changing rapidly through the various channels, with the the Board has decided to amalgamate and is likely to continue to change goal of being able to better manage those the duties of the risk and audit Committee further in the foreseeable future.
given the commonalties of their remits and Level 1 Board Risk Prole Regional Functional Level 2 Risk Proles Risk Proles Hotel Risk Project Risk Area Risk Project Risk Level 3 Proles Proles Prole Proles HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 25 VIABILITY STATEMENT in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including combinations of those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
this assessment involved a review of the prospects of the Group over the three year period to 31 December 2020 taking into account the Groups assets, strategy and the Groups principal risks and how these are managed over this time period, as detailed above.
the Directors believe the three year period to be appropriate for the reasons stated above.
the annual budget and plan and three year financial and capital expenditure projections are supported by regular Board briefings provided by management and the discussion of any new initiatives undertaken by the Board in its normal course of business.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to 31 December 2020. would be difficult to form a reasonable judgment of how the online marketplace will evolve beyond a period of three years.
Finally, market data, used to develop rate and other projections, beyond three years is thought to be less reliable.
Viability assessment in order to assess the viability of the Group over the three year period, the Directors evaluated both the 2018 budget and plan, which is reviewed and approved by the Board, and three year financial and capital expenditure projections.
the budget and these projections were prepared taking into account the Groups strategy and the current market conditions.
they also took into account the principal risks, and the controls in place to mitigate those risks, and the projections included a sensitivity analysis based on a significant decline in hotel profit due to a combination of those risks, such as the failure of the Group to renew its financing facilities, materialising for a sustained period.
having assessed the principal risks, the Directors have determined that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meets its liabilities as they fall due for a period of three years to 31 December 2020.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 OUr risKs COntinUeD Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Potential Impact Mitigating Activities Risk Trend Quality of Consistent delivery of service and product quality is vitally Generally the Group operates properties which it owns, service delivery important to creating and maintaining brand loyalty and and therefore is able to exercise control over the service and product value perception and influencing consumer preference.
this and product quality of those hotels.
is enhanced by the growing influence of customer ratings, For those hotels we own but do not operate, such as reviews and the power of social media.
Lack of investment the novotel new York times square and Grand hyatt in the Groups assets or the removal of a significant number taipei, the Group asset manages those properties to of rooms from inventory in order to complete needed ensure compliance with its service levels and contractual refurbishment programmes could have a significant impact requirements.
on those factors and therefore on the revenues that hotels are the Group continues to develop property specific able to achieve.
as supply increases, particularly in our key asset management plans which focus on the capital gateway cities, business may be lost to newer hotels and or requirements of each property in terms of regular rates may have to be reduced to remain competitive.
maintenance and product enhancement to help ensure in addition, management of third-party owned hotels under the products remain competitive.
refurbishments are management agreements, particularly in the middle east and phased appropriately in order to minimise the impact of China regions, and the use of joint ventures in certain markets those programmes on operations, to the extent possible.
gives rise to the risk of non-performance on the part of the the Group currently endeavours to reinvest one-third of hotel owners and joint venture partners, affecting the ability its eBitDa into its hotel estate.
of the relevant hotels to deliver service and product quality the Group has in place brand and operating standards, consistent with the Group brand and operating standards, and regularly refreshes those, to provide for consistent especially when the strategic objectives of those parties are service delivery and product quality among its hotels, not always aligned with those of the Group.
even if they are owned by third parties and or operated through joint ventures.
management representatives are assigned to manage the relationships with joint venture partners and third party hotel owners.
Intellectual Future growth and pricing power and the image and in 2017 a formal launch of the latest brand offering, m property rights reputation of the Group in general will, in part, be dependent Collection, took place with the promotion of the opening and brands on the recognition of the Groups brands and perception of of m social auckland.
the values inherent in those brands.
the ability of the group substantial investment continues to be made in protecting to protect its intellectual property rights in those brands is the Groups brands from misuse and infringement, by way instrumental in preventing them from deteriorating in value.
of trade mark registration, enforcement of intellectual in addition, the proliferation of e-commerce and online sales property rights and domain name protection.
the Group channels, whether through affiliates, online travel agencies, utilises third party online brand monitoring and protection meta search websites or otherwise, can give rise to brand agencies to assist with the Groups enforcement activities.
confusion and further dilution if the Groups intellectual property is not used appropriately and in accordance with the Groups brand and marketing standards.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 27 Risk Potential Impact Mitigating Activities Risk Trend Increasing the hotel industry operates within an inherently cyclical the Groups asset management teams help to ensure competition marketplace where competition, both online and offline, hotels are appropriately maintained and refreshed to is increasing.
an increase in market room supply, without remain competitive corresponding increases in demand, may lead to downward the Group continues to refresh its digital marketing pressure on rates, which in turn could negatively impact the strategy and invest in its e-commerce, customer Groups performance.
the sector is also seeing a degree of relationship management, revenue management and consolidation in pursuit of scale benefits.
reservations systems in order to help increase rates, retain With regard to online competition, the Groups hotel rooms existing customers and generate new business.
are booked through a number of distribution channels, one of since 2014, a new advanced central reservations system which is the online travel agency Ota.
Otas tend to have has been in place providing a platform for future higher commission rates than more traditional distribution enhancements.
additionally, the Groups website and channels and are taking an increasing share of bookings loyalty programme are regularly reviewed and upgraded across the sector.
Over time, consumers may develop as necessary to help improve brand recognition and loyalties to the Otas rather than to our brands.
these trends drive more bookings through the Groups own, less costly may impact our profitability.
in addition, sharing economy distribution channels.
platforms, such as airbnb, may expand their market share the Groups robust financial control and flexible revenue and compete with more traditional business and leisure management systems help it to control costs and achieve accommodations.
better yields in volatile trading conditions.
Talent Delivery of consistent service quality and execution of the the Group has a strong service culture supported by management Groups strategy depends on its ability to attract, develop and performance management and recognition systems, and succession retain employees with the appropriate skills, experience and compensation and benefits arrangements, and training aptitude.
this becomes more difficult as world travel becomes and development programmes.
Labour relations are more prevalent and competition in the hospitality industry actively managed on a regional and local basis.
During 2017 the Group implemented key changes to its Failure of the Group to properly plan for the succession of key senior management structure and team and several of management roles may impact service quality, consistency its compensation programmes, particularly the incentive or delay the execution of the Groups strategies and increase scheme utilised for the global sales team, to enhance costs and inefficiencies.
the results of the UK referendum and ongoing negotiations We have conducted a risk assessment around the impact around the UKs departure from the european Union may of Brexit and continue to refine the scenario, contingency affect the availability of eU nationals, which is a key source of and staffing plans whilst monitoring the on-going talent for frontline roles particularly in London.
developments of the governmental negotiations HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 OUr risKs COntinUeD Risk Potential Impact Mitigating Activities Risk Trend Financial risk the Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and trades the Groups internal treasury management Committee management in various international currencies, but reports its financial monitors and addresses treasury matters, including and financial results in pounds sterling.
Fluctuations in currency exchange investment and counterparty risks, in accordance with the controls rates and interest rates may either be accretive or dilutive Groups treasury policy.
the Board and audit Committee to the Groups reported trading results and net asset value.
receive regular updates on treasury matters.
the 2016 referendum in the UK to leave the european Union Foreign exchange exposure is primarily managed through resulted in a sustained devaluation of the pound sterling.
the funding of purchases and repayment of borrowings Unhedged interest rate exposures pose a risk to the Group from income generated in the same currency.
when interest rates rise, resulting in increased costs of funding interest rate hedges are only used to manage interest and an impact on overall financial performance.
rate risk to the extent the perceived costs are considered Financial control and accounting is a fundamental to outweigh the benefits of having flexible, variable-rate expectation impacting shareholder trust and reputation of the debt.
this ranges from property level to consolidated and each hotel has an accountable financial controller who statutory reports.
reports into the regional finance team and ultimately the Groups Chief Financial Officer.
a cyclical programme of hotel audits is in place to ensure a proper control environment is being maintained.
in 2017, the Groups Chief Financial Officer, with the support of the audit Committee, reviewed the Companys financial controls and commenced a project to enhance the Groups financial control measures.
Legal and the Group operates in many jurisdictions and is exposed to the Group continues to monitor changes in the regulatory regulatory the risk of non-compliance with increasingly complex and environments in which it operates, identify its compliance compliance rigorous statutory and regulatory requirements, including obligations and implement appropriate compliance and competition law, anti-bribery and corruption and data training programmes.
the Group has comprehensive privacy compliance regimes.
non-compliance with such global and, where applicable, regional policies and regulations, which differ by jurisdiction and are an area of procedures in place to address competition law, data increasing focus by regulators, could result in fines and privacy, ethical business conduct, whistle-blowing, or other damages, including reputational damage, being anti-corruption and bribery, gifts and hospitality and incurred, particularly in the event a data breach should occur.
a particular area of focus in 2017 was in respect of the Groups in response to the GDPr coming into effect, the Group preparation for the commencement of eU General Data has created a task force comprising legal, information Protection regulation GDPr, which comes into force in may technology, operations and other representatives to 2018. develop and implement plans to achieve substantial in addition, the Group may be at risk of litigation from compliance by may 2018. various parties with which it interacts, either through direct the Group has controls in place to manage and help contractual arrangements or as a result of providing services mitigate the risks associated with its various contractual to customers.
significant costs could be incurred where relationships, from execution through to termination, claims are not insured or are not fully insured, and litigation insured and uninsured litigation and other disputes.
could give rise to reputational damage being suffered and regular litigation reports are provided to the Board.
the Group maintains in place industry standard insurance in certain countries where the Group operates, particularly in cover to mitigate many potential litigation risks, such as emerging markets, local practices and the legal environment employment practices liability, workers compensation may be such that enforcement of the Groups legal rights is and general liability policies.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 29 Risk Potential Impact Mitigating Activities Risk Trend Health, safety health and safety of guests, visitors and employees is a the Group has established and maintains health and and social fundamental expectation.
the Group is further exposed to safety and environmental management systems including responsibility a wide range of regulatory requirements and obligations policies, procedures, drills and tests, self and third party concerning health and safety.
audits, training, governance, and reporting which, where possible, it seeks to align with the requirements of isO as a significant property owner and operator of hotels in 14001 and Ohsas 18001.
By using these standards the multiple jurisdictions, the Group must do more than simply Group is committed to working to the highest standards comply with local regulations.
We must act in a responsible of health and safety and to an internationally accredited way towards our stakeholders and the communities in which system.
Following the tragic fire at the Grenfell tower in London Failure to implement and maintain sufficient controls in June 2017, management completed an assessment of regarding health and safety issues could result in serious cladding used on the Groups hotel estate to help ensure injury or loss of life and expose the Group to significant the safety of hotels guests, visitors and employees.
sanctions, both civil and criminal, financial penalties and reputational damage.
the Group has adopted various corporate responsibility initiatives in relation to its employees, guests and the environment.
the Groups operating regions have flexibility to tailor such initiatives and adopt new ones to better conform to local and regional customs and practices.
the Group maintains in place industry standard insurance cover to mitigate many risks and liabilities, such as workers compensation and general liability policies.
Information increasing reliance on online distribution channels, a new Group it governance committee was formed in Security, transactions over the internet, the aggregation and storage 2017 comprising the Chief technology solutions Officer, vulnerability to of guest and other information electronically, both on the Chief Financial Officer and svP General Counsel and cyber-attacks company-controlled servers and networks and in cloudCompany secretary to enhance it oversight and focus.
and PCI-DSS based environments present heightened risks of failures, the Group have in place information technology compliance breaches and attacks affecting the operation of those systems policies and procedures that have been updated to and networks and or a potential loss or misuse of confidential reflect implementation of the latest PCi-Dss compliance or proprietary information.
the occurrence of cyber risks standards could disrupt business, the ability of the Group to take or fulfil Periodically, the Group engages external consultancy bookings or lead to reputational and monetary damages, firms to conduct security and penetration testing services litigation or regulatory fines.
in relation to the Groups websites and systems and in addition, various aspects of the Groups operations are implements enhancements where necessary.
required to achieve compliance with the payment card software systems are regularly updated to allow for the industry security standards PCi-Dss, and failure to do so latest security updates and patches to be installed.
could result in penalties and or withdrawal of credit card payment facilities.
Where the Group outsources critical information technology systems, including its point of sale and property management systems, the Group utilises reputable suppliers that have industry-standard or best-in-class data security protocols.
the Groups hotels utilise Oracles miCrOs property management system, for example.
the regional information technology teams have developed disaster recovery plans and guides with regard to their high-priority systems, and tests are conducted on select mission-critical systems annually to verify their recoverability offsite.
the Company has in place, and regularly reviews, cyber insurance coverage to protect against certain cyber risks.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 OUr risKs COntinUeD Risk Potential Impact Mitigating Activities Risk Trend Response the Group is exposed to various external events that may the wide geographic spread of the Groups properties to natural, reduce travel, impact on operations or increase the Groups is a natural hedge against the impact of natural, geopolitical and operating costs.
such events are beyond the control of geopolitical and economic events.
economic events management, may be localised to a particular community, the Groups flexible financial and revenue management city or country or they may have a wider international impact.
systems help it to control costs and achieve better yields examples of such events include severe weather conditions in volatile trading conditions.
and natural disasters, acts of terrorism, war or perceived the Group has in place disaster recovery, crisis response risk of armed conflict, epidemics, nationalisation of assets or and business continuity plans and often has working restrictions on the repatriation of funds, increased travel costs, relationships with local law enforcement bodies to enable industrial action and political and or social unrest.
it to respond to major incidents or emergencies.
notably, with regard to the UK referendum on eU management pro-actively monitors geopolitical membership, while we have not seen any immediate or developments and seeks to identify emerging risks material impacts from that decision aside from significant at the earliest opportunity to ensure clear roles and exchange rate fluctuations, we recognise that the coming responsibilities, internal controls and other steps to years will be challenging in the UK as uncertainty remains minimise these exposures to the greatest extent possible.
and we are monitoring political and macro-economic developments closely.
the Groups insurance requirements are regularly reviewed by management to ensure that the coverages With regard to these risks, appropriate insurance coverage obtained are appropriate to the companys risk profile may not be available in the market in some instances or relative to the cost of cover available in the relevant coverage may not be available on commercially viable terms.
Approval of Strategic Report the strategic report comprises the following sections: Chairmans statement, Business review and strategy, Key performance indicators, Financial performance and regional performances, Corporate responsibility and Our risks sections.
the strategic report was approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by: Kwek Leng Beng Chairman of the Board 28 march 2018 HEAD 0 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 31 GOVERNANCE 32 Board of Directors 34 Directors report 40 Corporate governance statement 48 Audit Committee report 51 Directors remuneration report 67 Nominations Committee report 71 Statement of Directors responsibilities 72 Independent auditors report Grand Millennium Kuala Lumpur
