Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk management approach Each of our risks have an appetite statement to determine the nature and amount of risk that the We are faced with a number of challenges and risks due Group is willing to accept as well as informing our to the diverse services we provide around the world.
We decision-making as to the level of resource that should have to respond to the changing political environment be expended to mitigate the principal risks.
These which in some cases has unknown consequences.
statements are aligned to our Values, Code of Conduct Brexit is just one example, where today there are few and other ethical requirements to support and drive conclusions as to the real impacts, both negative and the right risk culture within the Group.
positive, on our economic landscape in the UK, Europe and the wider global economy.
Principal risks We manage risks through our risk management Our Executive Committee reviews the principal risks policy, standards, and risk management lifecycle facing the Group to ensure they remain current, taking processes.
The risk management lifecycle includes into consideration the various Divisional risk registers six key processes that aim to manage the key risks to and any emerging risks that would threaten the our operations.
This enables us to have a consistent execution of Sercos strategy, business model, approach to identifying, analysing, monitoring future performance, solvency and liquidity.
and reporting risks and a mechanism for providing The resulting principal risks have been reviewed assurance that the risk mitigation in place is effective.
and endorsed by the Risk Committee.
Each risk is These align to the guidance contained within the classified as strategic, financial, operational, people, UK Corporate Governance Code and form part of hazard, legal and compliance.
They are described the Serco Management System SMS.
The SMS is a on the following pages, together with the relevant set of requirements and procedures that define how strategic business objectives, key risk drivers, the we operate and how we behave.
This system seeks Group-wide material controls which have been put in to ensure that we identify, review and report risks place to mitigate the principal risks, and the mitigation at all levels of our business, reflecting the nature priorities going forward to improve the effectiveness of the activities being undertaken at that level, the of the controls.
business and operational risks and the level of control The risks are considered over a three-year timeframe considered necessary to protect our interests and which is the same time period that has been used in those of ourstakeholders.
the Viability Statement see pages 30 and 31.
The Management oversight and risk appetite Viability Statement takes into account the principal risks in its assessment.
We have a systematic approach to our risk oversight, with nominated people tasked to ensure that the risk management framework is understood and implemented, together with reporting requirements.
This allows for a robust reporting structure, both top down and bottom up, with a current focus on better aligning the Business and Divisional risks to our principal risks, and vice versa.
The Group Risk Committee initiated in 2016, as a focused committee that previously was covered as part of the responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee is now fully embedded, reporting quarterly to the Board, and this has improved our management oversight on the principal risks see pages 93 to 95 for the detailed Corporate Governance Report.
Deep Dives into a number of principal risks are carried out during the year, together with a review of the operating environment to determine any changes to our Top 10 risks.
20 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Risk Management Lifecycle RISK PLANNING Assigning responsibility for risk management implementation, planning the approach and capturing this information in a Risk Management Plan RMP RISK REPORTING RISK IDENTIFICATION Reporting of the status of Identifying risks associated material risks up through the with achievement of our business management chain to the next objectives.
Includes potential risks organisational level, to provide from external factors arising from assurance that business risks are the environment within which we being appropriately managed and operate, and internal risks arising controls in place are effective from the nature of our business Risk Management Lifecycle RISK MONITORING Processes RISK ANALYSIS Monitoring mitigation Assessing the level actions and their impact so as of inherent and residual risk to improve the effectiveness of exposure, based on an assessment controls and improve the residual of the probability of an identified risk rating risk materialising, and the impact Monitoring changes to our if it does, using a standard risk business and the external scoring system, taking into environment, to ensure we account effectiveness of RISK MITIGATION have sight of and respond current controls appropriately to Identifying controls that will emerging risks reduce material risks to a target risk rating aligned with our risk appetite, and implementing cost-effective mitigation and contingency actions that improve the effectiveness of controls Summary of principal risks Strategic Risks Failure to grow profitably Failure to manage our Failure to deliver expected reputation benefits from Transformation Financial Risks Financial control failure Operational Risks Major information Contract non-compliance, Failure of business security breach non-performance or critical partner, supplier, misreporting sub-contractor People Risks Failure to act with integrity Hazard Risks Catastrophic incident Legal and Material legal and Compliance Risks regulatory compliance failure 21 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued A place people Winning good business Executing brilliantly Profitable and sustainable are proud to work STRATEGIC RISKS Failure to grow profitably Failure to win material bids or renew material contracts profitably, or a lack of opportunities in our chosen markets, will restrict growth and may have an adverse impact on Sercos long-term financial viability.
Our business is linked to changes in the economy, fiscal and monetary policy, political stability and leadership, budget priorities, and the perception and attitude of governments and the wider public to outsourcing, which could result in decisions not to outsource services or lead to delays in placing work.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Lack of opportunities in chosen markets some Serco Group Strategy focusing on Review pipeline opportunities market sectors may not have a favourable policy of specific markets and geographies to ensure all market activity is private sector provision of public services, reducing with the greatest growth potential.
Review bid solution processes External factors reducing the pipeline of and SME resources to ensure our Investment Committee.
opportunities political and policy changes in propositions remain competitive.
our markets such as changes in federal or state Streamline and standardise the governments, or decisions such as Brexit may make Sector-specific Centres of Excellence it more difficult for us to win in some geographies, or Business Development processes.
Refinement of BLRT process to Business Lifecycle Review Team Failure to be competitive lack of appropriate ensure lessons learnt and price-toBLRT process.
references and value proposition for the markets in win competitive analysis are formally Pipeline and Business Development which we compete, may put us at a disadvantage to embedded in the solution process.
spend reviews to ensure efficient our competitors.
Continued focus on account deployment of resources.
Inability to meet customer and solution management for major re-bids Divisional Performance Reporting requirements during design, implementation and to ensure existing clients are DPR process.
delivery executing our bids in an unsatisfactory experiencing good service from manner by not understanding the strategic needs of Annual Performance Reviews, Talent Serco and fully understand the value the customer, mispricing bids, developing inefficient Reviews and Succession Planning and quality of our services.
or non-innovative solutions, and misunderstanding processes.
risks, may prevent us from achieving our growth Continuation of efficiency ambitions.
improvements to Group and Divisional overhead and shared Ineffective business development poor account management, market shaping, proposition services structures as part of the development and visibility of pipeline opportunities Transformation Programme to will affect our ability to set targets for growth, ensure we remain cost competitive.
understand business wins and drive process improvements.
Failure to obtain or capitalise on benefits from our Transformation Programme see Failure to deliver expected benefits from Transformation.
Failure to manage our reputation Failure to manage our reputation will mean that customers will be less likely to give us new business or renew existing business.
It will also impact our ability to attract and retain high-quality people.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Failure to clearly define what Serco stands for and Serco Values.
Maintain momentum of Executing how we wish to be seen may result in inconsistent Brilliantly.
Group Reputation Brand and communication and misunderstanding by our key Communication Standard.
Review and refine existing controls stakeholders.
Customer and stakeholder Not understanding our customers and relationship and engagement stakeholders expectations may result in a failure programmes.
to recognise changes in our business environment or our customers priorities.
Proactive engagement with the media.
Failure to manage incidents appropriately may result in us not responding in a collaborative Media training and understanding approach with our customers, or not communicating of reputational issues for senior in an open and ethical manner to key stakeholders.
Incident management processes and crisis management plans.
22 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Failure to deliver expected benefits from Transformation If components of the Transformation Programme do not deliver the anticipated benefits, then we will not achieve the efficiency savings needed to become a sufficiently profitable and growing business.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Non-delivery of required benefits we fail Serco Operating Model objectives.
Development of programme benefit to achieve the expected benefits due to poor cards to facilitate measurement of Group Transformation Programme programme management and or solution design.
Management Office PMO and Severe disruption to the business we fail to Programme Governance Boards.
Full alignment of Group, Divisions coordinate and prioritise the various programme and Business Units to Operating Programme risk management objectives due to poor integration across activities Model.
and inadequate programme management, and we Refine DPR to capture transformation negatively impact on Business As Usual activities.
Stakeholder engagement and delivery and performance.
Watering down of value ambition of Group Operating model due to a sum of compromises Serco Management System SMS.
across the organisation and the possible Divisional Performance Reporting misalignment across the Divisions.
Failure of the businesses to understand the Benefits management process.
imperative to change due to ineffective Embedding benefits within communication from the leadership teams.
Failure to comply with new operating model due to ineffective enforcement of the model and changes not embedded into the business.
Failure to communicate the change and impact of the change to clients potentially causing opposing short-term drivers.
FINANCIAL RISKS Financial control failure Financial control failure may result in: an inability to accurately report timely financial results and meet contractual financial reporting obligations: a heightened risk of error and fraud: poor quality data leading to poor business decisions: an inability to forecast accurately: the failure to create a suitable capital structure: and an inability to make critical financial transactions: therefore, leading to financial instability, potential business losses and negative reputational impact.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Not setting the right tone from the top without Group governance and finance Continued delivery of finance which, we may fail to embed the finance policy, strategy.
Finance transformation programme Complete knowledge transfer Poor financial processes if processes are poorly governance.
designed, then inaccuracies and fraud may occur.
Active monitoring of outsourced Embedding new forecasting tool, Inadequate financial controls within the business partners.
if controls are inadequate we may fail to provide Serco Management System SMS Continuous improvement of adequate protection from sabotage of systems, fraud finance processes and controls.
reporting processes as a result of and error.
Standardised reporting, forecasting Impact of Transformation Programme activities and financial processes.
Monitor compliance with billing programme activities may lead to poor change processes and continuous billing control or an unstable financial control environment Standardised financial systems and due to an increased workload on the finance assurance programme.
Standardisation of Integrated Skilled and adequately trained Failure of Finance Transformation Programme Assurance Maps.
we do not transform the finance processes and Complete gap analysis of benchmark Financial assurance and second line controls, and fail to deliver expected benefits.
controls and assurance activities of defence assurance activities.
across key risk drivers managed by Divisions.
23 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued OPERATIONAL RISKS Major information security breach A major information security breach resulting in the loss or compromise of sensitive information including personal or customer or wilful damage resulting in the loss of service, causing significant reputational damage, financial penalties and loss of customer confidence.
Due to the nature of the services we provide, our technology and operational systems will be subject to threats from both internal and external breaches.
We implement effective controls proportionate to the level of sensitivity of the information we are protecting, and where 'things go wrong', we act swiftly to minimise the impact of any breach and carry out remedial actions to prevent further breaches immediately.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Non-compliant systems if our systems are nonEnterprise Architecture Boards and Completion of Cyber Defence compliant with regulatory requirements for sensitive Solution Review meetings.
and Hardening Programmes in information, we are susceptible to breaches and all Divisions.
Completion of PUM roll out across IT security infrastructure, process Non-compliance with policies and standards all Divisions.
if staff do not comply with Serco policies and Routine vigilance and proactive Privilege User Management PUM standards, then they may accidentally release vulnerability identification sensitive information to third parties.
coordinated through our Security Vulnerability of systems and information if we External accreditation eg, Cyber Operations Centre.
do not identify sensitive information and protect Essentials Plus CES in the UK.
and test the vulnerability of our systems, then we are Regular controls assurance.
Third party due diligence checks.
Embed third party due diligence Global Security Operations Centre Unauthorised use of systems if we do not checks for key suppliers.
and Computer Security Incident implement effective personnel vetting and access Response Teams.
restriction processes and controls, then unauthorised My HR standardised HR processes use of our systems may occur.
Inadequate incident monitoring and response Serco Essentials training.
if we do not monitor our systems and remediate and repel attacks, then we may fail to minimise the impact Cyber security awareness training, of any breach.
including regular Phishing training exercises.
Contract non-compliance, non-performance or misreporting Failure to deliver contractual requirements or failure to meet and report against agreed service performance levels accurately may lead to significant financial penalties, legal notices, onerous contract provisions, or ultimately early termination of contracts.
If the misreporting is deliberate, it may constitute fraud, and the Group may be subject to litigation, inquiries or investigations that could divert management time and resources, and result in penalties, sanctions, variation or revocation of permissions and authorisations, suspension or debarment from doing business with government customers.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Poor leadership and culture if our leaders do not Viewpoint checks, communication of Consistent Contract Management align with our Values, and staff feel under pressure Our Values and Code of Conduct.
to meet challenging operational targets and or Contract Management Application Embed use of the CMA.
performance indicators, then deliberate misreporting CMA.
Development of additional contract may occur.
performance Indicators health Lack of process and controls poorly documented checks.
Business Lifecycle Review Team or poorly communicated processes may lead to deliberate or unintentional misreporting or contract BLRT process.
Leadership Development Ineffective assurance and human error Programme and Contract Manager insufficient oversight and assurance of contract training.
performance, could lead to contract non-compliance, Contract governance including non-performance or a misreporting of performance.
Monthly Contract Reviews, Poor understanding of contract obligations Business Unit reviews and Divisional may result in staff failing to acknowledge and act on Performance Reporting DPR obligations or a failure to provide adequate resources process.
to deliver against contractual obligations.
Poor systems IT unreliable or incorrectly configured systems may result in late or incorrect data produced.
24 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Failure of business critical partner, sub-contractor or supplier 1 As a result of the failure of a business critical partner, sub-contractor or supplier to deliver and or perform to the required standard, Serco may be unable to meet its customer obligations or perform critical business operations which could result in a financial, operational or reputational impact.
1 A partner, sub-contractor or supplier on whom Serco depends to deliver customer critical services or perform critical Serco business operations and therefore ability to earn revenue.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Ineffective procurement and supply chain Serco Management System SMS Consistent understanding and governance no Group functional owner for procurement policy, standards and management of the risk across procurement resulting in inconsistencies in procedures.
implementation of standards, potential nonSourcing Standard Operating Establish Divisional compliance compliance to those standards and lack of Procedure.
Supplier Management Standard Supplier Relationship Management Identification of significant suppliers a failure Operating Procedure.
SRM Pilot and development of to identify who are our critical suppliers may result future approach to SRM.
in lack of focused oversight, and understanding of Maintenance of business critical the impacts on Serco should they fail to deliver our partner, sub-contractor and Audit business critical subcustomer critical service.
contractor and supplier business Limited oversight resulting in poor sourcing, continuity plans.
contracting and monitoring of business critical Consequence management.
partners, sub-contractors and suppliers as well as Financial health checks and the potential for engaging in ineffective or onerous contracts with suppliers or sub-contractors.
Supplier performance and risk Lack of resilience in the supply chain exposing us to potential service provision or financial losses reviews.
should they have ineffective Business Continuity and Supplier Business Continuity Disaster Recovery plans.
PEOPLE RISKS Failure to act with integrity Being found to have engaged in a significant corrupt or dishonest act bribery, fraud, misreporting, cheating, and lying leads to customers being reluctant to do business with such organisations.
Such behaviour might arise through the actions of rogue employees or as a result of pressures individuals feel they are being placed under culture.
Such acts might lead to the loss of existing business: restrictions on our ability to bid or win new business: our ability to attract high-quality people or partners: and an adverse impact on shareholder, investor and financial institutions' confidence in Serco.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Failure to communicate if we do not define and Top level commitment tone from Implementation of on-line Conflict of communicate our Values and expected standards top.
adequately, our staff and third parties will fail to Strong, meaningful and understood Refinement of divisional compliance understand these, which may result in inappropriate Values.
leadership actions and low engagement with Code of Conduct.
Clarification of ethics roles and our Values.
Corporate Governance with Our ways of working do not align with our Values staff or third parties being unaware of oversight by the Corporate Embed the new third party due and or not reflecting our Values may result in poor Responsibility Committee CRC.
decision-making, unacceptable business conduct, Delegated Authority Register DAR.
Refresh Serco Essentials Plus and unethical or illegal behaviour bringing our training.
Continue with divisional Anti-bribery Financial controls and processes, Direct or indirect contribution to human rights and Corruption reviews.
with segregation of duties for core abuse staff either directly or indirectly contributing financial controls.
to human rights including slavery and forced labour abuses may result in a breach of laws regulations.
Gifts and Hospitality process and registers.
25 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued HAZARD RISKS Catastrophic incident An incident or accident as a result of Sercos actions or failure to effectively respond to an event that results in multiple fatalities, severe property asset damage loss or very serious long term environmental damage.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Lack of capability and experience if our chosen Serco Health, Safety and Refinement of controls following market sectors are not aligned to our capability and Environmental HSE Strategy.
experience, then a failure to operate optimally may Effective and engaged safety Testing of Crisis Management, result in a serious event.
Disaster Recovery and Business Lack of safety cultural alignment a safety culture Continuity plans.
Regular safety communications and which does not reflect our Values and fails to engage maintenance of safety awareness.
Review of contractual risk allocation our staff and work safely may result in a serious event.
Competency based recruitment Ineffective or inadequate policies, standards and programme.
procedures if procedures systems are not aligned with industry standard or customer expectations, an Role description and competency unacceptable level of safety management may occur.
Insufficient safety management oversight Serco Essentials training.
devolved compliance of regulations to sector-specific Access to subject matter expertise.
SMEs without appropriate safety management Serco Management System SMS.
oversight may result in safety management systems which are not fit for purpose.
Business Lifecycle Review Team BLRT process.
Factors resulting in unsafe conditions a lack of identification and assessment of risks, sudden Planned and preventative equipment failure or inadequate security may result in inspections, maintenance and repair poor mitigation of and or response to a serious event.
Inadequate response to a catastrophic event if Third party ethical due diligence our contingency plans do not provide an adequate procedure.
response to an event then escalation of an event or Assure Serco's incident and prolonged disruption may occur.
Divisional Performance Reporting DPR process.
Crisis and incident emergency response plans and testing.
Business Continuity plans and testing.
Compliance assurance and audit programmes.
26 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Material legal and regulatory compliance failure Serco is subject to numerous laws and regulations as a result of the complexity and breadth of the sectors and jurisdictions in which it operates.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations may cause significant loss and damage to the Group including exposure to regulatory prosecution and fines, reputational damage and the potential loss of licences and authorisations, all of which may prejudice the prospects for future bids and the retention of existing business.
Defending legal proceedings may be costly and may also divert management attention away from running the business for a prolonged period.
Uninsured losses or financial penalties resulting from any current or threatened legal actions may also have a material adverse effect on the Group.
Key risk drivers: Material controls: Mitigation priorities: Lack of governance and oversight may result in Automated alerts on material legal Use of trend analysis and analytics a failure to identify potential or actual breaches to and regulatory obligations and from Legal Tracker software.
legal requirements and result in a failure to respond changes.
Launch of revised Code of Conduct appropriately, or weaken our ability to confirm Investment Committee process and and Supplier Code of Conduct.
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Complete and embed General Failure to comply with the SMS and contractual Third party due diligence.
Data Protection Regulation GDPR obligations may result in compliance failures readiness programme.
for Group-wide material legal and regulatory Serco Management System SMS.
Refresh Serco Essentials training Legal Tracker case management programmes.
Failure to identify and respond to material software.
changes in legal and regulatory requirements Implement revised Group Standard Gift and Hospitality process may result in key subject matter experts within the Operating Procedures GSOP.
business not remaining up to date and we then fail to Develop and implement new GSOPs Legal training.
comply with material legal and regulatory obligations.
including export controls, parental Serco Essentials training.
Lack of awareness by employees of the legal guarantees and conflicts of interest.
and regulatory requirements placed upon them Compliance Assurance Programme Continue with contract and may result in lack of identification and subsequent CAP reviews.
Business Lifecycle Review Team Embedding and sustaining Inadequate provision of systems and tools BLRT process and governance.
may result in ineffective methods to support the External regulatory audit.
management of legal and regulatory compliance.
Bi-annual reporting to Board and Executive Committee on new laws across the Group.
Speak up process and case management system EthicsPoint.
27 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued SFO investigation We remain under investigation by the UK Serious Fraud Office SFO.
We are cooperating fully with the SFO's investigation but it is not possible to predict the outcome.
No conclusion has yet been reached.
However, in the event that the SFO decides to charge, the range of possible adverse outcomes is any one or a combination of thefollowing: that the SFO prosecutes the individuals and or the Serco Group companies involved, who may defend the action successfully or be convicted.
This may result in significant financial penalties, an impact on existing contracts and Serco being subject to a period of discretionary debarment from future contracts with UK Government entities: or that the SFO and the relevant Serco entities enter into a deferred prosecution agreement DPA which may result in significant financial penalties and a period of discretionary debarment from future contracts with UK Government entities.
Such debarment would be discretionary in the sense that a contracting authority may consider it not to be relevant to a given bid or re-bid, or that Serco has provided sufficient evidence that it has addressed any issues identified in a DPA, or be limited in time under the terms of the Public Contract Regulations 2015.
Upon any such conviction or DPA, the amount of additional work given to the Group may be reduced, and the Group may be subject to enhanced scrutiny with respect to its other contracts and further actions beyond those implemented under the Corporate Renewal Programme may need to be taken.
If the Group faces any criminal convictions, debarment consequences or enters into a DPA, any such outcome could result in significant fines and have a material adverse impact on the Groups ability to contract with the UK Government and on its reputation, which would, in turn, materially adversely affect its business, financial condition, operations and prospects.
In addition, a criminal conviction of a Serco entity or of one or more of the Groups current or former employees would in certain circumstances allow the Ministry of Justice to re-open the 64.3m settlement agreed and paid in 2013 in respect of certain issues arising under the Electronic Monitoring Contract.
In those limited circumstances, the UK Government may seek additional payments from Serco.
We will continue to cooperate with the SFO's investigation.
28 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Material changes to principal risks Failure of business critical partners, sub-contractor or supplier Following the 2017 November Group Risk Committee meeting, this new risk was proposed and accepted by the Board.
We have a fundamental business dependence on critical partners, sub-contractors and suppliers, as a result of which, the failure of any of these to deliver and or perform to the required standard, may result in our inability to meet customer obligations or to perform critical business operations.
See detail on this risk within the Principal Risk description page 25.
Contract non-compliance, non-performance or misreporting Previously we reported misreporting of performance and contract non-compliance as separate risks.
Both of these areas have had a significant focus over the last few years and the positive impacts of these are being seen our Key Risk Indicators KRIs demonstrate that our residual risk is decreasing in both areas.
This is due to our improvements in contract assurance, the increased coverage of our contractual management systems, together with the roll out of our operational excellence programmes as well as a better understanding of our contractual Key Performance Indicators KPIs and reporting requirements.
Given the overlap of the controls in place for both these risks, we have determined that they can be combined into a single risk on the Group Risk Register.
Failure to build reputation or act with integrity This risk has been separated into two discrete risks: failure to manage reputation, and: failure to act with integrity.
This enables greater ownership and focus given the distinct control sets and mitigation plans.
By demerging the risks, we are able to assign separate Subject Matter Experts SMEs and Executive Sponsors with the correct expertise to take ownership of the risk and develop and implement separate mitigation plans, thereby supporting the achievement of our target risk rating.
Failure to attract and retain key resources and skills fit for the future During 2016 2017, we focused on our Serco leadership model, functional talent boards, succession planning, market competitive reward packages, talent pool capability and a number of other initiatives.
These initiatives, together with existing controls, were considered sufficient to reduce the risk to the extent that it no longer forms part of our principal risks.
