36 Strategic report Risk management Effective risk management is essential to the financial strength and resilience of the Group and for the achievement of its business objectives.
First line of defence This section describes how risk ismanaged Governance Risk management within the business by the Group through its Enterprise The Group has implemented a risk The first line of defence comprises the RiskManagement Framework and management governance structure management of the business units and describestheGroups principal risks.
basedon the industry-standard three support functions.
linesof defence that segregates risk Enterprise Risk Management Framework management first line of defence from The first line of defence has primary The Enterprise Risk Management Framework risk oversight second line of defence responsibility for ensuring that the ERMF enables the Group to understand andrisk assurance third line of defence.
businessoperates within risk appetite the risks it is exposed to and to manage them on a day-to-day basis.
in line with its business objectives and within The Board has overall responsibility for thestated risk appetite.
The ERMF comprises themanagement of risk within the Group.
four mutually reinforcing components: risk Second line of defence management philosophy, risk management This includes: Risk oversight and challenge culture, risk management governance and The second line of defence comprises risk management processes.
determining the Groups risk appetite theriskand compliance functions, anddefining expectations for the whichare independent from Philosophy and culture Groupsrisk culture: .
The Groups risk management philosophy is ensuring that the Group has an underpinned by a set of core principles that appropriate and effective risk The functions are responsible for establish the context for risk management management framework: and overseeing and challenging the first line of activities.
The principles dictate that risk monitoring the Groups risk profile defence as it undertakes the identification, management is value enhancing, addresses toensure that it remains within the assessment and management of risks, and the expectations and requirements of Groups stated risk appetite.
for assisting the Board and its various keystakeholders and is integrated into committees in discharging its overall risk thebusiness processes.
The approach is The Groups risk governance structure oversight responsibilities.
proportionate to the type and complexity ensures the effective oversight and ofthe business model and the nature of the management of risk through the Third line of defence associated risks.
Furthermore, risk oversight implementation and operation of the Independent assurance and assurance functions are sufficiently ERMF.
It comprises: Internal Audit provides independent independent of business decision taking assurance on the design and andsupported by adequate resources.
Board Risk Committee BRC :  of the Group Executive Risk Committee The Board recognises that embedding a ERMFandassociated activity.
GERC : sound risk management culture throughout Regional risk committees in EMEA, the Group is fundamental to the effective Americas and Asia Pacific : and operation of the Group, specifically to ensure other function-specific committees.
that all employees are aware of, and act in conformity with, the desired values and behaviours adopted by the Group in their day-to-day activities.
The Group seeks to achieve the implementation of its risk management culture through a combination of frameworks, policies, practices and incentive schemes.
To read our principal risks and uncertainties see p38 41 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 37 Risk management processes The ERMF sets out the core risk management activities undertaken by the Group to identify, assess and manage its risk profile within the prescribed risk appetite.
Review Board risk oversight universe Mgt.
and Set risk governance appetite Exposure Adopt risk 4.
policy and reporting framework Risk management philosophy and culture Assess Undertake financial 3.
Assess and control Perform Assure top down controls and risk policies assessment Conduct Review key stress and scenario controls analysis Risk appetite The Groups risk appetite represents the type and level of risk which it is willing to accept in pursuit of its business objectives.
Risk appetite is articulated by the Board through the Groups risk appetite statements, which are reviewed on at least an annual basis.
The Groups risk appetite statements refer to five risk impacts and are summarised as: Impact Statement Capital The Group must ensure it holds sufficient capital to meet any applicable regulatory capital requirements in both expected and stressed business conditions.
Liquidity Each operating entity must maintain, or have access to, sufficient liquidity to meet all of its funding obligations andcomply with any minimum regulatory requirements, in both normal and stressed conditions.
Reputation The Groups objective is to maintain its reputation for being a sound, trusted and reliable market intermediary, withmarket integrity at the heart of its business, as articulated in the Groups Cultural Framework.
Regulatory The Groups objective is to maintain its good standing with all of its regulators and to fully comply with all applicable standing laws and regulations to which the Group is subject.
Access to The Groups objective is to ensure that it maintains access to the capital markets, and complies with existing capitalmarkets bank lending covenants, even in stressed operating conditions.
The Group implements its risk appetite statements through the adoption of risk thresholds at individual risk level.
These thresholds constitute the operational parameters within which the first line of defence must operate on a day-to-day basis.
