Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Understanding those Risks that Strengthening our System of Risk Our Enterprise Risk impact our Strategy Management and Internal Control Framework is established The fundamental trends outlined in our Following our Strategic Review in 2015, tofocus attention on strategy on pages 10 and 11, including the werefreshed our approach to risk decentralisation of energy systems, shift management.
In 2017 we focused on those risks that enable ofpower to consumers and increasing embedding this improved process aligned usto deliver our strategy.
digitisation, present both opportunities with the new operating model to ensure Its critical we take an andthreats.
Identifying and managing itmakes a positive contribution to effective theserisks is critical to delivering our decision-making and business growth, appropriate level of risk strategy.
The Group Priorities, as laid out whileensuring we successfully manage within the boundaries below, are the lens through which we risks.
In particular, as we have moved into assessour risks and drive discussions new geographies, we have sought to ensure weestablish through around the level of riskwe need to take we are addressing risks associated with Delegations of Authority andthe requirements ofour System of operating in those jurisdictions.
andPolicies and RiskManagement and Internal Control.
Each business unit and Group function is Standards to manage the responsible for identifying and assessing itssignificant risks within the context of downside impact, whilst ourPrincipal Risks.
For each risk, they Our Group Priorities driving upside returns.
consider both the potential impact to the Group and the likelihood of occurrence on Safety, compliance Carolyn Clarke aninherent and residual basis.
The Executive andconduct Group Head of Audit, Committee then considers these perspectives Risk and Control alongside broader external and internal factors Customer satisfaction to create a Group-wide set of prioritised risks.
and operational excellence We categorise our risks as: C ash flow growth and Risk Requiring Standards RRS : strategic momentum Risk with negative impacts that wecontrol through Standards and Cost efficiency Management Systems, for example and simplification process safety or data security.
Risk Requiring Judgement RRJ : P eople and building Riskthat we choose to take in order capability toexecute our business strategy, forexamplenew products or business improvement opportunities.
Read more about Our Strategy Pages 10 to 11 External Risk: Risk that requires afocus on scenario and contingency planning with little or no ability to reduce likelihood, for example extreme weather or geopolitical turbulence.
On an annual basis, we evaluate our System of Risk Management and Internal Control, learning from any control incidents that have arisen, to ensure we are mitigating risks in line with our risk appetite.
52 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Determining the risk we would like Evaluating Risks through our Enterprise Risk Framework Our Enterprise Risk Framework is designed to enable us to identify, evaluate to take and mitigate our risks appropriately.
It comprises six steps: The Board approves statements of risk appetite associated with each Group Priority.
1 Identify These statements provide a framework to Identify significant risks to achieving guide our risk mitigation activities and to business unit and or function objectives drive the appropriate levelof risk taking: Safety, compliance and conduct: Our 2 Assess & Analyse appetite for taking risk in this area is as Assess inherent impact and likelihood using low as reasonably practicable in relation to: ensuring the safety of our people, Centrica risk assessment matrix customers and communities: conducting Identify risk type RRS, RRJ or External Risk our business operations in compliance anddetermine target risk rating with laws and regulations: and managing Identify mitigating activity and key risk our financial reporting risks.
indicators and assess current risk exposure Customer satisfaction and operational excellence: We have a moderate risk appetite to allow us to 3 Design & Implement Controls pursue innovative opportunities.
We are Design and implement controls driven to satisfy the changing needs of andactions to mitigate the potential our customers.
impact and likelihood of risks Cash flow growth and strategic momentum: We have a moderate tohigh risk appetite for seeking opportunities to deliver cash flow growth and our target return on capital.
Cost efficiency and simplification: Wehave a low risk appetite for failingtoimplement and manage improvements sustainably and inarigorous and systematic way.
People and building capability: Weaccept a moderate level of risk infinding ways to attract, develop andreward people with the diverse capabilities needed to deliver our ambitions.
However, we have a low riskappetite forrewarding and retainingpeople who fail to demonstrate 4 Manage & Monitor our Values.
Management of risks and controls todeliver target risk level Monitor through inspection, performance reviews and regularreporting Identify and implement specific remediation actions 5 Calibrate & Assure Group Functions calibrate submitted risks to ensure consistency and prioritise their responses Functional assurance and internal audit activity Assess impact of assurance findings 6 Report, Evaluate & Improve Report consolidated risk, assurance and control position tothe Group Risk, Assurance and Control Committee, AuditCommittee and Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee Evaluate priority risks within the Group risk profile toidentify any corrective actions Evaluate Group-wide severe, but plausible risks andimplications Drive continuous improvement through reviewing the RiskUniverse and Group risk appetite Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 53 Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Our System of Risk Management and Internal Control What we stand for Our Purpose Our Values Our Code Our strategic framework Strategy Financial framework Enterprise Risk Framework Our governance Board and Committees Legal entities Delegations of Authority Executive and Committees How we are organised and managed Management Systems Executive management policies, standards andprocesses Business Units Operating Functions Group Functions Corporate Functions How we provide assurance Functional assurance Internal Audit External assurance Legal entities: Subsidiary company Mitigating risks through the The vision behind legal entities with Boards of Directors System of Risk Management and ourEnterprise Risk required to meet legal and regulatory Internal Control obligations.
Framework was to enable Risk management is a key pillar of the overall Delegations of Authority: us to operate within an governance and management framework for Accountability is delegated through the Group.
Our System of Risk Management acceptable risk envelope the organisation to individuals in and Internal Control comprises the following accordance with risk appetite.
and make risk-informed elements that are assessed annually for Executive and Committees: effectiveness: decisions in pursuit of our Oversight to ensure appropriate What we stand for: strategy.
Identification planning and performance Our Purpose: We are an energy and management.
and management of risk services company.
Everything we do How we are organised and managed: is partof the day-to-day is focused on satisfying the changing Management Systems: The detailed needs of our customers.
responsibility of all our policies, standards and processes Our Values: The new values were staff and a feature of all establishing the mandatory rolled out globally in September 2017 requirements and which are required ourbusiness activities.
to underpin our strategy and Priorities.
for the systematic management of Our Code: This was launched in early related risks.
Alison Hill 2018 to replace our Business Principles How we provide assurance: Group Head of and provides the foundation for how Functional assurance: Ensuring Enterprise Risk we operate.
policies and standards are complied Our strategic framework: with through monitoring and testing Strategy: Set out in July 2015 and activities performed by individuals aligned throughout the organisation whoare not directly responsible for bythe five Group Priorities.
Financial framework: Sets out Internal Audit: Providing confidence parameters and targets within which to the Board, via the Audit Committee, we operate to guide our strategic that Centrica has appropriate planning and financial decision-making.
riskmanagement procedures and Enterprise Risk Framework: effective controls inplace.
Incorporates the Principal Risks within External assurance: Auditing of the the Group Risk Universe, as outlined Groups Annual Report and Accounts on pages 55 to 60. prior to reporting, which includes Our governance: assessment of internal controls Board and Committees: Structured relevant to financial reporting.
to effectively dispense with required duties and through which our Principal Risks are monitored.
54 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk climate movement against prior year Principal Risks The Group Risk Universe is made up of a holistic framework of Principal Risks, Risk has Risk is at Risk has laid out below.
The Board makes a robust assessment of these Principal Risks, increased in similar level decreased in considering future performance and our ability to deliver the strategy, including likelihood and likelihood and solvency and liquidity risks.
For each Principal Risk, we discuss the nature of the orimpact orimpact risk, the risk climate and the impact on our Group Priorities.
EachPrincipal Risk is overseen directly by the Board or one of its Committees, with the Board retaining overall responsibility for risk across the Group.
Description Potential impacts Mitigation Changes in government We are active in contributing our views on the development 1 Political and Regulatory Intervention andregulatory oversight, ofthe markets in which we operate and in discussions with Risk of political or regulatory intervention such specifically relating to the political parties, regulatory authorities and other influencers.
asthe adoption of blanket price caps in the UK Consumer Divisions markets energy supply market, changes to the political We are committed to an open, transparent and inthe UK andNorth America, or regulatory landscape, or failure to influence competitive UK energy market that provides choice for such as the developments in that change.
InNovember, we announced seven unilateral UK market regulation during steps we would take and recommended a series of External Risk 2017, could erode our profit broader market reforms as detailed on page 18. margins through price caps, or The UK is due to exit the European Union within two years through additional obligations ofArticle 50 being triggered in March 2017.
We have that increase operating costs.
Governance oversight: adedicated Brexit project group which is working to The UKs decision to exit the Board understand and assess the many Brexit-related issues European Union and wider whichcould impact the Group and our customers.
political changes in the markets Risk climate: We accept that we may be the subject of regulatory we operate in present risks scrutiny that could result in stakeholder concerns.
We relating to changing policies in co-operate fully with any enquiry or investigation and relation to the energy market Priority: takemeasures to react as quickly aspossible.
Cash flow growth and strategic momentum 2 Financial Market Our exposure to adverse price We have hedging strategies in place to mitigate exposure movements in commodity tocommodity and financial market volatility.
Risk of financial loss due to our exposure to markets, due to our large Financial risk is reviewed regularly by the Group Finance market movements, including commodity upstream and downstream Function and the Group Risk, Assurance and Control prices, inflation, interest rates and currency positions, could impact Committee to assess financial exposures and compliance fluctuations.
profitability and cash flow with risk limits.
Regular review is also undertaken by the External Risk with elements that are Risks generation across the business.
Requiring Judgement Financial market risk is taken on As we move into new trading arrangements, including the by Energy Marketing & Trading continued expansion of our LNG business, we are focused Governance oversight: EM&T as part of the on ensuring that our financial risk policies remain appropriate Board and Audit Committee proprietary trading business.
Increased volatility in Our business units have risk measures, policies and Risk climate: commodity prices could monitoring commensurate with the activities and risks that provide more opportunities but they manage, and we invest in our systems to further also give rise to higher collateral automate our control environment.
Priority: costs and or additional credit Cash flow growth and strategic risk for both EM&T and North momentum America Business.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 55 Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Description Potential impacts Mitigation Our operations have the We undertake regular reviews and have assurance 3 Health, Safety, Environment potential to result in personal processes in place with reporting to the HSES Committee andSecurity HSES orenvironmental harm, or on a quarterly basis and full discussion of all issues arising.
Risk of failure to protect the health, safety and operational loss.
Significant The HSES management system is used to manage our security of customers, employees and third HSES events could also have controls, focusing on areas of concern including process parties or to take appropriate measures to regulatory, legal, financial and safety, driving and working at heights.
protectour environment and in response to reputational impacts that would climate change.
We continue to invest in training to ensure we maintain safe adversely affect some or all of operating practices.
During 2017 all senior leaders took our brands and businesses.
Risk Requiring Standards part in an HSES leadership event.
Security intelligence and operating procedures, as well as Governance oversight: crisis management and business continuity plans, are Board and Safety, Health, Environment, regularly evaluated and tested.
Security and Ethics Committee Significant Centrica representation on Board Committees Risk climate: and establishment of a Shareholder Office to ensure that mitigation of HSES risks remains a priority within the new joint venture organisation, Spirit Energy.
Priority: We actively engage with climate change bodies and Safety, compliance and conduct NGOsto offer our perspective, understand the direction ofpotential future actions, and assess our readiness to manage through change.
A description of how we manage our environmental risk isdescribed on page 36.
Successful delivery of our The Board sets and approves the Groups strategy, 4 Strategy Delivery strategy requires delivering the setting the strategic direction and confirming the Risk that we do not deliver our strategy due to energy and services our strategic choices made by the business.
Regular reviews insufficient capability to execute it in line with customers desire in a way that are conducted on changes in market trends and the plan or failure to adapt quickly enough to satisfies their needs in a competitive environment, and the business response.
respond to changes in the external competitive market place.
In our bottom-up process of risk We have a clear financial framework to ensure capital Failure to identify changing reporting, this is a key area of focus for our isallocated in line with the strategy and that balance trends in customers needs, business units and functions.
sheet strength and return on capital boundary conditions adapt to changing market and are met.
Risk Requiring Judgement competitive environments, The Board and Executive Committee regularly review deliver major transformation thecapabilities required to deliver on the strategy and programmes to be an efficient address gaps as they arise.
supplier, and build the Governance oversight: necessary capabilities to Board compete, have the potential to impact our cash flow growth Risk climate: and value creation goals.
Priority: Cash flow growth and strategic momentum We operate in highly We focus on understanding customer segments and 5 External Market Environment competitive and changing their needs, aiming to design products and offerings that Risk that events in the external market or markets, where customer are attractive and competitive.
environment could affect the delivery of behaviour, needs and We are increasing our investment in areas like Connected ourstrategy.
demands are evolving due to Home and Distributed Energy & Power that represent External Risk digitisation, energy efficiency, emerging customer needs and reinforce our existing climate change, government energy supply and services offerings, putting customers initiatives, and the general more in control of their energy use as described on economic outlook.
we are subject to global market Board Regular analysis is undertaken of commodity price volatility in our upstream fundamentals and their potential impact on our business businesses in commodity Risk climate: plans and forecasts.
Priority: Cash flow growth and strategic momentum 56 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Description Potential impacts Mitigation Failure to appropriately manage We regularly monitor and review our level of customer 6 Brand, Trust and Reputation brand perception, media service, aiming to deliver a fair, simplified and transparent Risk that our competitive position is attention and campaign or offering to all of our consumers.
Operational processes compromised by poor standards of fairness pressure groups could have a are in place to address failure in service and customer and transparency and by failing to protect our negative impact on consumer complaints.
sentiment and contribute to a We engage with NGOs, consumer and customer Risk Requiring Judgement fall in overall customer groups, political parties, regulators, charities and other numbers.
stakeholders to identify solutions to help reduce bills andimprove trust in the industry.
Failure to be fair and Governance oversight: transparent in all our operations We review and monitor changes in our customer brand Board could cause reputational position through net promoter score NPS and other damage and if standards are metrics as described onpage 31.
Risk climate: particularly low, lead to legal We consider our impact on society as part of being action.
This is set out in the Building strong communities section on pages 37 to 38.
Priority: Customer satisfaction and operational excellence 7 Change Management If change projects are not Significant change management programmes are aligned to strategic objectives reviewed as a regular aspect of Group and business unit Risk of failure in the identification, alignment and or not implemented performance reviews, and are regular agenda items of execution of change programmes and business appropriately, the expected Executive Committee meetings.
benefits may not be realised.
Change activity is managed through a network of Risk Requiring Judgement programme offices providing oversight and governance Ifacquisitions are not integrated at the appropriate level.
effectively the business benefits may notberealised.
We have dedicated change capability at Group and Governance oversight: business unit level to monitor the realisation of benefits, Board the prioritisation of efforts and to share best practice.
Our people capability is continually reviewed and Risk climate: developed to ensure we have the right skills to deliver ourplans.
We have post-merger integration guidelines in place to Priority: integrate acquired businesses.
Cost efficiency and simplification Our operations are the subject Regulatory compliance monitoring activities are 8 Legal, Regulatory and Ethical of intense regulatory focus and performed by a single Group-wide function to drive Standards Compliance we seek to deliver the highest consistency and quality.
Risk of failure to comply with laws and standards in compliance.
We Control frameworks are in place in the UK and in regulations and behave ethically in line with Our recognise that any real or development in other markets to ensure that the Code, resulting in reputational or financial perceived failure to follow Our customer experience is delivered in line with our damage.
This includes market conduct, Code or comply with legal or Customer Conduct guidelines.
This is managed through customer conduct, data protection and financial regulatory obligations would a Group-wide practice group.
undermine trust in our The Market Conduct practice group shares best practice business.
Non-compliance Risk Requiring Standards with standardised controls and processes and aligns could also result infines, mitigation activities where possible.
Data is a strategic asset and its protection is a priority Governance oversight: under a Steering Group led by the Executive Director, Board and Safety, Health, Environment, Centrica Consumer.
Security and Ethics Committee Our Code was launched globally in January 2018 to underpin the new values introduced in 2017.
This sets the Risk climate: standard for behaviour across the Group.
Where we enter new territories via acquisition or organic growth we ensure country risks are identified and Priority: managed appropriately, including anti-bribery and Safety, compliance and conduct corruption risk and compliance with local legislation.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 57 Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Description Potential impacts Mitigation Failure to invest in the Capital allocation and investment decisions are governed 9 Asset Development, Availability maintenance and development through the Investment Committee, the final decision andPerformance of our assets could result in resting with the Group Chief Executive and or Board Risk that failures in the development or integrity significant safety issues or ofDirectors.
of our investments in operated and nonasset underperformance.
Group-wide minimum standards are applied to all assets, operated assets could compromise Operational integrity is critical whether operated or non-operated to give confidence in performance delivery.
to our ability to deliver their integrity.
performance in line with the Risk Requiring Judgement Maintenance activity and improvement programmes are strategic objectives.
conducted in all asset-based businesses to maximise effectiveness and production levels.
Governance oversight: Board Risk climate: Priority: Customer satisfaction and operational excellence 10 Information Systems and Security Our substantial customer base Our information security strategy seeks to integrate and strategic requirement to be information systems, personnel and physical aspects Risk of reduced effectiveness, availability, at the forefront of technology inorder to prevent, detect and investigate threats integrity or security of IT systems and data development, means that it andincidents.
iscritical our technology is We engage with key technology partners and suppliers, Risk Requiring Standards with elements that robust, our systems are secure to ensure potentially vulnerable systems are identified.
are Risks Requiring Judgement and our data protected.
Regular controls testing and security patching around Sensitive data faces the threat our core systems is undertaken and our controls are of misappropriation, leading Governance oversight: further tested periodically by outside experts.
topotential financial loss Board and Safety, Health, Environment, Strengthening of the Chief Information Security Officer and or reputational damage Security and Ethics Committee CISO role to oversee the development of standards, totheGroup.
controls and assurance across the Centrica estate.
Risk climate: Failure to deliver IT solutions We regularly evaluate the adequacy of our infrastructure insupport of the prioritised and IT security controls, undertake employee awareness objectives and change and training and test our contingency and recovery Priority: programmes in the business processes, recognising the evolving nature and pace of Safety, compliance and conduct would have consequences the threat landscape.
both for our organisational Established governance bodies to oversee plans to transformation and in some comply with new requirements including the European cases, our compliance General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
11 Financial Processing and Reporting The increasingly complex Our financial control framework incorporates our financial financial accounting landscape, controls and management self-assessment compliance, Risk of errors or losses arising from the including new financial with progress being made to improve the use of systems processing and reporting of financial reporting standards, increases and reduce the reliance on manual controls.
transactions for internal and external purposes.
the likelihood of errors being We have implemented a revised balance sheet review This includes potential errors such as the made in the application of and reconciliation procedure to target minimising control reassessment of unbilled power revenues in our accounting judgements.
gaps arising in our underlying systems and ensure that North America Business Unit of 46 million, issues are detected on a timely basis.
reported in our November 2017 trading update.
The potential for failures in core controls around critical We undertake detailed testing and evaluation of the Risk Requiring Standards processes increases in a effectiveness of our controls in response to critical period of significant change.
financial risks and report to the Financial Risk, Assurance AsFinance continues to and Control Committee quarterly.
Governance oversight: implement the functional Controls improvement is a key objective of the Finance Board transformation programme, transformation programme, with oversight of delivery of therisk of control degradation this objective provided by the Audit Committee.
Risk climate: could increase and this is an area of significant focus.
Priority: Safety, compliance and conduct 58 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Description Potential impacts Mitigation We prioritise how we use Annual planning processes are subject to scrutiny and 12 Business Planning, Forecasting ourresources based on our challenge with respect to underlying market trends, andPerformance Management business plans and forecasts.
competitive threats and organisational capability and Risk that plans and forecasts may not be Failure to accurately plan and delivery from the Executive Committee and the Board.
deliverable or may fail to drive efficient and forecast, taking into account Group Functions have adopted standardised planning effective performance and the risk of failures in the changing business processes in support of the business priorities, driving performance reporting.
This includes the risk environment, could result in improved integration of plans.
that we do not quickly respond to and reflect sub-optimal decisions and performance management issues in any of Quarterly performance review meetings involving the failure to realise anticipated thebusiness units as and when they arise.
Executive Committee enable the review of performance benefits.
against forecasts, ensuring that mitigating actions or Risk Requiring Judgement with elements revisions are developed and implemented.
that are Risks Requiring Standards Governance oversight: Board Risk climate: Priority: Cash flow growth and strategic momentum 13 People In challenging conditions, it We continue to evolve a clearly defined people strategy iscritical that we attract and based on culture and engagement, equality and Risk that we cannot attract or retain employees retain key capabilities across wellbeing, talent development, training and reward to ensure we have the appropriate capabilities the business.
There is also the potential of not being able to fulfil key We regularly review organisational capability in critical risk of industrial action in our Consumer roles could have a detrimental business areas, reward strategies for key skills, talent businesses.
impact on our ability to meet management and learning and development Risk Requiring Judgement with elements our strategic objectives.
that are Risks Requiring Standards The risk of industrial action in We conduct an annual survey of employee engagement our businesses would have a and take seriously the messages arising with a plan Governance oversight: potential impact on customer ofactions.
Board service levels and retention.
The Executive Committee has clear oversight through regular discussions of the people-related challenges We require the right behaviours Risk climate: inherent in our transformation programme.
from our leaders and employees to deliver our We engage with trade unions on restructuring and issues business strategy in that could impact terms and conditions with clear and Priority: accordance with our Values open processes to promote an environment of trust People and building capability and Our Code.
Our Code was launched in early 2018.
This sets the expectations for all employees, replacing the BusinessPrinciples.
14 Customer Service The delivery of high quality Customer and Field Operations teams monitor customer service is central to customerservice levels, ensuring enquiries are Risk of failure to consistently meet the our business strategy.
With answeredin atimescale and manner acceptable to expectations of our customers through the theentry of new competitors thecustomer, complaint levels are minimised, and customer lifecycle.
tothemarket, customers are thatcustomer satisfaction is reviewed at all stages Risk Requiring Judgement increasingly likely to switch ofthecustomer journey.
ifthey face an unacceptable Leadership teams in our front-line businesses establish customer experience.
accountability for specific aspects of the customer Governance oversight: Remaining at the forefront of journey and assess performance against agreed Board digital developments and metricsweekly.
innovating to provide choice Performance parameters are monitored on a weekly and control for our customers Risk climate: basis for all third-party service providers involved in the is critical.
This risk faces front-line and back office customer service process.
increased scrutiny as political Customer service agents are quality assessed for and regulatory attention Priority: consistency with a rigorous training and performance focuses on introducing Customer satisfaction and operational management programme, and a structured performance competition by applying excellence management process is in place for field teams.
pressure over pricing We operate an environment of continuous improvement, strategies.
incorporating an accredited programme STAR, and useroot cause analysis of complaint and NPS insight to continuously improve our service delivery.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 59 Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Description Potential impacts Mitigation Failure to operate within the We assess available resources on a regular basis and 15 Balance Sheet Strength and Groups financial framework this analysis underpins our going concern assumption CreditPosition resulting in risk to maintaining and viability analysis as described on pages 61 and 62.
Risk that the balance sheet may not be resilient our target credit rating, Significant committed facilities are maintained with with implications for our credit rating, liquidity impacting our access to cost sufficient cash held on deposit to meet working capital risk and long-term financial obligations.
effective capital and trading fluctuations as they arise.
Risk Requiring Judgement Counterparty exposures are restricted through a Group Long-term financial obligations Credit Limit policy which is regularly reviewed and may increase in value due to adjusted as necessary.
Governance oversight: factors both inside and outside Wholesale credit risks associated with commodity Board and Audit Committee of our control, for example trading and treasury positions are managed in pension schemes, resulting accordance with Group policy.
Risk climate: inadditional funding required We consider accounting assumptions impacting on our tomeet our obligations.
balance sheet carefully, including decommissioning and impairment, as described as part of the Group Financial Priority: Review on pages 48 to 51 and in note 3 b to the Cash flow growth and strategic Financial Statements.
momentum 16 Procurement and Supplier Our business operations rely on All suppliers are required to sign up to our Ethical products and services provided Procurement policies and procedures.
Management through third parties, including Financial health, risk and anti-bribery and corruption due Risk of failure to source responsibly and to cooutsourced activities, diligence and monitoring is implemented in supplier ordinate and collaborate with supply chain infrastructure and operating selection and contract renewal processes.
partners to ensure value delivery and continuity.
Audits are conducted in relation to third-party operation Risk Requiring Judgement with elements We rely on these parties to ofjointly operated Exploration & Production assets.
that are Risks Requiring Standards comply not only with contractual We review the ethical conduct of our suppliers including terms, but also legal, regulatory aprogramme of supplier visits to provide additional and ethical business Governance oversight: assurance over practices employed, including respect requirements.
Board for human rights, as part of being a good corporate citizen as laid out on page 38.
Risk climate: Procurement practices have been reviewed across the Group and a global Procurement Policy and Standard was implemented from 1 January 2018.
Priority: Customer satisfaction and operational excellence 60 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In assessing the prospects of the business, Wealso model the impact on liquidity Viability statement disclosure the Board must balance the short-term ofevents such as an inability to access In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the planning horizons in the customer-facing uncommitted financing facilities or a market 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, businesses, with the longer-term requirements stress event, such as commodity price theDirectors have assessed the prospects of our more asset-intensive businesses.
volatility or a two-notch credit rating for the Group over a significantly longer Given recent divestments of ourlargest downgrade.
Identified risk impacts are timeperiod than the 12 months required power generation assets and the divestment thenincorporated within scenarios that are inadopting the going concern basis of our wind portfolio, our core business is modelled, individually and collectively, to ofaccounting.
increasingly focused on the energy supply assess the impact they have on the available In making this assessment the Directors take and services markets, which are more short headroom within our ongoing liquidity into account the liquidity analysis performed term in orientation and outlook.
The scenarios assessed as being of in relation to the Groups net debt and assess viability on athree-year basis, when most significance in making the assessment available credit facilities, current business we consider our strategic risks as described of viability and the related primary Principal performance, the Group annual plan for on pages 55 to 60, weconsider possibilities Risk categories include: 2018 and strategic plan for the years beyond that may occur outside of this time period the potential for further regulatory or this, potential risks and uncertainties in the and any resultant mitigations.
political intervention resulting in a delivery of the strategic plan through a significant impact on our customer Approach number of modelled scenarios and available margins and our ability to retain The Board has outlined the Group strategy mitigating actions.
In conducting this customers Political and Regulatory indetail on pages 10 to 11.
The Group has analysis, we model all potential significant Intervention: Customer Service: Strategy astrong position in its chosen markets scenarios occurring simultaneously from the Delivery: and Brand, Trust and Reputation : withestablished brands, a highly skilled first year, causingthe maximum potential a sustained significant adverse movement customer-facing workforce and reliable impact onGroup debt.
in commodity prices External Market operations.
The main risks to delivery of the Timeframe Environment and Financial Market : strategy, and our approach to managing The Board has reviewed the timeframe over these risks, are described in our approach our inability to respond to disruption from which it makes this assessment and toour Principal Risks on pages 55 to 60. competition in the market and deliver continues to believe that three years is the Tounderstand the impact of these risks the transformation through cost savings and appropriate timeframe to assess viability.
Directors perform a robust evaluation, which growth in new businesses Strategy This conclusion is reached as a result of: in turn informs the assessment of viability.
Delivery and Change Management : alignment with detailed planning Inmaking this assessment, they consider risks associated with keeping our people undertaken for a period of three years severe, but plausible, impacts where the and our customers safe, incorporating within the strategic planning process, realisation of risks is more than remote in potential adverse consequences of which is used by the Group in assessing likelihood.
The potential impact is based on breaches in regulatory compliance business performance and taking known consequences, historical evidence obligations and the impact of a loss of strategic decisions: and similar events observed in the market.
containment in our upstream assets the relatively short-term nature of some The liquidity analysis contains assumptions Health, Safety, Environment and ofour more significant risks, such as the relating to the key drivers of financial Security: and Legal, Regulatory and potential for disruption in our customerperformance including customer numbers, Ethical Standards Compliance : facing markets, where we monitor the fundamental trends in energy and services, challenges relating to the security of risks and available mitigations frequently: commodity prices, efficiency programmes oursystems and keeping our data safe, the commodity markets in which the and the shape of the future portfolio.
including cyber-security and, in future, Group operates where transparent and abreach of GDPR requirements executable pricing is generally only Information Systems and Security: and available for a three-year period, allowing Legal, Regulatory and Ethical Standards market-based information to be used Compliance : and within our forecasts for this period: and a significant increase in the obligations of increasing uncertainty inherent in our pension schemes, requiring material, estimations beyond this period.
repeated cash injections Balance Sheet Strength and Credit Position.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 61 Strategic Report | Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Each of the scenarios are considered Conclusion individually on a gross basis, with the The Directors have considered all the above impactof Group-level mitigating actions factors in their assessment of viability over incorporated following the aggregation of the next three years, including the Groups theindividual impacts.
strategic plan, levels of funding, scenario analysis and the principal risks and These risks are included as sensitivities to uncertainties facing the Group.
The Directors our liquidity analysis, and are considered by have also considered the availability of the Board as part of the approval process mitigating actions within their control in the forthis statement.
event that a number of simultaneous severe Resilience but plausible scenarios materialise.
Based The sources of funding available to the on the conclusions of this assessment, Group, including undrawn committed credit theDirectors confirm that they have a facilities of 3.5 billion, are set out in note 24 reasonable expectation that no individual to the consolidated Financial Statements.
scenario identified or combination of The Board expects these sources, together identified scenarios, will impact on the with cash flows generated by the Group from Groups ability to continue to operate and itsnormal operations, to provide adequate meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over a levels of funding to support the execution period of at least three years.
Cash flows generated during 2017 are set out in the cash flow statement and in note 24 c to these Financial Statements.
We then consider the Groups resilience to risk and our ability to respond to changes inmarket conditions to identify potential mitigating actions, such as additional restrictions and limits on capital investment, further cost reduction opportunities and the future sustainability of our dividend policy.
The Strategic Report, which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, has been approved by the Board and signedon its behalf by: Grant Dawson Group General Counsel & CompanySecretary 21 February 2018 62 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Contents 64 Board of Directors 66 Senior Executives 67 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 78 Remuneration Report 90 Remuneration Policy 98 Other Statutory Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 63
