48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Risk management The goal of our approach to Enterprise Risk Management ERM, summarised in the framework below, is to support Pearson in meeting its strategic and operational objectives, as set out by the Chairman and the Chief Executive on p610.
Our framework aligns to international standards e. g. COSO and ISO 31000 and aids our compliance with the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code guidance on risk management.
Foundations Managing risk Our approach to managing risk has remained consistent Risk foundations are all the elements as set out in with our approach in 2016. this framework which underpin successful ERM, and risk management more broadly, across Pearson.
Governance and oversight The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, oversees the ERM framework, validates risk appetite targets, risk status and mitigation plans, plus verifies the viability Context statement process.
Roles and responsibilities Day-to-day ERM is undertaken by a dedicated team.
For a list of their responsibilities, as well as other key Assessment Monitoring risk stakeholders, see p84 Governance.
identify, analyse, Reporting and review evaluate Policy, framework, processes and tools Our policy, framework and supporting guidance outline our commitment to managing risk and set what we consider to be the minimum standards.
These can be tailored by a business area as long as they align with the policy.
The Treatment process is assessed during the annual effectiveness review, covered in more detail on p84 in Governance.
Appetite and tolerance Pearson leadership sets the target risk appetite for each Context risk they own, validated by the Audit Committee and Board.
Understanding the degree of risk the Board will The risk context sets the criteria against which risks are accept determines the most appropriate risk treatment.
It defines the external and internal parameters to be taken into account, as well as the scope For example, a legal or compliance risk has a low target of the risk management process.
appetite where we try to eliminate risk as much as we can.
Whereas a business transformation risk is often The risk management policy, framework and supporting also a strategic opportunity and likely to have a higher guidance set out how to manage risks, such as determining appetite, where we would take well-informed and probability and impact as well as instructions on how to well-managed risks to achieve our goals.
translate these into an overall risk rating.
Adaptations of these matrices, tailored for a specific business area, Working with third-parties are in use and align with the policy.
The use of third-parties for example, suppliers or partnerships can create risk, such as an interruption to operations or an impact on reputation.
In 2017, we drafted a third-party risk management policy.
We also created risk identification questions to help us flag areas requiring investigation.
Questions cover principal risks as well as material issues, e. g. environmental matters and respect for human rights, as described in Sustainability on p2433.
This process is being rolled out in phases as part the implementation of a new procurement system.
Section 3 Our performance 4 49 9 Risk management Managing risk Culture Assessment The ERM framework is also used to drive the integration of risk management approaches At least twice a year, the ERM team facilitates a risk assessment process through discussions with leadership, into the culture of the organisation.
senior management and key stakeholders from each Communication, training, education and awareness business area.
For each risk, the probability of it materialising and its potential impact is rated.
Our Code of Conduct remained in place throughout The adequacy of action plans to address any 2017 to drive ethical behaviours across the organisation.
remaining control gaps is then assessed.
The ERM team is committed to raising awareness among employees on the importance of better managing their We do this for both new risks identified as well as those day-to-day risks.
In 2017, the team regularly attended already being monitored.
Horizon scanning also takes leadership and team meetings to highlight best practice place throughout the year to aid in the identification and conducted specific training events.
Embedding risk in decision-making Treatment A key focus area for the ERM team in 2017 was the further Once assessed, the most appropriate course of action for embedding of risk management across the wider each risk is decided, taking into account the size of the gap organisation to support the business in making risk that needs to be closed between its current status versus aware decisions.
This can include avoid e. g. not doing something : implementing mitigation or contingency All Pearson business functions continued to maintain plans to change the probability or reduce the impact their own risk map, with the spotlight in 2017 on the of a risk: accepting increasing risk in order to pursue robustness of the mitigation plans.
Business functions an opportunity: or sharing the risk with another party follow the same framework for identifying, assessing, or parties.
Each identified risk is also assigned a risk appetite target.
This work underpins Monitoring and review the assessment of the company-wide risks.
2017 saw Reports are submitted to the Board and Audit Committee greater ownership and extension of risk processes by bi-annually.
This gives them the opportunity to review, individual business areas.
challenge and validate the ERM process and key risks.
Continuous improvement The reports cover current risk status as well as an update on risk mitigation initiatives and their effectiveness.
At the end of 2014, we reviewed our current risk Discussions focus on where there is either a the greatest management maturity against this risk framework and change in rating or b the biggest gap between current set maturity targets for the following three years.
rating and the target appetite, with the emphasis on the In 2018 we will be implementing a more integrated strength of mitigation plans in place.
The risk maps for approach to assurance across Pearson based on a each business area are also included in these reports.
model which outlines the different levels of assurance Risk deep dives also take place at the Audit Committee responsibilities from business management through throughout the year.
In 2017, some of the risks covered to external audit and oversight, as well as updating included business transformation, data privacy and our framework to ensure it continues to align with the security including GDPR, tax and treasury.
You can 2017 update of the COSO ERM standard.
read the details in the Chairman of the Audit Committees report on p7678.
