50 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties The Board of Directors confirms that Principal risks: status and 2017 change throughout 2017 they undertook a robust assessment of the principal Key risks facing the company, in 0 accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the 14 Net risk Probability 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
12 and impact are 7 1 3 based on residual Our principal risks 5 risk, i. e. after taking as of 31 December 2017 4 10 into account 6 9 15 2 Listed in the table below and shown on the 8 controls already in 11 place and assumed adjacent risk map are the most significant to be operating risks that may affect Pearsons future.
A longer list of company-wide risks, plus emerging risks, was monitored and Indicates reviewed throughout the year.
The most change in 2017 material of these are identified as principal risks.
Principal risks are those which have For more a higher probability and significant impact information on strategy, reputation or operations, see principal risks or a financial impact greater than 50m.
The f ull impact of the U Ks pending departure from the EU Brexit is s till Rare Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain unclear, but we remain vigilant to potentially Probability material risks for Pearson.
Work continued throughout 2017 led by a Steering Committee chaired by the CFO to identify Risks are categorised into four main areas: Executive responsibility and mitigate any potential impact on Business transformation Chief Executive Officer 1 Strategy & change a our principal risks below, such as and change Relating to the goals that support our treasury, tax or data privacy, or b other strategy.
This category is the most likely areas such as UK-EU supply chain and to contain opportunity risks which Products and services President, Global Product 2 workforce mobility, including in the event typically have a higher risk appetite of a no deal exit scenario.
We continue Talent Chief Human 3 to believe that Brexit, in whatever form it Resources Officer takes, will not have a material adverse Political and Chief Corporate Affairs and 4 impact on Pearson as a whole.
regulatory risk Global MarketingOfficer The following principal risks also relate to Testing failure President, Assessments 5 Operational President, UK & Core Markets the material issues considered in the 2017 Involving people, systems and processes Health and safety Chief Human sustainability report: products and services, 6 Resources Officer testing failure, political and regulatory risk, Safeguarding President, Assessments data privacy, information security, customer 7 digital experience, and safety and corporate Customer digital President, Global Product & 8 security.
You can read more in the experience Chief Technology and Sustainability section on p2433.
Operations Officer Corporate security and Chief Financial Officer 9 business resilience Tax Chief Financial Officer 10 Financial Involving financial planning, investments, Treasury Chief Financial Officer 11 budgeting, potential losses of and exposures to Pearsons assets Data privacy and Chief Technology and 12 Legal & compliance information security Operations Officer & Relating to the adherence to General Counsel applicable laws and regulations.
Intellectual property General Counsel Risks in this category typically 13 have a very low risk appetite.
and rights, permissions and royalties Compliance General Counsel 14 Competition law General Counsel 15 Impact Insignificant Minor Moderate Major Severe Section 3 Our performance 51 51 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategy & change Existing controls 2018 outlook and plans Business 1 Business transformation and change initiatives will Transformation programme office transformation continue to support our strategic goals to accelerate G lobal learning platform GLP and the enabling our digital transition in higher education, to manage and change programme TEP are standing Audit Committee the print decline, and to reshape our portfolio, agenda items.
See Governance p7677 as outlined by our Chief Executive on p810 and The pace and scope of our Regular updates with Pearson Executive covered in more detail under our strategy in action business transformation initiatives on p1421.
increase our execution risk that Executive owned Steering Committees in place benefits may not be fully realised, In 2018, we will continue with the development Independent assurance on key programmes costs may increase, or that our of the GLP, a single, cloud-based platform to business as usual activities may Outcome of 2017 activities support learners and our digital transformation, be impacted and do not perform as well as the next phase of TEP to further progress In 2017, we continued to invest in the digital in line with expectations.
the simplification of our business.
Both programmes transformation and simplification of the company.
will continue to be closely monitored by the Audit Incorporates Data quality and The volume and accelerated pace of change Committee at each meeting you can read more integrity risk: Unavailability of combined with execution interdependencies about their oversight of key programmes in the timely complete and accurate as we go into 2018 are keeping this our highest report from the Chair of the Audit Committee data limits informed decisionrated and slightly increased risk.
making and increases risk capabilities we need to continue to develop of non-compliance with legal, Successful execution of all our change programmes internally to deliver transformation and change regulatory and reporting in 2018 will depend on having the right change See Talent risk on p52.
management skills see also Talent risk on p52.
The 300m 2017-2019 cost efficiency programme The focus on data quality in 2018 will be supporting remains on track to achieve its targets.
Following Increase in impact the TEP North America implementation.
In addition, the planning phase culminating in the August 2017 and probability the new EU data privacy law, the General Data announcement, the programme transitioned to Protection Regulation GDPR which will apply from implementation.
May 2018 and spans all of our underlying systems, HR Fusion, part of TEP, successfully went live in the is a priority.
Significant progress was also made regarding data governance as our quality focus and scope expanded in 2017 to global data.
We now have a much more top-down view of product data, moving on to sales, marketing, rights and royalties and fulfilment.
We also started putting in place customer data governance.
52 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategy & change Existing controls programme to give greater convenience and value Products and 2 to students.
Global product lifecycle process services 2018 outlook and plans Portfolio management Failure to accelerate our shift Turning this risk into an opportunity successfully Audit Committee oversight of GLP to digital by developing and accelerating our shift to digital as well as investing Outcome of 2017 activities delivering to time and quality in and delivering the right products and services market leading global products is as key to successful business performance in Successfully managing this risk underpins two of and services that will have the 2018 as it was in 2017.
A new Chief Strategy Officer our key strategic priorities growing our market biggest impact on learners and joined at the start of 2018 see p63.
share through digital transformation plus investing drive growth: ensuring Pearson We will continue to improve the US higher education in structural growth opportunities see p1417.
offers products to market at courseware integrated business strategy, product The likelihood of this risk occurring reduced in the right price and with a lifecycle and governance, as well as pricing strategy.
2017 due to the progress weve made towards deal structure that remains In addition to the development of GLP, we are implementing portfolio management practices competitive as well as investing in other innovations, such as Artificial and strategic investment recommendations, supports our strategy.
Intelligence, to ensure our products stay relevant as well as on pricing strategy and governance and to become more agile in our delivery.
We are in US higher education courseware.
Decrease in probability also prioritising investment in our fastest growing In 2017, we progressed our understanding of the businesses across Pearson.
See p1617 in Strategy competitive and structural threats, especially to in action.
our courseware business in terms of general and Market research and analysis activity across student buying behaviour and have taken steps to Pearson was centralised into one Global Insights mitigate these.
For example, we are making good team in January 2018.
Their remit is to develop progress in shifting the business from ownership to customer insights to inform portfolio, product, pay for use, we reduced the price of a number of channel and business strategy.
eBook rentals and also launched a print rental Existing controls Employee engagement action plans communicated 3 Talent across Pearson and the Executive are reporting C onsistent performance, talent and succession progress to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Failure to attract, retain and management processes Highlights from these plans are listed on p27 develop staff, including adapting E mployee policies including the Code of Conduct in the Sustainability section.
to new skill sets required to see p27 in Sustainability An organisational health survey was conducted, run the business.
and results and action plan shared in Q4.
Employee engagement forums and action plans Our platform for learning and development was Decrease in probability Turnover data monitored on a monthly basis upgraded in 2017, increasing accessibility to learning E xit interviews conducted and monitored globally and development solutions and greater flexibility to identify any trends and concerns in goal-setting.
Academies were also launched for leadership teams as well as Technology, Product, Le arning programmes now offered on a single Marketing and Finance.
These aim to increase both platform for all staff Pearson U our capabilities and retention.
R evamped external careers website and talent acquisition approach to improve attraction of 2018 outlook and plans digital skills Pearson will implement further programmes to Wide range of employee benefits improve connection with the Pearson strategy, and to increase engagement and organisational health.
Outcome of 2017 activities In order to build the talent we need to deliver the The likelihood of this risk occurring has reduced due 2020 business strategy, there will additional focus on to the mitigation activities successfully implemented direct sourcing and construction of targeted talent in 2017.
However, talent remains an ongoing priority pools to target skills digital, address succession gaps, for the company, with a focus on building the talent and increase diversity in leadership roles.
We will needed to deliver the business strategy for 2020 also continue to support change activities through especially in key areas such as digital and change Change Leadership training and handbooks.
In 2018, there will be a stronger focus on development Work was undertaken to ensure we have clarity planning linked to further roll-out of career workshops.
on the key capabilities required to achieve our We will expand and upgrade Pearson U learning, 2020 goals, using this to support learning and launching new Sales Academy and leadership development, assessment, development and programmes that support succession planning and talent attraction.
We will also further refine the Throughout 2017, there was a strong focus on careers website to increase employee attraction.
leadership communication of the Pearson The Pearson Executive will maintain their focus in strategy, as well as increased visibility of the 2018 on talent actions for the senior leadership Pearson Executive and leadership teams.
group and succession through quarterly reviews.
Section 3 Our performance 53 53 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategy & change Existing controls 2018 outlook and plans Political and 4 Pearson will continue to position itself as a leader Board and Executive oversight regulatory risk in the education space, an innovator in higher Government relationship teams education and establish the company as a key Changes in policy and or EU referendum Steering Committee engine in workforce development and economic regulations have the potential to growth.
We are also driving opportunities to Outcome of 2017 activities impact business models and or engage directly with other businesses.
Although there has been no overall change in the In the UK, there is ongoing concern about the risk rating, significant work has been done to ensure amount of testing and the sheer difficulty we can more proactively identify and mitigate of the new tests in primary schools.
As a test political and regulatory risk.
administrator, we are mitigating this through Over the last two years, there has been a specific a stakeholder outreach programme on focus on leveraging resources across the US and assessment.
In addition: UK to build global political regulatory relationships, The new 9-1 GCSEs will be awarded in almost and an international political profile in order to all subjects understand future international risks and Technical education: as the government becomes proactively mitigate them.
more clear about the role of T Levels we will need In the UK, 2017 was the year that GCSEs began their ongoing government relations, media and thought changeover from grades AG to 9-1 with English and leadership work.
Our focus was on working with government, Across our educational markets in 2018, we believe regulator and other awarding organisations to the trend for more intrusive and voluminous demonstrate the professionalism and solidity of the regulation in our sector will continue.
We will system, which resulted in a stable set of results.
continue our work from 2016 and 2017 to In the US, we continued to implement our ten mitigate this.
priority state strategy engaging with new and We will continue to assess the potential impacts of existing office holders in key states and worked the UKs decision to leave the EU as the model that to shape the state and federal regulatory and will replace our membership becomes clearer.
legislative environment in favour of Pearson strengths.
This work focused on Pearson solutions to affordability and access with stakeholders in Congress, the Administration and priority state capitals.
The f ull impact of the U Ks pending departure from the EU is s till unclear, but we remain vigilant to potentially material risks for Pearson.
Work continued throughout 2017 led by a Steering Committee chaired by the CFO to identify and mitigate any potential impacts on our principal risks below, such as treasury, tax or data privacy, or on other areas such as UK-EU supply chain and workforce mobility, including in the event of a no deal exit scenario.
We continue to believe that Brexit, in whatever form it takes, will not have a material adverse impact on Pearson as a whole.
54 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties Operational Existing controls In the UK, we successfully delivered the UK summer Testing failure 5 exam series in 2017 to a high standard of quality.
We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in Failure to deliver tests and 2018 outlook and plans our student marking systems with the use of: assessments and other related The drive to continue improvements to availability Robust quality assurance procedures and controls contractual requirements because and stability of testing systems continues.
The of operational or technology Oversight of contract performance Investment migration and retirement of legacy systems in issues, resulting in negative in technology, project management and skills use will continue.
publicity impacting our development of our people, including software Given the high stakes nature of the UK testing brand and reputation.
security controls, system monitoring, prebusiness, there remains a risk of breaches of deployment testing, change controls and the security either as a result of error or of a malicious use of root cause analysis procedures to learn nature.
We are reviewing what additional measures from incidents and prevent recurrence we can put in place for 2018 to further mitigate Use of Amazon Web Services AWS in Clinical against potential question paper security breaches.
and Schools The plan to upgrade Pearsons bespoke online IBM counter-fraud tool.
marking system ePEN in the UK will continue throughout 2018 with full implementation due by Outcome of 2017 activities the end of 2019, taking into account the complexity Pearson is an education content, assessment and of our systems as well as external marking related services company and, as such, managing contract obligations.
Clinicals Q-global will be moving to AWS in Q1 of In the US, the majority of student testing is now 2018.
Additional technology stack updates will be conducted via AWS, resulting in improved implemented during 2018 to address 2017 issues.
Existing controls 2018 outlook and plans Health and safety 6 Global health and safety H&S team I mplement the new global H&S Policy and Failure to adequately protect the standards and continue to improve the application Global policy and standards health, safety and wellbeing of of our H&S standards Global assurance and incident reporting system our employees, learners and other R efine and Implement a new 1820 H&S Strategy stakeholders from harm could Audit programme D eliver the IOSH Managing Safely course to our adversely impact our reputation.
Regional training global H&S coordinators This risk previously incorporated Corporate security which is now part Outcome of 2017 activities R eview our H&S systems to ensure they continually of risk 9 Corporate security and evolve to reflect our changing business The likelihood of this risk occurring has decreased as business resilience.
E nhance our global assurance programme to not a result of the outcomes of the following: only provide risk-based auditing of key locations, O verall implementation status of Pearsons H&S Decrease in probability but to also include advisory reviews and focused minimum standards continues to improve globally risk-based H&S Projects The 2017 global H&S audit programme was C ontinue to evolve our key risk reduction completed across a wide range of our locations programmes covering: O ur global H&S coordinator role has been Ergonomics formalised with a new terms of reference Occupational Road Risk T he global H&S team became a registered Occupational health risk management centre to teach the globally recognised and wellbeing Institution of Occupational Safety and Health IOSH, Managing Safely course A c ompletely revised global H&S Policy with improved governance and responsibilities and standards have been developed, which now include good practice goals, recognising the H&S maturity in many of our key markets G ood progress was made across our 1517 H&S Strategy.
Section 3 Our performance 55 55 Principal risks and uncertainties Operational Existing controls An exercise was conducted to test the response of Safeguarding 7 selected businesses to an online safeguarding issue Safeguarding policy regarding a member of staff, the results of which Failure to adequately protect Internal procedures and controls were used to further refine training and awareness, children and learners, particularly ready for implementation in 2018.
Staff Code of Conduct in our direct delivery businesses.
A sexual harassment policy for our further Third-party risk management policy education business has been developed and Safeguarding Steering Committee currently training is being produced to support its implementation in Q2 2018.
Local safeguarding coordinators 2018 outlook and plans Outcome of 2017 activities We will continue to develop and question our We continue to view safeguarding as a fundamental practices around safeguarding in 2018, with obligation to our learners and a high priority.
a focus on ongoing training and awareness Although the risk has been reduced due to our across the business, especially with regard to disposal of the majority of our direct delivery online safeguarding.
businesses, we are exposed to greater online risk as we move to more digital services.
There is We will also further refine our safeguarding metrics never a zero risk of a safeguarding incident and and the system used for reporting, as well as organisations should always challenge themselves developing and implementing a system for and look to improve their practice.
Hence the external validation of our safeguarding practice.
overall risk remains the same.
Existing controls Further investment was made in 2017 in our global Customer digital 8 learning platform GLP.
You can read more on R eal-time monitoring of systems for service this and how it underpins our strategy and the experience disruptions and reporting of operational learning experience in Our strategy in action performance used to identify issues section on p1415.
Challenges with reliability and P roject management disciplines in place to availability of customer facing Customer support also improved response times ensure enhancements and new products systems could result in incidents for incoming calls and improved outgoing customer meet required standards of poor customer digital communications during the recent outages.
experience and impact our Outcome of 2017 activities 2018 outlook and plans customer service responsiveness.
Managing this risk is critical to achieving our In 2018, there will be a continued focus on the strategic goal of accelerating our shift to digital performance, stability and usability of all product products and services, and, crucially, becoming platforms as well as customer service quality a trusted partner.
Therefore this risk remains and responsiveness.
high, despite the significant improvements in Our GLP development, critical to our digital 2017 to our product stability and execution.
transformation strategy, will continue in 2018, Mitigations were put in place to prevent a recurrence with the first pilots due to go live.
This platform of the 2016 back-to-school BTS issues experienced will allow us to innovate faster as well as better by customers.
BTS stability in the second half of support our learners.
2017 was significantly improved, resulting in only a few minor incidents and the highest availability levels seen in the last three years.
56 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties Operational Existing controls 2018 outlook and plans Corporate security 9 Security and resilience policies In 2018, we will: and business Security minimum protection standards C ontinue to drive security as a proactive rather resilience than reactive activity, with ongoing physical and Incident management process travel security reviews Corporate security: Failure to Resilience governance Steering Committee R efine the incident response model towards a ensure security for our staff, Incident management and DR teams broader regional geographic response learners, assets and reputation, Global notification and incident reporting tools due to increasing numbers of and C ontinue work on the sustainable and data specific variety of local and global threats.
roll-out of the Everbridge mass notification system ISO audit programme Business resilience: Failure to plan M andate travel security training for travel to high PQS & VUE ISO 22301 accredited for or prevent incidents at any risk countries due for deployment in February Outcome of 2017 activities of our locations.
Incident W ork to refine DR planning for any legacy systems management and technology There were an increased number of incidents and applications, as well as our support of the disaster recovery DR plans in 2017, which fortunately did not impact GLP, TEP and the 300m 2017-2019 cost may not be comprehensive Pearson directly.
efficiency programmes across the whole Group.
C ontinued work across the Top 40 locations for G row our knowledge around cloud-based Risk definition has changed from planning, testing and response technologies and implement future business continuity in 2016 and digital resilience.
I ncreased collaboration across the organisation, now incorporates corporate security, improving understanding of current and future previously reported as part of risks, particularly regarding incident response risk 6 Health and safety.
and DR planning T raining of global incident management teams for different response levels A mass notification system was deployed in the UK and will be further deployed globally during 2018 in order to better communicate with our staff and confirm their safety during an incident W e strengthened our travel security programme, including greater support provision for higher risk trips I n physical security, the security policy and global property guidelines were released in early 2017, and contain advice and direction for all projects involving the build, refurbishment and disposal of properties.
Security reviews in specific locations resulted in a reduction of risks and therefore improvements for staff and learners.
Section 3 Our performance 57 57 Principal risks and uncertainties Financial Existing controls In August the Audit Committee received an update Tax 10 on our tax strategy and approved our first tax report Our tax strategy reflects our business strategy and which was published in September.
A further update Legislative change caused by the the locations and financing needs of our operations.
was given to the Audit Committee and Board in OECD Base Erosion and Profit In common with many companies, we seek to December mainly focusing on the impact of US Shifting initiative, the UK exit from manage our tax affairs to protect value for our tax reform.
the EU, other tax reform or shareholders, in line with our broader fiduciary US tax reform is not expected to have a material domestic government initiatives, duties.
We do not seek to avoid tax by the use of impact on our effective tax rate, however potentially in response to the tax havens or by transactions that we would not we continue to work through the detail and ongoing EU anti-tax abuse fully disclose to a tax authority.
We are guided by assess whether any changes to our strategy activities, results in a higher our taxation principles, which include complying are appropriate.
effective tax rate, double with all relevant laws, including claiming available taxation and or negative tax incentives and exemptions that are available The outcome of Brexit remains insufficiently reputational impact.
clear to assess any impact on tax but we continue to monitor.
Oversight of the tax strategy is within the remit Increase in impact of the Audit Committee, which receives a report 2018 outlook and plans and risk deep dive on this topic at least once a year We will continue to assess and implement see p78 for details.
The CFO is responsible for mitigation plans if required US legislation changes tax strategy: the conduct of our tax affairs and the as well as monitoring potential tax law changes management of tax risk are delegated to a global globally, along with Brexit implications and the team of tax professionals.
Outcome of 2017 activities 2018 will see the publication of our second This risk increased in 2017 due to the US tax tax report.
reform changes legislated in December and the Media and public scrutiny on tax issues will announcement in November of the European continue to be actively monitored by group Commission opening decision on the United tax and corporate affairs.
Kingdom Controlled Foreign Companies exemption [see note 34, contingent liabilities on p175.
Controls Pearson maintains investment grade credit ratings Treasury 11 with Moodys and Standard and Poors which facilitate Treasury policy see note 19 starting on p156 good access to capital markets.
These credit ratings Failure to manage treasury T he treasury strategy and policy is also subject to in February 2018 were Baa2 negative outlook with financial risks e. g. debt an Audit Committee risk deep dive.
See p78 Moodys and BBB negative outlook with Standard repayments, key corporate and Poors.
The negative outlooks reflect perceived ratios, counterparty risk, Outcome of 2017 activities business risk as the business transforms, particularly rising interest rates and in US Higher Education.
Overall treasury risk has reduced over 2017 due transactional FX exposure.
to a proactive exercise to reduce gross debt and See note 19 starting on p156 for more information strengthen our balance sheet which has had a on credit, counterparty, interest rate and Decrease in impact direct impact on refinancing, counterparty and transactional FX activities in 2017. and probability interest rate risk.
2018 outlook and plans Pearson has no debt maturities in 2018.
We anticipate that cash from operations, our existing In 2018, we will continue to operate in line with cash balances and cash equivalents, together our treasury policy.
More on this can be found in with availability under our existing credit facility, note 19, starting on p156.
and cash from operations, will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months.
58 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties Legal & compliance Existing controls In 2017, the information security team focused Data privacy and 12 on an improvement programme for critical Information Security and Data Privacy Offices applications, core platforms and infrastructure information Privacy impact assessment process to enable Pearsons digitisation and simplification security strategy.
In addition, we also instituted a Regular audits programme to review our top vendor contracts to Automated tools Risk of a data privacy incident or ensure they have the most up-to-date data privacy other failure to comply with data Annual data privacy training and awareness week and information security wording and that they privacy regulations and standards, Risk management framework align with GDPR where relevant.
and or a weakness in information Vendor oversight 2018 outlook and plans security, including a failure to Audit Committee risk deep dive.
See p78 prevent or detect a malicious The Data Privacy Office continues to monitor attack on our systems, could Outcome of 2017 activities developments relating to the UKs departure from result in a major data privacy or the EU and, where necessary, adapt to any new UK Risks concerning cyber-security and data privacy confidentiality breach causing specific privacy developments.
As Pearson operates remain high due to complex external factors.
reputational damage, damage to across several EU Member States, we will still need the student experience, lack of We now have clarity on the increased regulatory to comply with GDPR when the UK leaves the EU.
obligations and their impact on Pearson, such as The information security team will continue to drive the new EU data privacy law, the General Data security maturity and also thus security compliance Protection Regulation GDPR which will apply from to GDPR, PCI, HIPAA, FERPA and other regulatory May 2018 and introduce more onerous privacy requirements.
A new risk management tool has obligations and more stringent penalties for been deployed so that security risk accountability non-compliance.
The UKs departure from the can be cascaded effectively.
EU is also adding another layer of uncertainty with We are conducting an inventory of what personal regard to the regulator, and customers are also and other sensitive data we hold and where in demanding more from us in terms of data privacy the organisation to better focus our resources e. g. GDPR and data sovereignty.
We continued to roll out our GDPR programme in Joint data privacy and information security activities 2017: our work to improve the security of our critical to build security and privacy controls into the design products: as well as our privacy impact assessment critical products including the new global learning process for new vendors and programmes.
Many information security risks previously identified Increased vendor oversight is a critical initiative for have been addressed, plus there was increased security and broad compliance.
However, ongoing assessments uncover new vulnerabilities and risk areas arising from increasingly sophisticated attack strategies, as well as Pearsons ongoing transition to digital products, services and cloud adoption.
Section 3 Our performance 59 59 Principal risks and uncertainties Legal & compliance Existing controls In 2017, we launched patent management Intellectual 13 technology to further improve our asset tracking, Policies in place to manage and protect our IP as well as implementing a global trademark property and Global trademark monitoring platform monitoring platform to improve visibility of rights, permissions potential infringement threats.
Cooperation with trade associations and royalties 2018 outlook and plans Monitoring of technology and legal advances We will continue to streamline our portfolios: Patent programme in place Failure to adequately manage, procure and register expanded rights in our high procure, register or protect Establishment of Anti-piracy Committee value IP globally, including aggressively expanding intellectual property IP rights Le gal department provides ongoing monitoring our patent portfolio: monitor activities and including patents and general and enforcement of print and digital regulations: and proactively enforce our rights, copyright in our brands, content copyright piracy taking necessary legal action.
and technology or to prevent unauthorised printing and We will continue to implement the newly developed Outcome of 2017 activities distribution of books and digital royalty and business practices, along with the new Overall risk has reduced due to careful litigation piracy may prevent us from rights management system across the US and management, the continued negotiation of enforcing our rights which Canada during 2018. preferred vendor agreements, as well as the will reduce our sales and or A new author agreement is being rolled out in ongoing work to implement a new rights and erode our revenues.
the first half of 2018. royalties system which will further mitigate this Failure to obtain permissions, risk.
We started our phased implementation of this or to comply with the terms of system in the UK in 2017. permissions, for copyrighted or We established an Anti-piracy Committee to otherwise protected materials manage piracy related risk in a coordinated manner.
such as photos resulting in We conduct internet monitoring, takedown and potential litigation: risk of authors internet search result scrubbing to reduce digital alleging improper calculations piracy.
We have also worked with our larger North or payments of royalties.
America channel partners to adopt best-practice anti-counterfeit measures.
Decrease in probability Existing controls We conducted due diligence on our highest risk Compliance 14 third-parties and developed roll-out plans for Audit Committee oversight further phases.
Failure to effectively manage risks ABC policy certification Pearsons ABC infrastructure includes a network associated with compliance global of LCOs based in country, mainly members of Internal procedures and controls and local legislation, including the legal team.
This programme continues to failure to vet third-parties, Risk-based third-party due diligence be successful with greater knowledge and resulting in reputational harm, E mployee and business partner codes of conduct competencies of the LCOs and better leadership, anti-bribery and corruption ABC see also Respect for human rights under guidance and helpful tools and resources liability, or sanctions violations.
Sustainability on p28 provided by the global compliance office.
Expanded from the previously Local Compliance Officers LCOs reported anti-bribery and 2018 outlook and plans corruption risk.
Outcome of 2017 activities In 2018, we will: Internal procedures, controls and training continue I mplement a comprehensive plan for risk-based to mature, which are designed to prevent roll-out of further ABC third-party due diligence, corruption.
Pearsons Code of Conduct was including new tools and resources refreshed and rolled out for all employee R oll out a comprehensive refresh of the training certification in September 2017, including references programme on ABC and Code of Conduct globally to ABC policy and requirements also discussed under Sustainability on p28.
Pearsons ABC policy C ontinue risk assessments in 2018 to ensure reflects our zero tolerance towards bribery and that the ABC programme reflects local market corruption of any kind by establishing a consistent and business model risks, as well as plan set of expectations and requirements regarding actions to remediate issues revealed during ABC for all our personnel and business partners to those assessments adhere to.
E mploy a more robust analytic framework to our Pearsons 2016 ABC programme self-assessment investigative data to spot trends and root causes.
served as a roadmap for work for 2017-2018.
Progress was made on ABC risk assessments of the various regional and local business units.
60 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties Legal & compliance Existing controls A global policy, general training and guidance were Competition law 15 launched in 2017 and contain all the measures, Global policy published indicators and actions required to ensure anti-trust Failure to comply with anti-trust Training and guidance and competition compliance.
and competition legislation A lawyer network was launched in 2017 and training Regular internal communications could result in costly legal has taken place to improve their expertise around proceedings and or adversely Lawyer network competition anti-trust laws.
An increasing number impact our reputation.
of employees have also been trained.
All employees Outcome of 2017 activities will need to be certified.
Increase in probability This risk increased during 2017, reflecting our participation in industry associations, including 2018 outlook and plans Board membership, as well as the recent activity Training, including e-learning modules, is being of associations being challenged by anti-trust further expanded in 2018 with metrics being authorities such as in Spain.
The lawyer network is contributing more data to feed into training and risk assessment indicators.
Risk assessment of prospects and viability This section should be read together with Increased investment in the product Failure to materialise anticipated the full viability statement on p106.
technology platform to accelerate the benefits of our 2017-2019 cost shift to digital and enhance courseware efficiency programme Pearsons principal risks and our ability to service capabilities manage them as outlined above are linked Increased declines in enrolments and to our viability as a company.
These risks Further declines in enrolments and other further channel disruption in US higher have therefore been taken into account downwards pressures in the US higher education courseware when preparing the viability statement.
education courseware market Failure to accelerate our shift to digital The Board assessed the prospects of the US higher education courseware while successfully investing and company over a three-year period, longer returns rates continue to improve as delivering market leading global than the minimum 12 months of the annual the previous inventory correction products and services going concern review.
The three-year continues to unwind and sales become Online Program Management fails to period corresponds with Pearsons strategic more direct to consumers generate expected revenue growth planning process and represents the time Online Program Management over which the company can reasonably US assessment revenues fail to stabilise grows, driven by global enrolment in predict market dynamics and the likely undergraduate and post-graduate Other strategic priorities, including impact of additions to the product portfolio.
online courses Online Blended Learning and Professional The Board discusses the companys Certification, do not achieve modest US assessment revenues stabilise strategic plan on an annual basis taking growth amid global economic uncertainty account of a range of factors, including Other strategic priorities, including Online and local market pressures.
market conditions, the principal risks to Blended Learning and Professional The Board also stress-tested the impact the Group above, product and capital Certification, show modest growth.
on our liquidity of all the principal risks investment levels as well as available In assessing the companys viability for the occurring together.
Although this is not funding.
Pearsons strategy and business three years to December 2020, the Board regarded as a plausible scenario, the test model are discussed in more detail analysed a variety of downside scenarios, showed that the company would still on p1421.
including a scenario where the company is have liquid resources subject to a limited The key assumptions which underpin our impacted by all principal risks.
The primary number of management actions.
three-year strategic plan to December modelling overlaid a severe but plausible The Boards confirmation of Pearsons 2020 are as follows: downside scenario onto the base case viability for the three years to 2020, based strategic plan for Pearson, focusing on Implementation of our 2017-2019 cost on this assessment, is included alongside the impact of the following assumptions efficiency programme reducing our the going concern statement on p106.
and key risks: annualised cost base exiting 2019 by c. 300m S Se ec ct ti io on 4 n 4 G Gove over rn nan anc ce e 61 61 61 Governance report In this section Governance overview Remuneration 62 Chairmans letter 90 Remuneration overview 94 Our Executive remuneration framework Leadership & effectiveness 96 2017 remuneration report 64 Board of Directors Additional disclosures 66 Board governance and activities 106 Report of the Directors 74 Nomination & Governance Committee report 110 Statement of Directors responsibilities Accountability 76 Audit Committee report 84 Risk governance and control Engagement 86 Reputation & Responsibility Committee report 88 Stakeholder engagement
