Principal risks and uncertainties The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board is assisted in discharging this The principal risks are set out together with: responsibility through its Audit Committee, A description of the risk and its whose role includes review of the Groups potential impact: internal control and risk management system.
The report of the Audit Committee Examples of current controls and can be found on pages 59 to 64, whilst mitigation the Group has in place: details of the Groups system of internal An indication of direction of travel of the controls can be found in the Corporate risk exposure: and Governance statement on page 57.
An indication of the link to the Groups The principal risks are broadly categorised strategy, as set out on pages 22 and 23. as strategic, operational or financial in nature.
Strategic risks arise from decisions taken by the Board and management concerning the Groups strategy and concern the positioning of the Group within the building products market.
Operational risks result from the failure of internal processes and controls or external events.
Financial risks arise from movements within the financial markets in which the Group operates or the inefficient utilisation of the Groups capital resources.
The risks discussed below, separately or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 32 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Risk management framework To effectively manage risk, operational Board level controls are embedded across Ultimate responsibility the Group and form a key part of day to day processes.
During 2017, a key component of the Directors assessment of the risk was managements review of the risk matrices prepared by each subsidiary entity.
Following the formation of the Group Management Team Group Executive Committee, this body Support for the Board will perform a further review role in 2018 Oversight, Reporting direction and beyond.
and and escalation governance The Board maintained its ultimate responsibility for the Groups control Audit Committee monitoring and provided direction to Review effectiveness management in its assessment of Groupwide risk.
Operation level controls embedded across the Group Day to day activities to identify and manage risk Managing risk The Group uses a heatmap to 1 2 provide a visual, holistic view of the 3 7 risk environment and assist in the management of risks.
9 6 11 The heatmap illustrates the Directors 2 7 10 assessment of the gross risk together with the residual risk following mitigation 1 and reduction of the risk through the 5 3 internal control actions established by the Group.
8 4 Inherent risk Residual risk 10 1 Economic conditions 5 9 6 2 Government action and policy 3 Government regulation 8 11 4 4 Customer relationships and reputation 5 Business disruption 6 Recruitment and retention of key personnel 7 Input prices 8 Product quality 9 Financial risk management 1 0 Pension obligations Low Significant Major Critical Catastrophic 1 1 Cyber security Impact Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Rare Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Likelihood Internal Audit Independent assurance Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks 1 Economic conditions 2 Government action and policy The UK Referendum on EU membership in June 2016 introduced a degree of uncertainty and may give rise to longer term macroeconomic changes which as outlined in Risk 1, below, could reduce The Groups business could be materially The Group has an exposure to both UK demand for the Groups products.
impacted by changes in the macroeconomic and US political developments.
Significant The potential impacts of Brexit could be environment in the UK and the US.
Specifically, reductions in Government spending, or more pervasive and impact several of the demand for the Groups products is strongly changes in Government policy, could have principal risks identified by the Group and correlated with residential construction and a material effect on demand for the Groups so, shortly after the UK Referendum result renovation activities and nonresidential products reducing sales and affecting the construction, together with the supply chains Groups financial results.
was announced, a Brexit Committee was attitude to stock levels, which are cyclical.
As part of this Committees Strategy link remit, contingency plans were developed Strategy link Invest to mitigate risks arising from the interaction Invest Innovate of Brexit and our Principal risks.
Innovate Mitigation Mitigation The Group analyses construction statistics for The Group analyses construction statistics for the past five years and, using independent the past five years and, using independent forecasts of construction statistics, forecasts forecasts of construction statistics, forecasts future demand with the aim of anticipating future demand with the aim of anticipating market movements.
The Group has historically flexed capacity and In the UK, the major political parties each its cost base where possible during economic included favourable housing policies within downturns to allow more of the Groups their 2017 General Election manifestos.
This manufacturing plants to remain open and positive policy environment has been further viable, maintaining skills, development and supported by announcements following the training.
The Group believes that this has election namely, the 15.3 billion new maintained employee morale and high levels of financial support for house building over the customer service through the last economic next five years: the abolition of stamp duty on downturn.
It also allows the Group to respond homes under 300,000 for first time buyers: more rapidly to increases in demand and keep and 34 million government investment in customers satisfied.
teaching construction skills such as bricklaying all announced in the Autumn Statement The Groups repair, maintenance and 2017.
These measures, in addition to the improvement RMI and specification product existing National Planning Policy Framework ranges diversify enduse exposure and provide NPPF and Help to Buy scheme, show the greater resilience in light of changing market Governments ongoing commitment to house demand in any of its enduse markets.
However, the Group recognises the risk which can result from political changes or economic uncertainty.
RMI and new housing demands are, to a certain extent, countercyclical to each other, providing some balance to the portfolio of offerings for the Group.
Movement of risk Increase Decrease No change Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 34 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 3 Government regulation and 4 Customer relationships 5 Business disruption standards relating to the and reputation manufacture and use of building products The Groups production, manufacturing The Group receives a significant portion of A material disruption at one of the Groups and distribution activities are subject to health its revenue from key customers and the loss manufacturing facilities or quarries, or at one of and safety risks.
The Group is subject to of any such customer could result in a the Groups suppliers facilities, could prevent environmental, health and safety laws and significant loss of revenue and cash flow.
the Group from meeting customer demand.
regulations and these may change.
These laws Further, the Group does not have longterm The Group depends on efficient and and regulations could cause the Group to contracts with its customers and the Groups uninterrupted operations of its information and make modifications to how it manufactures revenue could be reduced if its customers communication technology, and any disruption and prices its products.
They could also switch some or all of their business with the to or interruptions in these operations could require the Group to make significant capital Group to other suppliers.
have a material adverse effect on the Groups investments or otherwise increase its costs or At 31 December 2017, the Group recognises operations and financial performance.
this could result in liabilities.
intangible assets for customer relationships Additionally, the Group is exposed to the Failure of the Group to comply with the relevant and brands valued at 72.6 million and impact of unexpected or prolonged periods regulations could result in the Group being 43.4 million, respectively.
of bad weather, which could adversely affect liable to fines or a suspension of operations, Strategy link construction activity and, as a result, demand which would impact the Groups financial Innovate for the Groups products.
results, together with any associated negative reputational damage.
Strategy link Innovate Strategy link Invest Safety Innovate Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation The health and wellbeing of our employees The Group has a serviceled ethos with The Group has the ability to transfer some of is fundamental to our business.
We have many top customer relationships lasting over its production across its network of plants and stringent Health and Safety policies and 40 years.
The Groups customer focus is is able to engage subcontractors to reduce the monitor compliance regularly.
supported by a commitment to quality, service impact of certain production disruptions.
We have invested considerable resources in In relation to supplier disruption or failure, employee training across our manufacturing The Groups sales and production teams are further third party suppliers have been identified processes.
We have invested heavily in safe highly integrated to ensure that production who can maintain service in the event of a systems and facilities to protect our employees.
In relation to IT, a major incident receive indepth technical training and are action plan has been developed and the Group The Group currently complies with existing assisted by a design support service team as maintains data backups and a comprehensive legislative requirements and actively monitors well as targeted marketing materials to assist disaster recovery plan covering Group and for any legislative changes with which it may with specification and selection.
All four of the Groups primary businesses have Although weather conditions are completely their own sales teams aligned by customer beyond the Groups control, fortunately, in both group and region in order to focus on key the UK and US in 2017 the Groups trading decision makers and customers.
Key account was not adversely affected.
Management management is supervised at a senior level do not underestimate the potential impact that where longterm relationships benefit from the future prolonged periods of bad weather continuity of senior management who have the could have.
ability to liaise across the Groups businesses.
The Groups wide geographical spread The Group has a broad spread of customers mitigates this risk to some extent and allows it and no single customer comprises more than to manage its production facilities to mitigate 10% of the total Group revenue.
the impact of such disruption.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 6 Recruitment and retention 7 Input prices 8 Product quality of key personnel The Group is dependent on qualified The Groups business may be affected by The nature of the Groups business may personnel in key positions and employees volatility in extraction expenses and raw expose it to warranty claims and to claims for having special technical knowledge and skills.
Risks exist around our ability product liability, construction defects, project Any loss of such personnel without timely to pass on increased costs through price delay, property damage, personal injury and replacement could significantly disrupt increases to our customers.
Any damage to the Groups business operations.
brands, including through actual or alleged The Groups business may also be affected by issues with its products, could harm our Strategy link volatility in energy costs or disruptions in business, reputation and the Groups financial Safety energy supplies.
Innovate Significant changes in the cost or availability of Strategy link transportation could affect the Groups results.
Innovate Strategy link Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation We ensure that we recognise the changing Significant input costs are under constant The Group operates comprehensive quality labour markets, and packages for key and review, with continuous monitoring of raw control procedures across its sites with both senior staff remain competitive.
material costs, energy prices and haulage internal and external audit reviews of product expenses, with the aim of achieving the best quality completed to ensure conformity with The Group believes that it is essential to possible prices and assuring stability of supply.
protect and develop the management team, With regards to possible energy shortages, the where appropriate ensuring that the team All accredited staff undergo rigorous training Group operates a hedging strategy to mitigate is structured in a way which best takes programmes on quality and the Groups the impact of sudden price increases.
advantage of the available skills and robustly Technical teams carry out regular testing of all identifies the team and structure for the future.
As competitors of the Group are likely to of our products to provide full technical data Extensive succession plans are in place, which experience similar levels of input price on our product range.
is key to ensuring a managed transfer of roles increases, we aim to have appropriate pricing and responsibilities see Nomination policies to remain competitive within our Committee Report on pages 55 and 56. markets and pass on significant increases in input.
Apprenticeship schemes are in operation with a yearly intake across the business engineering and technical based.
High potential individuals are identified with development plans formulated.
External recruits are brought in where any skill gaps are identified and to enhance the talent pool.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 36 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 9 Financial risk management 10 Pension obligations 11 Cyber security In addition to the input cost risks outlined The Group has obligations to its employees Recent highprofile attacks on companies opposite, the Group is subject to the following relating to retirement and other obligations and across a number of industry sectors including other financial risks: any changes in assumptions or in interest rate one of our own major customers have levels could have adverse effects on its highlighted the damage that can now be Foreign exchange risk As the Group financial position.
caused by hackers and cyber terrorists.
As a has operations in the UK and the US, result, and as the Group continues to evolve, exchange rate fluctuations may adversely Strategy link operational risks such as cyber security risk impact the Groups results.
Credit risk Through its customers, the Such IT security risks have the ability to Group is exposed to a counterparty risk significantly disrupt the Groups business, that accounts receivable will not be settled resulting in financial loss.
The Group does not leading to a financial loss to the Group.
operate in a highrisk sector, yet the Group is Liquidity risk Insufficient funds could committed to ensure that its network, result in the Group being unable to fund its applications and data are protected.
Strategy link Interest rate risk Movements in interest rates could adversely impact the Group and result in higher financing payments to service debt.
Strategy link Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Foreign exchange risk The Group The Company plays an active role in the During the year, the Group has completed undertakes limited foreign exchange Ibstock Pension Scheme nominating up to a review using an external cyber security transactions, with the UK and US half of the Trustees and the Group Chief programme framework, which provides businesses selling domestically with largely Financial Officer attends and chairs Trustee coverage across the key areas of cyber local input costs.
The Ibstock Pension Scheme, which security and aligns with industry standards.
requires foreign exchange purchases and is a defined benefit scheme, was closed to Good progress was made during 2017 in management considers foreign exchange future accrual in January 2017 following addressing the findings of the review hedging strategies where significant consultation with members.
The Pension exposures may arise.
Trustees and their external advisers, as well as the internal pensions team, have significant Credit risk Customer credit risk is expertise in the area and provide oversight.
managed by each subsidiary subject to the Following closure, the Schemes Statement of Groups policy relating to customer credit Investment Principles, which documents the risk management.
The Group principally Schemes investment strategy to provide manages credit risk through management appropriate security and achieve an of customer credit limits.
The credit limits appropriate balance between risk and return, are set for each customer based on the was subject to review.
An updated policy has creditworthiness of the customer and the been developed, after taking suitable advice, anticipated levels of business activity.
to ensure that investments continue to These limits are initially determined when maintain appropriate balance following the the customer account is first set up and Scheme changes.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy is to ensure that it has sufficient funding and facilities in place to meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing requirements and liabilities when they become due.
In March 2017, the Group entered into new facilities of 250 million, as set out in Note 18 of the Group financial statements.
Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
The Groups bank borrowings, other facilities and deposits are in Sterling and at floating rates.
No interest rate derivative contracts have been entered into at the year end.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
