Strategic Report 28 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Economic Risk: Changes in government spending plans Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group generates the majority of its revenues from its operations Our existing entity portfolio contains diversity of product, No change located in the UK and the USA.
market and territory and we will continue with this approach as we review potential acquisitions.
A reduction in UK or US government infrastructure spending, particularly in relation to national roads infrastructure in the UK, Market development initiatives.
could reduce demand for our products and services.
The financial Product development initiatives.
burden on the governments of both jurisdictions from economic Link to strategy Co-operation between Group businesses, leveraging downturn may lead to reduced spending in the principal markets in the Groups size international footprint and exploiting which the Group operates.
Risk: Changes in global outlook and geopolitical environment Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group operates in a range of end-user markets around the The Group has a diverse portfolio of businesses with No change world and may be affected by political, economic or regulatory exposure to a range of markets and geographies, limiting developments in any of these countries.
exposure to any one country or market sector.
Current and future financial performance is continuously Material adverse changes in the political and economic environments monitored, facilitating rapid response to changes in market in the countries in which we operate have the potential to put at risk conditions.
Link to strategy our ability to execute our strategy.
Entrepreneurial culture established through a decentralised management structure, ensuring that Group businesses are agile and responsive to changes in their competitive environments.
Hedging mechanisms used to limit potential effects of economic volatility on forecasted revenue.
Commercial & Financial Risk: Product failure Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group operates in infrastructure markets where it is critical that Products tested, approved and accredited by regulatory No change its products meet customer and legislative requirements and where bodies.
the consequences of product failure are potentially serious.
Quality control protocols fully implemented and continuously monitored.
Significant product failure arising from component defects or Contractual controls in place to minimise economic warranty issues may require remediation including the replacement impacts.
Link to strategy of defective components or complete products, resulting in direct Insurance cover maintained globally with insurance financial costs to the Group and or wider reputational risk.
Litigation supported managed by external legal specialists.
Risk: Contractual arrangements Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group delivers its commitments to its customers through a Group material contract review process ensures specialist No change variety of contractual arrangements of both a short and medium central oversight of key contractual arrangements.
Contracts training for key staff.
Weaknesses in the contract tendering process, inappropriate pricing, Dedicated quantity surveyors and contracts managers misalignment of contract terms, ineffective contract management embedded in subsidiary management structures to control Link to strategy or failure to comply with contractual conditions could result in loss projects.
of revenues, pressure on operating margins and wider reputational Litigation supported managed by external legal specialists.
Insurance cover maintained globally with insurance partners www.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 29 Operational Risk: Supply chain deficiency Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Groups businesses depend on the availability and timely delivery Group procurement standards in place, including robust No change of raw materials and purchased components, which could be due diligence of supply chain partners and requiring dual affected by disruption in its supply chain.
Maintenance of relationships with key suppliers through Supply chain failures as a result of performance, cost, quality and or regular interaction and assessment of performance insolvency may have an adverse impact on the Groups production financial status.
capacity and lead to an inability to meet customer requirements, Link to strategy Central oversight of material procurement contracts resulting in reduction in revenues, potential loss of market share and ensuring robust contractual protections.
Goods inwards and stock management processes in place to reduce the likelihood of defects in or shortage of raw materials.
Risk: Weaknesses in IT systems Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group relies on the information technology systems used in the External specialist support with the development and Higher daily operations of its subsidiaries.
oversight of IT system change programmes.
Disaster recovery plans documented, tested and monitored A failure or impairment of those systems or any inability to by Group businesses.
effectively implement new systems could cause a loss of business The Groups Policy Manual incorporates IT policies in respect and or damage to the reputation of the Group, together with of system back-up procedures and hardware software Link to strategy significant remedial costs.
External GDPR and cyber risk reviews commissioned in 2017 and reviewed by the Board in 2018 Management responses are being prepared.
Risk: Acquisition strategy failure Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Groups growth strategies include the acquisition of businesses Our strategic planning process supports our M&A planning.
No change around the world that complement or supplement its existing Board approval required for Group acquisitions, in line with activities.
the Group Boards Schedule of Matters Reserved.
Due diligence protocols deployed in relation to assessment Failure to execute an effective acquisition and integration of target businesses, including financial, commercial, legal Link to strategy programme would have a significant impact on the Groups ability to and others where appropriate.
generate long term value growth for shareholders.
Contractual protections and assurances sought from sellers to mitigate subsequent identification of risks.
100 Day post-acquisition integration plan established for all material acquisitions with regular performance monitoring and reporting to the Board.
Risk: Lack of product development and innovation Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group operates in global infrastructure markets where Entrepreneurial culture established through a decentralised No change continuous innovation is integral to the Groups product offering and management structure, ensuring that Group businesses where a failure to innovate could result in product obsolescence, the are agile and responsive to changes in their competitive entry of new competitors and or loss of market share.
The Group actively encourages and supports research The development of new products and technologies carries risk and development programmes at subsidiary level where Link to strategy including failure to develop a commercially viable offering within an knowledge of the market and the needs of our customers acceptable timeframe.
Executive Board approval of product development proposals within the Groups capital spend approval policies.
Dedicated quality compliance resources in place across Group businesses, ensuring responsiveness to regulator and or customer approval requirements.
Board monitoring of emerging risks alongside external specialist support, where both the risks identified and the potential opportunities arising are considered.
Portfolio management Geographic diversification Target returns and leverage Entrepreneurial culture www.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 30 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Human Resources Risk: Failure to recruit and retain key employees Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group encourages an entrepreneurial culture through a Succession planning model driven by the Group Chief Slightly higher decentralised management structure.
Executive and overseen by the Board.
Implementation of contractual protections and retentions An inability to attract, develop and retain high-quality individuals in employment contracts of senior management and other in key management positions could severely affect the long term key employees.
Competitive remuneration, benefits and incentive plans Link to strategy offered to employees and regularly benchmarked.
Recruitment process developed to include competency requirements and skills gap analysis.
Training and development of employees, which includes a programme of IOD and ILM courses for senior management and identified potential successors, and apprenticeship and other vocational courses for specialist and technical roles.
Legal & Regulatory Risk: Failure to comply with applicable health and safety legislation Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around the Regular health and safety monitoring, supported by an No change world.
external independent health, safety and environmental consultant and utilizing a safety cloud online reporting A failure in the Groups health and safety procedures could lead to framework.
environmental damage or to injury to or death of employees or third Group Health and Safety Forum established to monitor parties, with a consequential impact on operations and the increased performance and share best practice.
Link to strategy risk of regulatory or legal action being taken against the Group.
Any Culture of zero tolerance in respect of health and safety such action could result in both financial damages and damage to violations promoted by the Board and disseminated reputation.
throughout Group businesses supported with appropriate HR policies and the Business Code of Conduct.
Open relationships maintained with regulatory bodies.
External health and safety accreditations.
Health and safety required as a priority area of focus for new acquisitions.
Risk: Violation of applicable laws and regulations Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Groups global operations must comply with a range of national Group Code of Conduct sets out required approach for all Slightly higher and international laws and regulations including those related to staff.
anti-bribery and corruption, human rights and employment, trade Staff training provided on Anti-Bribery and Corruption and export compliance and competition anti-trust.
Competition compliance manual implemented by each A failure to comply with any applicable laws and regulations could Group business.
Link to strategy result in civil or criminal liabilities and or individual or corporate Programme of audits undertaken on a cyclical basis to fines and could also result in debarment from government-related review subsidiary compliance with regulatory requirements, contracts, restrictions on ability to trade or rejection by financial including for example simulated dawn raids.
counterparties as well as reputational damage.
Software solutions implemented globally to ensure compliance with trade and export legislation.
Externally hosted whistleblowing hotline available to all employees to allow them to raise concerns in confidence or anonymously, if preferred.
Modern Slavery compliance programme continued through 2017.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 31 31 Top: Varioguard protection barriers in place on Blackfriars Bridge, London.
Bottom: Galvanized bridge on the Island of Kauai in Hawaii www.
