esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Risk management RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Board is responsible for prudent oversight of the Group, ensuring that it is conducted in accordance with sound business principles and within applicable law and regulation.
This encompasses responsibility to set and monitor adherence to strategic risk objectives and risk appetite statements.
The Board also ensures that measures are in place to provide effective monitoring, identification, control and acceptance of risk.
RISK GOVERNANCE In accordance with recognised good practice, the Group operates a three lines of defence governance framework.
The Groups risk governance is overseen by a Risk function headed by the Chief Risk Officer, a member of the Executive Team reporting to the Chief Executive Officer, but with independence assured through direct and separate access to the Chair of the Risk Committee.
The Groups risk management framework and Own Risk & Solvency Assessment ORSA processes are proportionate to the risks that the business faces.
The risk strategy, appetite and Darren Boland framework are articulated in a suite of Chief Risk Officer policies covering material risks that the business faces.
Each of these policies is subject to annual review and approval.
The Groups governance framework is A key strength of the Groups Risk shown in the diagram opposite.
Management Strategy is the integration THE OWN RISK & SOLVENCY ASSESSMENT ORSA PROCESS of risk assessment and evaluation The ORSA policy outlines the Groups approach to the taking and managing into the Groups business operations, of risk and solvency on a forward-looking basis.
It is supported by a number of planning and capital management.
Key elements include: Risk Strategy & Appetite: defining how the Group considers the risks that it faces in delivering on its strategic objectives: Capital Management: maintaining a capital structure consistent with the risk profile and the regulatory and market requirements of the business: and Risk Management and Internal Control Framework: confirming that the overall risk management and control framework is operating adequately and effectively, allowing the Group to Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES BOARD OF DIRECTORS RISK COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND RISK MANAGEMENT INTERNAL AUDIT TEAM EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES AND COMPLIANCE TEAMS OUTSOURCED TO MAZARS LLP 1st Line of Defence Operational 2nd Line of Defence Risk Management and 3rd Line of Defence Internal Audit Business Area Compliance team Independent and objective assurance on the Risk ownership and management.
Primary Provision of oversight and challenge to business internal control environment.
Oversight focused responsibility for risks that esure takes in the areas and management.
Coordination of on the design and operating effectiveness of pursuit of its strategic objectives.
Embedding of risk and compliance activities and reporting the governance processes, risk management the risk framework, risk management practices, including ensuring an effective risk framework is procedures and internal control.
embedded within the 1st line of defence.
identify, assess, manage, monitor and Viability statement sufficient scope to see the impact of report on risks across the business.
In accordance with provision C. 2.1 and changes to the business.
C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance The cyclical nature of the business The key processes that underpin Code 2016, the Directors have assessed means that projecting for periods the ORSA in determining solvency the Groups prospects and viability for much longer than three years creates requirements include: the three-year period to 31 December material uncertainty: however, we 2020, taking into account the Groups stress testing and scenario analysis do look at longer-term strategic current position and the potential impact including reverse stress testing: developments and emerging risks of the principal risks as detailed on pages over longer time periods, for example, business planning and assessment 21 to 23. vehicle technology and car ownership.
of the key risks: The stress and scenario tests and forward-looking assessments of In making this statement, the Board reverse stress tests are considered solvency position: carried out a robust assessment of over a three-year period as such the principal risks facing the Group, own assessment of solvency, based a period allows consideration including those that would threaten its on our capital modelling: of the impact of the stresses as business model, future performance or assessment of the appropriateness well as associated management solvency.
This assessment is based on of standard formula for regulatory actions and mitigations to return the ORSA process as described above: capital setting: to business as usual.
the report on this process was submitted risk appetite process: to the UK financial services regulator, Based on this robust assessment, Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
material and emerging risk process: the Directors confirm that they have a The Directors consider the ORSA process reportable event process: reasonable expectation that the Group to represent a robust assessment of the the findings, recommendations will be able to continue in operation and current and future principal risks facing meet its liabilities as they fall due over and management actions arising the Group as well as the viability of its from reviews conducted by the the period of their assessment.
Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit functions: and RISK REPORTING The assessment period of three years The risk reporting as part of the Risk detailed reviews of key risks.
has been chosen as it is in line with our Management Framework and the ORSA business planning horizon and the period process are designed to ensure that the The ORSA process supports the viability for the ORSA process: this is based on Board and the Risk Committee receive statement as set out below: the following rationale: timely and appropriate reporting on We have an annual renewal cycle: the Groups exposure to existing and which means that three years provides emerging risks in each of the core risk 18 19 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Risk management continued categories underwriting, market, OWN RISK AND SOLVENCY ASSESSMENT ORSA credit, liquidity, operational and conduct.
Strategic risks and the reputational The Board and senior management have confidence in how consequences of these risk exposures we are embedding our risk appetite and ORSA process are considered within this risk reporting.
These are set out within the Principal ORSA risks section on pages 21 to 23.
A key strength of the Groups risk management strategy is the integration There is an appropriate level of risk reporting of risk assessment and evaluation to the Board and senior management into the Groups business operations, planning and capital management.
This Risk Reporting is shown in the diagram on the right.
The Board has set a robust risk management strategy as an integral element in its pursuit of business Our strategic decisions and plans are aligned to and support our risk appetite objectives and in the fulfilment of its obligations to shareholders, regulators, BUSINESS RISK STRATEGIC customers and staff.
The risk appetite PLAN APPETITE DECISIONS statements are aligned to the current strategy and business model, and they form a key element of the business monitoring and decision-making.
The risk appetite is fully embedded in all areas of the business The strategic risk statements which provide the basis of how the Group Business Risk Dashboard considers its risk appetite can be found below right.
Key risk Reportable Risk Emerging Risk and indicators events and registers and risks compliance incident assessments reviews These are considered within the Groups management strategic decisions and business planning but also form a critical element in the way we think about risk STRATEGIC RISK STATEMENTS within the business.
This includes how performance is assessed and how staff The Group strategy is to manage are incentivised.
This ensures that staff profitable growth and volatility and management behaviours are aligned within a cyclical market through to the risk appetite and strategic risk targeted growth opportunities, EARNINGS objectives and that this is reflected in continuous adaptation in its day-to-day decision-making.
underwriting and pricing and a focus on expense management.
FINANCIAL The statements are split by financial risks those directly impacting Earnings, The Groups aim is to ensure Capital and Liquidity and non-financial there are appropriate financial risks Conduct Risk and Customer, CAPITAL & resources in place to deliver on Operations and Information Systems, LIQUIDITY its corporate and policyholder and People.
The Groups risk appetite incorporates a range of quantitative and qualitative Through the Groups strategy, measures of risk supporting these culture, product design and strategic risk objectives, against which service delivery, it aims to deliver CONDUCT RISK the actual or planned exposures and fair outcomes to its customers AND CUSTOMER and ensure that they are at the uncertainties can be monitored.
This core of everything it does.
monitoring is reflected in regular reporting to the Group Executive Committee, the Risk Committee The Groups target is to have and the Board.
no significant disruption to its OPERATIONS service, operations or information AND systems through a proportionate The risk appetite forms a fundamental NONsystem of control, monitoring and INFORMATION part of the way in which the Group FINANCIAL effective incident response.
SYSTEMS thinks about and assesses risk, setting out the types and level of risk that it is willing to accept or avoid in the pursuit of its strategy.
Colleagues are key to the Groups success and it continues to invest The Groups Risk Management in its employees to ensure that Framework is dynamic and continues to it has the right level of skills and PEOPLE be enhanced and developed to ensure it experience with highly engaged employees.
meets the needs of the business.
