Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Principal risks RISK KEY ELEMENTS MITIGATION UNDERWRITING RISK Pricing Risk There is strong and regular monitoring in place of the Definition external environment to understand and react to the Reserving Risk Underwriting risk is the changing market, ensuring that the Group is well placed Catastrophe Risk most material risk for the to benefit from any developments.
It represents the There is a strong claims management process that ensures uncertainty in the profitability that there is strong customer service, management of of the business written due claims costs and management information to understand to variability in the value claims trends.
and timing of claims and There is a robust monitoring process in place that tests the premium rates this can key variables affecting loss performance, including loss impact historic reserve risk ratios, risk mix, pricing, quote conversion, renewal retention as well as future exposures ratios, claims costs, claims frequency and the adequacy pricing and catastrophe.
There is use of external data to support the Groups analysis Current risk profile of risk exposure for underwriting and catastrophe risk.
There is some future uncertainty within the market There is a prudent approach to reserving risk with a risk in terms of the future rating appetite to hold a margin above the actuarial best estimate.
environment and potential The Groups Actuarial function analyses and projects legal changes through the historical claims development data and uses a number government consultation of actuarial techniques to both test and forecast claims on Ogden discount rate provisions.
In addition, independent external actuaries and whiplash reforms.
assess the adequacy of the Groups reserves.
There is reinsurance in place to protect the business from large losses and catastrophe events.
MARKET RISK Interest rate Risk The investment strategy is set with consideration to the Definition overall market risk of the portfolio.
Oversight of the Groups Equity Risk Market risk represents the investment strategy is undertaken by the Investment Spread Risk uncertainty in the financial Committee and overall financial risks by the Financial Risk Concentration Risk position due to fluctuations in Committee, both chaired by the Chief Finance Officer.
the level and in the volatility Market risk is managed through regular monitoring, of market prices of assets and including the drivers of investment return and value at liabilities.
risk measures, counterparty exposures and interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities.
The Group policy concerning Asset liability management is a key area of focus within the market risk ensures investment strategy, with continuous monitoring and actions compliance with Solvency II taken against the risk appetites set.
Prudent Person Principle The Group manages the level of investment counterparty requirements.
credit risk it accepts by placing limits on its exposure to a single counterparty or group of counterparties, and on Current risk profile geographical counterparties, geographical segments and There continues to be sectors.
Investment manager mandates limit concentration uncertainty in the Ogden risk, ensuring diversification in such a way as to avoid discount rate which impacts excessive accumulation of risk in the portfolio.
Such the cash flows relating to risks are subject to regular review within the Investment large claims and frequency Committee.
of Periodical Payment Orders PPOs, and this affects the Our investment strategy does not expose the Group to ability to match assets to material currency risk or the risks arising from active trading these liabilities.
Derivative instruments are only used as a risk there is volatility in UK-based mitigation technique.
20 21 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Principal risks continued RISK KEY ELEMENTS MITIGATION CREDIT RISK Reinsurance There are risk appetite metrics set against the Definition counterparty Risk creditworthiness of reinsurers and concentration risk.
These Credit risk is the loss or are monitored prior to finalisation of any contract and on an Supplier debtor Risk adverse change in the ongoing basis to ensure that it remains in line with our risk financial situation, resulting appetite.
from fluctuations in the credit As part of the Groups supplier management process, standing of counterparties credit exposures to third parties are regularly monitored and any debtors to which the and controlled.
Current risk profile There are no specific concerns currently.
LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity Risk The Group continues to monitor its liquidity risk by Definition considering the Groups operating cash flows, stressed for Liquidity risk is the risk that catastrophe scenarios, dividend payouts, liquidity strains the Group is unable to realise and investment strategy to mitigate this risk.
investments and other assets Oversight of liquidity risk is undertaken by the Financial in order to settle financial Risk Committee.
obligations when they fall due.
Current risk profile The Groups risk appetite is aligned to a 1-in-200-year liquidity stress, which is assessed by the capital model, and as such no additional capital is held from the Groups own assessment of risk and solvency requirements for liquidity risk.
OPERATIONAL RISK Business process Risk The Group has a robust governance and risk framework in place which provides an effective structure within which Definition IT systems and disaster Operational risk is the loss or operational risks are identified, measured and managed.
recovery Risk adverse impact due to failures It ensures that there is clear ownership for risks with Data Security and with processes, people or effective reporting and escalation mechanisms, supporting Cyber Risk systems either within the management oversight and decision-making.
Infrastructure Risk and Group or within material There are specialist teams that reside within the business Business Continuity Risk partners.
functions that provide expertise and support, including for Financial crime and business continuity, IT disaster recovery, fraud and financial Current risk profile fraud Risk crime and cyber risk.
Whilst there are strong Outsourcing Risk Oversight, support and challenge are provided by the controls in place, there are second-line Risk function which works closely with the Distribution Risk currently material external first-line business and specialist functions.
cyber threats that could impact the business.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 RISK KEY ELEMENTS MITIGATION CONDUCT RISK Legal and Political Risk There is a low appetite for this risk and this is reflected in Definition management decision-making.
The Groups culture and tone Conduct and Conduct risk is a risk of from the top ensures the interests of its customers and their Compliance Risk reputational or financial fair treatment is paramount.
Regulatory Risk damage driven by regulatory The Group has a strong governance framework and its or legal intervention.
Conduct Risk and Customer Committee reviews all aspects of its customer service.
Current risk profile Board oversight is ensured by upward reporting of a suite Whilst we are on track to of customer and conduct risk appetite statements and deliver on these projects, measures.
there is a significant level The Group continues to monitor legal and regulatory of change from regulation, developments in the UK and Europe, through its close including General Data relationship with our regulators the Financial Conduct Protection Regulation, the Authority FCA and Prudential Regulation Authority Insurance Distribution PRA and other official bodies and the use of proactive Directive and the extension of risk management tools and processes to mitigate its the Senior Managers Regime.
