Risk and Risk Management OVERVIEW AND CULTURE The St. Jamess Place Group is exposed to a wide variety of risks as a result of its business activities and the industry in which it operates, as well as a number of external factors and threats.
Under the leadership, direction and oversight of our Board, these risks are carefully managed, contributing to our competitive advantage and helping us to achieve our business and client objectives as set out on pages 20 and 21.
We do not, and cannot, seek to eliminate risk entirely, rather we seek to understand our risks fully, and to apply appropriate risk management strategies such that all material risks are identified, and appropriately managed or mitigated.
Risk management is a core aspect of decisionmaking and is embedded in our culture.
Our framework is specifically designed to manage the risks that are important to our shareholders, clients, Advisers, regulators and employees, and to provide reasonable assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
Risk management, solvency projections and stress and scenario testing form a key part of the business planning process, including in relation to decisions on strategic developments, pricing and dividend payments.
RISK APPETITE The Board chooses carefully the risks it accepts and those it seeks to limit or avoid.
These choices are set out in detail in our Group Risk Appetite Statement, which is owned by the Board and reviewed at least annually.
The Risk Appetite Statement is aligned with the outcomesbased approach of the Groups business and client objectives and the overarching Risk Management Framework.
In particular, it articulates: Risks that are actively sought in pursuit of return: Risks that are consciously avoided: Risks that are reduced through transfer to other parties: and Risks that are minimised through controls.
Risk appetite can and will change over time, sometimes rapidly as economic and business environment conditions change, and therefore the statement is an evolving document.
A comprehensive suite of indicators is reported regularly to enable the Boards Risk Committee the Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, to monitor that the Group remains within its agreed appetite.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Board, through the Risk Committee, takes an active role in overseeing the Risk Management Framework, for which it is responsible.
This framework is the combined processes by which the Group identifies, assesses, measures, manages and monitors the risks that may impact on the successful delivery of business objectives.
The Groups Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA is a central part of this framework, the main elements of which are shown in the following diagram.
STRATEGY KEY OUTCOMES Risk Appetite Risk Capital Risk Governance Board Identify Assess Risk Committee Standard Formula Risk Management Process Executive Board Subsidiary Boards Monitor Manage Own Assessment Group Risk ExCo Other ExCos Risk Escalation Risk Culture and Policies 1 For further information on governance structures, refer to page 77.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 46 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Risk Committee comprises Independent Non-executive Board members, and is responsible for ensuring that a culture of effective risk identification and management is fostered across the Group.
A report of its activity during the year can be found on pages 90 to 93.
The Risk Committee is supported by the Executive Board, but also by the Group Risk Executive Committee and by Risk Management teams at Group and local levels, which take the lead in ensuring an appropriate framework is in place and that there is on-going development and co-ordination of risk management within the Group.
The other executive sub-committees of the Executive Board also provide support for the management of risks in their areas of responsibility.
The Risk Management Framework is grounded in the outcomes which are key to our organisation.
These are: Clients Advisers People That we continue to grow and develop That we deliver positive outcomes That we treat all of our the Partnership, both in numbers and skills for our increasing population of clients stakeholders well Regulators Financials and Shareholders That we are compliant, have an open That we deliver sustainable growth and honest relationship with our in reported profits on all measures regulators and protect our reputation Whilst clearly a simplification of the business model, this focuses The ORSA process is directed by the Boards of the EU insurance attention on those things that are of greatest importance, and hence entities Group, SJPUK and SJPI, and comprises a comprehensive indicates where risk management activity should be focused.
It also risk assessment, providing understanding of the risks each of the allows the identification of the individuals within the Group business units face, how those risks are managed and how those responsible for managing these risks.
risks might change, in the context of the strategic plan.
It incorporates a quantitative analysis of the capital required to protect Within these outcomes, indicators are used to monitor performance the sustainability of the Company, and how it might develop over our against risk appetite.
Each indicator has an owner on the Executive planning period five years.
Similar risk based capital assessments Board who is accountable for managing the associated risks within are performed for the other regulated entities.
agreed thresholds and providing regular reports to the Executive Board.
This enables the Executive Board to maintain effective The activities included in these assessments range from stress and oversight of all outcomes, and to manage any conflicts of interest scenario testing, through loss event recording and analysis, to recovery that arise between them.
Stress testing is undertaken across a broad range of scenarios, including market shocks, mass lapse events, new To ensure a comprehensive risk universe, there is also a bottom up business growth scenarios and particularly operational risk events.
Each division of the Group is responsible Above the regulatory solvency capital requirements, which allow for at for the identification, management and quarterly reporting of its own least a 1 in 200 year risk event, we focus on reasonably foreseeable risks, and is supported in this by the Risk Management function.
scenarios for the insights they can provide about how the business Each risk is assessed by considering its potential impact and the might react to stress conditions, as well as considering other, more likelihood of its occurrence, with impact assessments being made extreme scenarios.
Our results show strong levels of free assets being against financial and non-financial metrics.
Establishment of maintained even under extreme scenarios, which demonstrates the appropriate controls is a core part of the risk management process.
Groups resilience to adverse conditions.
Analysis of more severe Recognising the importance of ongoing effective risk management, reverse stress tests investigating liquidity, which could be a key risk in stressed conditions, indicate that even in these circumstances the the Group maintains a comprehensive suite of governance policies to support the Risk Management Framework.
Group can reasonably expect to have sufficient liquid funds to be able to meet its liabilities over the planning period.
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA As a result of these activities we have considered the calculation and Many of the activities of the Group are regulated and we have allocation of risk capital to all the major risks in the Group, and the relationships with regulators in the UK, Ireland, Singapore and Hong insurance companies in particular, and the adequacy of the capital Kong.
Regulation arises both as a result of our role in the provision of position.
This process ensures our continued confidence that the financial advice and also as a manufacturer.
However, at Group level regulated entities remain strongly capitalised.
we are classified as an Insurance Group, and are subject to the Solvency II insurance regulation.
A key part of this regulation is the The ORSA has proved to be a useful process for making expectation that there should be a consistent approach to Risk consideration of risk appetite more prominent in decisions by Management across the Group, and that an ORSA should be management, including those reviewed by the Risk Committee.
undertaken annually considering both the Group and the individual The ORSA continues to evolve and strengthen risk management insurance entities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 47 Risk and Risk Management continued Viability Statement Control Self-Assessment In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the UK Corporate Governance Control Self Assessment CSA is a continuous activity, which has a Code, the Directors have assessed the Groups current financial formal summary on an annual basis, and forms a key part of our position and future prospects over a five-year period, and have a internal control system.
This self assessment process requires reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in business areas to review their controls regularly, and sign off on their operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of efficacy, against a standard set of control statements.
these control statements embody the elements required for an organisation to maintain a control framework across the five In reaching this conclusion the Directors have taken into account a components of Control Environment, Risk Assessment, Control number of different strands of work, including: Activities, Information and Communication, and Monitoring The Business Plan and associated strategy documents: Activities, as laid down in the internationally accepted COSO control standards.
An assessment of the economic, regulatory, competitive and risk environment which was carried out as part of the Boards This process is beneficial as it provides confidence that business strategy review process: and areas can meet their objectives, clarity to support decision making, The Groups ORSA process, which is summarised in the section and agility in adapting to change and complexity.
summary of the control self assessment process contributes to the year end Internal Control Evaluation exercise undertaken by Internal As a result of this work the Board has concluded that the business model remains appropriate, with no concerns that would Audit as part of the assurance provision to the Audit Committee.
fundamentally threaten the business model or market.
This is also Financial Reporting Processes supported by the resilience that the Group has demonstrated over Specifically, in relation to the financial reporting processes, the main recent years and in a variety of different external conditions.
features of the internal control systems include: A planning period of five years is used both in medium-term business Extensive documentation, operation and assessment of controls planning and also for the ORSA, and has therefore been used for the in key risk areas: Code requirement as well, reflecting the horizon over which the Monthly review and sign off of all financial accounting data Board sets medium-term strategy.
Due to our product structure, submitted by outsource providers and the results of all investment and pension business does not generate net cash in the subsidiaries within the Group: and first six years.
By using a planning horizon of five years, we assess Formal review of financial statements by senior management, for our viability based on revenues generated on business we have today both individual companies and the consolidated Group.
rather than relying on assumed growth.
The ORSA was particularly useful in assessing viability as it has a similar purpose and requires a comprehensive assessment of risk management and risk capital requirements of the business in excess of a 1 in 200 year risk calibration.
The Group monitors performance against a range of predefined indicators, which will identify if experience over the planning period differs from risk appetite or expectations, allowing management action to be taken.
Internal Control The internal control environment in St. Jamess Place is built upon a strong control culture which is underpinned by our Code of Ethics and organisational delegation of responsibility.
The Board has adopted the three lines of defence model for the internal control system, under which the 1st Line is Business Operations, the 2nd Line is Oversight Functions including Risk Management and Compliance, and the 3rd Line is Independent Assurance.
The purpose of this internal control system is to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives relating to operations, reporting, and compliance.
Management has delegated responsibility to implement and maintain effective controls, such that the Group operates within the risk appetite agreed by the Board.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, monitors the effectiveness of internal controls across all business areas primarily through the outcomes of independent assurance assignments undertaken by Internal Audit.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 48 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The following tables summarise the principal risks and uncertainties that are inherent within both the Groups business model and the market in which we operate.
These are the risks which could have a material impact on the key strategic outcomes in the five areas set out on page 47.
The Group Board and the Boards of the insurance entities have responsibility for assessing their main risks and these are monitored on a regular basis by the Risk Committee, the Executive Board, the SJPUK and SJPI Boards, the SJPI Risk and Compliance Committee, the SJPI Singapore Branch Executive Management Committee and the Senior Managers-in-Charge of SJPI Hong Kong Limited.
Against each of the principal risks, consideration is given to the level of exposure and the extent to which the risk can be mitigated.
For example, the Group believes that the Accumulation of Reputational Issues risk set out below presents a significant exposure yet is difficult to mitigate beyond the processes currently in place across the business.
Conversely, the Investor Relations risk described below presents a moderate exposure and can be mitigated through the ongoing development of the Investor Relations team.
There have been no significant changes in the principal risks for the Group in the past year.
The EU Referendum in 2016, together with the General Election results of 2017, combine to form a backdrop of uncertainty for business in general, but the Group is well positioned to deal with the changes that this uncertainty may bring.
The principal risks and uncertainties, the business outcomes on which they impact, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate them, are set out in the following tables: Non-Financial Risks Risk Description Outcome Management and Controls Systemic Clients rely on their SJP Advisers for the Clients There are many processes in place to mitigate this risk, advice failure provision of initial and ongoing advice.
including detailed advice guidance with appropriate Failures in the quality of advice or governance around changes and updates, appropriate documentation of advice could lead to incentive structures, Adviser training and accreditation, redress costs, reputational damage and compliance procedures, monitoring processes and quality regulatory intervention.
The Group guarantees the advice given by Advisers and also has appropriate professional indemnity insurance in place.
Outsourcing The Groups business model involves the Clients, We maintain close working relationships with our failure outsourcing of administration and custodial Financials outsourcing partners, who are central to our business services to third parties.
Poor service from, or and model.
This enables us, in seeking to work effectively failure of, one of these third parties could lead Shareholders and efficiently together, to deliver the best result.
Service to disruption of services to clients, level agreements are in place and performance is reputational damage and profit impacts.
We also work closely with our outsourcing business partners to understand any material changes to their businesses which may impact us.
In the extreme event, all our relationships are governed by formal agreements with notice periods.
The business continuity arrangements of each outsourcer are also regularly tested and improved and scenario analysis is carried out.
Cyber Risk Cyber risk, which could include loss of data, Clients, The leading cause of information security incidents are system control or system availability, Advisers, individuals unknowingly or inadvertently enabling the continues to be one of the top risks facing Financials attack, so awareness is the most effective defence.
A successful and maintain an active and on-going awareness programme cyber attack could result in disruption or Shareholders on information security threats and how to prevent or distress for clients, Advisers, and employees, respond to them for employees and Advisers.
This is as well as resulting in reputational damage supported by system maintenance and vulnerability and regulatory censure.
testing, as well as an incident reporting system to ensure rapid response if an incident does occur.
We also ensure our outsourcing partners have robust information security programmes in place and use secure means for transmitting data to and from these organisations.
Investment Our approach to investment management Clients We offer a broad range of funds, which allows client performance may fail to deliver expected returns to clients diversification and mitigates our new business, persistency fails to meet of the Group or the range of products and and market risks.
We actively manage and monitor the client services offered may become inappropriate performance of our investment managers through the expectations for client needs.
Investment Committee, which is supported by respected independent investment research consultancies.
We perform ongoing due diligence and appropriateness review on third party products at least annually.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 49 Risk and Risk Management continued Non-Financial Risks continued Risk Description Outcome Management and Controls Adviser Group products are distributed, and ongoing Advisers The Adviser proposition is an area of continual focus, with proposition, advice is provided, exclusively through the outputs from regular Adviser surveys and other Adviser recruitment SJP Partnership.
Inadequacies in the Adviser feedback being reflected on an ongoing basis.
We employ and retention proposition, range of products, technology or a number of specialist managers specifically to manage services offered to the Partnership may result the recruitment and retention of high-quality Advisers, and in inefficiencies and frustration, with a dedicated senior management team oversees the SJP consequent loss of Advisers and client Academy, which broadens our recruitment streams.
impact, or inability to recruit sufficient, Formal retention strategies are in place to ensure that, high-quality new Advisers or field wherever possible, we retain good quality and management.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
Regulatory, The nature of the Group is such that it falls Regulators Regulatory and legislative change is largely a risk which legislative under the influence of regulators and cannot be mitigated, although the Group seeks to and tax legislators in multiple jurisdictions.
engage with regulators and policy makers in an open environment Transformative regulatory, or indeed political and constructive manner, with the aim that key issues changes, could impact adversely on our impacting the Group are taken into consideration in the current business model.
Our governance structures, management committees and compliance monitoring The Group could face a fine or regulatory activities seek to ensure we remain compliant censure from failure to comply with current and with regulation.
or future regulations, with increased supervisory intrusion, disruption to business and potential for changes to the business model.
Competition The competitive environment in which we Financials This risk is mitigated through ensuring our business is and charge operate continues to evolve with the need for and run efficiently, being responsive to the needs of our pressure dependable wealth management advice Shareholders clients and Advisers and seeking continual increasing whilst regulation and technology improvements to processes.
Charges are benchmarked changing the nature and accessibility of against competitors and competitor activity is monitored available information.
Competitor activity in allowing action to be taken in a timely manner if required.
the adviser based wealth management The Group offers a diversified product range, including market may result in a reduction in new manufactured and third party products.
We have a business volumes, reduced retention of proven track record in Adviser and employee acquisition existing business with the resulting impact to and retention.
Our more established Advisers often have ongoing advice fees, pressure on margins for significant equity stakes in their practices and their both new and existing business, and the ability to access these is structured to aid retention.
potential loss of Advisers and key employees.
Similarly, variable remuneration of key employees is structured to aid retention.
Funding Pressure on funding availability may limit the Financials A debt funding policy is in place, with committed funds availability Groups ability to provide business loans to and available through the revolving credit facility.
Credit Partners and make strategic investments.
Shareholders approved bank lending facilities are available to support business loans to Partners.
Further corporate borrowing requires approval at Board level.
Investor Failure to communicate effectively with new Financials This risk is mitigated through the work of the investor relations and existing shareholders may lead to falls in and relations team, whose remit is to ensure the maintenance the share price and reputational damage.
Shareholders of positive relationships with shareholders.
Accumulation The success of the Group is closely linked to Financials Mitigants for individual reputational events, such as of reputational the strength of the St. Jamess Place brand.
and systemic advice failure, cyber risk or outsourcing failure, issues An accumulation of reputational issues, for Shareholders are described above in the Management and Controls example, advice failures, fraud, service section for each risk.
The Group seeks to achieve the best issues, low client investment returns, has the possible outcomes for its clients and the cultural driver of potential to damage the brand, leading to doing the right thing runs through the whole organisation.
reduced retention and lower levels of new However, it is recognised that isolated incidents will occur business.
and, when this is the case, the Group seeks to rectify the issue and achieve positive outcomes for clients.
People and People and the distinctive culture of the People This risk is mitigated through effective leadership, culture Group play an important part in its success.
succession planning, the implementation of executive and Poorly managed expansion, succession, management development initiatives and regular surveys culture and resourcing may lead to loss of and consultation groups.
The latter enable us to monitor valued individuals, increased risk of errors, the sentiment of our staff and Advisers and identify any and failure to deliver on the business plan.
potential adverse impacts upon, or trends within, our culture, and respond appropriately.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 50 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Financial Risks Risk Description Outcome Management and Controls Market Risk A reduction in funds under management owing to Financials The Group accepts the risk of reduced future profits Loss of market shocks, poor market performance or and as a result of market shocks, poor market Annual currency and exchange rate movements would Shareholders performance, adverse movement in credit spreads Management reduce future AMC income, and hence future or currency movements.
This risk is mitigated to an Charge AMC profits.
extent by the diversified fund range.
income Insurance risk A reduction in funds under management owing to Financials Retention risk is managed through the long-term poor retention would reduce future AMC income.
and relationships between Advisers and clients.
In This may arise from factors such as changes in the Shareholders particular, Advisers keep clients informed during economic climate, poor investment performance, periods of market volatility, and lower risk funds and competitor activity, or reputational damage to the portfolios are available, with no charges for Group.
The Investment Management Approach involves monitoring of fund manager performance, Adverse mortality or disability experience, in and changes are made where appropriate.
particular higher death claims following an incident or widespread illness, or longer-term increases in Mortality and disability risk is substantially reduced mortality rates, would reduce future profits.
through the use of reassurance with low retention.
Mortality risk benefit on investment products are generally limited to 1% of invested assets.
Most risk deductions are reviewable and an increase in reassurance rates would be passed on to clients through increases to charges and or premiums within five years.
Expense risk Increased expenses, in particular higher than Financials Expenses are controlled through contracts with expected administration costs, would reduce future and third party administrators and expense controls at profits.
Shareholders Group level, so that growth in average per policy expenses is broadly aligned to the rate of increase in the average weekly earnings index.
Clients meet investment management fees directly through the product, with changes, both positive and negative also passed on.
Interest rate Changes in interest rates or the failure of a Financials Generally, shareholder funds are invested in high and credit counterparty may reduce the value of fixed interest and credit rating and highly liquid cash and cash risks assets held by the shareholder.
Shareholders equivalent investments, and only highly rated reinsurers are used.
Key counterparties include reassurers, banks, money market funds, issuers of fixed interest However, in support of the business, some securities, Advisers to whom loans have been shareholder funds outside the insurance granted and other debtors.
companies are used to provide business loans to Partners.
These are secured against income streams on a conservative multiple and with appropriate financial monitoring.
A prepayment has been made to DST in anticipation of future benefits arising from the development of the new Bluedoor administration system.
However, the contract with Bluedoor would enable the Group to continue to use the Bluedoor system in the event of failure of DST.
Liquidity risk Liquidity issues may arise from client requests to Financials Client funds are invested in deep and liquid markets switch or withdraw money from unit linked funds, and and, where investments are less liquid, contractual and through events that may require immediate Shareholders terms are included, allowing the flexibility to defer recourse to shareholder funds.
Sizeable balances of liquid shareholder assets are maintained and the emergence of cash profits is monitored.
Banks propensity to lend in support of Partner business loans is also monitored.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 51
