Strategic Report How We Manage Risk Managing business risks of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups framework for risk management Managing risks and opportunities is integral As outlined below, this integrated approach promotes a bottom-up approach to risk to the delivery of the Groups strategic to the management of risk and opportunity management with top-down support and objectives.
Cairns risk assessment process plays a key role in the successful delivery challenge.
The risk register is central to is not designed to eliminate risk entirely, of the Groups strategy.
the risk management process and forms but provides a means to identify, prioritise the basis for capturing and discussing risk and manage risks and opportunities in Risk governance throughout the organisation.
Risks and accordance with the Groups appetite for risk.
Overall responsibility for the system of opportunities are identified, assessed and risk management and internal control and managed at an asset e. g. Senegal, project The Groups risk management framework reviewing the effectiveness of such systems e. g. new ventures opportunity and functional provides a systematic process for the rests with the Board.
Principal risks, as well level e. g. HR team and the risk and compliance identification and management of the as progress against key risk projects, are team run quarterly risk workshops to discuss key risks and opportunities which may reviewed at each Board meeting and at and challenge the risk registers.
Reporting impact the delivery of the Groups strategic least once a year the Board undertakes a risk of these risks within the organisation is objectives.
KPIs are set annually and workshop to review the Groups principal structured so that risks are escalated through determining the level of risk the Group risks.
This integrated approach to risk various internal management, Board is willing to accept in the pursuit of these management has been and continues to be committees and to the Board itself.
objectives is a fundamental component critical to the delivery of strategic objectives.
Groups risk management framework Outline the strategy Define strategic Define risk appetite Identify key risks Apply risk Deliver strategic Set a sustainable strategy objectives Determine the level of risk Identify key risks and assessment objectives to achieve Cairns short and the Group is willing to opportunities to the Set clear strategic process Delivery of strategic long-term goals.
accept in the pursuit of the achievement of strategic objectives in the objectives through Apply the Group risk strategic objectives and objectives through form of KPIs.
informed risk-based assessment process to document this in the Group discussions at a Board, Risk decision-making.
ensure the ongoing Risk Appetite Statement.
Management Committee, management of key risks to Management Team, our objectives.
Risk governance framework Top-down: Oversight, accountability, monitoring and assurance The Board Holds overall responsibility for Sets strategic objectives Sets the tone Completes robust the Groups risk management and defines risk appetite and influences assessment of principal risks and internal control systems the culture of risk management Risk Management Audit Management Committee Committee Team Executive Committee chaired by CEO in 2017 Chaired by Iain McLaren in 2017 Chaired by COO in 2017 Responsibility for setting the Monitors and reviews the scope and Performs a quarterly deep-dive direction for risk management effectiveness of the Companys systems review of the Group risk register of risk and internal control Facilitates continual improvement of the risk management system Reviews principal risks and output from the RMC meetings Asset Project Function level Risk identification, assessment and Risk management system embedded and Risk culture influencing all business mitigation completed at asset, project integrated throughout the Group activities and functional level Bottom-up: Identification of risks and mitigating actions for assets, projects and functions {X e  e 40 Viability Statement Strategy, business model and context consider the sources of funding available The base plan incorporates assumptions The Groups strategy and business to the Group against the capital that reflect the impact of these principal model are described on page 04 of requirements of the anticipated future this report.
work programme the base plan.
material budget contingencies and allowances are included for In 2017 the Group achieved first Key assumptions which underpin the development projects as well as production from its two UK North Sea annual business planning process U projected operating cashflows Following the oil discovery offshore forecast cost levels for oil and gas assume oil and gas prices in line Senegal in 2014 and completion of : profiles of the UK North Sea production whilst the resolution of the Indian tax focused on developing this significant assets and the availability of debt under the Group's lending facilities.
the funding plan does not include exploitation plan approval in 2018 monetisation of the Groups with first production in 2021 to 2023.
The Board recognises that a significant F F c c part of the anticipated work programme lack of exploration or appraisal development is planned for H1 2018 is dependent on the results of future success would impact on the delivery with first production anticipated in 2021. exploration or appraisal activity and of Cairns strategy but would not be also that it is the Groups strategy to expected to impact on the Groups k actively manage its licence portfolio to ability to fund its committed work production from the Kraken and Catcher optimise its planned capital allocation.
fields will generate significant operating variability in the longer term work The Board also considers further borrowing facilities to support the scenarios around the base plan.
These development projects in Senegal and that three years is the appropriate primarily reflect a more severe impact of c period over which to assess the funding for the Group.
The Group will Groups prospects.
continue to deploy these funds on both capital requirements that would result development opportunities and across Viability from future exploration or appraisal the Groups wider exploration and The principal risks and uncertainties success or the acquisition of new assets.
that affect the boards assessment of : The directors consider the impact that Assessment process performance of the UK North Sea and key assumptions The Groups prospects are assessed the effect of volatile oil prices on primarily through its annual business the business and our partners' and accordingly assess the opportunities planning process.
This process includes to actively manage its licence portfolio the availability of debt to fund future and planned capital allocation as well as X to bring in additional sources of funding performance and prospects of the restriction on ability to sell the Groups at key milestones in asset development.
business are examined and capital F allocation decisions are made.
The lack of exploration or appraisal Based on the actions available to outputs from the business planning success.
include a set of Key Performance expectation that the Group will be k able to continue in operation and meet anticipated future work programme its liabilities as they fall due over the and a set of financial forecasts that three-year period of their assessment.
Responding to the changing risk quarterly risk workshops were held with procurement processes and reserves assets and functions to perform a more resources reporting.
The Group has been As part of the Groups commitment to robust review of the significant risks to working through the year to implement ensuring risk continues to be managed the Group: the identified improvements: and effectively, it seeks to continually improve our anti-bribery and corruption training new legislation, the Corporate Offence risk management system.
As part of this, the was delivered to employees in higher of Failure to Prevent the Facilitation of Tax risk roles: k the Board completed a risk workshop to human rights, modern slavery and cyber The Group held a workshop to assess consider the current and future risks to security training was delivered to all the impact of the new legislation and the Senegal asset development: employees: to understand where any improvements risk management training was rolled EY, the Groups internal auditor, delivered to existing procedures were required in out across all assets and functions.
The the annual internal audit plan which order to ensure compliance with the training coincided with the launch of consisted of a number of risk areas CCO requirements.
a new risk management tool designed identified from the risk register.
Topics to support the risk management process: included the CRMS, human resources, 41 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2017 2018 Principal risks & uncertainties objectives.
The tables below provide a % summary overview of the principal risks to forums such as the Group Risk Management : Committee and Management Team, the impacts, the mitigation measures, the risk Group reviewed the risks which could appetite and the KPIs or strategic objectives adversely affect the achievement of strategic the risks may impact.
Strategic objective Deliver exploration and appraisal success Principal risk: Exploration and appraisal Owner: Director of Exploration 2017 movement No change This risk remained static in 2017.
Risk appetite High Exposure to exploration and appraisal failure is inherent in accessing the significant upside potential of exploration projects and this has been, and remains, a core value driver for Cairn.
The Group invests in data and exploits the strong experience of Cairns technical teams to mitigate this risk.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Limited or no Active programme for high-grading new Exploration drilling did not Mature six or more prospects value creation areas through licence rounds, farm-ins add commercial with all internal reviews and other transactions.
Failure of the and appraisal did not add balanced portfolio Portfolio of prospects and leads that Drill four or more exploration to the resource base.
business model offer opportunities with a balance of wells before year end 2018. geological and technical risks.
Negative Efficiently discover market reaction Highly competent team applying a commercial quantities of thorough review process of prospects hydrocarbons in line with and development opportunities and a pre-drill estimates at an team of geoscientists with a track record attractive Group finding of delivering exploration success.
Establishment of Exploration Leadership Team to undertake peer reviews and assurance.
Principal risk: Volatile oil and gas prices Owner: Chief Financial Officer 2017 movement No change Although oil prices have improved during the year, oil price outlook remains volatile.
Risk appetite M edium Exposure to commodity prices is fundamental to the Groups activities: however, the Group manages its investment programme to ensure that a threshold economic return is delivered and the business model is funded even in sustained downside price scenarios.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Reduction in Sensitivity analysis conducted to assess Debt available under the Develop and implement a future cash flow robustness of group financial forecasts Groups RBL facility remains funding strategy that ensures for funding plan.
at a level consistent with the an executable funding plan is Value impairment end of 2016. developed and a minimum of development Operators cost initiatives delivering headroom cushion from projects material cost reductions on The Group has entered a existing sources of funding development projects.
hedging programme for is maintained.
JV partner capital Catcher and Kraken crude.
constraints Exploration projects are ranked based on the probability of commercial hydrocarbons and success case break even oil price.
{X e  e 42 Strategic objective Portfolio management Principal risk: Securing new venture opportunities Owner: Director of Exploration 2017 movement Decreased This risk decreased in 2017 due to the Groups success in securing new ventures.
Risk appetite Medium Building and maintaining a balanced portfolio of current and future exploration, development and production assets is core to the Groups strategy.
New opportunities must first meet the Groups strict investment criteria and successfully securing them will be dependent on the prevailing competitive environment.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Failure to replenish Geoscience, new ventures and Successfully secured two Secure two or more new the portfolio commercial teams work closely to licences in Mexico Offshore exploration opportunities that review and identify new portfolio Bid Round including one as meet corporate hurdles and Inability to replace opportunities.
offer exploration drilling production decline within five years.
curves Experience and knowledge throughout Secured two farm-ins to the organisation in recognising licences in Ireland and one Loss of investor prospective opportunities.
confidence Risk assessments and due diligence Awarded non-operated process undertaken on all potential new interests in four licences in country entries.
the Norwegian Sea and North Sea following APA 2017 Development of discretionary capital awards in January 2018. allocation and opportunity ranking system.
Strategic objective Deliver operational excellence Principal risk: Delay in Senegal development plan Owner: General Manager, Senegal 2017 movement New risk.
Risk appetite M edium Developments are commonly subject to cost impacts and schedule delays.
The Group therefore has a medium appetite for risk taking in the development stage.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Loss of asset value Ongoing engagement with SNE field appraisal and Timely submission of the Senegal Government.
concept select definition are SNE Area Evaluation Report, Project delays concluding for the first phase Exploitation Plan and Ongoing engagement with JV of development of the associated Environmental Negative partners and other stakeholders.
and Social Impact market reaction Assessment.
Development of joint venture The JV aims to have a funding plan.
government-approved Approval of the Exploitation exploitation plan in place by Plan and associated Integrated transfer of operatorship the end of 2018 with a target Exploitation Area by the end plan agreed with Woodside.
of first oil in 2021-2023. of the PSC and finalisation and approval of joint venture financing plan.
43 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2017 2018 Strategic objective Deliver operational excellence continued Principal risk: Kraken and Catcher operational and project performance Owner: Chief Operating Officer 2017 movement No change Whilst there were some operational challenges in Kraken commissioning, both Kraken and Catcher successfully achieved first oil in 2017.
Risk appetite Low Delivering operational excellence in all the Groups activities is a strategic objective for the Group and the Group works closely with all JV partners to mitigate the risk and impact of any operational delay or underperformance.
Therefore, the Group has a low appetite for risks which may impact on operating cash flow.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Delay or reduction Work closely with the operator's to Kraken achieved first oil in Deliver target production in cash flow deliver risk mitigation plans and project June 2017.
Kraken volumes, operating costs solutions during ongoing commissioning.
commissioning challenges and crude values from Increased operational meant that production levels Kraken and Catcher.
costs Positive and regular engagement with were lower than initially operators and partners to share projected.
HSE incident knowledge, offer support and exert tax influence.
Catcher FPSO completed Reputational damage commissioning in Singapore and arrived in the North Sea in August 2017 on schedule.
First oil was successfully achieved in December 2017.
Principal risk: Reliance on JV operators for asset performance Owner: Chief Operating Officer 2017 movement No change This risk remained static in 2017.
The Group was successful in securing operated exploration licences in Mexico and Ireland and is due to drill its first operated well in the UK.
Risk appetite Medium The Group seeks to operate assets which align with the Groups core areas of expertise, but recognises that a balanced portfolio will also include non-operated ventures.
The Group accepts that there are risks associated with a non-operator role and will seek to mitigate against these risks by working with partners of high integrity and experience and maintaining close working relationships with all JV partners.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Cost schedule Actively engage with all JV partners Oil price volatility continues Deliver target production overruns early to establish good working to have a financial impact volumes, operating costs relationships.
across the industry and the and crude values from Poor performance risk remains that the Groups Kraken and Catcher.
of assets Actively participate in technical meetings JV partners may not be able to challenge, apply influence and or Achieve lagging HSSE to fund work programme HSE performance support partners to establish a cohesive indicators set in line with expenditures and or JV view.
Delay in first oil reprioritise projects.
from development Application of the Group risk Catcher, Kraken and several projects management processes and exploration projects are non-operated ventures procedure.
Negative impact on operated by joint venture asset value partners.
Woodside will Active engagement with supply chain become operator of our providers to monitor performance Senegal asset on submission and delivery.
The Group continues to work closely with a number of U Norway and International regions.
{X e  e 44 Strategic objective Maintain licence to operate Principal risk: Health, safety, environment and security Owner: Chief Executive 2017 movement No change This risk remained static in 2017 due to continued strong HSSE performance.
Risk appetite Low The Group continuously strives to reduce risks that could lead to an HSSE incident to as low as reasonably practicable.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Serious injury Effectively managing health, safety, The Groups safety Demonstrate clear or death security and environmental risk exposure performance has been progress and achieve is the first priority for the Board, Senior effective overall in 2017 and defined milestones in relation Environmental Leadership Team and Management achieved a Total Recordable to HSSE CR objectives, split impacts Team.
The into four key categories Groups target was less than Business Relationships, Reputational damage HSE training is included as part of all 2.0 per million hours.
Society and Communities, staff and contractor inductions.
Regulatory penalties People and the Environment.
Approximately 34 litres of and clean-up costs Detailed training on the Groups hydraulic oil were released Achieve lagging HSSE Corporate Responsibility Management into the sea from a remote indicators set in line with System CRMS has been provided to operated underwater vehicle.
key stakeholders to ensure processes and procedures are embedded With ongoing operations throughout the organisation and in a number of countries in all operations.
2018, the Group will continue to work responsibly as part Process in place for assessing an of our strategy to deliver operators overall operating and HSE value for all stakeholders.
capabilities, including undertaking audits to determine the level of oversight required.
Effective application of CRMS in projects.
Crisis and emergency response procedures and equipment are maintained and regularly tested to ensure the Group is able to respond to an emergency quickly, safely and effectively.
Third party specialists in place to assist with security arrangements and travel risk assessments.
Leading and Lagging indicators and targets developed in line with industry guidelines and benchmarks.
Findings from Lessons learned reviews are implemented from other projects.
45 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2017 2018 Strategic objective Maintain licence to operate continued Principal risk: Fraud, bribery and corruption Owner: Chief Executive 2017 movement No change This risk remained static in 2017 due to no reportable instances of fraud, bribery or corruption.
Risk appetite Low Cairn is committed to maintaining integrity and high ethical standards in all of the Groups business dealings.
The Group has no tolerance for conduct which may compromise its reputation for integrity.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Fines Business Code of Ethics and bribery The Group was awarded Demonstrate clear progress and corruption policies and procedures.
licences in new countries and achieve defined Criminal prosecution deemed high risk for milestones in relation to Due diligence process and questionnaire bribery and corruption.
HSSE CR objectives, split Reputational damage developed for assessing potential A compliance programme into four key categories third parties.
will be implemented for Business Relationships, each area of operation.
Society and Communities, Annual training programme for all People and the Environment.
employees, contractors and selected service providers.
Financial procedures in place to mitigate fraud.
Strategic objective Deliver a sustainable business Principal risk: Inability to secure or repatriate value from Indian assets Owner: Chief Financial Officer 2017 movement No change This risk remained static in 2017 due to the continued restriction on the Groups assets in India.
Risk appetite Medium The Group faces an uncertain macroeconomic and regulatory environment in some countries of operation.
The Group is willing to invest in countries where political and or fiscal risks may occur provided such risks can be adequately managed to minimise the impact where possible.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Loss of value International arbitrational panel in place.
Restriction on monetising Success in the action under assets in India remains U F Timetable for final hearing has been in place.
arbitration and progress agreed by Cairn, India and the tribunal.
achieved in recovery of Successfully defended any amounts awarded Continued engagement with the Indian Governments by the tribunal.
motions to stay and or bifurcate the case.
Committed work programme is fully funded from existing sources of funding, principally Group cash and committed the dividends owed to Cairn debt facilities.
which have been seized by the Indian Government.
Final hearing dates have been postponed to August 2018.
{X e  e 46 Principal risk: Political and fiscal uncertainties Owner: Chief Financial Officer 2017 movement No change This risk remained static in 2017.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Loss of value Operate to the highest industry Cairn continues to source Develop and implement a standards with regulators and monitor new opportunities globally funding strategy that ensures Uncertain financial compliance with the Groups licence, and this can be in jurisdictions that an executable funding outcomes Production Sharing Contract and deemed at higher risk of plan is developed and that a taxation requirements.
minimum headroom cushion from existing sources of External specialist advice consulted The Group acquired new funding is maintained.
on legal and tax issues as required.
licences in Ireland and Mexico in 2017.
The Group Maintain positive relationships with will strive for full compliance governments and key stakeholders.
with licence, Production Sharing Contract and taxation Ongoing monitoring of the political requirements across all assets.
and regulatory environments in which we operate.
Principal risk: Access to debt markets Owner: Chief Financial Officer 2017 movement No change This risk remained static in 2017.
Risk appetite Low The Group seeks to develop and implement a funding strategy that allows a value generative plan to be executed and ensures a minimum headroom cushion from existing sources of funding is maintained.
Impact Mitigation 2017 changes 2018 KPI objectives Work programme Committed work programme is fully Debt available under the Develop and implement restricted by reduced funded from existing sources of finance, Groups RBL facility remains a funding strategy that capital availability principally existing cash balances, at a level consistent with the ensures that an executable operating cash-flows and debt funding.
end of 2016. funding plan is developed Loss of value and that a minimum Disciplined allocation of capital Both the Senegal and headroom cushion from across portfolio.
Nova developments will be existing sources of funding partially funded through new is maintained.
Continue to assess other forms or expanded debt facilities.
of financing and pursue release of Indian assets.
The Group has entered a hedging programme for Catcher and Kraken crude.
A number of financial institutions and investors have recently made policy decisions to exit oil and gas sector investment.
To date, this has not affected Cairn but if this trend accelerates there could be a future impact.
