Annual Report & Accounts 2017 44 Hochschild Mining plc Risk management & viability Managing risk on behalf of the Board The system of risk management is embedded in the business to protect the Groups resources and to facilitate the achievement of our strategic objectives.
Identify Measure Manage Monitor Report As with all businesses, management of the The Risk Committee is responsible for 2017 Risks Groups operations and execution of its growth implementing the Groups policy on risk The key business risks affecting the Group set strategies are subject to a number of risks, the management and monitoring the effectiveness out in this report remain largely unchanged occurrence of which could adversely affect the of controls in support of the Groups business compared to those disclosed in the 2016 Risk performance of the Group.
It meets four times a year and more Management report with the exception that: management framework is premised on the frequently if required.
The Risk Committee in light of events during the year, the discussion continued monitoring of the prevailing comprises the CEO, the Vice Presidents and the on Health & Safety risks also considers the environment, the risks posed by it, and the head of the Internal Audit function.
A live risk specific risks associated with the transporting evaluation of potential actions to mitigate matrix is reviewed which maps the significant and handling of hazardous materials by both those risks.
risks faced by the business and updated at each employees and contractors: and Risk Committee meeting, and the most significant risks as well as potential actions to management identified risks associated with Change in risk profile vs 2016: mitigate those risks are reported to the Groups the failure of critical processes supported by Audit Committee, which has oversight of risk information systems during the course of the Unchanged management on behalf of the Board.
year and has therefore been identified as a new risk.
The commentary also treats the subject Higher of cybersecurity risk.
Lower Reasons for the year-on-year change in the profile of a specific risk can be found in the commentary section of the relevant risk which also provides an outlook on the risk for the current financial year.
Risk heat map Risks To assist the reader in assessing the relative 1.
Commodity price significance of each risk discussed in this section, 2.
Operational performance the heat map below indicates the Boards 3. Business interruption assessment of the likelihood of the unmitigated 4.
Information security risk occurring as well as the extent of the impact and cybersecurity on the Group.
Explor ation and resources replacement 6.
Community relations Low Probability High Low Impact High Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 45 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Financial risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Adverse movements in Constant focus on maintaining a The focus on conserving capital and optimising cash flow continued in 2017 1.
Commodity precious metal prices could low all-in sustaining cost of through: price materially impact the Group production and an efficient level controlling operating and administrative costs: in various ways beyond a of administrative expense optimising sustaining capital expenditure: reduction in the financial Flexible hedging policy that debt reduction and refinancing: and results of operations.
These allows the Company to contract include impacts on the maintaining low working capital hedges to mitigate the effect of feasibility of projects, the price movements taking into In relation to debt reduction and the refinancing of debt, the Company economics of mineral account the Groups asset mix announced in 2017 the early redemption of its bonds, which was resources and heightened and forecast production subsequently completed in early 2018.
By doing so, debt has been reduced personnel retention and by approximately $95 million and the balance replaced with shorter-term sustainability related risks.
Policy to maintain low levels of debt on significantly better terms, saving the Group approximately $7m in leverage to ensure flexibility interest expenses in 2018 and approximately $20m per year thereafter.
through price cycles As reported earlier in this report, the Inmaculada mine had a record year in 2017 See the Market Review on pages 10 in terms of production but also as the lowest cost operation in the Groups to 11 for further details portfolio.
It has been key in reducing overall average production costs.
Even though currently no part of 2018 production has been hedged, the Groups flexible policy enables the Board to approve hedging contracts to protect cash flow as and when appropriate Operational risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Failure to meet production Close monitoring of operational In 2017 the Group exceeded its production target by 1m attributable silver 2.
Operational targets and manage the cost performance, costs and capital equivalent ounces with particularly strong performances at Inmaculada, performance base could adversely impact expenditure as well as the overall Pallancata and San Jose.
profitability at all stages of the 2017 budgets across the Group continued to focus on maintaining controlled mining value chain levels of administrative expenses and sustaining capital expenditure.
As Management closely monitors reported in the Financial review, the all-in sustaining cost from operations was the wide range of risks that could kept within guidance issued at the beginning of the year at $12.3 per silver affect operational performance equivalent ounce.
to, among other things, ensure Management has been closely monitoring performance of the high cost Arcata the adequacy and safety of key mine to ensure that production is optimised while at the same time maintaining mining components such as the assets optionality with regards to prices, exploration results and cost tailing dams, waste rock deposits, efficiencies.
pipelines to service ongoing operations.
Close liaison between relevant departments ensures that procurement, construction and any permitting are undertaken as appropriate Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Assets used in the Groups Insurance coverage to protect Mitigating actions during the year include the following: 3. Business operations may break down against major risks Insurance advisers conducted site visits and completed a full review of interruption and cause stoppages with Management reporting systems operational risks to ensure that adequate property damage and business material effects in to support appropriate levels of interruption risk management processes and insurance policies are in particular, at Inmaculada.
inventory place at our operations Annual inspections by insurance Management reporting systems ensured that an appropriate level of brokers and insurers assist inventory of critical parts is maintained managements efforts to Adequate preventative maintenance programmes, supported by the SAP understand and mitigate Maintenance Module, are in place at the operating units operational risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Failure of any of the Groups Currently compliant with During the year management identified vulnerabilities in certain automated 4.
Information business critical information ISO27001, an internationally processes.
This prompted a wide-ranging review of the procedures security and systems, whether as a result recognised certification to deployed in the testing of system updates which also incorporated of design maintenance or evaluate information security mitigating steps to counter the risk from external unauthorised access.
cybersecurity unauthorised access by third management systems This review included: parties, may affect the Dedicated team within the Groups ability to operate.
the engagement of external and internal Auditors to identify ITdepartment focused on improvements to the Groups procedures: preventing cyber-attacks additional manual controls introduced to supplement automated processes: Audits performed by the internal audit department and third in addition, the Audit Committee has set objectives for 2018 to: parties to test systems and issue further explore information vulnerabilities, benchmarking of our recommendations protection systems and recommend mitigation procedures: and improve the Groups protocols in case of a crisis.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 46 Hochschild Mining plc Risk management & viability continued Operational risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary The Groups future Implementing and maintaining an The progress of the 2017 brownfield exploration programme in Peru was 5.
Exploration operating margins and annual exploration drilling plan subjected to delays due to extended timelines in obtaining the requisite and reserve profitability depend upon its governmental permits.
Ongoing evaluation of ability to find mineral acquisition and joint venture and resource As a direct result, a Permitting Committee was established during the year resources and to replenish opportunities to acquire comprising personnel from the Legal, Environmental and Community replacement reserves.
additional ounces Relations teams as well as members of senior management to plan and High-end technology execute a co-ordinated effort to address the administrative delays.
implemented to improve the All permits required for the 2018 brownfield exploration programme at our estimate of mineral resources operating units have been secured.
Following the drilling campaign in the vicinity of the Inmaculada mine, significant potential was discovered at the Millet vein system.
For further details, refer to page 29.
Greenfield exploration and the appraisal of acquisition joint venture opportunities restarted in 2017 in light of the Groups improved financial position.
These have resulted in: the Group securing geographically diverse greenfield optionality: and arrangements to partner with other mining companies to bolster exploration efforts at projects considered to have geological potential.
Reserves stated in this Engagement of independent The Group has engaged P&E Consultants to undertake the annual audit of Annual Report are estimates.
experts to undertake annual mineral reserve and resource estimates.
audit of mineral reserve and See page 153 for further details resource estimates Adherence to the JORC code and guidelines therein Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Inability to attract or retain The Groups approach to Due to increased investment in the sector, turnover in 2017 was slightly 6.
Personnel: personnel through a recruitment and retention higher than in previous years but not to a material extent.
recruitment shortage of skilled personnel.
provides for the payment of The Group has continued with its initiatives to improve the retention of competitive compensation and retention employees.
These include the use of non-financial benefits e. g. flexible packages, well defined career working arrangements for Head Office staff and tailored personal plans and training and development plans.
In addition, a programme of new initiatives in the development opportunities employee value proposition are also scheduled for implementation.
These include the launching of initiatives related to causes that are valued by potential employees: providing them with the opportunity to contribute to innovation, community relations and environmental performance.
Retention plans for senior executives in the form of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan and Restricted Share Plan are also in place.
Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Failure to maintain good Development of a tailored labour Given the level of investment at the Inmaculada mine, the Groups Peruvian 7.
Personnel: labour relations with workers relations strategy focusing on operation does not generate taxable income and therefore there is no labour and or unions may result in profit sharing, working entitlement to statutory profit sharing for Peruvian mineworkers.
The work slowdown, stoppage or conditions, management style, Company has, however, implemented an additional bonus to compensate for relations strike.
motivation and communication As part of the salary increases agreed with the Peruvian labour unions, a new Monthly meetings with bonus framework was put in place to promote safety and productivity.
mineworkers and unions to The uncertainty with regards to the ongoing viability of the Arcata mine has ensure a complete adversely impacted morale among workers at the operation.
During 2017, understanding of expectations regular meetings were therefore scheduled and held with union and to keep all parties updated representatives to understand concerns which continue into the current year.
on the Groups financial performance Early in 2018, approximately 165 workers were made redundant from the Arcata operation following consultation with workers and the labour union.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 47 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Macro-economic risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Changes in the legal, tax and Local specialist personnel Despite a pro-business administration in Peru, significant delays were 8.
Political, regulatory landscape could continually monitor and react, as encountered during 2017 in the securing of permits to facilitate exploration legal and result in significant additional necessary, to policy changes activity.
These were primarily the result of increased bureaucracy introduced expense, restrictions on or by the previous Administration.
Simplification measures were adopted by Active dialogue with regulatory suspensions of operations the Government towards the end of 2017 and the permitting process governmental authorities and may lead to delays in the timelines are expected to reduce over time.
Participation in local industry development of current organisations At the legislative level, the Peruvian Congress, which comprises a majority operations and projects.
from the non-governing parties, continues to implement populist measures that could adversely affect the mining industry.
Such measures include new laws on the protected nature of headwaters which may oblige mining companies with operations in the Andes to relocate.
The Peruvian Governments implementation of certain treaty obligations, including the framework for the prior consultation law has been challenged and which, may, lead to a review of the validity of mining concessions.
In terms of social conflicts, the governmental authorities remain sensitive to conflicts between communities and mining companies and are reluctant to intervene with decisiveness.
In Argentina, 2017 was marked by congressional elections where the ruling party did not secure a majority.
The Government has sought to promote investment through, most notably, a phased reduction in the corporate taxrate.
The ongoing inflationary environment which exceeds the rate of devaluation of the Argentinian Peso relative to the US dollar has led to an increase in costs for the Group as an exporter.
Sustainability risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Group employees working in Health & Safety operational Having recorded three consecutive years of compliance with our ongoing 9.
Health and the mines may be exposed policies and procedures reflect Zero Fatalities objective, the Group sadly reported four fatalities during 2017, safety to health and severe safety the Groups zero tolerance which resulted from two separate accidents, one at Inmaculada and one risks.
approach to accidents at Arcata.
Use of world-class DNV safety Failure to manage these risks An extensive programme, the HOC Culture Transformation Plan, is being management systems as well as may result in occupational implemented by management in response to these accidents in order to Duponts consultancy services illness, accidents, a work materially reinforce the Groups commitment to safety.
slowdown, stoppage or Dedicated personnel to ensure The Plan comprises the following pillars: strike and or may damage the safety of employees at the Leadership, with senior management involved in a full review of all high the reputation of the Group operations via stringent controls, risk activities and hence its ability to training and prevention operate.
programmes Communications, focusing on initiatives to motivate and incentivise safe working practices Rolling programme of training, communication campaigns and Training, with all personnel receiving five hours of on-site learning other initiatives promoting safe every week working practices Technical, with the migration to the latest version of risk information Use of reporting and management systems and a review of the Companys procedures management information For further details, please refer to the safety section of the Sustainability systems to monitor the Report on pages 38 and 39. incidence of accidents and enable preventative measures to Following an audit on the transportation and handling of hazardous be implemented materials, a plan of action to mitigate the risk of injury was put in place which involved: a review of procedures on the routes to be used to transport such substances: a review of contracts with transporters to ensure compliance with the Groups safety policy and to manage accident responses: and the installation of specialist brigades at the Peruvian operations to attend to accidents involving hazardous substances.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 48 Hochschild Mining plc Risk management & viability continued Sustainability risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary The Group may be liable The Group has a dedicated team Environmental permitting and agency oversight in Peru remained rigorous 10.
Environmental for losses arising from responsible for environmental during the year.
a In relation to environmental hazards management In 2017, the Group performed highly in its ECO score, which was developed those risks arising associated with the Groups The Group has adopted a in-house and which focuses on: from the Groups activities and production number of policies and compliance with discharge limits: environmental methods, ageing procedures to limit and monitor performance infrastructure, or may be minimising the number of environmental incidents such as spills: its environmental impact infrastructure: required to undertake minimising the number of findings from the regulator: and corrective actions or specific aspects of environmental management including water extensive remedial consumption and waste generation.
clean-up action or pay for governmental For further details, please refer to the environmental section of the remedial clean-up actions Sustainability report on page 43. or be subject to fines and b In relation to In addition, during the year, the Group: or penalties.
those risks arising launched an integrated waste management service in conjunction with from the increased specialist contractors: oversight of the focused on improving the water treatment plants at the Peruvian environmental operations: regulator: supported the business by securing the approval of permits such as with regards to the Pablo vein at Pallancata, new components and plant capacity increases across the Peruvian operations and for exploration atInmaculada Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Communities living in The Group has a dedicated team As previously reported, protests by a community close to the Pallancata 11.
Community the areas surrounding responsible for Community mine resulted in a blockade from November 2016 until mid-January 2017. relations Hochschilds operations Relations The blockade did not impact the mines targeted production as the may oppose the activities operations were at the time in the permitting process and transitioning to Constructive engagement with carried out by the Group the new Pablo vein.
Dialogue and new agreements between the Company local communities at existing mines or, with and community representatives resulted in the lifting of the blockade.
Community Relations strategy respect to development focuses on promoting education, The Group continues to actively engage with other local communities projects and prospects, health and nutrition, and to understand their needs and to implement action plans in order to may invoke their rights sustainable development anticipate and mitigate potential conflicts.
to be consulted under Allocation of budget and new laws.
The risk of additional stoppages or blockades will continue to be present personnel for the provision of if the working groups do not reach long-term agreements between the These actions may result community support activities parties involved.
loss of productions, Policy to actively recruit workers increased costs and Looking ahead to 2018: from local communities decreased revenues, longer the overall political and social climate may be adversely impacted by the lead times, additional costs regional elections in Peru in October: and for exploration and have an at Arcata, the declining production profile of the asset has led to adverse impact on the redundancies and lower economic activity in the area, which may also Groups ability to obtain result in social unrest.
Further details on the Groups activities to mitigate sustainability risks can be found in the Sustainability report on pages 38 to 43.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 49 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Viability In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, Risks that severely threaten forecast Conclusion the Directors have assessed the viability of the production levels.
The principal risks that could While it is always possible that combinations of Group taking into account the Groups current jeopardise production are those arising from weak precious metal prices and adverse position and the potential impact of the principal a geological risk that could result in the operational risks could threaten the solvency and risks which could threaten the business model, variability of our reserves and production liquidity of the Company over the next three future performance, solvency or liquidity of the volume and grades: b temporary stoppages years, the Directors have a reasonable Group.
resulting from the occurrence of a expectation that the Company will be able to sustainability-risk i. e. those associated with continue in operation and meet its liabilities as Period of Viability Statement health & safety, environmental and community they fall due over three years being the period of As per provision C2.2, the Directors have relations: c industrial unrest that could also their assessment.
temporarily affect an operations production reviewed the length of time to be covered by the The Strategic report, as set out from the inside schedule: and d delays in obtaining Viability Statement, particularly given its primary front cover to page 49, has been reviewed and operational permits.
purpose of providing investors with a view of approved by the Board of Directors and signed financial viability that goes beyond the period of Management pr epares operational and on its behalf by: the Going Concern statement.
financial forecasts based on a life-of-mine plan assuming only reserves and resources which It has been concluded that three years is the have an adequate degree of certainty.
For this appropriate time horizon in light of: Ignacio Bustamante reason, forecasts do not reflect the potential Chief Executive Officer i. the inherent uncertainty of longer-term of incremental resources added as a result of 20 February 2018 forecasting in a cyclical industry which, in the exploration activity which could be easily case of precious metals, is largely driven by converted to actual production given the global macro-economic factors: and availability of spare capacity at its plants.
This state of preparedness, together with the ii.
the large number of external variables mitigating actions described above, have been that need to be taken into account in designed to control the impact of production establishing any meaningful forecast risks or facilitate the swift recovery from the of the Groups business.
impact of those risks: and Approach to assessing viability Plausible future contingencies for example, In assessing the Groups viability, the Directors governmental regulatory action such as have considered the principal risks to which the environmental liabilities, controls against which Group is exposed as set out in the earlier part of are described in the table above.
This includes those where either the The viability statement analysis has also taken likelihood of the risk has increased, or the impact into account other mitigating actions available to of the risk has become more severe.
In particular, the Group upon the occurrence of one or more the Directors have considered forecasts which of the principal risks.
Such actions include: reflect the impact of: hedging the price at which sales contracts Depressed precious metal price scenarios.
This are settled: is a key input for stress-testing and involved the operational strategies to anticipate, minimise preparation of forecasts using i below spot and overcome production-related risks: $16 Au oz and $1,100 Ag oz: and ii spot the implementation of cost and capital prices of $17 Au oz and $1,300 Ag oz.
expenditure reduction programmes: Should pric es fall further than the lowest of these scenarios, the Board would oversee the working capital management: and implementation of contingency actions, such active debt financing management.
as the elimination of discretionary expenditure For examples of the mitigating actions taken by e. g. exploration expenditure, the reduction if the Board during the year under review, please not the elimination of dividend distributions refer to the commentary in the Risk Management and other initiatives to reduce costs across the section of this report.
business so as to maximise the production of profitable ounces.
