Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Managing our risks | 43 How we protect our business The management of the business and execution of our strategy are subject to a number of risks.
We have a system of analysis, assessment and mitigation planning in place to ensure that we maintain readiness for a range of eventualities.
Viability statement Our approach The Board has established a culture of The Directors have assessed the Advantage Insurance Company effective risk management through the prospects and viability of the Group Limited AICL remains well capitalised identification, measurement mitigation, over a period longer than 12 months, by maintaining a margin above its monitoring and reporting of risks in accordance with provision C2.2 of Solvency Capital Requirement.
The Board also the 2016 UK Corporate Governance sets risk appetite, reviews risks, both The Three Year Plan was then robustly Code.
The Directors assessment has existing and emerging, and considers tested by applying nine challenging been made with reference to the risk when reviewing the Groups strategy scenarios designed to threaten the Groups current financial position and and in meeting its objectives.
The period assessed of applied reflect the crystallisation of The Board has ultimate responsibility three years aligns with the Groups theprincipal risks identified, including: for the Groups risk management medium term strategic planning framework and delegates the oversight process the Three Year Plan which pricing and reserve risks that arise of this to the Risk Committee.
This the Directors review on an annual from insurance activities: Committee is a formal sub-Committee basis.
The Three Year Plan is based operational risk, including risk of of the Board with its own Terms on the Boards strategy, risk appetite cyber attack: ofReference.
and assessment of the principal risks commercial performance risk: as detailed on page 48, as well as how The principal purpose of the Risk liquidity, solvency and capital risk: these are managed.
Three years is Committee is to advise the Board on and considered appropriate for assessing risk management matters, recommend the viability of the Group as it strikes a combination of these risks the Group framework of risk limits and a good balance between the need to crystalising concurrently.
risk appetite to the Board for approval forecast over a longer period, whilst These were assessed independently and oversee the risk management recognising the pace of change within at the Retail and Underwriting arrangements of the Company and the industry, uncertainty surrounding businesses before determining the the Group generally.
The Committee insurance market pricing cycles and impact at the consolidated Group ensures that the material risks facing the risks and opportunities that level.
The minimum requirements for the Group have been identified and mayemerge.
the Group to be considered viable that appropriate arrangements are in The Three Year Plan is constructed were to maintain throughout each place to manage, mitigate, monitor and based on the commercial activities of modelled period, positive free cash, report those risks effectively and also the Groups Retail and Underwriting continued compliance with the Facility ensures that the responsibility for doing businesses.
This includes a detailed Agreements two financial covenants so in each of the regulated subsidiaries analysis of income and expenditure and a surplus over the Solvency II has been effectively delegated to the and the resulting cash generated, minimum capital requirements in AICL.
supported by explanations of material In certain of the most severe Each regulated subsidiary has its own year on year movements, over the scenarios, achievable, short term term of the Three Year Plan.
There risk management committee structure mitigating actions within the control that ensure all risks, however they are regular briefings to the Board and of the Company and its subsidiaries senior management, which include are categorised, are reported to and were required.
After the application of reviewed by the appropriate committee.
the progress of new strategies being these, the Group maintained positive implemented and how these are Business operational areas maintain free cash as well as headroom over risk registers and through the oversight incorporated into the plan.
the financial covenants and Solvency II functions report risk details and The Three Year Plan assumes there capital requirements throughout each mitigation measures together with other will be no change to the continued of the modelled scenarios.
On this relevant management information for availability of the Groups borrowing basis, the Directors confirm that they the committees and ultimately Board facilities, which run to April 2021, have a reasonable expectation that consideration.
Risk management data that dividends continue to be the Group will continue to operate from the subsidiaries is consolidated paid in accordance with the target and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the Group Committees and Board pay-out ratio, that a consistent for the next three years.
reserving policy is applied, and that Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 44 | Managing our risks How we protect our business continued The Group has established various Emerging Risks, by their very nature Governance strategy and control functions within the business to could be Strategic or at a Business The Groups governance structure, ensureeffective oversight and level, and when identified are combined with embedded controls, compliance, in accordance with the recorded, assessed and mitigated processes and appetite statements, three lines of defence model that is within the requirements of the Risk enables the executive and senior implemented across the Group and ManagementFramework.
management to conduct the affairs of itstrading entities.
the regulated subsidiaries in line with A uniform approach of the Risk Board expectations.
This ensures that Risk management framework Management Frameworks assists the regulated subsidiaries adhere to in the direct link between risks in A risk management framework is approved strategies and regulatory the trading entities and the Group.
used at Group level and within the requirements, continually monitor The standardised risk management regulated subsidiaries to ensure outcomes, and proactively identify risk methodology used is Identification, there is a consistent approach to risk and opportunities as well as initiating Measurement Management, Monitoring management across the Group.
This process results in can be categorised in different ways, and timely reporting to the Board and a cohesive and integrated approach, for example, Strategic, Business and its Committees is undertaken on a leverages the Risk Committees at Emerging, but however categorised all regular basis.
subsidiary level and provides effective functions within the company have their and consistent assessment of the Strategy is implemented by suitably responsibilities in managing risks.
experienced and competent people in Broadly, Strategic Risk is reviewed and the regulated subsidiaries, incentivised Internal control framework challenged by the Board Risk Committee appropriately and guided by strong and those of the Groups regulated The Group has an internal control corporate culture and values across subsidiaries.
These Committees receive framework based on a three lines of the Group.
The ability to identify and timely, up to date reports on the defence approach.
The three lines are respond quickly to evolving or emerging material movement of risk, from the comprised of: risks and issues is supported by a oversight functions, whether influenced dynamic environment that encourages First Line: Business Operations: by external or internal monitoring and independent and objective challenge, has ownership, responsibility and audits or events, or by any material focused on escalation and resolution.
accountability for day to day risk shift in Business Risk that is linked to Timely management information identification, assessment and the successful delivery of the Three is generated to enable appropriate management activity: YearPlan.
monitoring, reporting, oversight and decision making based on sound directly owns and operates risk Business Risk is overseen by Risk proposals and judgement.
mitigating policies and controls and Committees at an operational level that remedial actions: comprise of Executive Directors and The controls in place need to support senior management.
Departmental ensures compliance with all regulatory the operations of the Company in the risk profiles risks, controls, key risk obligations and internal policies: and management and mitigation of risk and indicators and internal or external are suitable and effective.
These must provides management assurance events are held centrally and regularly remain appropriate and proportionate by monitoring and reporting risk, provided to the risk management to the size, nature and complexity of the control and compliance matters for function for independent review Company and are therefore regularly governance oversight.
reviewed by the executive management, the Group Board and its trading entities.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 45 Second Line: Oversight Functions: All three lines of defence have specific Risk identification & assessment tasks within the internal control establishes boundaries by proposing Monitoring and quality control framework and report via the Audit Group policies and frameworks for procedures are embedded in front or Risk Committee and ultimately the Board approval, and standards to line operations with clearly prescribed Board.
The role of these Committees align Group wide practices to breach reporting and escalation is to monitor and provide opinions and defined strategy: processes in place.
Second line recommendations on the effectiveness oversight is provided by independent facilitates guidance and direction on of the Companys internal controls and and appropriately resourced Risk, effective risk, control and compliance management of risk.
Third line management practices to satisfy oversight is conducted by an internal Group policies and standards as well During the year there have been a audit function, managed and resourced as regulatory requirements: and number of enhancements to the way via a third party relationship with Grant the Group manages its risks.
The most applies Group wide best practice Thornton UK LLP.
The effectiveness material has been in the strengthening providing oversight, challenge, of the Groups control functions is and reorganisation of the Second Line monitoring and assurance reporting overseen by the respective Board of function.
The recruitment of additional directly to Board Committees.
Directors and Committees of the Group.
technical expertise, is positioning the This is supplemented by external audit, Third Line: Independent Assurance: function to be able to provide the provided by KPMG LLP.
offers independent challenge and necessary oversight and challenge assurance by auditors, both internal across the entire planning cycle.
The risk management process can be and external, and external actuaries: illustrated as follows: provides independent challenge, objective assurance and consulting activities designed to add value and improve the Groups operations: and Risk identification & assessment bring a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management control and governance processes.
Identity Report Measure Our process Monitor Manage Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 46 | Managing our risks How we protect our business continued Risk management framework Internal audit Fraud There is a documented Risk The remit of the internal audit function The Group has a market leading Management Framework in use is covered in the Audit Committee counter-fraud capability, which to throughout the Group and its trading report on page 71. date has generated significant cost entities, detailing the approach to savings and which supports demand Compliance risk management, providing support, for participation by its insurer panel advice and communicating the risk The Compliance functions within the and reinsurance partners.
This framework trading entities provide regulatory risk counter-fraud operations team, is approved by the Board upon oversight, and monitor compliance Insight, operates as an integrated, recommendation of the respective Risk with the various regulatory and legal comprehensive risk selection and loss Committees.
It provides a disciplined obligations of the Group, specifically validation division.
Insight includes and structured process to reduce the those of the FCA in the UK and the a dedicated team that includes new potential for internal or external events GFSC in Gibraltar.
This monitoring business review agents, analysts, that may detrimentally affect the Group together with regular interaction with intelligence operatives, claims handlers, through proactive risk identification, the business functions, helps to provide former police officers and field based measurement, management, monitoring input into such areas as training, investigators.
The Retail business was and reporting.
Through a set of marketing and the way the regulated a founding member of the Insurance continuous and developing processes firms deal with customers, as part of the Fraud Bureaus Application Fraud applied throughout the Group, the continuous improvement approach to Steering Committee and has a very functions making up the three lines of regulatory obligations.
strong relationship with the Insurance defence ensure all known and emerging Fraud Enforcement Department.
The Group continues to ensure its risks are managed and mitigated in line Compliance oversight function remains A number of sophisticated identification with the appropriate risk appetites.
effective in monitoring and reporting and validation methodologies and The Risk Management Framework as to whether regulatory adherence databases are employed to help prevent includes documented risk and control and customer conduct obligations are potentially fraudulent activity at various frameworks for the regulated entities, as being met, by reviewing appropriate points in the application, sale and well as risk registers that contain details management information such a claims process: of risks, controls, key risk indicators, breach and complaint statistics.
The at the point of quotation, risk scoring actions related to risk mitigation and Compliance function provides advisory and referencing tools including data ownership of each risk.
The frameworks guidance to the business including enrichment are used to identify are continuously developed to include training and updates on regulatory and reduce exposure to potentially Strategic, Business and Emerging risks.
developments, as well as providing fraudulent applications: second line monitoring of operations.
Stress and reverse stress testing at the point of sale, risk scoring is and scenario analysis are regularly again undertaken to identify any undertaken and reviewed by the quotation irregularities which are respective Committees, including the potentially quote manipulation testing that has been carried out to frauds: support the Viability Statement on page 43.
Financial performance, financial during the claims process, relational position and cash flows have been databases, external referencing and stress tested using the principal financial investigations are used to identify and operational risks listed on page 48, potentially fraudulent claims: including reductions in premium and the strength of the Insight team has other income, retention rates and new been recognised in the industry and it business volumes, deterioration in loss has been the recipient of a number of ratio and possible failure of a reinsurer.
Focus has been applied to ensure compliance with Solvency II and other external requirements.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 47 Day to day responsibility for Policies and procedures Brexit risk implementing policies and procedures To ensure stakeholders are treated The view of the implications of Brexit is the remit of senior management, with fairly and compliance with legislation, remains unchanged since the last the support of the oversight functions, regulation and best practice is annual report having been assessed who ensure operational decisions maintained, guidance and direction as having a low impact on the Group.
take into account risk, against risk is provided to all colleagues through The UK leaving the EU is not likely to appetite, and how this can be policies and procedures, supported by impact the need for UK motorists and controlled effectively.
the Risk and Control Frameworks and households to obtain insurance and is supporting processes.
therefore unlikely to significantly affect To be better placed to demonstrate and demand for the Groups products.
evidence compliance with the Solvency Policies that are critical to the Groups Volatility in the financial markets, II regime, the systems of governance, overall control and governance which may be more likely considering internal controls and risk and compliance structures are reserved for formal the progress made to date in negotiating policies in the Underwriting subsidiary Board review and approval.
These the Brexit terms, could impact on the have been further enhanced during policies typically cover legal and fair value of the Groups investments, theyear.
regulatory requirements or culture and but is mitigated by the conservative values.
They also help to communicate investment portfolios demonstrated Risk assessment and embed Board approved risk by the portfolios resilience post The Board undertakes a regular appetite.
To ensure that a consistent referendum and through this first assessment of the principal risks approach to governance is maintained year of negotiations.
facing the Group, following reports throughout the Group, a number of from the oversight functions, including policies are approved by the Groups No immediate or short term regulatory those that would threaten its business Board and are adopted in full by the change is anticipated in Gibraltar or the model, future performance, solvency or trading subsidiaries.
Board approved UK as a result of the UK leaving the EU liquidity.
policies are reviewed and approved at and the Board therefore believes that least once a year.
the UK leaving the EU is not expected The Group considers its current key to significantly impact on the Groups risk categories, any of which could The three lines of defence model operations or results.
potentially give rise to significant ensures that the standards and reputational risk, to be as follows: appetites, as defined by these policies, function as intended and provide 1. commercial performance risk: expected outcomes.
Under the three includes reinsurance risk, market lines of defence model, independent risk, pricing risk and reserving assurance testing and evidence risk : The risk of loss resulting from gathering on aspects of how the failure to meet the Groups strategic business is managed is undertaken by objectives and deliver the Three the Group internal auditor who reports YearPlan.
to the Board via the Audit Committee.
2. financial risk: The risk of loss resulting from an inability to meet financial commitments as they fall due or from an immediate need to strengthen the capital position.
3. operational risk: The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed policies or controls, people, systems and external events.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 48 | Managing our risks How we protect our business continued Current key risk categories Risks Key monitors Commercial performance risk Regular internal and external reserve reviews reported to the Board of Underwriting and external actuaries who reports to Underwritings Inability to manage reserving and pricing risk Reserving Committee, combined with monthly results reports submitted Underwriting tothe Board ofUnderwriting.
Market risk Constant assessment of market conditions and the implications for assets Reinsurance risks Underwriting under management.
Changes to the way that consumers purchase general Regular reviews of reinsurance arrangements and the stability of external insurance products less use of PCW Retail partners who provide reinsurance programmes.
Adverse impact of legal, tax or regulatory change Assessing consumer preferences, and in particular the use of PCW for the purchase of general insurance products against our planning assumptions.
Ongoing monitoring of changes within the legal and regulatory landscapes together with the maintenance of open and transparent communication with the relevant authorities.
Financial risk Monitoring of cash flow from trading entities and the free cash position ofthe Group.
Insufficient capital to service debt arrangements Group Management of own funds in accordance with Solvency II and Board Insufficient capital to meet Solvency II requirements reviews in Underwriting.
Underwriting Monitoring and measurement of risk and capital implications through Insufficient capital to meet regulatory requirements stress, reverse stress and scenario testing, as captured in Underwritings Retail Own Risk and Solvency Assessment.
Annual stress testing and management of finances against the Groups Three Year Plan.
Operational risk Regular reviews of resilience risks, contingent back up capability, systemstability and supplier continuity plans.
Business interruption events as a result of systems, property or supplier failure Underwriting and Retail Real time resource monitoring and long term planning to achieve growth objectives and ability to continue to deliver a straightforward claims and Insufficient resources to meet the volume demand and service experience.
deliver required technical and professional services Ongoing supplier relationship and performance management, with regular Reliance on third party suppliers to provide customer due diligence reviews.
facing services, and technology capability Constant IT infrastructure monitoring, data assessment and Information security breaches or cyber crime perimetertesting.
Increased exposure to claims fraud leading to increase Increased investment in information security cyber crime defences claims related expenditure and controls.
Dedicated team which deploys effective and anti-fraud techniques.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 49 External factors affecting the Groups risk profile Factor Impact Mitigation and movement in the year Economic stress Adverse economic conditions could The Group and trading entity Boards regularly review the increase the risk to the strategic plans investment portfolios managed in the respective trading Failure to deliver the and or reduce the Groups income entities against the economic outlook and the Groups Groups strategy due to from investments.
Whilst the car insurance industry has The strategy is to continue to grow the home product whilst been relatively unaffected by economic keeping a watchful eye on the economy and the longer term downturns, as the Group diversifies impacts for the Groups product strategy.
intohome products, more of its product The economic horizon has been monitored and assessed could be subject to the negative effects against the strategic plan.
Regulatory A shift in the regulatory landscape The Group has an effective regulatory horizon scanning could introduce constraints therefore capability to review the potential implications for the changes increasing the risk to income Group and more importantly its regulated subsidiaries.
Changes to the regulatory from general insurance and or an In addition the trading entities continue to foster good environment which inhibit increase incapital requirements.
working relationships with their respective regulators, and income generation in the Equally, however, changes to the other local authorities, and take the opportunity to embrace general insurance industry regulatory landscape could present change early and, where appropriate, adjust the strategic orcapital requirements.
opportunities for increased income plans to accommodate that change.
Retail is often engaged in andreducedcapital.
consultations with the FCA, providing its views on regulatory reform which gives the Group early insight and opportunity The Group strategy is based on to contribute towards the shape of future regulation.
Underwriting has worked closely with the Gibraltar FSC since Any negative shift in the rules and the implementation of Solvency II.
regulations that apply to general insurance could increase the risk The Group continues to develop its governance, risk and control tocommercial plans of the Group.
in Underwriting as it further embeds Solvency II.
Within Retail and Underwriting, Risk and Compliance teams have been further enhanced with additional resource and capability to strengthen the second line ofdefence.
Climate change The Groups ability to meet its Underwriting adopts a prudent approach to the risk accepted strategicplan, a key risk, could be and the pricing strategies used continue to reduce this risk.
In Potential for increased damaged in the event of increased addition the industry wide implications of increased claims as frequency and severity claims frequency and or severity.
a result of climate change would probably result in premium of claims due to climate inflation across the market.
changethat reduces the commercial performance The exposure to this risk has increased over the year as oftheGroup.
the Groups Home portfolio continues to grow however, maintaining the conservative underwriting approach continues to ensure that the Group protects its revenue generation whilst minimising the cost implications for claims.
Vehicle Technology Accelerated advances or developments The Group constantly monitors developments to ensure that it andInnovation for which the Group is not prepared remains informed, embraces innovation and change, and is well could place the Group at a competitive positioned to adapt its business model as appropriate.
technology, such as electric and autonomous vehicles, which may fundamentally change the nature of motor insurance.
Adverse market Increased risk that the Groups market The Group constantly monitors the markets in which it competes conditions share is impaired resulting in for pricing and other changes that could impact its commercial .
This monitoring and the ability to rapidly adjust pricing Increased competition strategies ensure the Group remains competitive by managing in the insurance market both income generation and policy volumes with agility.
and changes in consumer behaviour impact profitability.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 50 | Managing our risks How we protect our business continued Internal risks Factor Impact Mitigation and movement in the year Commercial failure The Group either incurs additional The Group, through its governance, Risk and Compliance expenses or is unable to generate functions, coupled with targeted Internal Audit in the respective Commercial performance sufficient income.
trading entities, assesses the effectiveness of critical processes does not meet Group and procedures on a regular basis.
These are assessed alongside expectations or the the risk appetite at both Group and trading entity level through ThreeYear Plan.
the management reporting that is provided at Risk Committees and Boards.
This provides assurance to the Board that risks to commercial performance and the successful delivery of the ThreeYear Plan are adequately and effectively mitigated.
Underwriting and pricing agility enables the Group to react to external influences, ensuring that it is able to optimise commercial performance.
Embedding and realising efficiencies and benefits from new technology introduced processes for claims handling and policy administration.
This will also continue to enhance and simplify the customer experience and drive more positiveoutcomes.
Cyber exposure A major cyber event could lead to the The Group continues to invest in resources and technology, Group not being able to access external inboththe first and second lines, to ensure that it continues The Group maintains data critical to the operation of a modern toprotect itself from the various and changing cyber threats.
a digital centric business insurance company and or sales due The residual risk is within the Groups appetite and is to the model that is increasingly to a lack of trust in the Groups ability level expected of a Group such as Hastings.
exposed to business toprotect customer data.
Third party failure A supplier, delivering a key service, The Group has policies and procedures in place to manageand fails leading to the Group not being monitor the procurement process and contract management The Group relies on able to continue to operate and in the trading entities which are categorised according to their a large number of deliveritsstrategic objectives.
The Group monitors the key risks in each trading external suppliers.
entity and the processes in place to ensure that the risk is withinappetite.
The Group has a clear view of the risks associated with suppliers, through the interaction that the respective trading entity Boards have with executive and senior leaders.
Efforts continue to introduce additional controls and monitoring as well as develop the internal capabilities to drive good commercial value from supplier arrangements and minimiserisk.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017
