Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Principal risks and uncertainties We operate in a complex Global light vehicle production volumes global environment where Description risks offer both opportunities TI Fluid Systems has 118 manufacturing locations in 28 countries on five continents and a substantial amount and challenges.
of its revenue is closely linked to the economic cycle and the general macroeconomic environment.
Impact Historically, there has been close correlation between Effective risk management economic growth and the global light vehicle production volumes.
The highfixed costs nature of the business, is critical to the achievement operating across manufacturing facilities in 118 locations, means that a reduction in revenue will have a significant of our strategic objectives.
Controls and mitigation TI Fluid Systems presence in 28 countries supplying Principal risks and uncertainties a wide range of customers acts as a hedge to neutralise The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk localised economic volatility.
The Audit & Risk Committee The Group has an extensive manufacturing presence in supports the Board by advising on the Groups overall risk emerging and other lowcost markets which currently have appetite, tolerance and strategy, current risk exposures and relatively low rates of light vehicle penetration per head of future risk strategy.
Further information on the Groups approach population and are believed to have strong growth potential.
to risk management is set out on page 43.
Although the Groups products are primarily for light vehicles, it operates across both a broad geographic footprint and a A review of the Groups risk management framework used to diversified range of vehicle platforms, brands and models.
collate, report and manage business critical risks was presented A proportion of the Groups workforce in a number to the Audit & Risk Committee in March 2018.
The Board has of local markets are employed on temporary contracts, concluded that a robust assessment of the Groups principal which provides some flexibility in the costbase.
The Group monitors closely and responds to any changes in customer demand on a local or groupwide basis.
TI Fluid Systems global operations are exposed to a number of risks which could, either on their own, or in combination with others, have an adverse impact on the Groups results, strategy, business performance and reputation which, in turn, could impact upon shareholder returns.
The following section highlights the major risks that may affect the Groups ability to deliver the strategy, as set out on page 18 to 19.
The mitigating activities described below will help to reduce the impact or Product quality likelihood of the major risk occurring, although the Board recognises it will not be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
The Board recognises there could be risks that may be unknown or that may be judged to be insignificant at present, but may later Description prove to be significant.
TI Fluid Systems business is based on the repeatable supply and delivery of components and parts to an agreed specification and time.
Impact Failure to meet customer requirements or specifications can cause longterm damage to the Groups reputation and have financial consequences, such as the loss of a customer, warranty claims and product liability.
Controls and mitigation TI Fluid Systems operates rigorous quality control systems designed to ensure a highquality standard for all products.
The Group collaborates with key customers to evaluate and improve quality control standards and to confirm the compliance of its manufacturing processes with customers quality standards.
Quality systems and processes operated at local manufacturing level are subject to oversight by divisional quality teams.
Where necessary, the Groups manufacturing facilities maintain relevant industry accreditations, such as TS 16949.
For more information about our strategy go to page 18 TI Fluid Systems plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Business continuity Competition and customer pricing pressure Description Description TI Fluid Systems business is based upon achieving assurance This risk encompasses a number of identified global trends in quality and reliability across all our locations and their in the markets in which TI Fluid Systems operates.
Business continuity encompasses a number of areas operates in a dynamic competitive environment and faces of risk to the Group, including key supplier failure, sourcing of competition from other manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials, exposure to price fluctuations of key raw automotive components in each of the market segments materials, maintaining stable labour relations, and ensuring in which it operates.
The Group may be subject to pressure the reliability of the Groups management systems and IT from customers to reduce costs on current contracts.
In addition, the Group is exposed to risks from The environment for bidding and securing new contract accidents and incidents arising from health and safety failures.
awards from OEMs is competitive.
Impact Impact A loss of production capability at a facility, or quality failings in The Groups customers face constant pressure to lower their products, could affect reputation and accreditation, lead to an selling and production costs to be competitive against their inability to supply customers, reduce volumes and or increase peers and may require reductions in the selling price of the claims made against the business under warranties.
In periods Groups systems and components over the term of a vehicle of high demand or in the event of supplier difficulties, platform or model.
Commercial activity by competitors, availability of raw materials may be constrained which could or changes in their products or technologies, could impact result in rapid movements in price and have an impact on the upon the Groups market share and profitability.
profitability of the Groups operations.
In certain circumstances the loss of a supplier, or supplier quality failing, could lead to an Controls and mitigation inability to supply products in a timely or efficient manner or The Group seeks to offset pricing pressure by achieving risk impacting adversely on engineering quality.
improved operating efficiencies and cost reductions.
A growing trend by customers to standardise and globalise The loss of systems capability at a Group facility as a result vehicle platforms has the potential to minimise the Groups of IT failure, or other events such as strike action by employees, exposure to the cancellation of any single vehicle platform could affect the reputation and impact the Groups ability or model.
Injuries arising from health and safety TI Fluid Systems has a strong brand and industry leading incidents could result in lost time, reduce employee morale and technology which supports its Tier 1 supplier status with possible changes in working practices.
Serious incidents can its key customers.
also have a detrimental impact on the Groups reputation.
The Group engages in extensive and regular dialogue and has strong commercial and engineering relationships Controls and mitigation with key customers.
The Group operates a localised continuity planning strategy The Group uses market intelligence and competitor and its global network of facilities provides a degree of analysis to support its market activities and inform backup capacity.
The Group maintains a scheduled programme of maintenance Across the Group there is an emphasis on research and inspection of all equipment.
and development and improving the technical content The wide geographic spread of operations, purchasing of products.
and supply chain functions allows the Group to use a range of techniques to address potential supply disruption, such as longterm purchase contracts, dual sourcing and ongoing research and development into alternative materials and solutions.
In certain markets the Group uses preferred suppliers for major materials.
The Group maintains business interruption insurance.
The Group participates in a number of works councils and other represented employee forums and seeks to establish and maintain good relationships with its employees and unions.
The Groups cyber security programme and decentralised IT systems worldwide provide some resilience against the loss of production or systems capability to the Group as a whole.
The Group has an embedded health and safety culture and operates a global health and safety policy, with local health and safety operations in place in each manufacturing facility.
Health and safety performance is monitored regularly by each division and by the Group.
TI Fluid Systems plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Product development and changes in technology Operating globally Description Description The automotive industry is subject to changes in technology TI Fluid Systems has operations globally, with manufacturing and the Groups products are subject to changes in regulatory facilities in 28 countries across five continents.
The markets in requirements to reduce emissions and increase fuel economy.
which the Group operates are covered by a range of different Operating across numerous markets and territories requires regulatory systems and complex compliance requirements and compliance with a wide variety of regulations.
Changes in may also be subject to cycles, structural change and other external consumer demand, e. g. the popularity of a particular vehicle factors, such as changes in tariffs, customs arrangements and type, model, platform or technology such as HEVs and EVs other regulations.
In addition, operating across a number of may also impact on demand for the Groups products.
In territories exposes the Group to currency variations.
addition, the Groups products have performancecritical applications and have high levels of technical content Impact and knowhow.
A substantial downturn in one or more key markets could have a material adverse impact on the Groups profitability, cash flow Impact and carrying value of its assets.
Significant changes to the Failure to keep up with changes in technology in the light different regulatory systems and compliance requirements vehicle automotive industry or in competitive technologies in and between the countries and regions in which the Group may render certain existing products obsolete or less attractive operates may have a negative impact on the Groups operations as well as damaging the Groups market position and brand in a particular country or market.
The risks associated with strength.
Failure to comply with all relevant regulatory Brexit are not considered material to the Group.
High foreign requirements could affect the Groups reputation and or its exchange volatility may increase financing costs.
ability to operate in certain markets or territories.
Changing environmental regulations could affect demand for certain Controls and mitigation products.
The Groups technologies and intellectual property The Groups international footprint provides some protection rights need to be kept current through continuous improvement against a downturn in particular territories or regions.
and research and development and are susceptible to theft, The markets and any changes to the regulatory environment infringement, loss and or replication by competitors.
in which TI Fluid Systems operates are continually monitored and assessed.
Controls and mitigation Changes to the Groups investment strategy and crossborder The Group is engaged in continued investment in alternative relocation might result from a significant change in the engineering solutions and the development of more advanced regulatory environment in a particular country or region.
designs and innovative products to ensure compliance with The Groups treasury policy covers, inter alia, the use of changes to environmental regulations and customer demand.
currency contracts, investment hedging policy and regular TI Fluid Systems has an international network of five technical reporting of foreign exchange exposure.
centres which focus on research and development.
Focus throughout the Group on adherence to our Code The Group seeks to maintain close relationships and technical of Business Conduct COBC.
The Group has established seven regional application centres which focus on applications engineering worldwide.
Both Group and divisional management monitor and assess Key personnel dependencies relevant regulatory requirements and the likelihood and impact of any changes.
The Groups products, materials and processes are continually developed and enhanced through research and development Description and technical input.
The future success of TI Fluid Systems is dependent upon the TI Fluid Systems actively registers, manages and enforces continued services of key personnel.
Succession is a routine its intellectual property rights.
consideration given some of the Groups key global positions at all levels, including business unit, division and Group.
Impact TI Fluid Systems competes globally to attract and retain personnel in a number of key roles.
A lack of new talent, the inability to retain and develop existing talent, or replace retiring senior management could hinder the Groups operations and strategy.
A loss of key personnel, with associated intellectual property and know how, could disrupt our business and strategy.
In a number of local markets the Group may experience a shortage of skilled and experienced personnel for certain key roles.
Controls and mitigation The Group applies bespoke terms and conditions of employment for key personnel where appropriate.
The Group has in place incentive arrangements, including bonuses, pensions and longterm incentive plans.
The Group operates established recruitment and development programmes.
Succession plans have been developed for relevant key positions.
TI Fluid Systems plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
