Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 19 Risk Management strong risk culture Purpose Through our strong risk culture, We use risk management to make better informed business decisions that generate value for shareholders while delivering we are confident of making appropriate outcomes for our customers and providing confidence to other stakeholders.
Our risk management processes are designed better decisions to achieve to ensure that our understanding of risk underpins how we run business success thebusiness.
Risk framework Our risk management framework is developed in line with our risk environment and best practice.
The framework, owned by the GroupBoard, covers all aspects of risk management, including risk governance, reporting and policies.
Our appetite for different types of risk is embedded across the business to create a culture of confident risk taking.
Risk evaluation and reporting We evaluate risks in our operating environment and decide how best to manage them within our risk appetite.
Management regularly reviews its risks and produces reports to provide assurance that material risks in the business are being mitigated.
The Risk function, led by the Group Chief Risk Officer GCRO, challenges the management team on the effectiveness of its risk evaluation andmitigation.
The GCRO provides the Group Boards Risk and Compliance Committee with his independent assessment of the principal risks to the business and emerging risk themes.
Financial risk modelling is used to assess the amount of each risk type against our risk appetite.
This modelling is aligned to both our economic capital and regulatory capital metrics to allow the Board to understand the capital requirements for our principal risks.
By applying stress and scenario testing, we gain insights into how risks might impact the Group in different circumstances.
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment The Groups Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA further embeds comprehensive risk reviews into our Group management structure.
Our annual ORSA report is a key part of our business cycle and informs strategic decision making.
ORSA updates are prepared each quarter to keep the Board apprised of the Groups evolving riskprofile.
