Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 20 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Change in Description Mitigation and Risk Risk the period and impact management action outlook The Group operates in a market where Our approach to legislative change is A Risk changes in pensions legislation can have a toparticipate actively and engage with considerable effect on our strategy and could policymakers, and this will not change.
Risks from our reduce our sales and profitability or require us chosen market to hold more capital.
The Group offers a range of retirement environment options, allowing it to remain agile in this The Group has developed propositions to changing environment, and has flexed its enable customers to have more flexible offerings in response to market dynamics.
Customers need for Webelieve we are well placed to adapt to asecure income in retirement continues changing customer demand, supported by Strategic objective andthe Group expects that demand our brand promise, innovation credentials for guaranteed income for life solutions and financial strength.
The most influential factors in the successful delivery of the Groups plans are closely monitored to help inform the business.
The factors include market forecasts and market share, supported by insights into customer and competitor behaviour.
Writing long-term DB fide-risking, GIfL and To manage the risk of our longevity B Risk equity release business requires a range of assumptions being incorrect, the Group assumptions to be made based on market hasthe benefit of extensive underwritten Risks from data and historical experience, including mortality data to provide insights and our pricing customers longevity, corporate bond yields, enhanced understanding of the longevity assumptions interest rates, property values and expenses.
risks that the Group chooses to take.
These assumptions are applied to the calculation of the reserves needed for future Longevity and other decrement experience is liabilities and solvency margins using analysed to identify any outcomes materially recognised actuarial approaches.
different from our assumptions and is used Strategic objective for the regular review of the reserving The Groups assumptions on these risk factors assumptions for all products.
1 2 3 4 5 may be materially inaccurate, requiring them to be recalibrated.
This could affect the level Some longevity risk exposure is shared of reserves needed, with an impact on withreinsurance partners, who perform due profitability and the Groups solvency position.
diligence on the Groups approach to risk selection.
There is a related counterparty risk of a reinsurer not meeting its repayment obligations.
This risk is typically mitigated through the reinsurer depositing the reinsurance premiums back to the Group or into third party trusts and by collateral arrangements.
For equity release, the Group underwrites theproperties against which it lends using valuations from expert third parties.
The Groups property risk is controlled by limits tothe initial loan-to-property value ratio, supported by product design features, limiting specific property types or regions, and monitoring of the exposure to adverse house price movements.
Strategic objectives see page 16 Risk outlook Grow our markets and broaden our Stable 1 distribution reach Increasing Give customers a distinctly Just 2 experience every time Decreasing Make smart risk choices 3 Focus on strong financial 4 management Diversify our business away from 5 any single business line or market Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 21 Change in Description Mitigation and Risk Risk the period and impact management action outlook The financial services industry continues We monitor and assess regulatory C Risk tosee a high level of regulatory activity developments on an on-going basis and andintense regulatory supervision.
This engage fully with the regulators.
Our aims Risks from reflects in part an increasing concern about areto implement any required changes regulatory the effect of the economic environment on effectively, and to deliver better outcomes changes the ability of insurers to continue to be able to forour customers and competitive advantage meet policyholder obligations.
The regulatory for the business.
agenda for the coming year covers many areas directly relevant to the Group.
Just has an approved partial internal model to calculate a Group Solvency Capital Strategic objective Further to the implementation of Solvency II, Requirement, and intends to progress an the PRA has published and continues to internal model major change application for 1 2 3 4 5 publish supervisory statements that set out Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited its expectations for certain aspects of touse the Group internal model.
This includes to date statements relating to illiquid assets, The Group has recalculated its transitional matching adjustments and transitional measure on technical provisions TMTP provisions.
There is a risk that the inaccordance with the Solvency II directive implementation of one or more of these which allows for a recalculation of the TMTP statements could result in a negative every 24 months.
impact on the regulatory capital position of the Group.
We will continue to engage with the PRA to understand and seek to influence its The Financial Conduct Authority FCA developing views on prudential regulation.
isdeveloping a strategy to address the The Group is also engaging with industry challenges for financial services of the ageing bodies to ensure an appropriate UK population and is pursuing reviews and implementation of supervisory statements.
initiatives pertinent to the retirement and mortgage markets.
We actively seek to participate in all regulatory initiatives which may affect or The EU General Data Protection Regulation provide future opportunities for the Group.
GDPR comes into effect on 25 May 2018.
We aim to champion outcomes that are Although many of the GDPRs requirements positive for consumers by ensuring their are already present in the UK Data Protection retirement needs are understood.
We Act 1998 DPA, its requirements are more developour strategy by giving consideration prescriptive and the rights of consumers are to planned political and regulatory clearer and easier to enforce.
developments and allow for contingencies should outcomes differ from our The Solvency II risk margin is particularly expectations.
sensitive to movements in interest rates, which can increase its volatility.
The matching We manage sensitive personal data in adjustment to meet Solvency II requirements accordance with existing DPA requirements makes management of liquidity within the and are adjusting our existing practices and Group more complex.
processes to meet the requirements of the new regime.
The ultimate terms of the UKs exit from the EU could have significant consequences for the regulation and legislation that apply to Justs operations.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 22 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Change in Description Mitigation and Risk Risk the period and impact management action outlook The premiums paid by the Groups customers Economic conditions are actively monitored D Risk are invested to enable future benefits to be and alternative scenarios modelled to better paid.
The economic environment and understand the potential impacts of Risks from financial market conditions have a significant significant economic changes on the amount the economic influence on the value of assets and liabilities of capital required to be held to cover risks, environment and on the income the Group receives.
An and to inform management action plans.
adverse economic environment could increase the risk of credit downgrades and It is anticipated that the UKs withdrawal defaults in our corporate bond portfolio.
from the EU will have limited direct impact on the Group as it is predominantly UKStrategic objective The lack of clarity regarding the UKs future based with no services provided into other trading arrangements with the EU has countries of the EEA, and its customers and 1 2 3 4 5 introduced material uncertainty for the UKs policyholders are predominantly UK-based.
macro-economic outlook in the medium and However, the Group remains exposed to the long term.
It is too early to be clear on the indirect impact that the UKs withdrawal long-term implications of departure from the may have on the UK economy as a whole, EU for the UK economy and indeed the wider including its residential housing market.
economic impacts on the rest of Europe and Any changes to the regulatory environment the world.
Market conditions may become as a result of the UKs withdrawal are more volatile.
In an environment of low interest rates, The Groups strategy is to buy and hold investors may be more willing to accept high-quality, lower-risk assets in its higher credit and liquidity risk to improve investment portfolio to ensure that it has investment returns.
These conditions could sufficient income to meet outgoings as they make it difficult to source sufficient assets to fall due.
Portfolio credit risk is managed by offer attractive DB fide-risking and GIfL terms.
specialist fund managers executing a Low credit spreads similarly affect the income diversified investment strategy in investment that can be made available, although grade assets within counterparty limits.
margins from our equity release portfolio help offset this risk.
In a low interest rate environment, improved returns are sought by diversifying the types, Most defined benefit pension schemes link geographies and industry sectors of member benefits to inflation through investment assets.
As the Groups Defined Benefit creates an exposure to foreign exchange fide-risking business volumes grow, its risk, which is controlled using derivative exposure to inflation risk increases.
Swaps and swaptions are used to reduce exposures to interest rate volatility.
A fall in residential property values could The credit exposure to the counterparties reduce the amounts received from equity with whom we transact these instruments release redemptions and may also affect the ismitigated by collateral arrangements.
relative attractiveness of the equity release product to customers.
The regulatory capital The Groups exposure to inflation risk through needed to support the possible shortfall in the Defined Benefit fide-risking business is the redemption of equity release mortgages managed with inflation hedges.
also increases if property values drop.
Uncertainty following the UKs withdrawal Liquidity risk is managed by ensuring that from the EU could result in property values assets of a suitable maturity and stagnating or even falling in some, or all, UK marketability are held to meet liabilities as regions.
Conversely, significant future rises in they fall due.
Sufficient liquid assets are property values could increase early maintained so the Group can readily access mortgage redemptions, leading to an earlier the cash it needs should business cash receipt of anticipated cash flows and inflows unexpectedly reduce.
There is little short-term volatility in the Market risks may affect the liquidity position Groups cash flows, which can be reliably of the Group by, for example, having to realise estimated in terms of timing and amount.
assets to meet liabilities during stressed Regular cash flow forecasts predict liquidity market conditions or to service collateral levels both short term and long term and requirements due to the changes in market stress tests help us understand any potential value of financial derivatives.
The Groups liquidity requirements have been comfortably met over the past year and forecasting confirms that this position can be expected to continue for both investments and business operations.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 23 Change in Description Mitigation and Risk Risk the period and impact management action outlook The Group relies on its operational processes The Group maintains a suite of risk E Risk and IT systems to conduct its business, management tools to help identify, measure, including the pricing and sale of its products, monitor, manage and report its operational Risks measuring and monitoring its underwriting risks including those arising from operational arising from liabilities, processing applications and processes and IT systems.
These include a operational delivering customer service and maintaining risk management system, risk and control accurate records.
These processes and assessments, risk event management, loss processes and systems may not operate as expected, may reporting, scenario analysis and risk reporting IT systems not fulfil their intended purpose or may be through the ORSA.
damaged or interrupted by human error, unauthorised access, natural disaster or The Group maintains plans and controls to similarly disruptive events.
Any failure of the minimise the risk of business disruption and Strategic objective Groups IT and communications systems and information security related events.
Detailed or third party infrastructure on which it relies incident and crisis management plans also could lead to costs and disruptions that could exist to ensure effective responses.
These are 1 2 3 4 5 adversely affect its business as well as harm supported by specialist third parties for our its reputation.
As witnessed in 2017, large organisations Our approach to information security is areincreasingly becoming targets for underconstant review as the cyber-threat cyber-crime, particularly those organisations landscape evolves.
Due diligence is that hold customers personal details.
The performed on all partners to ensure that they Group is no exception and a cyber-attack work to the same high security standards as could affect customer confidence, or lead to the Group.
The Group continues to invest in its financial losses.
information security control environment but we recognise that the speed of change in cyber-threats means that a risk exposure remains.
We believe everyone deserves a fair, fulfilling The Group actively seeks to differentiate F Risk and secure retirement.
Our aim is to help itsbusiness from competitors by investing people to rethink retirement to achieve this.
Fairness to Risks to the Our Just brand reflects the way we intend to customers and high service standards are at Groups brands conduct our business and treat our customer the heart of the Just brand, and we and reputation and wider stakeholder groups.
encourage our colleagues to take pride in thequality of service they provide to our There is a risk that the Groups brands and customers.
Engaging our colleagues in the reputation could be damaged if the Group is Just brand and its associated values has perceived to be acting, even unintentionally, been, and remains, a critical part of our Strategic objective below the standards we set for ourselves.
The Group maintains a Damage to our brand or reputation may system of internal control, and associated 1 2 3 4 5 adversely affect our underlying profitability, policies and operational procedures, that through reducing sales volumes, restricting defines the standards we expect of all access to distribution channels and attracting colleagues.
Additionally, the Groups brands and reputation could be threatened by external risks such as regulatory intervention or enforcement action, either directly or as a result of contagion from other companies inthe sectors in which we operate.
