34 34 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 MANAGING OUR RISKS OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT IS BASED ON A FRAMEWORK THAT EFFECTIVELY EMBEDS A CULTURE OF RISK AWARENESS ACROSS THE GROUP.
THIS FRAMEWORK ENABLES US TO IDENTIFY, ASSESS, PRIORITISE AND MANAGE RISKS IN ORDER TO DELIVER THE VALUE CREATION OBJECTIVES DEFINED IN OUR BUSINESS MODEL.
RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM This supports the Board in its We narrowed down our 108 risks Our risk management system is based responsibilities of monitoring and into major risks which are monitored on risk identification, assessment, reviewing risk management and by executive management and the prioritisation, mitigation and monitoring the internal control systems.
We then further processes, which are continually consolidated these into 12 principal evaluated, improved and enhanced 2017 RISK ASSESSMENT risks which are closely monitored by in line with best practice.
As part of our 2017 risk assessment the Board of Directors.
This new risk exercise, a team of 142 people worked is grouped within the Potential actions In addition to our established risk together to evaluate 108 risks across by the government principal risk.
management activities, our executives, all our operations, advanced projects, operations managers, the controllership exploration offices, and support and group, HSECR managers and exploration corporate areas.
We identified and managers regularly engage in subsequently added a new risk during strengthening the effectiveness the year which reflected the specific of our current controls.
circumstances related to the Increase in the frequency of the reviews by the tax authorities with special focus on the mining industry.
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Top-down The Board Oversight, identification, Overall responsibility for Defines risk appetite.
Monitors exposures Sets tone on risk assessment and mitigation risk management and to ensure their nature management culture.
and extent are aligned of risk at a corporate level with overall goals and strategic objectives.
Executive Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit Assesses level of risk related to Supports the Board in monitoring Supports the Audit Committee achieving strategic objectives.
risk exposures against risk appetite.
in evaluating the design and Oversees execution and Reviews the effectiveness of our effectiveness of risk mitigation implementation of controls into risk management and internal strategies, internal controls strategic and operating plans.
Bottom-up Identification, assessment Operational level and mitigation of risk Risk identification and assessment Risk mitigation and internal controls Risk awareness and safety culture across all operational performed across mining operations, monitoring embedded across embedded in day-to-day operations.
and functional areas projects and exploration sites.
functional areas and business units.
FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 35 35 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 As part of our bottom-up process, HEAT MAP each business unit head determined the perceived level of risk for their 1 1 individual unit.
Executive management 2 then reviewed and challenged each perceived risk level, and compared it to 3 Fresnillo plcs risk universe as a whole.
6 3 4 7 The results of this exercise were used 7 5 12 as an additional input to identify the Groups principal risks.
We conducted 9 the same risk analysis on advanced 8 11 10 projects, detailing the specific risks faced by each project according to their unique characteristics and conditions.
The risk heat map for each business unit and development project is included in the Review of Operations Likelihood pages 54-71.
Unlikely Almost certain In 2017, cyber security risk was X 2017 2016 elevated to a principal risk due to its increased relevance within the Risk mining industry.
As the mining industry continues to go through a digital 1.
Impact of metal prices and global macroeconomic developments v transformation, with greater reliance 2.
Access to land v on automated operational systems, more sophisticated and coordinated 3.
Potential actions by the government attacks are being launched by a broad e. g. taxes more stringent regulations v range of groups looking to exploit 4.
Environmental incidents v Bold text indicates those risks which have changed during 2017. v Risk that was considered for the viability assessment as detailed on pages 48-49.
New risk considered as principal risk.
Note for risk table: Change in risk level: vertical movement indicates impact and horizontal movement indicates likelihood.
Very low Severe Impact 36 36 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED 1.
IMPACT OF METAL PRICES AND GLOBAL MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS RISK DESCRIPTION Certain events could create an adverse impact on our General inflation in Mexico.
This was 6.7% in Mexican sales and profits, and potentially the economic viability pesos in 2017.
The specific inflation affecting the of projects.
These events include: Company was 6.4% in US dollar terms.
A decrease in the price of our by-products, which is a A decrease in precious metal prices, which is the primary relatively minor risk.
In 2017, prices rose for the second driver for this risk.
For the second consecutive year, gold consecutive year, with the average annual prices for lead achieved a higher annual average realised price over and zinc rising 24.9% and 34.9%, respectively, over the the previous year 1.7% versus 2016.
Revaluation of the Mexican peso.
In 2017, the peso was revalued by 4.5% versus the average spot exchange rate of US dollars.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Our hedging policy remains guided by the principle of We are not precluded from entering into derivatives to providing shareholders with full exposure to gold and silver minimise our exposure to changes in the prices of lead and prices.
However, following shareholder approval for the zinc by-products.
The Group entered into a collar hedging acquisition of 44% of Penmont and associated companies structure in 2017, with maturities starting in 2018 so no in 2014, we initiated a specific hedging programme to results were recorded in the income statement.
This protect the value of the investment made in the acquisition, structure aims to mitigate the risk related to the sale using a collar structure to allow partial continued exposure of lead and zinc.
See note 31 in the financial statements to gold prices.
The volume associated with this phased page 239. hedging programme was strictly limited to up to 44% of Furthermore, we have hedging policies in place for foreign production associated with the acquired Penmont assets exchange risk, including those associated with capex and will not be extended to other assets in the Group.
In 2017, we entered into a number of total volume hedged was 1,559,689 oz of which 324,780 oz foreign exchange forward contracts denominated in euros, expired in 2017 with no corresponding cash impact.
The Swedish krona and Canadian dollars.
See note 31 in the only impact on the income statement was a loss of US$41 financial statements page 238. million related to the time value associated with gold We suffered significant increases in our main energy commodity options.
inputs over the previous year, with the average cost of FOR THE FINANCIAL REVIEW diesel USC$ lt. rising by 22.2% and the KWH weighted SEE PAGES 104-115 average USC$ increasing by 28.8%.
This was due to the increase in international petroleum prices and the market liberalisation of fuel prices in Mexico.
We will continue to identify and maintain efficiency initiatives to reduce our energy consumption.
RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS According to the majority of silver Gross profit sensitivity to percentage HIGH and gold price analysts, the expected change in precious metals price Risk rating relative position volatility of metal prices is lower and to the Mexican peso US dollar 2017: Very high 1 than in recent times.
2016: Very high 1 projections indicate stronger prices EBITDA sensitivity to percentage due to unpredictable global political change in metals price and and economic issues, including: the to Mexican peso US dollar LINK TO STRATEGY US administrations ability to drive exchange rate.
through changes to fiscal policy: 1 2 3 very low or negative real rates: and improvement in the Eurozones CHANGE IN HEAT MAP economic position due to recent centrist political successes.
FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 37 37 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 2.
ACCESS TO LAND RISK DESCRIPTION Failure or significant delays in accessing the surface land Succession issues among land owners resulting in a above our mineral concessions and other land of interest lack of clarity about the legal entitlement to possess is a persistent risk to our strategy, and has a potentially and sell land.
high impact on our objectives.
Possible barriers to land Litigation risk i. e. increased activism by agrarian access include: communities and or judicial authorities.
Presence of indigenous communities in the proximity Rising expectations of land owners.
of land that is of interest, where prior and informed Refusal to acknowledge prior land acquisition terms consultation and consent of such communities may and conditions by members of an agrarian community.
Influence of multiple special interests in land negotiations.
Furthermore, insecurity and conflicts in our exploration and Conflicts in land boundaries with an often arduous operational areas increase the complexity of land access.
RESPONSE MITIGATION We actively manage our mining rights in order to maximise Early involvement of our community relations teams our opportunities for successful land access, focusing on during the negotiation and acquisition processes, areas of interest or strategic value.
At the end of 2017, including the exploration stage.
after adding required areas and divesting areas of less Working with our land negotiation teams, which comprise interest, we held 1.8 million hectares, the same area as specialists hired directly by Fresnillo and also provided by the previous year.
Other initiatives include: Peoles as part of the service agreement.
Careful advanced planning for land requirements and acquisitions e. g. anticipating any issues with a potential As part of an ongoing review of the legal status of our land purchase before intensive exploration.
In certain land rights, we identified certain areas of opportunity and areas of interest, we negotiate leasing or occupation continue to implement measures to manage this risk on agreements with purchase options, in compliance with a case-by-case basis.
Such measures include, whenever legal and regulatory requirements.
possible, negotiating with agrarian communities for the The fostering of strong community relations through outright purchase of land.
We use mechanisms provided investment in community programmes and infrastructure.
under agrarian law and also utilise other legal mechanisms Such investments totalled US$2.4 million in 2017. under mining law which afford added protection for land Always seeking tri-party cooperation between the occupation.
We have already closed several such agreements government, community and ourselves in securing in the states of Sonora and Zacatecas.
These activities access to land.
form part of our ongoing drive to reduce exposure to risk regarding surface rights.
RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS The mining industry continues to Percentage of land required for MEDIUM face legal challenges in regard to advanced exploration projects Risk rating relative position access to land by individuals and which is under occupation or other 2017: Very high 2 local communities who may seek to agreements other than full property 2016: Very high 2 disregard previous land agreements.
ownership overall and by project.
This has been a consistent challenge Total US dollar and percentage of in recent years.
project budget spend on HSECR LINK TO STRATEGY activities, including community In addition, in areas close to land relations at projects and exploration of interest, prior and informed 1 2 3 sites.
consultation and consent of indigenous communities may be CHANGE IN HEAT MAP required on a case-by-case basis.
The outcome is that, despite our many strategic actions, the perceived level of this risk remains very high.
38 38 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED 3.
POTENTIAL ACTIONS BY THE GOVERNMENT E. G. IMPLEMENTATION OF MORE STRINGENT REGULATIONS FOR OBTAINING PERMITS, ETC.
RISK DESCRIPTION Government actions may have an adverse impact on us.
Extraction of materials other than minerals referenced in These could include stringent regulations relating to the Article 4 of the Mexican Mining Law gold, silver, lead, zinc, environment or explosives, or more challenging processes etc.
from the soil and sub-soil through open-pit processes: for obtaining permits or more onerous tax compliance ii.
Emissions of certain substances into the atmosphere: obligations as well as more frequent reviews by tax iii.
Deposit of contaminants into the soil and water: and authorities: refer to financial statement notes for more iv.
Storage of waste in public or private landfills.
The right of indigenous communities to be consulted and On 1 January 2017, a new tax law the Tax Law came grant their prior and informed consent regarding mining into effect in the state of Zacatecas in northern Mexico.
concessions may affect the granting of new concessions It includes a new set of environmental taxes relating in Mexico.
to the following activities undertaken within the state: RESPONSE MITIGATION Together with our internal and external advisors, we filed We remain compliant with all applicable environmental an appeal in the form of a legal injunction before Federal regulations and are fully committed to operating in a Courts in Mexico.
This challenged the validity of the Tax sustainable way.
Law on the basis that in our opinion, extractive activities We seek to maintain full compliance with tax authority are regulated at a federal level.
A ruling was issued in our requirements.
In doing so we continue to cooperate with favour and the state of Zacatecas has filed a last appeal any ongoing tax inspections.
Although we believe that the initial Although Mexicos Mining Law does not yet incorporate ruling will be upheld, if this is not the case, we estimate indigenous consultation, it remains an ongoing issue.
that the potential net impact of these new taxes on our Some local state governments have begun to legislate on income statement would be in the range of US$4-7 million this matter as a prior requirement for mining projects to for the 2017 fiscal year and subsequent years.
proceed in specific areas where indigenous populations We continue to collaborate with other members of the may be present.
mining community via the Mexican Mining Chamber to lobby against this and any other new detrimental taxes, royalties or regulations.
We also support the industrys lobbying efforts to improve the general publics understanding of the Mining Law.
RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL system, which is not yet fully deployed.
As a result, delays in obtaining permits We continue to perceive this risk LOW for certain operations and or projects level as very high due to the pressure Risk rating relative position remain a risk.
that the government or government 2017: Very high 3 officials in either case, both at the President, senate and representative 2016: Very high 3 federal and local levels could exert chambers elections, together with over the mining industry.
Evidence of other local positions, will be held this influence on our industry can be in 2018.
As a result, an increase LINK TO STRATEGY seen in the increase in the frequency in the level of this risk is likely, of reviews by the tax authorities, the depending on the candidates 1 2 3 4 new legislation requiring management stance towards mining.
to ensure that contractors are CHANGE IN HEAT MAP compliant with their own tax KEY RISK INDICATORS obligations and the imposition of the Number of media mentions related environmental taxes contained in the to mining regulations.
These could new Tax Law in Zacatecas.
In addition, include mentions of tax, royalties, it is evident in the continued perceived the banning of mining activities in level of corruption across Mexico, 1 protected areas and legal precedents.
which remains high and worsened The indicator also provides detail on versus the previous year.
We share a the media itself, such as speaker general industry view that, regrettably, profile and political alignment.
local and regional governments in particular have worsened in this regard, notwithstanding the national effort to implement an anticorruption 1 Corruption Perception Index 2017, issued by Transparency International ranks Mexico as 135th of 180 countries by perceived levels of public sector corruption.
FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 39 39 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 4.
SECURITY RISK DESCRIPTION Our people, contractors and suppliers face the risk of The influence of drug cartels, other criminal elements kidnapping, extortion or harm due to security conditions and general lawlessness in the regions where we operate, in the regions where we operate.
We face the risk of combined with our exploration and project activities in restricted access to operations projects and theft areas of transfer or cultivation of drugs, makes working of assets.
in these areas a particular risk for us.
RESPONSE MITIGATION We closely monitor the security situation, maintaining identify alterations in transported material: guard services: clear internal communications and coordinating work in and control checkpoints in a safe corridor.
We have also areas of higher insecurity.
We have adopted the following reduced the number of authorised stops in order to optimise practices to manage our security risks and prevent and delivery times and minimise the exposure of convoys.
For deal with possible incidents: example, no stops are allowed on short-haul routes.
We continue to invest in community programmes, We maintain close relations with authorities at federal, infrastructure improvements and government initiatives state and local levels, including army encampments to support the development of lawful local communities located near the majority of our operations.
We have finalised a new standard for the technological In order to ensure the security of our personnel, access and physical security of all our business units.
to the San Nicolas del Oro prospect remains suspended Implementation has taken more time than expected because of the level of insecurity in the state of Guerrero.
due to the extent of the new arrangements and the We plan to work together with key actors in the community increased scope.
However, we are planning to complete to promote the benefits of mining as an alternative source implementation for all business units during 2018. of work and as a generator of improved social and In 2017 we launched an initiative to professionalise educational infrastructure.
The aim is to ensure that we Both internally and among our contractors, we continue to only work with those who can meet our requirement promote the reporting of criminal acts to the authorities.
to employ trained security experts.
This process will We are evaluating the option of increasing the number of continue in 2018. housing units close to certain business units, in order to We have continued to improve our logistics controls reduce the risk exposure during transportation.
in order to reduce the probability of theft of mineral concentrate.
These controls include: the use of real-time tracking technology: surveillance cameras: tests to reference.
This is a comprehensive RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL index of the following indicators We have continued to experience LOW adjusted with non-compliant rates : a high level of security incidents, Risk rating relative position homicides: violent crimes: firearms both in frequency and severity.
The 2017: Very high 4 crimes: non-convicted prisoners: perceived level of risk has therefore and drug trafficking crimes.
The 2016: Very high 4 remained very high.
In the regions index ranks states from 1 to 5, and projects where we operate, where 1 represents the most we did not observe an improvement LINK TO STRATEGY peaceful.
Guerrero, Zacatecas and in the crime rate during 2017.
Chihuahua tend to rank among the We also refer to The Global Peace 1 2 3 4 less peaceful states in Mexico, while 2 Index ranking, which indicates Sonora and Durango are located in a higher likelihood of violent the medium range.
CHANGE IN HEAT MAP demonstrations and political instability.
This index uses three broad themes: level of safety and KEY RISK INDICATORS security in society: the extent of Total number of security incidents domestic or international conflict: affecting our workforce thefts, and the degree of militarisation.
kidnapping, extortion, etc.. Mexico ranks 142 of 163 countries Number of sites affected and work worldwide from best to worst, as days lost, by region and type of site.
a country with a low state of peace Number of media mentions related and has fallen by two places in the to security issues affecting the ranking.
In addition, we use the mining industry.
2 Mexico Peace Index ranking as a 2 Global Peace Index 2017 and Mexico Peace Index 2017 prepared by the Institute for Economics & Peace, http: economicsandpeace.
40 40 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED 5.
PUBLIC PERCEPTION AGAINST MINING RISK DESCRIPTION Across the world, public opinion is increasingly wary of the increased regulatory obligations for mining companies potential adverse social and environmental consequences and increased social activism by communities and other of mining operations.
This sentiment is manifested through grassroots organisations.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Communities are our strategic partners.
To win and Purposeful and aspirational engagement with local maintain their trust, we must show understanding and communities: effective engagement, and be accountable for our impact.
Maintaining a Social Investment Portfolio to create Our well-established programme for community long-term value, aligned with the UN Global Goals engagement includes: for sustainable development.
We have identified four pillars where we can make a real difference: Education, Increase our understanding and accountability: Water, Health and Capacity building.
Monitoring public opinion within local and Partnering with NGOs in these four pillars of social international media.
investment: Education IBBY, INNOVEC & First Holding continuous dialogue with our key local Robotics, Water Captar AC, Health National stakeholders through formal and informal meetings.
University Foundation and Capacity Building Carrying out social baseline, human rights and ProEmpleo.
perception studies to better understand our positive Engaging with municipal authorities to invest the and negative impacts.
In 2017 we conducted such resources of the Mining Tax Fund in infrastructure studies in all of our operations.
projects that benefit our neighbour communities.
Operating a grievance mechanism to address Collaborating with peers in the international and Mexican stakeholder concerns.
mining community to promote the benefits of the mining industry and responsible mining practices.
FOR MORE ON OUR COMMUNITY RELATIONS SEE PAGES 96-103 RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK CHANGE KEY RISK INDICATORS We have maintained our social Number of local actions by nonLOW licence to operate in our governmental organisations NGOs Risk rating relative position communities.
Continuing to maintain or other local social groups against 2017: High 5 and protect this licence demands mining, by region.
2016: High 5 strong collaboration with the local Number of actions by NGOs or other community and stakeholders.
local social groups against mining in the Americas.
There are multiple examples of how LINK TO STRATEGY Number of media mentions related years of protests and demands have to demonstrations against the led to the cancellation of projects.
Objections are not only from local communities, but also from local CHANGE IN HEAT MAP and international NGOs as well as regulators working to meet high expectations and pressure from governments.
We continue to perceive this complex issue as a high risk.
FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 41 41 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 6.
SAFETY RISK DESCRIPTION It is an inherent risk in our industry that incidents due to Our people face risks such as fire, explosion, electrocution unsafe acts or conditions could lead to injuries or fatalities.
and carbon monoxide poisoning, as well as risks specific to each mine site and development project.
These include rock falls caused by geological conditions, cyanide contamination and heavy or light equipment collisions involving machinery or personnel.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Regrettably, a fatal injury in the first half of 2017 meant The Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate increased that we did not reach our goal of zero fatalities.
to 23.22 in 2017 versus 16.93 in 2016 and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate increased to 8.14 versus 5.99 Management has since taken decisive steps to address and in 2016. prevent the root causes of fatal injuries and strengthened our safety initiatives.
These include: We continue to deliver training for both employees and contractors.
Personnel received an average of 87 hours A permanent effort to reinforce our safety culture, of training in 2017.
35 of these 87 hours involved HSECR comprising the following programmes: Rules that Save training, of which 33 related to safety.
Lives, Operational Discipline and Behavioural Change, supported by comprehensive accident investigation.
FOR MORE ON OUR SAFETY STRATEGY A pilot project at our Saucito mine to improve safety SEE PAGES 80-81 performance and develop competences in our supervisors.
The project involves training a group of trainers to subsequently lead the programme for the rest of the business units.
RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS Safety is continually monitored by the Accident rate.
LOW Board, which has always given it the Days lost rate.
Risk rating relative position highest priority.
The Board oversees Accidents frequency: 2017: High 6 all accident investigations, ensuring Without lost time.
2016: High 6 that the appropriate actions are With lost time.
taken to improve safety systems Fatalities.
LINK TO STRATEGY 4 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP 42 42 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED 7.
PROJECTS PERFORMANCE RISK RISK DESCRIPTION The pursuit of advanced exploration and development mining process: poor rock quality: unexpected presence opportunities are core to meeting our strategic goals.
of underground water or lack thereof: lack of community However, they carry certain project-related risks: support: and inability to obtain and maintain required operating permits.
Economic viability: The impact of capital cost to develop Delivery risk: Projects may go over budget in terms of cost and maintain the mine: future metal prices: and operating and time: they may not be constructed in accordance with costs through the mines life cycle.
the required specifications: and major mining equipment Uncertainties associated with developing and operating may not be delivered on time.
new mines and expansion projects: Fluctuations in ore grade and recovery: unforeseen complexities in the RESPONSE MITIGATION Our investment evaluation process determines how to We closely monitor project controls to ensure that we best direct available capital using technical, financial and deliver approved projects on time, on budget and in line qualitative criteria.
The executive management team and Board of Directors are regularly updated on Technical: We assess the resource estimate and progress.
Each advanced exploration project and major confirmed resources, the metallurgy of the mineral capital development project has a risk register containing bodies, the investment required in general infrastructure the identified and assessed risks specific to the project.
e. g. roads, power, general services, housing and the infrastructure required for the mine and plant.
The project development pipeline in 2018 includes: Financial: We look at risk relative to return for proposed Ongoing construction and development of the Pyrites investments of capital.
We set expected internal rates plant.
of return IRR per project as thresholds for approving The Centauro Extension, including a second line of the the allocation of capital based on the present value of dynamic leaching plant, at Herradura.
expected cash flows from the invested capital.
Project optimisation of Fresnillos plant.
Qualitative factors: The alignment of the investment Feasibility study and start of construction of Juanicipio.
with our strategic plan and business model: synergies FOR MORE ON OUR DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS with other investments and operating assets: and the SEE PAGE 66 implications for safety, security, people, resourcing and community relations.
RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS Our strict investment governance Earned value rate of financial MEDIUM process and system of capital project advancement versus physical Risk rating relative position controls remain in place, safeguarding advancement.
2017: Medium 7 our ability to deliver growth through Percentage of major equipment 2016: Medium high 7 development projects on time and on ordered and received according budget.
During 2017, we successfully to plan.
completed the commissioning of Percentage of completion of mine LINK TO STRATEGY San Julin, which had the effect of development.
reducing our project perceived risk 2 level.
We plan to start construction at Juanicipio in 2018.
Several factors CHANGE IN HEAT MAP have led us to perceive a lower level of risk for Juanicipio than for previous projects.
These include a lower level of investment, easier access to infrastructure and the sites proximity to current operations.
FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 43 43 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 8.
UNION RELATIONS RISK DESCRIPTION Although the risk of union action or a deterioration in Nonetheless, internal union politics could impact us union relations at some sites may be possible, overall negatively, as could pressure from other mining unions our relationship with the unions continues to strengthen.
that want to take over the Fresnillo labour contract.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Our strategy is to integrate unionised personnel into We are proactive and timely in our responses to the needs each business unit BU team.
We achieve this by clearly of the unions, and experienced no labour-related work assigning responsibilities and programmes for maintaining stoppages in 2017.
If required, we engage experienced close relationships with unions at mine sites and at legal counsel, both internal and external, to support us national level.
We maintain close communication with on labour issues.
We will continue to closely monitor union leaders at various levels of the organisation in union and labour developments.
order to: raise awareness about the economic situation the industry is facing: share our production results: and to encourage union participation in our initiatives regarding safety and other operational improvements.
These initiatives include the safety guardians programme, alliances for obtaining certifications, integration of high productivity teams and family activities.
During the year, we held six leadership workshops which were attended by 150 key union leaders at our business units.
RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS During 2017, we continued to build Union members level of satisfaction.
LOW on our good relations with unions Number of media mentions related Risk rating relative position at national and local levels, and we to mining union developments.
2017: Medium low 8 do not expect an increase in this 2016: Medium low 8 perceived level of risk.
Our executive management and the Board recognise the importance of union relations LINK TO STRATEGY and follow any developments with interest.
2 3 CHANGE IN HEAT MAP 44 44 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED 9.
EXPLORATION RISK DESCRIPTION We are highly dependent on the success of the exploration We also risk the loss of purchase opportunities due to programme to meet our strategic value-creation targets insufficient speed in decision-making.
and our long-term production and reserve goals.
As our production escalates and more mines approach In addition to the growing level of insecurity and access the end of their lives, replenishing our reserves becomes to land detailed in previous risks, other risks that may increasingly challenging.
impact prospecting and converting inferred resources include: the lack of a robust portfolio of prospects in our pipeline with sufficient potential in terms of indicated and inferred resources: and insufficient concession coverage in target areas.
RESPONSE MITIGATION During 2017, we invested a total of US$145.3 million A team of highly trained and motivated geologists, in exploration activities.
Our objectives for 2018 include both employees and long-term contractors.
a budgeted risk capital investment in exploration of Advisory technical reviews by international third party approximately US$200 million.
The approximate spending experts, up-to-date and integrated GIS databases, remote split is 42% for operating mines, 33% for exploration sensing imagery and software for identifying favourable projects and the remaining 25% for prospects, regional metallogenic belts and districts to be field-checked by prospecting and mining rights.
Our exploration strategy also includes: A focus on increasing regional exploration drilling During 2017 we slightly increased our land concessions programmes to intensify efforts in the districts with by 13,133 hectares, which are located in areas of interest high potential.
For local exploration, aggressive in-field exploration to upgrade the resources category and convert inferred FOR MORE ON OUR EXPLORATION PROGRAMME resources into reserves.
SEE PAGES 67-71 RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS Maintaining a reasonable investment Drill programmes completed MEDIUM in exploration, even when metal overall and by project.
Risk rating relative position prices are low, means that the level Change in the number of ounces 2017: Medium 9 of this risk remains steady.
While in reserves and resources.
2016: Medium 9 continuous investment has always Rate of conversion from resources been a hallmark of our exploration to reserves.
strategy, replenishing exploited LINK TO STRATEGY reserves and increasing our total amount of resources could be a 1 challenge in the future.
CHANGE IN HEAT MAP FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 45 45 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 10.
CYBER SECURITY RISK DESCRIPTION We recognise the importance of the confidentiality, Certain groups may also attempt to exploit vulnerabilities continuity, integrity and security of our data and created by the industrys heavy reliance on operational 1 production systems.
In our case, this could include initiatives such as Operations Technology and Information As a mining company, we may be under threat of cyber Technology OTIT Integration and Digital Mine pages 50-51. attacks from a broad set of attacker groups, from hacktivists and hostile regimes to organised criminals.
Their goals include a desire to take advantage of the role that mining plays in regional and global supply chains as well as in national economies.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Our cyber security strategy seeks to ensure that our During 2017, we created a committee tasked with networks, systems and data are secured in accordance establishing a uniform and effective protocol for with best practices as promoted by the US National how we respond to cyber security incidents.
Institute of Standards and Technology Cyber security Framework NIST CSF and Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies COBIT.
RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS In 2016, a major Canadian gold We are currently developing KRIs to LOW mining company suffered a data monitor this new principal risk and Risk rating relative position breach impacting private corporate we are considering the following: 2017: Medium 10 and employee information.
Over the Total number of cyber security 2016: N A last six years, the mining sector has incidents affecting our industry 2 faced 17 cyber incidents.
risk is an increasing threat to the Number of media mentions related LINK TO STRATEGY industry, we have decided that it to cyber security issues affecting the should be monitored and overseen mining industry.
CHANGE IN HEAT MAP Change in risk level: not applicable as this risk was first identified as a principal risk in 2017.
It had previously been included in our risk register universe.
1 Trend Micro, Cyber Threats to the Mining Industry, Trend Labs, 2016.
46 46 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 MANAGING OUR RISKS CONTINUED 11.
HUMAN RESOURCES RISK DESCRIPTION Our people are critical to delivering our objectives.
We face A lack of reliable contractors with sufficient infrastructure, risks in selecting, recruiting, training and retaining the machinery, performance track record and skilled personnel people we need.
is also a risk that could impact our ability to develop and construct mining works.
RESPONSE MITIGATION Recruitment: we have assessed our hiring requirements Performance: we have continued our performance for key positions for 2018, and aim to meet them by internal evaluation process, reinforcing formal feedback.
training and promotion, and by recruitment through: We promote the certification of key technical skills for operational personnel, and provide an administrative Our close relationships with universities offering earth and leadership skills development programme where science programmes.
We have dedicated programmes to appropriate.
We develop our high potential middle identify potential candidates based on performance who managers through the Leaders with Vision programme.
may be hired as interns and or employees on graduation.
CETEF Centre for Technical Studies Fresnillo which Contractors: we have long-term drilling and mining teaches specific mining operational skills.
We invest significantly in training contractors, graduates hired in 2017 joined as full-time employees.
particularly on safety and environmental requirements.
CETLAR the Peoles Centre for Technical Studies which We have supported the enrolment of 58 of our contractor trains mechanics and electrical technicians.
All eight companies into the self-management Programme on graduates hired in 2017 for Fresnillo BUs joined as Health and Safety at Work PASST, promoted by the full-time employees.
Mexican Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare STPS.
Of these companies, 19% have been certified, 72% are in the process of being certified, and 9% have Retention: our aim is to be the employer of choice, and we adhered voluntarily.
recognise that in order to be a profitable and sustainable company, we have to generate value for our employees and their families.
We do this by providing a healthy, safe, productive and team-oriented working environment that not only encourages our people to fulfil their potential but also supports process improvements.
Our focus is on continuous improvement driven by training, development and personal growth opportunities: in summary our focus is on fair hiring, fair remuneration and benefits and gender equality as described in our Human Capital section on pages 79 and 85.
In 2017 we were once again recognised as a Great Place to Work, and were ranked in 22nd place among companies with more than 5,000 employees.
RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS We aim to carefully align our Human Number of positions filled by MEDIUM Capital with our operational and area of specialty, for vacancies Risk rating relative position growth requirements.
We believe and new positions.
2017: Low 11 that we have currently achieved this Employee turnover rate.
2016: Low 10 alignment, due to the success of Average hours of training and activities including our ongoing professional development per university recruitment and employee employee.
LINK TO STRATEGY retention strategies.
Number of contractor personnel relative to unionised personnel 1 2 3 4 Contractor resourcing continues to per BU.
We maintain a broad base of contractors in order to CHANGE IN HEAT MAP provide us with operational flexibility, and aim to professionalise them to the same level as our own employees.
FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 47 47 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 12.
ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS RISK DESCRIPTION Environmental incidents are an inherent risk in our emissions, any of which could have a high impact on our industry.
These incidents include the possible overflow people, communities and business.
or collapse of tailing dams, cyanide spills and dust RESPONSE MITIGATION Our environmental management system ensures Our leaching operations in Herradura and Noche Buena compliance with Mexican regulations, provides operate in compliance with the Cyanide Code issued by transparency and supports initiatives that reduce our the International Cyanide Management Institute.
We disclose our performance regarding our Natural Capital on pages 86-95 of We rigorously adhere to the requirements established this report.
by each projects environmental permit Environmental Impact Statement issued by the Ministry of Environment, All our mining units are certified under ISO 14001 and SEMARNAT.
We also continue to support contractors in have Clean Industry certification.
their efforts to integrate environmental management systems.
RISK APPETITE DESCRIPTION OF RISK LEVEL KEY RISK INDICATORS Our environmental management Number of BUs with ISO 14001:2004 LOW system, together with our investment certification.
Risk rating relative position in preventative measures and training, Number of BUs with Clean Industry 2017: Low 12 are key factors which reduce the risk certification.
2016: Low 11 of major environmental incidents.
Number of BUs with International Based on available information, we Cyanide Code certification.
did not see a change in this perceived Number of environmental permits LINK TO STRATEGY risk level.
for all advanced exploration projects according to schedule.
