Strategic Report Risk Management NMC follows a conservative approach in risk taking and has implemented controls and mitigation strategies in order to reduce those risks.
IDENTIFICATION OF RISK The Board approved the Strategic Risk GENERAL RISK APPETITE STATEMENT The Board consider the identification Register in both August 2017 and The Company will not accept any risks and mitigation of material risks and March 2018. that would cause losses due to: uncertainties faced by the Group as a key issue to be monitored at all levels Depending on the nature of the risk malpractice, of the organisation.
The Board has overall involved, a variety of risk mitigation significant decline in patient responsibility for the Groups risk measures have been implemented satisfaction rate, management and internal control including, for example, insurance, brand damages, systems.
The Senior Management team standardised processes, delegation hospital acquired infections, ensure that operational management of authorities and succession plans, decrease in the utilisation rate for consider risk as part of their day to diversification in business and outpatient clinics, day activities.
uncontrolled discharge for inpatients, downtime of life saving sustaining Whilst identification of risks and related RISK APPETITE systems, controls and mitigations are important As there are multiple risks associated inaccuracy of patients records, elements for the stability of all with the healthcare and distribution non-compliance with internal and or businesses, the Board consider these sectors, the process of risk management external controls and standards areas to be particularly key for NMC as is an essential mechanism to enable risk regulatory bodies, a Group due to both our growth strategy based decision making process.
The sensitive information patient record and the fact that our businesses operate Board recognises that complete risk confidentiality breach loss, in regulated environments.
control avoidance is impossible, but that loss of sole distribution partnership risks can be reduced by putting the right agreement, As there are multiple risks evident across controls and mitigations in place as well loss of key staff key specialities, our various business verticals, the risk as agreeing on a threshold for risk taking acquisitions, which are expected to management processes operating within risk appetite.
be accretive and not dilutive.
the NMC Group are an essential mechanism to enable a risk based Risk appetite provides a structure within NMC Board of Directors has approved decision making process.
NMC follows a which opportunities can be pursued by a set of thresholds presented by conservative approach in risk taking and setting out which, why and how much management which relate to multiple has implemented controls and mitigation risk the Group is willing to take.
The Senior business dimensions in the Healthcare strategies in order to reduce those risks.
Management Team has approved a set and Distribution divisions to protect of risk appetite statements covering shareholders value.
Any areas falling The Strategic Risk Register, which is different views on the risk landscape short of the agreed indicators will be the basis for the list of principal risks surrounding NMCs business environment highlighted by management for action.
and uncertainties below, and our whilst addressing various risk classes.
approach to controlling and mitigating For each risk class, Key Risk Indicators STRATEGIC RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES risks was developed and is maintained KRIs were articulated to alert against In the table of strategic risks below, using both a bottom up and top down unacceptable loss events.
the Board have set out the Groups assessment of business and strategic strategic risks and the mitigating actions risks.
The risk register is reviewed and The purpose of setting limits and triggers and controls taken against those risks.
is to avoid concentrations of risk which It should be noted that the order that would be out of line with internal or these risks are expressed in the table The Strategic Risk Register was produced external expectations and to: does not reflect an order of magnitude by way of a bottom up exercise of risk as regards their potential impact on the reviews conducted through discussions keep business activities aligned to Group.
The System of Internal Control in each of the Groups businesses.
The the strategic goals of the Group: and Risk section on pages 53 to 56 also top down exercise included meetings ensure activities remain of an sets out additional details of the of senior executives.
The output from appropriate scale relative to the governance framework and controls the aggregated results of these exercises underlying risk and reward: in place within the Groups businesses produces a list of principal risks that ensure risk-taking is supported by to monitor and control risk.
are reviewed and agreed by the Senior appropriate expertise and capabilities.
Management Team before being There have been no changes made to presented to, and discussed by, the Board.
the Groups strategic risk register in the last 12 months.
28 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Y T P I E C O I R P T L N E E E C N Investment Human Capital R A E B M L O E T M S E U N C T I. II.
V. KEY THEMATIC RISKS CUSTOMER CENTRICITY FINANCIAL HEALTH THE BIG PICTURE 2017 1.
Delays in completion of new strategic 2.
Increased competition due expansion projects due to contractor or to high private and public potential cash flow interruption and bad investments in the healthcare investment decisions may result in poor sector and to associated return on Investment ROI, decreased investments coming from margins and market share.
new entrants or existing player.
Failing to innovate and effectively deliver new services.
Inexperience of operating in new markets offerings leads to missed opportunity or SERVICES EXCELLENCE poor delivery.
A Data Security e. g. VVIP patient records breach due 4.
Potential inability to improve to either intentional malicious NMCs margin due to medical cyber-attack or unintentional inflation and pressure and data or system loss resulting bargaining from key in reputational damage, insurance providers.
operational disruption or regulatory breach.
Potential instability in revenue impairing cash flow 8.
Failure to comply with multi and working capital health regulatory and standards as a result of global and bodies requirements could regional demographic, result in financial fines, inability NMC macro economic and to renew licenses, as well Strategy geopolitical factors.
Failure to comply with opportunity or acquisitions internationally recognised through successful integration clinical care and quality strategies or through standards, clinical negligence, ineffective management the mis-diagnosis of medical structure or operating model.
conditions or pharmaceuticals and the supply of unfit products across both divisions.
Failure to retain acquire key professionals or inability to acquire sufficient Medical staff could potentially lead to inability to deliver required healthcare services and execute growth strategy.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 E C N F E I L N L A E N C C I X Technology Compliance Product Financial Macro-eco Competition A E L S H E E C I A V L R T E H S Strategic Report Risk Management continued Risk Class Description and Potential Impact Control & Mitigations Investment Bad decisions in relation to either acquisition Board oversight in approving and monitoring or organic growth investments or an inability strategic projects to appropriately execute integration or new Project management controls facility ramp-up plans may result in: Detailed market and business appraisal processes Lower Return on Investment ROI : Focus on integration pathway to improve Lower revenue than expected: Group revenue generation from intra-group Decreased margins and market share: business referrals and multi-brand Potential for impairment of assets: facility sharing Potential difficulty in raising future finance.
Strategy to acquire international know-how through acquisition plan Re-alignment of existing assets within the Groups hub and spoke model e. g. existing specialty hospitals feeding the regional NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City.
Competition Increased competition due to high private and Integrated Hub-Spoke model public investments in the UAE healthcare sector Growing healthcare network and associated investments coming from new Partnership with Government hospitals entrants or existing player partnerships would The development of international lead to market share loss and potential partnerships and use of increased knowreduction in access to future growth in UAE how gained through strategic growth plan healthcare spend.
Diversification of patient base Variety in service offerings.
Financial Failure to focus on innovation and technological Frequent monitoring of both fixed and advances and effectively deliver new services.
variable cost Inexperience of operating in new markets Synergy tracking and reporting offerings leads to missed opportunity or poor Acquiring the skills associated with the M&A service delivery.
transactions Strategy to target investment in innovation and future healthcare services development.
Financial Potential adverse effect NMCs margin as a Diversification of the revenue streams result of unexpected regulatory or cultural Increased collaboration between different changes affecting the provision of healthcare, group assets and businesses the basis of the healthcare insurance structure Frequent monitoring of both fixed and or increases in medical inflation and pricing variable cost pressure and bargaining from key insurance Good relationships with insurance providers providers in the Groups key markets, would Strategy to increase patient volumes and result in less profitability.
focus on clinical specialisms M&A Strategy in new markets.
Macro-economic Potential instability in revenue impairing cash UAE is a stable and booming market flow and working capital health as a result of to operate in global and regional demographic, macroDiverse business and revenue streams economic and geopolitical factors.
Long Term debt facilities and unutilised working capital limits Strong banking and supplier relationships.
Financial Failure to maximise the opportunity of Proper due diligence acquisitions though successful integration Post-acquisition integration plan strategies or through ineffective management Rigorous analysis of value of the acquisition structure or operating model may results in: Focus on the corporate cultures involved Executive committee reporting and targets Increased market and regulatory Synergy tracking and reporting legal obligations: Acquiring the skills associated with the Increased culture resistance and complexity M&A transactions.
in shifting the governance model from enterprise to corporate structure: Increased operational exposure due to the complexity of integrating higher number of spokes to centralised hub of excellence: Increased investment risk due to weak due diligence and other mitigates.
30 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. Risk Class Description and Potential Impact Control & Mitigations Technology A Data Security e. g. VIP patient records breach ISO 27001 certified framework for IT policies due to either intentional malicious cyber-attack and controls.
or unintentional data or system loss resulting in Strict measures towards clients data reputational damage, operational disruption or and records regulatory breach.
Investment in new Hospital Information System and ERP financial system approved by the Board and implementation in progress.
Compliance & Regulation Failure to comply with multi regulatory and Quality & Standards Department monitors standards bodies requirements could result in regulatory changes financial fines, inability to renew licenses, as well Partnership with government as NMC reputation damage.
Good relationships with regulators and accrediting organisations Continuous focus on delivering high levels of service.
Product & Service Failure to comply with internationally recognised Doctors subject to rigorous licensing clinical care and quality standards, clinical procedures which operate in the UAE negligence, the misdiagnosis of medical Healthcare division is a regulated business conditions or pharmaceuticals and the supply and five of the Groups principal hospitals of unfit products across both divisions could have achieved, or are in the process of result in regulatory sanction, licence removal, achieving, international quality significant reputational damage, loss of patient standards accreditation and customer confidence and potential Many aspects of the operation of the criminal proceedings.
Distribution division, including the sale of pharmaceuticals, is regulated in the UAE Board oversight and integrated governance structure Medical malpractice insurance to cover any awards of financial damages Continuous training and development programs.
Human Capital Failure to retain acquire key professionals Partnership with education institutes or inability to acquire sufficient Medical staff Effective sourcing strategies & recruitment could potentially lead to inability to deliver campaigns required healthcare services and execute Ongoing review of senior management growth strategy.
resources and succession plans in place for key positions Competitive salary packages, growth and good working conditions act as a good retention tool Clear career path for staff and continuous training and development programs.
As recommended by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered a formal long-term assessment of the prospects and viability of the Group.
As part of this assessment, the Board considered the potential impact of three principal risk themes facing the Group.
The Boards viability statement is set out on pages 83 to 85.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31
