Fidessa group plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report continued Risk factors and uncertainties There are a number of potential risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on Fidessas operations, its financial results or the value and liquidity of its securities.
During the year the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Fidessa, including those that threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and the table below identifies the known principal risks: the table is not intended to be exhaustive and the principal risks are not listed in any particular order.
Whilst there has been no material change to Fidessas risk profile from previous years, the appearance of the principal risks in this Annual Report have been revised to reflect more closely the underlying risk register and risk management processes.
As was the case last year, continued focus has been given during the year to the dynamic nature of cyber threats faced by businesses.
Consideration has also been given to the risks arising from regional changes such as Brexit and the change in the US administration in 2017.
The Board believes that the global nature of trading processes and infrastructure and of Fidessas trading platforms make it less susceptible to the effects of such regional changes.
There may also be risks that are not currently considered to be serious or which are currently unknown.
Where reasonably possible, Fidessa has taken steps to manage or mitigate the risks, or potential risks, but it cannot entirely safeguard against all of them.
Additionally, and where feasible, Fidessa has purchased reasonable levels of insurance, including cyber liability cover, to mitigate against the financial exposure arising from known or potential risk.
The Board considers its risk assessment processes to be robust and comprehensive.
Further details of its internal control and risk management systems are set out in the Directors and Corporate Governance Report.
Potential impact Principal risk Type Description on Fidessa How the risk is mitigated Operational Cybersecurity Fidessa relies upon A major Fidessa reviews and improves its systems and risk risk the confidentiality, cybersecurity event processes in order to mitigate the risk of a integrity and causing loss of cybersecurity event.
These systems and availability of its availability or loss of processes include: IT systems both customer data could management of cybersecurity controls and internally and as limit Fidessas governance.
part of its hosted operations, expose periodically commissioning independent service offering to Fidessa to liability, consultants to carry out threat assessments.
negatively impact Results are reported to the Audit Committee Cybersecurity profit and cash flow together with progress in implementing any events are occurring in the short term key recommendations.
more frequently and and cause awareness programmes designed to educate attacks are reputational staff on cybersecurity risk and controls.
annual penetration testing with an accredited greater complexity.
managing the patching of IT system assets as part of the Technical Vulnerability Management processes.
incident management processes to deal with cybersecurity events.
annual testing of business continuity plans for each business unit and major sites.
security controls to mitigate the risk of a malware outbreak.
Assurance over mitigating cybersecurity controls is provided in part through the existing external annual SSAE16 18 audit.
Fidessa has cybersecurity insurance in place to mitigate the risk of a cybersecurity event.
Fidessa group plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Potential impact Principal risk Type Description on Fidessa How the risk is mitigated Operational Compliance General compliance Non-compliance Fidessa reviews the impact of new information risk with with regulatory and could expose security regulations and legislations on Fidessa information contractual Fidessa to liability, and its customers.
The output of these reviews security information security negatively impact influences the design of Fidessas products, requirements requirements.
profit and cash flow services and controls.
in the short term Fidessa delivers awareness programmes to staff and cause to highlight the potential impacts arising from reputational these changes with business units.
Employee Fraud, theft or other Could limit Fidessas New employees are subject to background action disruptive actions operations, expose checks.
Employees are requested to complete an by employees.
Fidessa to liability, annual compliance training programme.
negatively impact Access controls and reviews are in place.
Systems profit and cash flow and processes are in place to protect against data in the short term loss.
Any incidents are managed in accordance and cause with the incident management processes.
Data loss Loss of sensitive Could expose Systems and processes are in place to protect customer or Fidessa to liability, against data loss, including data loss prevention employee data.
profit and cash flow Measures are in place that are designed to ensure in the short term logical segregation to protect applicable data.
Software or Software bugs or Could expose Fidessa designs its systems and infrastructure algorithm lack of availability Fidessa to liability, to provide both resilience and an uninterrupted errors or lack of hosted services negatively impact service.
of service including loss of profit and cash flow Fidessas software development lifecycle includes availability market access or in the short term following coding practices, quality assurance and causing loss of market data and cause testing and are audited as part of Fidessas trading loss may cause trading reputational ISO9001 accreditation.
Critical incident and problem management processes are in place and are audited as part of Fidessas ISO9001 accreditation.
Professional indemnity insurance is in place.
Service Inability to deploy Could expose Fidessa has a proven track record of delivering deployment customer Fidessa to liability, successful projects and applies the resources and delays or requirements for negatively impact expertise to meet contractual requirements in a nonservices to comply profit and cash flow timely manner.
compliance with contractual in the short term with requirements in a and cause requirements timely manner.
Fidessa group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report continued Potential impact Principal risk Type Description on Fidessa How the risk is mitigated Operational Risk of loss Loss of key Could harm Fidessa endeavours to ensure that key employees risk of key employees who Fidessas ability to are remunerated appropriately and has employees carry out critical provide products programmes in place designed to ensure key activities across and services, expose talent is appropriately managed including career the business.
Fidessa to liability, and succession planning.
negatively impact profit and cash flow in the short term and cause reputational damage.
Natural An earthquake, Could expose Fidessa has business continuity plans for its disaster hurricane or other Fidessa to liability, business units and each major site.
These plans natural disaster negatively impact are tested annually.
could impact profit and cash flow In certain locations Fidessa has insurance in place Fidessas ability to in the short term to mitigate the potential impact should a natural provide its services.
Strategic risk Intellectual Fidessas intellectual If Fidessa infringes Fidessas staff are made aware of client property property IP is a third partys confidentiality requirements and continued infringement centred around the intellectual property training reinforces it.
and or software and rights it could, Fidessa monitors the use of third-party software.
litigation services it develops expose Fidessa to for customers.
liability, negatively Fidessa engages external legal advice where Fidessa has to impact profit and necessary.
manage the risk of cash flow in the Fidessa seeks, wherever possible, to put in place infringing a third short term and its own patent portfolio for reasons including partys intellectual cause reputational defensive purposes in the event of an allegation property rights in damage.
its development of software and Insurance is in place to mitigate the risk of services.
If a third party Access and security controls are in place to infringes Fidessas protect intellectual property.
intellectual property Employment and consultancy contracts have rights it can expose clauses to protect intellectual property.
the Group to competitive or Background checks are performed on employees.
Investment Fidessas Could negatively Fidessa undertakes strategic reviews using decisions investment impact profit and customer and market intelligence to support decisions may not cash flow in the its decision making processes.
short term and cause reputational damage.
Fidessa group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Potential impact Principal risk Type Description on Fidessa How the risk is mitigated Macroeconomic Events Instability of the Could harm Fidessas business model generates a high level of risk occurring financial system, Fidessas revenue, recurring revenue, which lessens the immediate that are market disruptions profit, growth and effect of downturns in end markets or competitor outside of or suspensions.
cash flow over a markets or competitor actions.
In addition, Fidessas sustained period.
Fidessa is a global business which provides Material downturn control resilience against regional recession.
in the financial Could result in cost markets or and disruption to Fidessas service line structure together with economic Fidessas business.
regular dialogue with customers and research recession.
and marketing activities help provide focus to Could result in maintain a competitive advantage.
The insolvency, damage to Fidessas closure, reputation or consolidation or financial loss if rationalisation of customers do not parts of Fidessas renew their customer base.
Financial risk Risk of fraud Unauthorised Could harm System and review controls are in place relating or theft access or misuse of Fidessas revenue, to the purchase to pay process and access is Fidessas bank profit, growth and restricted to bank accounts and is regularly accounts leads to cash flow.
Exchange Material detrimental Could harm There is a documented treasury policy which is rate movements in Fidessas revenue, reviewed and approved annually to mitigate fluctuations foreign exchange profit, growth and currency risk.
cash flow over a sustained period.
Legal and NonFidessa has to Non-compliance Fidessa has a dedicated compliance team that compliance risk compliance comply with laws could, expose has established relationships with industry with laws and regulations Fidessa to liability, applicable regulators.
This team reviews new and applicable to the negatively impact draft and current regulatory and legislative regulations Fidessa group and profit and cash requirements, including, for example, MiFID II, design its products flow in the short and provides an impact assessment for the and services to term and cause products and services that the Group delivers meet laws and reputational to customers.
Fidessas internal processes and systems are applicable to its monitored with a view to ensuring compliance customers.
with applicable laws and regulations.
Processes are in place designed to ensure awareness of regulatory requirements and the relevant information is appropriately disseminated.
There are well established training and awareness activities.
In relation to bribery and corruption, Fidessa has an established set of anti-bribery policies a regular training and awareness programme and background checking.
