Strategic report Risk management During 2017, we have continued to evolve our risk management approach in support of our three lines of defence model.
Our risk governance, risk processes and risk infrastructure have continued to mature to ensure our management of risk considers existing and emerging challenges.
In 2018, we will maintain our approach and ensure that appropriate risk management is applied across the group to protect our stakeholders.
Risk culture Risk appetite We believe that an appropriate risk culture enhances the We define risk appetite as both the amount and type of risk the effectiveness of risk management.
The board is responsible for group is prepared to accept or retain in pursuit of our strategy.
setting the right tone and, through our senior management team, Our appetite is subject to regular review to ensure it remains encouraging characteristics and behaviours which support a aligned to our strategic goals.
Our risk appetite framework contains strong risk culture.
The consideration of risk is therefore accepted some overarching parameters, alongside specific primary and as being part of everyones day-to-day responsibilities and secondary measures for each principal risk.
At least annually, the activities.
Risk management is linked to performance and board, executive committee and group risk committee will development, as well as to the groups remuneration and reward formally review and approve the group's risk appetite statement schemes.
The purpose of this is to create an open and transparent and assess whether the firm has operated in accordance with the working environment, encouraging employees to engage stated risk appetite measures during the year.
Notwithstanding positively in risk management and support the effective the continued expectations for business growth, along with a achievement of our strategic objectives.
strategic and regulatory change programme for 2018, the board remains committed to having a relatively low overall appetite for risk, ensuring that our internal controls mitigate risk to appropriate Three lines of defence levels.
The board recognises that the business is susceptible to We continue to apply a three lines of defence model to support fluctuations in investment markets and has the potential to bear our risk management framework, with responsibility and losses from financial and operational risks from time-to-time, accountability for risk management broken down as follows: either as reductions in income or increases in operating costs.
First line: Senior management and operational business units are responsible for managing risks, by developing and maintaining Identification and profiling of effective internal controls to mitigate risk.
principal risks Second line: The risk, compliance and anti-money laundering Our risks are classified using a hierarchical approach.
The highest functions maintain a level of independence from the first line.
level Level 1 comprises financial, conduct and operational risks.
They are responsible for providing oversight and challenge of the The next level Level 2 contains 16 risk categories, each allocated to first lines day-to-day management, monitoring and reporting of a Level 1 risk.
Detailed risks Level 3 are then identified as sub-sets risks to both senior management and governing bodies.
Level 3 risks are captured and maintained within our group risk register, which is the principal tool for monitoring Third line: The internal audit function is responsible for providing risks.
We recognise that some Level 2 and Level 3 risks have independent assurance to both senior management and features which need to be considered under more than one Level 1 governing bodies as to the effectiveness of the groups risk, and this is facilitated in our framework through a system of governance, risk management and internal controls.
Our risk classification is regularly reviewed and takes a structured approach to the identification of all known material risks to the business and those emerging risks which may impact future performance.
Our risk exposures and overall risk profile are reviewed and monitored regularly, considering the potential impact, existing internal controls and management actions required to mitigate the impact of emerging issues and likelihood of future events.
To ensure we identify and manage our principal risks, reviews take place with risk owners, senior management and business units across the group.
The risk function conducts these reviews and risk workshops regularly during the year.
com 21 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 21 Risk management continued A watch list is maintained to record any current, emerging or Day-to-day, our risk assessment process considers both the impact future issues, threats, business developments and regulatory or and likelihood of risk events which could materialise, affecting the legislative change, which will or could have the potential to impact delivery of strategic goals and annual business plans.
A top-down the firms current or future risk profile and therefore may require and bottom-up approach ensures that our assessment of key risks active risk management, usually through process changes or is challenged and reviewed on a regular basis.
The board and systems development.
The groups risk profile, risk register and executive committee receive regular reports and information from watch list are regularly reviewed by the executive committee, senior management, operational business units, risk oversight senior management, board and group risk committee.
functions and specific risk committees.
We assess risks using a 14 scoring system.
Each Level 3 risk is The executive committee, group risk committee and other key rated by assessing the inherent likelihood of its occurrence in a risk-focused committees consider the risk assessments and five-year period and the associated impact.
A residual risk score provide challenge, which is reported through the governance and overall risk rating of high, medium, low or very low is then framework and ultimately considered by the board.
derived for the five-year period by taking into account an assessment of the internal control environment or insurance Profile and mitigation of principal risks mitigation.
The assessment of our control environment, As explained above, our risks are classified hierarchically in a carried out by senior management within the firm, includes three-level model.
There are three Level 1 risks, 16 Level 2 risks and contributions from first, second and third line data, monitoring at Level 3 there are 44 risks, all of which form the basis of the and or assurance activity.
Our approach to managing risk continues to be underpinned by Risk assessment process an understanding of our current risk exposures and consideration The board and senior management are actively involved in a of how risks change over time.
continuous risk assessment process as part of our risk management framework, supported by the annual Internal Capital The underlying risk profile and ratings for the majority of Level 2 Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Internal Liquidity risks have remained consistent during 2017.
However, there have Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP work, which assesses the been some changes to risk ratings and the following table principal risks facing the group.
summarises the most important of these.
Stress tests include consideration of the impact of a number of Based upon the risk assessment processes identified above, the severe but plausible events that could impact the business.
The board believes that the principal risks and uncertainties facing work also takes account of the availability and likely effectiveness the group have been identified.
These reflect the impact of of mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the strategic and regulatory change in the year including, for example, impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
MiFID II Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
The board remains vigilant to the risks associated with the pension schemes deficit and the sub-letting of vacant office space in London.
Otherwise, the board continues to believe that the other key risks to the business are operational risks that arise from growth and regulatory risks that may arise from continual changes to rules and standards in our sector.
22 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 22 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Our overall risk profile and control environment are described Emerging risks and threats below.
The board receives assurance from first line senior Emerging risks, including legislative and regulatory change, management that the systems of internal control are operating have the potential to impact the group and its strategy.
These risk effectively and from the activities of the second line and third line factors are monitored through our watch list.
During the year, that there are no material control issues which would affect the the executive committee continued to recognise a number of boards view of its principal risks and uncertainties.
emerging risks and threats to the financial services sector as a In line with current guidance, we also include in the tables the whole and to our business.
We also recognise that the risk profile potential impacts I the firm might face and our assessment of the associated with outsourced activities can change over time and likelihood L of each principal risk crystallising in the event it this will be an area of continued focus in 2018. materialises.
These assessments take into account the controls in In addition to the groups view that we can reasonably expect place to mitigate the risks.
However, as is always the case, should a current market conditions and uncertainties to remain throughout risk materialise, a range of outcomes both in scale and type might 2018, other developing risks include, for example, cyber threats, be experienced.
This is particularly relevant for firms such as regulatory change and scenarios potentially arising from Rathbones where the outcome of a risk event can be influenced geopolitical developments, including Brexit.
by market conditions as well as internal control factors.
We are monitoring the potential consequences of Brexit very We have used ratings of high, medium and low in this risk closely.
Our current assessment is that the direct impacts of Brexit assessment.
We perceive as high-risk items those which have are manageable given our largely UK based business model.
the potential to impact the delivery of strategic objectives, However, we are conscious that the position might change and with mediumand low-rated items having proportionately could raise unexpected challenges and also that second order less impact on the firm.
Likelihood is similarly based on a effects might have broader impacts on the UK economy as a whole.
Risk change Ref Risk Description of change in 2017 D Pension The schemes valuation and funding deficit decreased materially due to the closure of the schemes during the year with a significant number of members transferring benefits out of the schemes.
However, this still remains an important risk for the firm to manage.
Our forward-looking risk assessment increased during the year, largely reflecting regulatory F Performance and drivers.
In addition to changes delivered in 2017, we plan to improve our processes further in advice 2018, including how we take on clients and our approach to assessing suitability.
G Regulatory Our risk assessment recognises the extent of regulatory change implemented in 2017, which continues into 2018, including, for example, MiFID II optimisation and GDPR.
K Data Integrity and We have increased our risk rating in this area based on our assessment of the increasing security external threat profile, despite continuing investment in technology improvements.
Although still regarded as a medium risk, our forward-looking risk assessment increased O People during the year, reflecting industry-wide trends.
We also recognise the importance of addressing the drivers behind our gender pay gap over the coming years.
com 23 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 23 Risk management continued Financial risks Residual rating Ref Level 2 risk I L How the risk arises Control environment A Credit Low Low This risk can arise from placing Banking committee oversight funds with other banks and Counterparty limits and credit reviews The risk that one or more holding interest-bearing Treasury policy and procedures counterparties securities.
There is also a Active monitoring of exposures fail to fulfil contractual limited level of lending to Client loan policy and procedures obligations, including stock clients Annual ICAAP settlement Banking committee oversight B Liquidity Low Low This risk can arise through dayto-day operations in so far as a Daily treasury procedures, reconciliations and The risk of having insufficient reporting to senior management financial resources to meet significant proportion of client funds could be withdrawn in Cash flow forecasting obligations as they fall due, or Contingency funding plan that to secure access to such a short time period and marketable assets may not be Annual ILAAP including stress testing resources would be at an excessive cost realised in time and at the value required Banking committee oversight C Market Low Low This risk can arise through two primary areas: the exposure to Documented policies and procedures The risk that regulatory own Daily monitoring of interest rates, exchange funds will be adversely mismatch between repricing of the firms own financial rates, maturity mismatch and extent of affected by changes in the marketable assets level or volatility of interest assets and liabilities and, to a lesser extent, transactional Robust application of policy and investment rates, foreign currency limits exchange rates or market foreign exchange risk prices D Pension High High This risk can arise through a Board, senior management and trustee oversight The risk that the cost of sustained deficit between the schemes assets and liabilities.
Monthly valuation estimates funding our defined benefit Triennial independent actuarial valuations pension schemes increases, A number of factors impact a deficit, including increased life Investment policy or their valuation affects Senior management review and defined dividends, reserves and expectancy, falling interest rates and falling equity prices management actions capital Annual ICAAP Further detailed discussion of the groups exposures to financial risks is included in note 31 to the financial statements.
24 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 24 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Conduct risks Residual rating Ref Level 2 risk I L How the risk arises Control environment E Business model Med Med This risk can arise from Board and executive oversight strategic decisions which fail to A documented strategy The risk that the business consider the current operating Annual business targets, subject to regular model does not respond in an environment, or can be review and challenge optimal manner to changing influenced by external factors Regular reviews of pricing structure market conditions such that such as material changes in Continued investment in the investment sustainable growth, market regulation or legislation within process, service standards and marketing share or profitability is the financial services sector Trade body participation adversely affected Regular competitor benchmarking and analysis F Performance and advice Med Med This risk can arise through a Investment governance and structured committee oversight The risk that clients receive failure to appropriately understand the wealth Management oversight and segregated quality inappropriate financial, trust assurance and performance teams or investment advice, management needs of our clients and a failure to apply Performance measurement and attribution inadequate documentation or analysis unsuitable portfolios, resulting suitable advice or investment strategies, along with having Know your client KYC suitability processes in a failure to meet clients Weekly investment management meetings investment and or other inadequate tools and systems in place to support our clientInvestment manager reviews through objectives or expectations supervisor sampling facing financial professionals Compliance monitoring Board and executive oversight G Regulatory High Med This risk can arise from failures by the business to comply Active involvement with industry bodies The risk of failure by the Compliance monitoring programme to examine group or a subsidiary to fulfil with existing regulation or failure to identify and react the control of key regulatory risks regulatory requirements and Separate anti-money laundering role with comply with the introduction to regulatory change specific responsibility of new, or changes to existing, Oversight of industry and regulation regulatory developments Documented policies and procedures Staff training and development Staff training and development H Reputational Med Low This risk can arise due to a variety of reasons, primarily Board and executive oversight The risk of reputational Strong corporate values and approach to within Rathbones.
These could damage from financial and include the conduct of the governance non-financial events or from Positive culture regarding risk and regulation, company or its employees, or failing to meet stakeholders the service or products supported by appropriate remuneration expectations practices provided to clients Appropriate emphasis on the control environment through the three lines of defence Proactive and positive communications with key stakeholders Crisis response plan Monitoring of company performance relative to competitors rathbones.
com 25 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 25 Risk management continued Operational risks Residual rating Ref Level 2 risk I L How the risk arises Control environment I Business change Med Low This risk can arise if the Executive and board oversight of material business is too aggressive and change programmes The risk that the planning or unstructured in its change Group project programme board implementation of change is programme to manage project Dedicated project office function, use of ineffective or fails to deliver risks, resource capacity and internal and, where required, external subject desired outcomes, the capabilities to deliver business matter experts impact of which may lead to benefits.
The firm also Documented business plans and IT strategy unmitigated financial recognises the risks associated Two-stage assessment, challenge and exposures with its office move in London, approval of project plans which will lead to the subDocumented project and change procedures letting of some premises Active marketing of vacant space Group business continuity committee J Business continuity Med Low This risk can arise from the business failing to effectively oversight The risk that an internal or Documented crisis incident management external event results in control and administer its core operating systems, manage and disaster recovery plans either failure of, or detriment Regular disaster recovery testing to, core business processes current and future resource requirements or maintain Continuous monitoring of IT systems or services availability appropriate security of its infrastructure Off-site data centre Data security committee oversight K Data integrity and security Med Med This risk can arise from the firm failing to maintain and Data protection policy and procedures The risk of a lack of integrity System access controls and encryption of, inappropriate access to or keep secure at all times sensitive and confidential data Penetration testing and multi-layer disclosure of client or network security company-sensitive through its operating infrastructure, including the Training and employee awareness information programmes activities of employees and cyber threats Physical security Executive oversight L Fraud Med Low This risk can arise from failures to implement appropriate Documented policies and procedures The risk of fraudulent action, Segregation of duties between front and either internal or external, management controls to detect or mitigate impropriety, back office being taken against the System authority and payment limits group or a subsidiary either within or external to the business and services System access controls Training and employee provided awareness programmes Executive oversight M Legal Med Low This risk can arise from inappropriate behaviour of Retained specialist legal advisers The risk of legal action being Routine control of risks which might lead to taken against the group or a individuals or from the inadequate drafting of the litigation if adverse outcomes are experienced subsidiary or failure to by clients or other third parties comply with legislative firms contractual documentation Documented policies and procedures requirements, resulting in Training and employee awareness programmes financial loss and reputational damage 26 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 26 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Residual rating Ref Level 2 risk I L How the risk arises Control environment N Outsourcing Med Low This risk can arise due Executive oversight to significant unknown Supplier due diligence and regular The risk of one or more third operational changes at key financial reviews parties failing to provide or outsourced relationships, or Active relationship management, including perform outsourced services a material change to their regular service review meetings to standards expected by business model, which affects Service level agreements and monitoring the group, impacting the their ability to provide the of key performance indicators ability to deliver core services required services Compliance monitoring over regulated for Rathbones activities Executive oversight O People Med Med This risk can arise across all areas of the business as a Succession and contingency planning The risk of loss of key staff, Transparent, consistent and competitive lack of skilled resources and result of resource management failures or remuneration schemes inappropriate behaviour or Contractual clauses with restrictive covenants actions.
This could lead to from external factors such as increased competition or Continual investment in staff training lack of capacity or capability and development threatening the delivery of material changes in regulation Employee engagement survey business objectives, or Appropriate balanced performance behaviour leading to measurement system complaints, regulatory action or litigation Authorisation limits and management oversight P Processing Low Med This risk can arise from the failure of management to Dealing limits and supporting system controls The risk that the design or Active investment in automated processes execution of implement and control operational processes and Counter-review four-eyes processes client financial settlement Segregation of duties transaction processes systems to support the volumes of transactions Documented procedures including dealing activity Annual controls assessment are inadequate or fail to processed on a daily basis ISAE3402 report deliver an appropriate level of service and protection to client or company assets rathbones.
com 27 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 27 Risk management continued Assessment of the companys prospects Viability statement The board prepares or reviews its strategic plan annually, In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board completing the ICAAP and ILAAP work which form the basis for has assessed the prospects and viability of the group over a threecapital planning and regular discussion with the Prudential year period taking into account the risk assessments which are Regulation Authority PRA.
based upon a five-year period as detailed above.
The directors have taken into account the firms current position and the During the year, the board has considered a number of stress tests potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties set out and scenarios which focus on material or severe but plausible above.
As part of the viability statement, the directors confirm that events that could impact the business and companys financial they have carried out a robust assessment of both the principal position.
The board also considers the plans and procedures in risks facing the group, and stress tests and scenarios that would place in the event that contingency funding is required to threaten the sustainability of its business model, future replenish regulatory capital.
On a monthly basis, critical capital performance, solvency or liquidity.
projections and sensitivities have been refreshed and reviewed, taking into account current or expected market movements and The board considers five-year projections as part of its annual business developments.
regulatory reporting cycle, which includes strategic and investment plans and its opinion of the likelihood of risks The boards assessment considers all the principal risks identified materialising.
However, given the uncertainties associated with by the group and assesses the sufficiency of our response to all predicting the future impact of investment markets on the Pillar 1 risks credit, market and operational risks to the required business over this longer period, the directors have determined regulatory standards.
In addition, the following risks were focused that a three-year period to 31 December 2020 continues to on for enhanced stress testing: equity market risk, interest rate risk, constitute an appropriate period over which to provide its viability a loss of business competition risk, business expansion risk and statement.
This is more closely aligned to its detailed capital pension obligation risk.
The group considers the possible impacts of serious business Stress testing analysis shows that under scenarios such as a 45% interruption as part of its operational risk assessment process and fall in FTSE 100 levels or a 0% interest rate environment, the group remains mindful of the importance of maintaining its reputation.
would remain profitable and is able to withstand the impact of Although the business is almost wholly UK-situated, it does not such scenarios.
An example of a mitigating action in such suffer from any material client, geographical or counterparty scenarios would be a reduction in dividend.
Based on this assessment, the directors confirm that they have a Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that the group reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue may face, the directors consider that this stress testing-based in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period assessment of the groups prospects is reasonable in the to 31 December 2020. circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
28 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 28 Strategic report Our performance rathbones.
