Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Risk management Approach to risk management Risk management is reinforced by the Groups continuous The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is process to design and embed strong internal controls across effectively managed across the Group.
The primary method the business as we grow, particularly in relation to smaller by which risks are monitored and managed is through the breadth business areas.
The Groups internal control monthly Executive Committee meetings.
The subject of risk framework is aligned to a three lines of defence model.
is included on each monthly agenda and any significant new Operational management is the organisations first line of risks or change in status to existing significant risks is defence as they are primarily responsible for the direct discussed and actions taken as appropriate.
management of risk and ensuring that appropriate mitigating controls are in place and that they are operating effectively.
The Group operates a cautious approach to risk and its risk The second line is formed by the Groups internal compliance appetite is relatively low.
The open culture which is embedded and oversight functions such as company secretariat, finance, throughout Rightmove is such that objective views are made tax, treasury and legal.
The third line includes both internal and when assessing risks and internal controls, dialogue is external audit reporting to the Audit Committee.
encouraged, and decisions are not made until risks have been appropriately considered.
The Audit Committee receives and analyses regular reports from management and the outsourced internal audit function On a bi-annual basis, risk is reviewed by operational on matters relating to risk and control and reviews the management across each business area.
This review includes timeliness and effectiveness of corrective action taken by a detailed assessment of new and existing identified risks, the management.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board likelihood of each risk occurring and the potential impact, also considers the findings and recommendations of its together with controls and mitigating procedures in place.
external auditor throughout the year to design and implement This information is combined to form a consolidated risk effective financial controls.
Further detail of these activities are register which is reported to the Executive Committee for included within the Audit Committee report on pages 38 to 43. review and challenge, ahead of final review and approval by the Board.
A nominated director has responsibility for each risk.
The Board reviewed the risk register at both the February 2017 and November 2017 Board meetings, with a particular focus on the principal risks identified and any new or emerging risks.
Risk management framework Board Audit Committee Executive Committee Internal controls External audit and and compliance outsourced internal audit activities Risk register and risk review Operational management Rightmove plc annual report 2017 21
