Fidessa group plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Fidessas approach to risk management includes the Approach to risk management Overall responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of the identification, analysis, management and mitigation of those risks that might threaten Fidessas operations, internal controls and risk management systems across the Fidessa group rests with the Board.
The primary method financial results, the value and liquidity of its securities or its reputation.
Each risk is weighted based on its likelihood by which risks are monitored and managed is through the Operating Board, which comprises the Chief Executive, and impact of occurrence and in considering the degree to which a risk is to be mitigated Fidessa takes into account Chief Financial Officer and seven other regional, service line and business function heads.
Each risk is formally owned its statutory and contractual obligations.
and managed by a member of the Operating Board.
The Operating Board is responsible for the identification and management of risks and this is overseen and managed by Risk management framework the Governance, Risk and Compliance Committee which is chaired by the Group General Counsel and comprises the Chief Financial Officer and other senior managers from Audit Committee Board across Fidessa.
The Governance, Risk and Compliance Committee reports on its activities to the Audit Committees as depicted in the chart that follows.
Governance, The Operating Board meets ten times a year with the risk External Risk and Operating register being reviewed at least three times a year.
The Audit Compliance Board subject of risk is also included in the Boards papers with Committee the Board being notified as to whether there are any significant new risks or changes in status of existing risks.
In addition there are regular formal reviews of the risks Risk register Internal Operational and facing the business conducted by the Audit Committee Audit Management risk review on behalf of the Board.
The Audit Committee reports its findings in relation to risk to the Board.
