Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if certain risks are taken and managed effectively.
We have listed below the key risks that affect our business, although there are other lower level risks that occur and impact the Groups performance which are also actively managed through our risk management framework.
Strategic Risks Risk Response 2018 Plans Volatility in the chemicals and polymers market The global chemicals and polymers The Group maintains a balanced portfolio of Our acquisition strategy continues to markets are inherently volatile affecting products serving a wide range of end markets target expansion in new geographic volumes and margins and may adversely around the globe.
Segment performance at regions and also adjacent speciality affect the results of the Group.
business unit level is closely monitored and chemicals businesses to help us corrective actions are taken as necessary.
1 4 V New product development continues todiversify the Groups risk.
Competition and failure to innovate Our markets are highly competitive and The Group continues to invest in enhancing We have strengthened our business the Group could lose market share to existing products and developing new development teams and expect further other producers of speciality chemicals or products through our R&D programme and projects and new product releases to to other products that can be substituted also our acquisition strategy includes bring competitive advantage.
Our global for the products of the Group.
technologies that are new to the Group.
Customer Relationship Management system CRM will enable our sales teams V 1 3 to better identify and secure opportunities.
Our technical services teams work with our customers to understand and anticipate their future needs and to help them drive efficiencies Our integrated business planning process in their own manufacturing process.
will enable further efficiencies in manufacturing processes and costs.
All sites operate quality management systems including assurance processes to ensure the quality of products meets agreed standards.
Intellectual property The value of the Group is dependent The Group has a dedicated team Where appropriate we patent all onour ability to identify and secure our formanagement of IP and protects intellectual property in products, own intellectual property and ensure we itsintellectual property through an processes and technologies.
do not breach third parties intellectual activepatent programme and monitoring property rights which could lead to forinfringements.
We will continue to improve our IT reputational damage.
Governance to secure IP held within ourplant and ERP systems to protect 1 itfrom theft or unauthorised use.
Manufacturing capacity Enhancements to our plants to We have a robust capital appraisal process We have announced three significant  capacity inplace to assess proposed projects to capacity enhancements that will totakeadvantage of growth markets ensure they deliver value which includes delivervolume in late 2018 early 2019. aredependent on project management.
regular reporting to the Board.
Project Poor execution of our various projects Excellence methodology is in place for all Our Project Excellence methodology is could impact on our ability to deliver the significant CAPEX projects and is subject being rolled out across all of our projects capacity enhancements.
The outcome of in 2018. completed projects with costs in excess V 4 of 1m arereviewed by the Audit Committee.
Return on Invested Capital ROIC for oursignificant capital projects is being introduced to the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP performance measures in2018.
34 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Link to strategy Change in risk Research and development and technical Capacity utilisation No change 3 1 expertise to exploit newmarkets Investment in capacity Increase 4 Driving efficiency and excellence 2 Business growth through acquisition Decrease 5 through operations Sensitivity for risk made in assessing viability V Read more on pages 18-19 Risk Response 2018 Plans Acquisition strategy The Groups strategic plan involves Executive management has extensive M&A activity will continue to be closely significant M&A activity to grow our experience of successful M&A transactions scrutinised and challenged by the Board.
There is a risk that we identify including integration of the acquired business.
the wrong targets, pay too high a price, We will increase the efficiency of our fail to integrate acquired assets and External advice is used to help identify existing processes and continue to invest driveplanned synergies, or encounter targets, prepare bids and incisive due in our ERP systems to enable smoother performance, funding and cashflow diligence.
issues and potentially unknown liabilities.
Detailed integration plans are prepared Ongoing review of acquisition process 5 as part of the due diligence exercise.
and implementation of lessons learned to future transactions.
Operational Risks Risk Response 2018 Plans Safety, health and environment SHE The chemical industry is inherently Synthomer operates a central safety audit Our Group SHE audits will continue to dangerous involving the safe transport, function dedicated to SHE issues and it focus on higher risk areas including storage and manufacture of hazardous provides advice to, and monitors, our sites process safety.
We will make further chemicals.
Failure to manage the impact to enable continuous improvement across progress on our long term ambition onour staff, manufacturing sites and the all major SHE areas.
Increasingly the focus toimplement a proactive approach to environment of these risks could lead to is on process safety risk to mitigate the risk maintenance as a preventable measure.
regulatory fines, reputational damage and of major incidents.
We will focus specifically on completing Maintenance programmes are undertaken the actions from our Process Hazard 2 to mitigate the risks.
Volatility in raw material prices Volatility in the prices of our key raw The Group actively manages margins and is Strategic raw material sourcing teams materials can affect the profitability of the focused on recovering input cost increases willcontinue to broaden and strengthen Group and its working capital position.
supplier relationships and secure contracts to enhance optionality in 2 3 volatileraw materials markets.
Incremental offsite storage facilities will be secured to both enhance security of supply and provide greater flexibility in sourcing key raw materials.
Loss or failure of a manufacturing site A site might be unable to operate, whether Crisis management procedures are in place We will continue to improve existing plans temporarily or longer term, due to a risk for all sites to respond to risk events which and develop overall business continuity event, including natural disaster, safety are reviewed and tested regularly.
plans including crisis management incident, failure of a key supplier or the response, disaster recovery for key supply chain, sabotage and cyber-attack, systems and data as well as longer Sourcing strategies are in place Group-wide and would have an adverse impact on termrecovery of operations.
to access multiple sources for key raw operations and business unit profitability.
materials and the Group works closely withkey suppliers to ensure availability.
2 3 V Single sourced materials are identified andinventory retained, where appropriate, to mitigate risk of supply chain failure.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 35 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational Risks continued Risk Response 2018 Plans Security of systems and sites We are reliant on various systems to run our Network intrusion detection and prevention Further security processes and business.
As the frequency, sophistication has been strengthened with all computers procedures targeted at these areas are and effect of cyber-attacks continues to now protected with a consistent antibeing implemented in 2018 including growacross the world, all of our systems, virusproduct.
industrial control systems isolation and including our industrial control systems, secure third party remote access.
Vulnerability assessments and penetration Enterprise Resource Planning ERP, and testing is performed to identify risks in our We will increase our IT resilience communications could be targeted.
Wecould networks and mitigating actions required throughrefreshed testing of lose intellectual property and customer data tomeet the evolving threats.
which might undermine our competitive position or a cyber attack could leave one of Physical security standards will be our plants out of action or used for sabotage.
developed in consultation with our SHEteams and Chief Security Officer.
1 2 3 Compliance Risks Risk Response 2018 Plans Product quality Product quality and reliability is a key Technically qualified personnel and control The Group will continue to invest in element of our competitive position.
systems are in place around the Group to qualitycontrol systems and quality TheGroup may lose customers and ensure products meet agreed standards.
potentially be liable for damages for Synthomer has a Group-wide product anyquality issues.
2 The Group has a number of leading and lagging performance indicators which are reviewed monthly.
SHE regulation Failure to comply with extensive and Detailed safety, health and environmental Our Regulatory Affairs department will constantly evolving environmental, health processes are documented in operating ensure we comply with the REACH and safety laws and regulations could lead guidance which is updated and regulations throughout the European to significant fines, reputational damage communicated to staff on a regular basis.
Union and monitor changes in legal and loss of operating licences.
requirements in other jurisdictions to ensure we remain compliant.
2 Ethics The Group could suffer substantial All our key employees affirm their We plan to enhance the existing e-learning penalties, damage to reputation and understanding of the code of business modules with an improved monitoring othersanctions for any failure to control, conduct, covering corruption and antiprocess, refresher training, and roll out for example, anti-competitive behaviour, competitive business practices.
Malpractice of additional compliance areas.
We will bribery and corruption, or breaches of reporting and whistleblowing protection are implement a new sanctions screening trade sanctions.
New enhanced rules for similarly covered in the Group policy on product to reduce the risk of non-compliance.
data privacy in the European Union with protecting our reputation.
Group Legal and We are working to ensure our data privacy greater potential penalties could impact local management provide regular training framework including reporting of breaches the Group.
to targeted groups of employees.
meet the new legal requirements.
2 36 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Link to strategy Change in risk Research and development and technical Capacity utilisation No change 3 1 expertise to exploit newmarkets Investment in capacity Increase 4 Driving efficiency and excellence 2 Business growth through acquisition Decrease 5 through operations Sensitivity for risk made in assessing viability V Read more on pages 18-19 Financial Risks Risk Response 2018 Plans Financial market volatility A significant proportion of the Groups The Group has a policy of hedging all We will continue to hedge currency risks.
turnover and assets are in currencies significant foreign exchange transactional otherthan UK sterling and fluctuations in exposure at operating company level.
The We will continue to monitor our covenants currency exchange rates may significantly Group borrows a proportion of its funding as we pursue our M&A strategy and ensure impact the results of the Group.
in overseas currencies to hedge the net we pay the right price for acquisitions.
assets held in those currencies.
The Groups balance sheet and cash Pension deficits are expected to reduce flow, and also credit market conditions The Group closely monitors its operating over the longerterm as the Group pays and credit ratings, may restrict the ability cash flow and capital expenditure on a the additional contributions agreed with of the Group to obtain credit facilities or monthly basis and regularly reviews the Trustees in 2016.
The timescale will to refinance its existing debt facilities in covenant compliance.
be affected by movements in the financial the longer term.
markets and the discount rate.
The UK scheme was closed to future The Group has funding risks relating accrual in 2009 and additional contributions A Group-wide review of pension and todefined benefit pension scheme and careful asset management should otherlong term employee liabilities will obligations, the value of which are highly reduce the deficit over the longer term.
beundertaken in 2018. dependent on volatile financial markets.
Overseas schemes are reviewed annually by actuaries to ensure appropriate 2 5 V contributions are made and liabilities are recognised appropriately.
Viability statement In accordance with the provision of section C. 2.2 of the 2016 scenarios, linked to the risks considered to have the most revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors significant financial impact.
In all cases, the impact was have assessed the viability of the Group over a five-year period considered on both liquidity and borrowing covenants.
toDecember 2022, being the period covered by the Groups The scenarios included trading volatility, increased competition, approved strategic plan.
This plan, which is updated annually, delays in capacity improvement, failure of new products and includes analyses of product and profit performance, cash thetemporary loss of a major manufacturing site.
They also flow, investment programmes and returns to shareholders.
included significant foreign currency exchange rate or interest The Directors consider five years to be an appropriate time ratemovements risks, which are deemed to be outside the horizon for the strategic plan, being the period over which the control ofthe Group.
A combined sensitivity was also performed, Group actively focuses on its long term product development aggregating all of the scenarios considered.
The results took andcapital expenditure investments.
A period above five intoaccount the availability and likely degree of effectiveness years isconsidered by the Directors to be too long, given ofmitigating actions available.
the uncertainties that exist beyond this time frame.
While this sensitivity analysis did not consider all of the risks that In making their assessment, the Directors have considered the the Group may face, the Directors consider that it is reasonable Groups current strong financial position, including the existing inthe circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
committed bank facilities, which have been assumed to be Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a refinanced at maturity in July 2019. reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue Furthermore, a sensitivity analysis has been undertaken, inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five focusingon the impact of the principal risks detailed on pages 34 year period.
to 37 over the five year period.
The risks have been assessed fortheir potential impact on the Groups business model, future trading and funding structure.
The sensitivity analysis has considered a number of severe but plausible Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 37
