Risk management Managing risk Successful risk management is fundamental to achieving Synthomers strategy by facilitating good decision making, embracing opportunities and protecting our sites, systems, staff and other stakeholders.
Risk oversight Synthomer plc Board Audit Committee Executive management The Board is responsible for creating The Audit Committee is responsible Executive management are the framework for the Groups risk foroverseeing the management of responsible for the management of management to operate effectively theprincipal risks, controls and the our strategic, operational, compliance including setting the risk appetite and assurance processes.
and financial risks using the Risk risk tolerances.
This includes ensuring there are effective mitigating actions and controls in place.
Identification and assessment of risk Risk output We have a structured risk management framework operated Executive management and Group Functions conduct a atregional and Group level.
The Business Risk Assessment comprehensive independent assessment of the principal risks at Methodology defines a standard set of risk categories with Group level and record them in a risk register.
The Board reviews genericrisk descriptions to assist management in identifying areas and approves the Group risk register.
There is also a simple scoring methodology to quantify risk.
We rank risks, taking into account the mitigating controls in place, Each region undertakes a formal risk assessment and prepares by combining their economic, operational or reputational impact a register using the Business Risk Assessment Methodology.
and the likelihood that they may occur.
Risk management review and assurance We use a barrier based bow tie method to help management Group Risk Function define and assess the most critical risk events.
The method brings The Group Risk Function, an integral part of our Group Operations structure to the identification of hazards or risk events, potential Function, challenges the assumptions, risks identified, prioritisation causes of those hazards and the consequences of the hazard and mitigating actions in place or proposed.
The bow tie method also identifies barriers or controls inplace or needing to be developed to mitigate the likelihood of thethreats occurring or impact of the effects of the risk event.
Bow tie methodology A barrier based bow tie methodology is used to clearly show the relationship between the potential causes threats, consequences and controls barriers associated with undesired hazardous events.
Hazard Threat 1 Proactive barrier Proactive barrier Recovery barrier Recovery barrier Consequence Top event Threat 2 Proactive barrier Proactive barrier Recovery barrier Recovery barrier Consequence Escalation Escalation Escalation Escalation factor factor barrier factor barrier factor 32 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Assessment of principal risks Our key risks and assessment of their likelihood and potential impact are illustrated in the probability impact matrix opposite: Strategic 1 Volatility in the chemicals and polymers market 6 2 Competition and failure to innovate 3 Intellectual property 9 4 Manufacturing capacity expansion 1 13 5 Acquisition strategy 4 10 8 Operational 6 Safety, health and environment SHE 7 5 7 Volatility in raw material prices 11 2 8 Loss or failure of a manufacturing site 12 9 Security of systems and sites 3 Compliance 10 Product quality 11 SHE regulation 12 Ethics Financial 13 Financial Market Volatility Low Medium High Impact Reputational Financial Assurance providers Operational risks which, if not successfully managed, would Synthomer operates a three lines of defence model.
These relate to our ability to operate a ofdifferent internal assurance providers for example, Group SHE, sustainable and safe business.
ISO audits and Internal Audit review the effectiveness of the Compliance risks where a breach of regulations or laws could mitigating actions and controls.
External assurance is provided lead to fines from Regulators and reputational risk that may be byour Statutory Auditors and also by an external specialist in disproportionate to the size of the event leading to a breach.
Financial risks relating to the funding and fiscal security of theGroup.
Our key risks Risks affect us in many ways.
We identify the likelihood and potential The table on pages 34 to 37 shows more detail on the key risks impact of risks through our formal twice yearly risk assessment identified in 2017.
Our Board and management consider that these submissions and also more regularly through empowering pose the greatest threats to our business and they score highest on management to consider and react to risks.
These reviews, together our risk table.
They fall into categories that relate closely to our with our three line defence model, enable us to establish effective business model.
Not all risks facing Synthomer are listed and the controls to mitigate their effects.
risks are not listed in any order of priority.
We categorise our risks taking into account the effectiveness The nature of risk changes over time with new risks emerging and of mitigating actions and controls, in the following areas: the impact of others changing.
Our risk management and assurance programme can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that key risks are managed to an acceptable level.
Strategic risks that could prevent us from achieving our strategicobjectives.
The three lines of defence Board audit committee External Senior management Auditor 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Regulators Policies Risk Management Internal Audit E. g. HSE.
ICO, Procedures Financial Control CMA, FCA Management Controls Group SHE Regulatory Affairs Investors and rating Legal Department agencies Quality Functions that own Functions that oversee risks Functions that provide and managerisks independentassurance Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 33 Likelihood Less probable Possible Probable
