Principal risks and uncertainties The Group has this year formalised a three lines of defence model to provide a simple and effective way to enhance communication on risk management and control by clarifying essential roles and duties.
By ensuring that there is effective and sufficient control within each line, SIG management co-ordinates activity effectively to ensure that there are neither gaps in controls nor unnecessary duplications of coverage.
THE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence BUSINESS OPERATIONS OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS INTERNAL TO SIG EXTERNAL TO SIG FINANCIAL CONTROLS OTHER 3RD PARTY OWN & MANAGEMENT INTERNAL COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE MANAGE RISK CONTROLS AUDIT PROVIDERS RISK MANAGEMENT 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence BUSINESS OPERATIONS OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE Functions that own Functions that oversee or Functions that provide and manage risks who specialise in compliance independent assurance or the management of risk In SIG this includes local senior In SIG this includes Group management in operating companies Internal Audit.
In SIG this includes Financial and individual functions such as Sales Controllers, the Group Risk Manager and Operations.
Risks are assessed at both a gross and net level using an agreed risk RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK scoring methodology.
Each risk on the register is managed to an A comprehensive risk management framework is necessary to ensure acceptable level through a series of control activities identified by the that SIG is able to sufficiently manage its risks to deliver its threerisk owner and, in some instances, Group policies which are included year strategic plan.
The Board sets the strategy for the Group and in new starter inductions through online tools or implemented monitors performance in all key areas.
It also assesses and monitors through business as usual activities.
This includes policies such risk through implementation of the SIG risk management framework.
as those relating to fraud and theft, whistleblowing or gifts and During 2017 this framework was strengthened in several ways.
Where it is not possible to manage risks effectively framework is outlined below along with the improvements.
through existing controls, the risk owners identify actions to enhance The SIG risk management framework is based on identification of the control environment and allocate owners for each action with Group risks by the Group Executive Committee GEC.
These are followed up by the Group Risk Manager are aligned to the three-year strategic plan.
Each risk is owned by a and progress reported back to the GEC and Board.
Whilst the risk GEC member and sponsored by either the Chief Executive Officer process at the GEC takes place formally every 6 months, the GEC also or Chief Financial Officer who are also members of the Board.
This examines in detail an individual risk from the Group Risk Register on addition to the risk management framework in 2017 strengthened a monthly basis.
This addition to the risk management framework risk management in the Group.
in 2017 strengthened risk management in the Group.
Examples of risks reviewed in this way in 2017 include the Delivering the Change Agenda and the Working Capital and Cash Management risks.
42 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six Once the Group Risk Register process has been completed by ASSURANCE ACTIVITY the GEC, the Board reviews it to ensure that the right risks have Internal Audit bases its annual audit plan on the Group and individual been identified and that the controls framework is sufficient and operating company risk registers.
It also reviews all key controls in proportionate to the level of risk.
The overall process with the GEC each operating company on a two-year cycle.
Whilst most of the work and Board is now well established.
is performed by an in-house team of qualified auditors, expertise for specialist areas such as IT and change programmes is obtained In 2017 the Group has started to monitor Key Risk Indicators through a co-source arrangement.
The plan for 2018 includes a KRIs for the seven risks on the Group Risk Register.
KRIs are lead Group-wide review of controls over the supplier rebates process, indicators of risk, helping the Group to identify when a risk profile following the issues identified during the year.
KRIs can lead to implementation of additional measures to further manage risk or even prevent it from crystallising.
The audit team obtains updates from management on progress The KRIs are monitored on a monthly dashboard by the GEC and towards completion of agreed actions and tests the controls where shared with the Board on a quarterly basis.
As an example of a KRI, management consider that the actions are complete.
The status of the Group monitors developing market conditions by tracking the management agreed actions is monitored on a monthly basis by Purchasing Managers Index a recognised measure of construction the Chief Financial Officer and on a quarterly basis by the GEC and sector economic health in specific countries.
The impact on the local risks of internal audit findings is assessed by management.
A similar process occurs at the operating company level where the risk register comprises risks based on the local Medium Term Plans Whilst independent assurance on control activity comes from Group MTP which are aligned to the Group strategy.
Local management Internal Audit, second lines of defence provide additional comfort teams take into account Group risks during the risk identification to management that controls are designed appropriately and are process.
Local Key Risk Indicators are monitored by each operating working effectively.
Examples include the programme of branch visits company management team.
by the Health and Safety team or the Controls Self-Assessment for key controls.
PRINCIPAL RISKS 4 The matrix opposite illustrates the seven principal risks identified by the Board as having a potential material impact on the Group.
The risks have been plotted by net impact and likelihood after taking account of mitigating 3 4 actions.
The risks are described in detail in the table on 3 6 1 2 pages 44 and 45.
5 7 1 DELIVERING THE CHANGE AGENDA 2 SYSTEMS AND DATA QUALITY 2 3 ACCESS TO FINANCE 4 WORKING CAPITAL AND CASH MANAGEMENT 5 MARKET CONDITIONS 1 6 HEALTH AND SAFETY 7 SUPPLIER REBATE INCOME 1 2 3 4 LIKELIHOOD DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017 IMPROVEMENTS PLANNED FOR 2018 A number of developments for the management of risk have taken SIG will continue to improve its risk management processes with a place in the year.
The highlights are: number of initiatives: Detailed focus at GEC and Board of specific strategic risks to Implementation of new systems in operating companies as promote risk awareness and management.
Hiring of an experienced Director of Risk and Internal Audit to Creation of a Group data warehouse to improve Group reporting.
support and develop Group-wide risk management.
Development of a risk assurance map to identify assurance gaps Approval of a new IT strategy, including a plan to enhance and inefficiencies.
Roll-out of the new key controls framework.
The introduction of a Portfolio Management Review Board to The Board monitors approximately 18 risks on the Group Risk Register prioritise IT resource and identify and manage project risks.
which includes risks which are significant but not considered to be The establishment of an information and data forum to improve principal, such as relating to legislative breaches or cybersecurity.
The key controls and planned future actions for all of the risks on the A Group-wide revision of the controls self-assessment process, Group Risk Register are documented and updated by the GEC and with a greater focus on key financial controls.
reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
In view of the Group's new strategy to re-affirm its focus on its core business of distribution and A revision of the Delegation of Authority Policy to reinforce merchanting of specialist products, principal risks were identified in authorisation principles of operating and capital expenditure.
2017 which were different from the previous year but could still impact its performance, future prospects and reputation.
The management of these risks will result in potentially stronger outcomes for the Group.
An example of this is the change agenda risk included in the Principal Risk table which recognised the importance of executing key initiatives across the Group.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six IMPACT STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties SIG assesses and monitors risk through the implementation of the SIG risk management framework.
RISK MOVEMENT RISK TITLE RISK DESCRIPTION KEY MITIGATION ACTIVITIES FOCUS FOR 2018 IN 2017 Without appropriate Medium term plans for each operating Development of Group 1 DELIVERING NEW and sufficient capability company have been reviewed and dashboard to monitor delivery THE CHANGE and capacity, the Group prioritised from the outset and KPIs of initiatives.
AGENDA will suffer initiative are monitored by senior management Incentive plans to be aligned to overload resulting in through local and Group dashboards.
CS management stretch Appropriate resources and personnel and failure to focus on are brought in to deliver and support CV core activities.
initiatives, for example, consultants, delivery directors and programme managers.
Appointment of a Group Transformation Director to support delivery of initiatives in the operating companies.
Deliver the Groups IT strategy, which Lack of appropriate There are adequate firewalls, offsite 2 SYSTEMS includes considerations around data systems and availability back up and Disaster Recovery plans to AND DATA availability, consistency and reporting.
and reliability of data safeguard existing systems.
QUALITY and Management Select and implement new or A dedicated team is responsible for Information have an improved systems for specific preparing appropriate management CS adverse impact on the processes such as supplier rebates information for the business.
ability of the business to or countries such as France.
A new IT strategy for the Group has make properly informed CV Define an upgrade approach for been approved by the Board.
decisions, identify stable applications and desktop endNew overlay systems in development to override weakness of OE user solutions.
fill the gaps that exist in diverse systems controls and to conduct Embed the new key controls and to define common master data.
processes consistently framework across the Group to and accurately.
ensure that weaknesses in systems or paucity of data is compensated by a stronger control environment.
GEC members will assess the 'tone from the top' in their individual operating companies and make changes as necessary.
The Group has strong relationships with The Group may not Leverage reduction strategy will 3 ACCESS its banking partners.
reduce its leverage be pursued.
TO FINANCE sufficiently in order to Capex and other expenditure is tightly Working capital targets to be gain access to funds for controlled through robust planning, tracked throughout 2018 against CS further investment and budgeting, and monitoring controls at budget at Group level.
This will impact operating company and Group level.
CV Establishment of Group forums its ability to grow profits.
A Delegation of Authority policy is in to monitor operating costs.
place to ensure expenditure is approved Strengthening of performance at the right level.
Leverage position closely scrutinised through a series of senior forums.
44 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six RELEVANCE TO STRATEGY UNDERSTANDING MOVEMENTS IN BUSINESS RISKS CS CUSTOMER SERVICE Increase No change Decrease CUSTOMER VALUE CV OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY OE RISK MOVEMENT RISK TITLE RISK DESCRIPTION KEY MITIGATION ACTIVITIES FOCUS FOR 2018 IN 2017 Failure to manage Working capital forum has been Cash flow forecasting capabilities 4 WORKING working capital established to develop workstreams to to be improved in all operating CAPITAL effectively may lead to optimise stock, debtors and creditors.
AND CASH a significant increase Budgets set for all areas of the business, Deliver targeted process MANAGEMENT in the Groups net with accountability for performance improvements across operating debt, thereby reducing established.
companies for pay to procure and the Groups funding CS order to cash cycles.
Stretch targets on inventory reduction headroom and liquidity.
All operating companies will have been applied to all branches.
eliminate use of manual cheques Working capital is closely monitored at with exceptions to be approved operating company and GEC level.
by the Chief Financial Officer only.
Weekly cash flow forecasting has been developed and piloted in the UK.
Market downturn, The Groups geographical diversity Development of mitigation 5 MARKET impacting our ability to reduces the impact of changes in plans that can be triggered in CONDITIONS meet budget and City market conditions in any one business.
the event of a major downturn.
Medium term plans for each operating Further consideration of the CS company include consideration of Brexit risk at the Board.
Continue to build balance sheet Cost reduction plans for each operating strength across all operating company have been agreed and are companies.
Ensure that key measures Industry-based KPIs are monitored around the direction of the monthly at operating company and economy have been identified Group level.
Monitor the potential impact of the failure of Carillion and take necessary steps: identify other customers who have a similar risk profile to that of Carillion.
Health and safety Health and safety policy and procedure Improve health and safety 6 HEALTH AND NEW risks, including major documents in place for use in all controls in targeted areas.
SAFETY injury or loss of life.
branches and risk assessments performed as appropriate.
The Group maintains its health and CS safety accreditation for ISO 18001 management systems.
CV Targeted training and awareness is delivered to relevant personnel.
OE Health and safety KPIs are monitored at Group level.
Rebate income Regular review of rebate income Regular review of rebate 7 SUPP LIER NEW recognised is not fully and rebate debtors by commercial income and rebate debtors by REBATE commercial and finance teams supported by rebate and finance teams in operating INCOME in operating companies.
Monthly reconciliations of Monthly reconciliations of rebate rebate debtor balances.
Rebate forecasts and Rebate forecasts and assumptions assumptions are reviewed are reviewed monthly and changes monthly and changes agreed agreed between commercial and between commercial and finance teams.
Review of rebate controls in all operating companies as part of the Internal Audit plan.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT
