STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS The Board has carried out a robust assessment of its principal risks, which are set out below, together with the related mitigation techniques.
FINANCIAL RISKS 2 3 GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES MITIGATION The Group may fail to identify attractive acquisition The Group assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities, both internal projects opportunities or may select inappropriate targets.
A rigorous assessment process is followed to evaluate all potential business acquisitions, which are subjected to different stress-test scenarios for sensitivity The long-term commodity price forecast and other analysis, and to determine the risks associated with the project or opportunity.
assumptions used when assessing potential projects and other investment opportunities have a significant The Groups Business Development Committee reviews potential growth opportunities and influence on the forecast return on investment and, transactions, and approves or recommends them within authority levels set by the Board.
if incorrectly estimated, could result in poor decisions.
Details of the Groups growth opportunities are set out in the Operating Review on pages 44 to 47 1 2 3 COMMODITY PRICES MITIGATION The Groups results are heavily dependent The Group considers exposure to commodity price fluctuations to be an integral part of on commodity prices principally copper and, to the business and its usual policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
The Group a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum.
The prices monitors the commodity markets closely to determine the effect of price fluctuations on of these commodities are strongly influenced by a earnings, capital expenditure and cash flows.
Very occasionally, when it feels appropriate, variety of external factors, including world economic the Group uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to commodity price fluctuations.
growth, inventory balances, industry demand and The Group runs its business plans through various different commodity price scenarios and supply, possible substitution, etc.
develops contingency plans as required.
The sensitivity of the Groups earnings to movements in commodity prices is set out in Note 24 to the financial statements 1 FOREIGN CURRENCY MITIGATION The Groups sales are mainly denominated in US As copper exports account for over 50% of Chiles exports, there is a correlation between the dollars although some of the Groups operating costs copper price and the US dollar Chilean peso exchange rate.
This natural hedge partly mitigates are in Chilean pesos.
the Groups foreign exchange exposure.
However, the Group monitors the foreign exchange markets and the macroeconomic variables that affect them and on occasion implements a The strengthening of the Chilean peso may negatively focused currency hedging programme to reduce short-term exposure to fluctuations in the affect the Groups financial results.
US dollar against the Chilean peso.
Details of the Groups currency hedging arrangements are shown in Note 24 to the financial statements antofagasta.
co. uk 19 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED OPERATING RISKS 1 STRATEGIC INPUTS MITIGATION Disruption to the supply of any of the Groups key Contingency plans are in place to address any short-term disruptions to strategic resources.
strategic inputs such as electricity, water, fuel, The Group negotiates early with suppliers of key inputs to ensure supply continuity.
Certain key sulphuric acid and mining equipment could have supplies are purchased from several sources to mitigate potential disruption arising from a negative impact on production.
Longer term, exposure to a single supplier.
any restrictions on the availability of key strategic Technological and innovative solutions, such as using sea water in the Groups mining resources such as water and electricity could affect operations, can help mitigate exposure to potentially scarce resources.
the Groups opportunities for growth.
The Group also utilises several sources of renewable energy such as wind and solar power A significant portion of the Groups input costs are as well as conventional sources such as coal and gas-fired generators.
influenced by external market factors.
Details on the strategic inputs of the Group are included within the Operating Review on pages 28 to 32 and details on projects reviews are included within the Project Committee report on pages 100 to 101 1 2 OPERATING MITIGATION Mining operations are subject to a number of Key risks relating to each operation are identified as part of the regular risk review process circumstances not wholly within the Groups control.
undertaken by the individual operations.
This process also identifies appropriate mitigation These include damage to or breakdown of equipment techniques for such risks.
Monthly reports to the Board provide variance analysis of operating or infrastructure, unexpected geological variations and financial performance, and allow potential key issues to be identified in good time and any or technical issues, extreme weather conditions and necessary actions, such as monitoring or control activities, to be implemented to prevent natural disasters, any of which could adversely affect unplanned downtime.
The Group has Business Continuity Plans and Disaster Recovery Plans for all key processes within its operations in order to mitigate the consequences of a crisis or natural disaster.
The Group also has property damage and business interruption insurance to provide protection from some, although not all, of the costs that may arise from such events.
Details of the performance of each of the Groups operations are included within the Operating Review on pages 34 to 43 2 3 PROJECT MANAGEMENT MITIGATION Failure to effectively manage the Groups The Group has a project management system consisting of standards, manuals and procedures development projects could result in delays containing the best practices applicable and enforceable in all phases of project development.
in the start of production and cost overruns.
The project management system supports the decision-making process by balancing risk with benefit, increasing the likelihood of success and providing a common language and standards.
All geometallurgical models are reviewed by independent experts.
During the project lifecycle, quality checks for each of the standards applied are carried out by a panel of experts from within the Group.
This panel reviews each feasibility study to assess the technical and commercial viability of the project and how it can be safely developed.
Detailed progress reports on ongoing projects are regularly reviewed and include assessments of progress against key project milestones and performance against budget.
Details on the progress of the Groups projects are included within the Operating Review on pages 44 to 47, and details on project reviews are included within the Projects Committee report on pages 100 to 101 20 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 2 POLITICAL, LEGAL AND REGULATORY MITIGATION The Group may be affected by political instability Political, legal and regulatory developments affecting the Groups operations and projects are and regulatory developments in the countries in monitored continually.
The Group operates in full compliance with the existing laws, regulations, which it is operating, pursuing projects or conducting licences, permits and rights in each country in which it operates.
Issues regarding the granting The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential projects, including the of permits, or amendments to permits already nature of any foreign investment agreements.
granted, and changes to the legal environment The Group monitors proposed changes in government policies and regulations and belongs to or regulations, could adversely affect the Groups several associations that engage with the government on these changes.
This helps to improve operations and development projects.
the Groups internal processes and better prepare it to meet any new regulatory requirements.
Details of any significant political, legal or regulatory issues that may impact the Groups operations are included within the Operating Review on pages 34 to 43 1 2 3 IDENTIFICATION OF NEW MITIGATION MINERAL RESOURCES The Group conducts exploration programmes both in Chile and in other countries.
The Group has entered into early-stage exploration agreements and strategic alliances with third parties The Group needs to identify new mineral resources in a number of countries and has also acquired equity interests in companies with known to ensure continued future growth and does so geological potential.
The Group focuses its exploration activities on stable and secure countries through exploration and acquisition.
There is a risk to reduce risk exposure.
that exploration activities may not identify sufficient viable mineral resources.
A review of the Groups exploration activities is set out in the Operating Review on page 33 1 2 3 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL MITIGATION RESOURCES ESTIMATES The Groups reserves and resources estimates are updated annually to reflect material extracted during the year, the results of drilling programmes and any revised assumptions.
The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources The Group follows the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral estimates are subject to a number of assumptions, Resources and Ore Reserves the JORC Code in reporting its ore reserves and mineral including geological, metallurgical and technical resources.
This requires reserves and resources estimates to be based on work undertaken factors, future commodity prices and production by a Competent Person, as defined by the Code.
In addition, the Groups reserves and costs.
Fluctuations in these variables may result resources estimates are subject to a comprehensive programme of internal and external audits.
in some reserves or resources being deemed uneconomic, which could lead to a reduction The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates, along with supporting explanations, are set out in reserves and or resources.
co. uk 21 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED SUSTAINABILITY RISKS 1 SAFETY AND HEALTH MITIGATION Safety and health incidents could result The Group is seeking continuous improvement of its safety and health risk management procedures, in harm to the Groups employees, with particular focus on the early identification of risk and preventing fatalities.
The Corporate Safety and Health Department provides a common strategy for the Groups operations Ensuring their safety and wellbeing is first and co-ordinates all safety and health matters.
The Group has a Significant Incident Report system, which and foremost an ethical obligation for the is an important part of the overall approach to safety.
Group, as stated in the Group core values.
The Groups goal of zero fatalities and minimising the number of accidents requires all contractors to A poor safety record or serious accidents comply with the Groups Occupational Safety and Health Plan.
This is monitored through monthly audits could have a long-term impact on the and supported by regular training and awareness campaigns for employees, contractors, employees Groups morale, reputation and production.
families and local communities, particularly with regard to road safety.
Critical controls and verication tools are regularly strengthened through the verication programme and regular audits of critical controls for potentially high-risk activities.
Details of the Groups safety and health activities are included on pages 56 to 57 1 2 COMMUNITY RELATIONS MITIGATION Failure to identify and manage local The Group has a dedicated team that establishes and maintains relations with local communities.
These concerns and expectations can have a are based on trust and mutual benefit throughout the mining lifecycle, from exploration to final remediation.
negative impact on the Group.
Relations The Group seeks to identify early any potentially negative operating impacts and minimise these through with local communities and stakeholders responsible behaviour.
This means acting transparently and ethically, prioritising the safety and health affect the Groups reputation and social of its employees and contractors, avoiding environmental incidents, promoting dialogue, complying with licence to operate and grow.
commitments to stakeholders and establishing mechanisms to prevent or address a crisis.
These steps are undertaken in the early stages of each project and continue throughout the life of each operation.
The Group contributes to the development of communities in the areas in which it operates, particularly through human capital development the education, training and employment of the local population.
The Group endeavours to communicate clearly and transparently with local communities, in line with the established Community Relations Plan, including the use of a grievance management process, local perception surveys, and local media and community engagement.
Further information about the Groups activities in respect of community relations is set out on pages 60 to 61 2 3 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT MITIGATION An operating incident that damages the The Group has a comprehensive approach to incident prevention.
Relevant risks are assessed, monitored environment could affect both the Groups and controlled in order to achieve the goal of zero incidents with significant environmental impact.
relationship with local stakeholders and its The Group works to raise awareness among employees and contractors and provides training to promote reputation, undermining its social licence operating excellence.
Potential environmental impacts are key considerations when assessing project to operate and to grow.
viability, and the integration of innovative technology in the project design to mitigate these effects is encouraged.
For example, the Group strives to ensure maximum efficiency in water use, pioneering the use The Group operates in challenging of sea water for mining operations in the arid Antofagasta Region of Chile and, most recently, introducing environments, including the Atacama thickened tailings technology at Centinela to achieve higher rates of reuse and recovery.
Desert, where water scarcity is a key issue.
Further information in respect of the Groups environmental activities is set out on pages 62 to 64 22 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 2 TALENT MANAGEMENT MITIGATION AND LABOUR RELATIONS The Group maintains good relations with its employees and unions founded on trust, continuous dialogue and good working conditions.
The Group is committed to safety, non-discrimination and compliance with The Groups highly skilled workforce Chiles strict regulations on labour matters.
and experienced management team are critical to maintaining current operations, There are long-term labour agreements in place with employee unions at each of the Groups mining implementing development projects, operations, which help to ensure labour stability.
achieving long-term growth and The Group seeks to identify and address labour issues that may arise throughout the period covered by preserving current operations without existing labour agreements and to anticipate any potential issues in good time.
Contractors are an important major disruption.
Managing talent and part of the Groups workforce and under Chilean law are subject to the same duties and responsibilities maintaining a high-quality labour force as the Groups own employees.
The Groups approach is to treat contractors as strategic associates and is a key priority for the Group and any its goal is to build long-term mutually beneficial contractor relationships.
The Group maintains constructive failures in this respect could have a relationships with its employees and the unions that represent them through regular communication and negative impact on the performance of consultation.
Union representatives are regularly involved in discussions about the future of the workforce.
the existing operations and future growth.
The Group develops the talents of its employees through training and development, invests in initiatives to widen the talent pool including increasing the number of women in the workplace, and focuses on maintaining good relationships with employees, unions and contractors.
The Groups Employee Performance Management System is designed to attract and retain key employees by creating suitable reward and remuneration structures and providing personal development opportunities.
The Group has a talent management system to identify and develop internal candidates for key management positions, as well as identifying suitable external candidates where appropriate.
Details of the Groups relations with its employees and contractors are set out on pages 31 to 32 1 2 3 CORRUPTION ACTIVITIES MITIGATION The Groups operations or projects The Group employs procedures and controls against any kind of corruption, including open channels of around the world could be affected by communication that any employee or external party can use in order to raise any concerns or complaints.
risks related to corruption or bribery, In addition, the Group has Ethics Committees composed of senior executives at each of its operations, including operating disruptions or delays responsible for investigating complaints and taking any necessary measures.
They in turn report such resulting from a refusal to make investigations to the Corporate Ethics Committee, which decides whether any further action is required.
Such risks depend All employees in the Group receive training on the Group Compliance Model, which is subject on the economic or political stability of the to external certification.
country in which the Group is operating.
There are also control procedures in place that help to prevent corruption, covering such issues as conflicts of interest, suitability of suppliers, receiving and giving of gifts and hospitality, and facilitation payments.
Further information about the Groups activities in respect of corruption activities is set out on pages 56 to 65 1 2 3 INFORMATION SECURITY MITIGATION Breaches in, or failures of, the Groups The Groups information security management model is designed with defensive structural controls information security management could to prevent and mitigate the effects of computer risks.
It employs a set of rules and procedures, including adversely impact its business activities.
a Disaster Recovery Plan, to restore critical IT functions.
