John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The effective management of risks within the Group is essential A Management Risk Committee, comprising senior members to the successful delivery of the Groups objectives.
The Board of management, assists the Board, Audit & Risk Committee and is responsible for ensuring that risks are identified and Executive Committee in formulating and enforcing the Groups appropriately managed across the Group and has delegated risk management policy.
During 2017, this committee was to the Audit & Risk Committee responsibility for reviewing the chaired by the Group Finance Director but from 2018 will be effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including the chaired by the Groups Chief Risk Officer.
The Head of Internal systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor Audit attends each meeting of the Management Risk Committee.
The Groups risk appetite when making decisions on The Management Risk Committee reports formally to the Audit investment commitments or potential realisations is assessed & Risk Committee.
by reference to the expected impact on NAV.
The Directors confirm that they have monitored throughout The principal internal controls that operated throughout 2017 the year and carried out i a review of the effectiveness of the and up to the date of this Annual Report include: Groups risk management and internal control systems and ii a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, an organisational structure which provides adequate including those that would threaten its business model, future segregation of responsibilities, clearly defined lines of performance, solvency and liquidity.
No material weaknesses accountability, delegated authority to trained and were identified from the review of the Groups risk management experienced staff and extensive reporting: and internal control systems.
The Group risk register is reviewed at every meeting of the Audit & Risk Committee and Management clear business objectives aligned with the Groups risk Risk Committee and every six months by the Board.
appetite: The above controls and procedures are underpinned by a risk reporting, including identification of risks through culture of openness of communication between operational Group-wide risk registers, that is embedded in the regular and executive management.
All investment decisions are management reporting of business units and is scrutinised in detail by the Investment Committee and, if outside communicated to the Board: and the Investment Committees terms of reference, also by the an independent Internal Audit function, which reports to Board.
All divestment decisions are scrutinised by the the Audit & Risk Committee.
The external auditor also Divestment Committee and approved by the Board.
reports to the Audit & Risk Committee on the effectiveness of financial controls relevant to the audit.
The Directors assessment of the principal risks applying to the Group is set out below, including the way in which risks The Groups Internal Audit function has several objectives, are linked to the three strategic objectives set out in the Chief in particular to provide: Executive Officers Review.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Directors, or which they currently independent assurance to the Board, through the Audit & consider not to be material, may also have an adverse effect Risk Committee, that internal control processes, including on the Group.
those related to risk management, are relevant, fit for purpose, effective and operating throughout the business: The Groups three strategic objectives are: a deterrent to fraud: 1.
Growth in primary investment volumes new investment capital committed to greenfield infrastructure projects another layer of assurance that the Group is meeting its over the medium term.
Growth in the value of external AuM and related fee income.
advice on efficiency improvements to internal control processes.
Management and enhancement of the Groups investment portfolio, with a clear focus on active management during Internal Audit is independent of the business and reports construction, accompanied by realisations of investments functionally to the Group Finance Director and directly to the which, combined with the Groups corporate banking Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Head of Internal facilities and operational cash flows, enable it to finance Audit meets regularly with senior management and the Audit new investment commitments.
& Risk Committee to discuss key findings and management actions undertaken.
The Head of Internal Audit can call a meeting with the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee at any time and meets privately with the Audit & Risk Committee, without senior management present, as and when required, but at least annually.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 38 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change strategic in risk since objectives 31 December Risk above Mitigation 2016 Governmental policy Changes to legislation or public policy in the jurisdictions Thorough due diligence is carried out in order to assess a 1, 2, 3 in which the Group operates or may wish to operate specific country's risk for example economic and political Increased could negatively impact the volume of potential stability, tax policy, legal framework and local practices opportunities available to the Group and the returns before any investment is made.
Where possible the Group seeks specific contractual The use of PPP programmes by governmental entities protection from changes in governmental policy and law may be delayed or may decrease thereby limiting for the projects it invests in.
General change of law is opportunities for private sector infrastructure investors considered to be a normal business risk.
During the bidding in the future, or be structured such that returns to process for investment in a project, the Group takes a private sector infrastructure investors are reduced.
view on an appropriate level of return to cover the risk of non-discriminatory changes in law.
Governmental entities may in the future seek to terminate or renegotiate existing projects by introducing new policies PPP projects are normally structured so as to provide or legislation that result in higher tax obligations on significant contractual protection for equity investors existing PPP or renewable energy projects or otherwise see also counterparty risk.
affect existing or future PPP or renewable energy projects.
During the bidding process for investment in a project, Changes to legislation or public policy relating to the Group assesses the sensitivity of the projects forecast renewable energy could negatively impact the economic returns to changes in factors such as tax rates and or, returns on the Groups investments in renewable energy for renewable energy projects, governmental support projects, which would adversely affect the demand for mechanisms.
The Group targets jurisdictions which have a and attractiveness of such projects.
track record of support for renewable energy investments and which continue to demonstrate such support.
Compliance with the public tender regulations which apply to PPP projects is complex and the outcomes may Through its track record of more than 130 investment be subject to third party challenge and reversed.
commitments, the Group has developed significant expertise in compliance with public tender regulations.
Macroeconomic factors To the extent such factors cannot be hedged, changes Factors which have the potential to adversely impact the 1, 2, 3 in inflation and interest rates and foreign exchange underlying cash flows of an investment, and hence its No change all potentially impact the return generated from an valuation, are hedged wherever possible at a project level investment and its valuation.
and sensitivities are considered during the investment appraisal process.
Changes in factors which affect energy prices, such as the future energy demand supply balance and the oil Systemic risks, such as potential deflation, or price, could negatively impact the economic returns on appreciation depreciation of Sterling versus the currency the Groups investments in renewable energy.
in which an investment is made, are assessed in the context of the portfolio as a whole.
Weakness in the political and economic climate in a particular jurisdiction could impact the value of, or the The Group seeks to reduce the extent to which its return generated from, any or all of the Groups renewable energy investments are exposed to energy investments located in that jurisdiction.
prices through governmental support mechanisms and or offtake arrangements.
The Group monitors closely the level of investments it has exposed to foreign currencies, including regularly testing the sensitivity of the financial covenants in its corporate banking facilities to a significant change in the value of individual currencies.
Where possible, specific clauses relating to potential currency change within a particular jurisdiction are incorporated in project documentation.
Liquidity in the secondary market Weakness in the secondary markets for investments in Projects are appraised on a number of bases, including 1, 2, 3 PPP or renewable energy projects, for example as the being held to maturity.
Projects are also carefully No change result of a lack of economic growth in relevant markets, structured so that they are capable of being divested, actual or potential governmental policy, regulatory if appropriate, before maturity.
changes in the banking sector, liquidity in financial Over recent years, the secondary markets for both PPP markets, changes in interest and exchange rates and and renewable energy investments have grown.
project finance market conditions may affect the Groups While JLIF and JLEN are natural buyers of a number ability to realise full value from its divestments.
of the Groups PPP and renewable energy investments The secondary market for investments in renewable respectively, the size and breadth of secondary markets energy projects may be affected by, inter alia, changes and the growth of operational infrastructure as an asset in energy prices, in governmental policy, in the value of class, plus the Groups recent experience, all provide governmental support mechanisms and in project finance the Group with confidence that it can sell investments market conditions.
The ability of JLIF and JLEN to raise finance for further investments may have an impact on both the Groups ability to sell investments in PPP and renewable energy projects and on the Groups asset management business more generally.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Link to Change strategic in risk since objectives 31 December Risk above Mitigation 2016 Financial resources Any shortfall in the financial resources that are available The Group has corporate banking facilities totalling 1, 3 to the Group to satisfy its financial obligations may make 475 million which mature in March 2020 as well as No change it necessary for the Group to constrain its business additional liquidity facilities 50 million committed until development, refinance its outstanding obligations, forego February 2019.
Available headroom is carefully monitored investment opportunities and or sell existing investments.
and compliance with the financial covenants and other terms of these facilities is closely observed.
The Group also Inability to secure project finance could hinder the ability monitors its working capital, cash collateral and letter of of the Group to make a bid for an investment opportunity, credit requirements and maintains an active dialogue with or where the Group has a preferred bidder position, could its banks.
It operates a policy of ensuring that sufficient negatively impact whether an underlying project reaches financial resources are maintained to satisfy committed financial close.
and likely future investment requirements.
A Divestment The inability of a project company to satisfactorily Committee was set up in 2017 to provide oversight and refinance existing maturing medium-term project finance recommendations on all potential divestments that were facilities periodically during the life of a project could affect previously under the remit of the Executive Committee.
the Groups projected future returns from investments in The Group believes that there is currently sufficient depth such projects and hence their valuation in the Groups and breadth in project finance markets to meet the financing Balance Sheet.
needs of the projects it invests in.
The Group works closely Adverse financial performance by a project company with a wide range of project finance providers, including which affects the financial covenants in its project finance banks and other financial institutions.
In markets such as debt documents may result in the project company being Australia and New Zealand, where the tenor of project unable to make distributions to the Group and other finance facilities at financial close tends to be medium investors, which would impact the valuation of the Groups term, certain PPP projects in which the Group has invested investment in such project company, and may ultimately are due for refinancing in due course.
One such project, enable public-sector counterparties through cross Auckland South Corrections Facility, was successfully default links to other project agreements and or project refinanced in late 2017. finance debt providers to declare default and, in the latter Prior to financial close, all proposed investments are case, to exercise their security.
scrutinised by the Investment Committee.
This scrutiny includes a review of sensitivities to adverse performance of investment returns and financial ratio tests as well as an assessment of a projects ability to be refinanced if the tenor of its project finance debt is less than the term of the concession or the projects useful life.
The Group maintains an active dialogue with the banks and other financial institutions which provide project finance to the projects in which it invests.
Monitoring of compliance with financial covenant ratios and other terms of loan documents continues throughout the term of the project finance loan.
Pensions The amount of the deficit in the Groups main defined The Groups two defined benefit pension schemes are 1, 3 benefit pension scheme JLPF can vary significantly overseen by corporate trustees, the directors of which No change due to gains or losses on scheme investments and include independent and professionally qualified individuals.
movements in the assumptions used to value scheme The Group works closely with the trustees on the appropriate liabilities in particular life expectancy, discount rate and funding strategy for the schemes and takes independent inflation rate.
Consequently the Group is exposed to the actuarial advice as appropriate.
Both schemes are closed risk of increases in cash contributions payable, volatility to future accrual and accordingly have no active members, in the deficit reported in the Group Balance Sheet, and only deferred members and pensioners.
A significant gains losses recorded in the Group Statement of proportion of the liabilities of JLPF is matched by a bulk Comprehensive Income.
annuity buy-in agreement with Aviva.
Other hedging is also in place.
The next actuarial valuation of JLPF is due as at 31 March 2019.
Future investment activity The Group operates in competitive markets and may not The Group believes that its experience and expertise as an 1 be able to compete effectively or profitably.
active investor and asset manager accumulated over more No change than 20 years, together with its flexibility and ability to The Groups investment pipeline is not a guarantee of respond to market conditions will continue to enable it to actual bidding activity or future investments.
compete effectively and secure attractive investments.
The Groups historical win rate for PPP projects may Both the PPP and the renewable energy pipelines are decline and is an uncertain indicator of new investments diversified by geography and number of and type of project.
The Group budgets a 30% win rate for PPP projects and has achieved an average win rate for the three years ended 31 December 2017 ahead of this.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 40 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change strategic in risk since objectives 31 December Risk above Mitigation 2016 Valuation The valuation of an investment in a project may not reflect The discount rates used to value investments are derived 3 its ultimate realisable value, for instance because of from publicly available market data and other market No change changes in operational benchmark discount rates.
evidence and are updated regularly.
In circumstances where the revenue derived from a The Group has a good track record of realising investments at project is related to volume i. e. customer usage or wind prices consistent with the fair values at which they are held.
energy yield, actual revenues may vary materially from The Groups investments are in projects which are principally assumptions made at the time the investment commitment availability-based where the revenue does not generally is made.
In addition, to the extent that a project companys depend on the level of use of the project asset.
Where actual costs incurred differ from forecast costs, for example, patronage or volume risk is taken, the Directors review because of late construction, and cannot be passed on to revenue assumptions and their sensitivities in detail prior sub-contractors or other third parties, investment returns to any investment commitment.
and valuations may be adversely affected.
Where the revenue from investments is related to patronage Revenues from renewable energy projects may be affected or volume e. g. with regard to investments in renewable by the volume of power production e. g. from changes in energy projects, risks are mitigated through a combination wind or solar yield, the availability of fuel in the case of of factors, including i the use of independent forecasts biomass projects, operational issues, restrictions on the of future volumes ii lower gearing versus that of electricity network, the reliability of electrical connections availability-based projects iii stress-testing the robustness or other factors such as noise and other environmental of project returns against significant falls in forecast volumes.
restrictions, as well as by changes in energy prices and In addition, where possible, fixed-price arrangements are to governmental support mechanisms.
entered into to mitigate the impact of changes in future The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio is energy prices.
affected by movements in foreign exchange rates, which The Group typically hedges cash flows arising from are reflected through the Groups financial statements.
investment realisations or significant distributions in In addition, there are foreign exchange risks associated currencies other than Sterling.
with conversion of foreign currency cash flows relating During the bidding process for investment in a project, to an investment into and out of Sterling.
the Group assesses the sensitivity of the projects forecast The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio could be returns to changes in tax rates.
affected by changes in tax legislation, for instance changes The intention is that projects are structured such that which limit tax-deductible interest see Taxation section.
i day-to-day service provision is sub-contracted to qualified During the construction phase of an infrastructure project, sub-contractors supported by appropriate security packages there are risks that either the works are not completed ii cost and price inflation risk in relation to the provision of within the agreed time-frame or that construction services lies with sub-contractors iii performance deductions costs overrun.
Where such risks are not borne by in relation to non-availability lie with sub-contractors sub-contractors, or sub-contractors fail to meet their iv future major maintenance costs and ongoing project contractual obligations, this can result in delays in the company costs are reviewed annually and cost mitigation receipt of project income and or cost overruns, which strategies adopted as appropriate.
may adversely affect the valuation of and return on the The Group has procedures in place to ensure that project Groups investments.
If construction or other long stop companies in which it invests appoint competent dates are exceeded, this may enable public sector sub-contractors with relevant experience and financial counter-parties and or project finance debt providers strength.
If project construction is delayed, sub-contracting to declare a default and, in the case of the latter, to arrangements contain terms enabling the project company exercise their security.
to recover liquidated damages, additional costs and lost The Group is reliant on the performance of third parties revenue, subject to limits.
In addition, the project company in constructing an asset to an appropriate standard may terminate its agreement with a sub-contractor if the as well as subsequently operating it in a manner latter is in default and seek an alternative sub-contractor.
Consistent The terms of the sub-contracts into which project under-performance by, or failure of, such third parties companies enter provide some protections for investment may result in the ability of public sector counter parties returns from the poor performance of third parties.
and or project finance debt providers to declare a The ability to replace defaulting third parties is supported default and consequently the impairment or loss of by security packages to protect against price movement the Groups investment.
A significant portion of the Groups portfolio valuation is, If long stop dates are exceeded, the Group has significant and may in the future be, in a small number of projects, experience as an active manager in protecting its investments and changes to the value of these projects could by working with all parties to a project to agree revised materially affect the Groups financial position and timetables and or other restructuring arrangements.
The Group monitors the concentration risk within its A project company or a service provider to a project portfolio.
Since 31 December 2014, the percentage of its company may fail to manage contracts efficiently portfolio value attributable to UK investments has reduced or effectively.
The performance of project companies and service providers to project companies is regularly monitored by the Asset Management team.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Link to Change strategic in risk since objectives 31 December Risk above Mitigation 2016 Counterparty risk The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk with The Group works with multiple clients, joint venture 3 regards to i governmental entities, sub-contractors, partners, sub-contractors and institutional investors so No change lenders and suppliers at a project level and ii consortium as to reduce the probability of systemic counterparty risk in partners, financial institutions and suppliers at a its investment portfolio.
In establishing project contractual Group level.
arrangements prior to making an investment, the credit standing and relevant experience of a sub-contractor are Public sector counter-parties to PPP projects may considered.
Post financial close, the financial standing of seek to renegotiate contract terms and or terminate key counterparties is monitored to provide an early warning contracts, as a result of changes in governmental policy of possible financial distress.
or otherwise, in a way which impacts the valuation of one or more of the Groups investments.
PPP projects are normally structured so as to provide significant contractual protection for equity investors.
In overseas jurisdictions, the Groups investments Such protection may include termination for convenience backed by governmental entities may ultimately be clauses which enable public sector counter-parties to subject to sovereign risk.
terminate projects subject to payment of appropriate Project companies are exposed to counterparty credit compensation, including to equity investors.
risk and counterparty performance risk with regards to PPP projects are normally supported by central and local public sector bodies, sub-contractors, lenders, supplier government covenants, which significantly reduce the and consortium partners.
Risk is further reduced by the increasing Worsening of general economic conditions in the UK as geographical spread of the Groups investments.
a result of the UKs withdrawal from the European Union The performance of service providers to project companies could affect project companies in the UK through, for is regularly monitored by the Asset Management team.
Counterparties for cash deposits at a Group level, project debt swaps and deposits within project companies are required to be banks with a suitable credit rating and are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Entry into new geographical areas which have a different legal framework and or different financial market characteristics is considered by the Board separately from individual investment decisions.
Typically, a substantial proportion of the revenue generated by renewable energy projects is backed by governmental support mechanisms.
Major incident A major incident at any of the Groups main locations or At financial close, projects benefit from comprehensive 2, 3 any of the projects invested in by the Group, such as a insurance arrangements, either directly or through No change terrorist attack, war or significant cyber-attack, could contractors insurance policies.
lead to a loss of crucial business data, technology, Business continuity plans at project level have been buildings and reputation and harm to the public, all of designed and are tested at frequent regular intervals.
which could collectively or individually result in a loss Business continuity procedures are also regularly updated of value for the Group.
in order to maintain their relevance.
Such an incident affecting any of the projects invested John Laing believes that proper attention to the health and in by the Group could also affect the Groups ability to safety of its employees, subcontractors, and the community sell its investment in that project.
within which the Group operates is a key element of Failure to maintain secure IT systems and to combat effective business management and sees health and safety cyber and other security risks to information and to as an important measure of business performance and physical sites could adversely affect the Group.
The Group is committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of all its employees and all other persons who may be affected by its direct activities, or those under its control.
The projects in which the Group invests each have their own health and safety policies and business continuity plans.
The Groups IT requirements are outsourced to a third party.
A re-tender process is currently underway.
Within the outsourced arrangements, cyber risk is addressed through i the Groups organisational structure which includes segregation of responsibilities, delegated lines of accountability, delegated authorities and ii specific controls, including controls over payments and access to IT systems.
Investment adviser agreements with JLIF and JLEN A loss of JLCMs investment adviser agreements with Through JLCM, and supported by other parts of the Asset 2 JLIF and or JLEN respectively would be detrimental Management division, the Group focuses on delivering a No change to the Groups Asset Management business.
high quality service to both funds.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 42 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change strategic in risk since objectives 31 December Risk above Mitigation 2016 Future returns from investments The Groups historical returns and cash yields from In bidding for new projects, the Group sets a target internal 1, 2, 3 investments may not be indicative of future returns.
rate of return taking account of historical experience, current Increased market conditions and expected returns once the project The Groups expected hold-to-maturity internal rates becomes operational.
The Group continually looks for value of return from investments are based on a variety of enhancement opportunities which would improve the target assumptions which may not be correct at the time they internal rate of return and projected annualised return.
are made and may not be achieved in the future.
At the appraisal stage, investments in projects are tested for their sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
Taxation The Group may be exposed to changes in taxation in the 1, 3 Tax positions taken by the Group are based on industry jurisdictions in which it operates, or it may cease to Increased practice and or external tax advice.
satisfy the conditions for relevant reliefs.
Tax authorities may disagree with the positions that the Group has taken At the appraisal stage, investments in projects are tested or intends to take.
for their sensitivity to changes in tax rates.
Project valuations are regularly updated for changes in tax rates.
Project companies may be exposed to changes in taxation in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
In late 2017, the UK Government enacted legislation, In 2015, the OECD published its recommendations for effective from 1 April 2017, which introduced a Fixed Ratio tackling BEPS by international companies.
It identified Rule to cap the amount of tax deductible net interest to the use of tax deductible interest as one of the key areas 30% of a companys UK EBITDA.
This was in response where there is opportunity for BEPS by international to OECD recommendations.
It is up to the governments of OECD countries In the US, new legislation came into effect on 1 January to decide how to implement the OECDs recommendations 2018, including a restriction on interest deductibility for into their domestic law.
To the extent that one or more of certain US entities paying interest to foreign entities.
The the jurisdictions in which the Group operates changes its impact from both the changes to UK and US tax is reflected rules to limit tax deductible interest, this could significantly in the fair value at 31 December 2017 of the Groups impact i the tax payable by subsidiaries of the Group, investments in those jurisdictions.
ii the valuation of existing investments and iii the way in which future project-financed infrastructure investments The Group monitors closely the way in which other are structured, in each case in such jurisdictions.
governments are implementing the OECD recommendations.
Personnel The Group may fail to recruit or retain key senior The Group regularly reviews pay and benefits to ensure 1, 2, 3 management and skilled personnel in, or relocate they remain competitive.
The Groups senior managers No change high-quality personnel to, the jurisdictions in which participate in long-term incentive plans.
The Group plans it operates or seeks to expand.
its human resources needs carefully, including appropriate local recruitment, when it bids for overseas projects.
Following the decision to leave the EU, the UK Government has made some proposals regarding The Group has the ability to recruit EU nationals in its EU nationals living and working in the UK but their Amsterdam office or could open further offices in other position has not been resolved.
This uncertainty EU jurisdictions if necessary.
could impact the Groups ability to recruit and retain EU nationals in the UK.
