RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk management and internal control We operate within a complex regulatory environment, which is subject to change, and the nature of pharmaceutical development exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties Our ability tomeet our goals and objectives may be impacted This section provides an overview of our risk management process, by a number ofthese risks, which could impact our strategy, thekey risks faced by the business and the actions thatwe have our business model and our operating environment.
Not all the risks identified aspart of our riskmanagement processes are detailed in this section: instead this We have developed and implemented a risk management process report focuses on those risks that the Directors believe to be the which is designed to ensure that existing or emerging significant most important and which could cause Vecturas results to differ risks are identified, assessed, managed and reported to relevant materially from expected and historical results and significantly stakeholders in a timely manner to inform and support decision impact our strategy.
Not all of these risks are within the control making.
Our risk management process aims to mitigate the ofthe Group and other factors besides those listed may affect the significant risks that Vectura faces in accordance with our risk Groups performance.
As with all business operating in a dynamic appetite.
The Groups risk appetite has been reduced following environment, some risks may not yet be known whilst other therefocused investment strategy announced in January 2018 low-level risks could become material in the future.
It is recognised, however, that no risk management process canprovide absolute assurance against loss.
Objectives of our risk management process: to ensure that the risk appetite of the Board is 1 embedded throughout the organisation and fully understood by those whoare responsible Strategy for managing risk and making key decisions across the business: 6 2 to identify and assess the likelihood and potential impact of the risks that Vectura faces in the Risk Reporting identification execution of its strategy and the operation of itsbusiness model, and ensure that appropriate mitigating actions and controls are in place such that the residual risk is aligned to the risk appetite of the Board: to control systematic risks within the organisation by maintaining and improving a system of 3 5 internal controls to manage risks in decision making, legal contract management, quality and Executing and Risk monitoring assessment regulatory processes and the processing of financial transactions: and 4 to ensure that identified risks are reported torelevant stakeholders in a timely manner Risk tofacilitate effective decision making.
mitigation 48 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Setting the tone Designing the system Completing the review The Board Executive Leadership Team Project managers and senior leaders Responsible for ensuring that the Accountable for carrying out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing riskmanagement and internal control Responsible for updating project risk systems are appropriately designed, Vectura, including those threatening its registers and reporting significant business model, future performance, implemented and aligned to the project and functional risks to the Boardsriskappetite solvency and liquidity Executive Leadership Team on an ongoing basis Responsible for conducting an annual Responsible for ensuring that the risk appetite of the Board is appropriately effectiveness review of Vecturas Responsible for implementing and riskmanagement and internal control understood by risk owners and key monitoring any mitigating actions decisionmakers systems, and the principal risks facing andcontrols Vectura.
This review covers all material Responsible for reviewing the Responsible for informing project controls, including financial, business-wide and project risk registers andfunctional teams about risks operational andcompliance controls andensuring that mitigating Responsible for conducting an annual Responsible for reporting to actionsarecarried out assessment of strategic risks for shareholders about Vecturas discussionat Board level riskmanagement process Review of process Review of high risks Risk registers and outputs The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of Vecturas risk Accordingly, this principal risk has been updated to Failure management and internal control at least annually, on behalf of the tolaunch VR315 US inacompetitive timeframe.
This review has been undertaken during the year and, with During the year, the Board undertook a review of the Groups direct support from the Audit Committee, the Board believes that it investment strategy and as a result of this review has determined has taken all reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the risk management that it willseek to partner VR475 EU and VR647 US.
Accordingly, process is effective and fit for purpose.
No material control the prior year risk of Failure to successfully launch and selfweaknesses ordeficiencies were identified as part of this review.
commercialise Vecturas wholly owned pipeline products is no longer considered a key risk and is replaced by the risk Our approach to assessing risk ofFailure or delay in partnering VR647 US and VR475 EU.
Risk is assessed net of the application of current control activities Forfurther details of the Groups investment review and impact using a standard matrix which considers the potential likelihood of onoverall pipeline risk, see pages 28 to 30. arisk event occurring and the potential impact on thebusiness were such an event to occur.
The output of this matrix allows the business The Brexit deadline on 29 March 2019 is now closer with only to prioritise risks and mitigating actions.
Risks areconsidered within thefirst phase of negotiations concluded.
Uncertainty from the timeframe of at least three years, which is the same period that Brexit isnow considered to be a principal risk in its own right has been used in the Viability statement.
"whereas previously it was absorbed into the risk of ""Changes to the regulatory, operating or pricing environment for the How our principal risks have evolved during 2017 pharmaceutical industry""."
One of the principal risks described in the 2016 Report and Accounts, Disruption to the launch of the Groups US generic All other principal risks have remained broadly unchanged Advair programme VR315 US, was realised during 2017. intheyear.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 49 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Principal risks Risks specific to Vectura's business model Supply chain disruption Failure or delay in partnering VR647 US andVR475 EU Risk movement: Strategic priorities impact: Risk movement: Strategic priorities impact: Stable Increasing OPERATIONAL RISK STRATEGIC RISK What is the risk?
Vectura manages the supply chain for certain commercial products In the absence of M&A, the Group plans to balance risk and TM flutiform, AirFluSal Forspiro and Breelib, and also relies on valuegeneration by partnering its specialist nebulised assets.
suppliers fortheprovision of quality compliant materials for R&D.
Thepartnering of VR475 EU andVR647 US is anticipated in2019subject to the successful completion of the current What would the impact be?
Major disruption to, orfailureof, these supply chains, particularly for flutiform, could result in lostrevenues and business opportunities, Vectura could be unable to find a partner with suitable commercial stock shortages, liabilities and significant damage to profitability strength and respiratory heritage for these assets in a timely manner.
Such disruption could be either quality What would the impact be?
Failure to partner these assets with a suitable partner in a timely What could cause the risk to be realised?
manner or at all could materially impact future revenues, Supply chain disruption involving single point of failure for profitability and prospects of Vectura.
which Vectura has high dependency andlimited resilience.
Failure to partner the assetsmay lead to an increase in Vecturas Supplier loss of licence orregulatory action impacting Vectura.
Termination of the manufacturing agreement with Sanofi What could cause the risk to be realised?
The agreement continues to 2020 and will be Phase III VR475 EU orPhase II VR647 US clinical trials automatically renewed biannually unless terminated by either could beunsuccessful.
Inability to identify asuitable partner.
Inability to negotiate a deal with commercially attractive terms.
Vectura has strong working relationships with its suppliers: we have established due diligence processes to ensure that our stringent How do we manage the risk?
quality standards are maintained and we have put in place appropriate Vectura has acquired, developed and progressed these two systems that will provide an early warning of potential issues.
specialist pipeline assets based on its experience and knowledge of the respiratory market.
As such the Group believes these A dedicated Commercial Quality Director has oversight of release products are well placed to capture value in an attractive niche of commercial product and ensures appropriate management of market where relatively few competitors have relevant assets.
Vectura has dedicated, experienced personnel responsible for Monthly meetings are held to discuss customer demand forecasts marketing assetsto, and negotiating with, potential partners.
and to review Vecturas ability to meet these forecasts.
Vectura has Inaddition to its existing partner relationships, which have the established contingency arrangements to ensure that production potential to be extended to new projects, the Group also attends capacities exceed forecast demand sothat it would be possible industry conferences and events where its programmes and to catch up on any shortfall in production or meet unexpected technologies are marketed to new potential partners.
Appropriate levels of safety stock are maintained.
Change since last report Supply chain mapping has been undertaken, and is regularly Increasing risk following the decision, in the absence of M&A, reviewed, to identify potential points of failure and mitigating notto self-commercialise VR475 EU and VR647 US.
Where economically feasible, additional sources of supply are established and contracts negotiated to include appropriate provisions for replacement of defective goods.
The Group also has appropriate insurance, but it is not possible to insure against all risks and not all insurable risks can be fully insured on an economically feasible basis.
Change since last report No changes.
Maximising Operational Maximising Strong financial High performance pipeline value Excellence partneringvalue discipline culture 50 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks specific to Vectura's business model Failure to launch VR315 US in a Partner failure competitivetimeframe Risk movement: Strategic priorities impact: Risk movement: Strategic priorities impact: Decreasing Stable OPERATIONAL RISK OPERATIONAL RISK What is the risk?
On 10 May 2017, our partner Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Vectura operates a partnering business model and therefore Hikma received a complete response letter CRL from the isreliant on partners for development and commercialisation USFDA in relation to its abbreviated new drug application for ofpipeline assets.
itsgeneric version of GSKs Advair Diskus.
This CRL has been In addition, Vectura earns revenues from a number of partnered categorised as Major.
on-market assets and is dependent upon those partners for Hikma and Vectura have had constructive dialogue with the FDA maintaining regulatory approvals and for marketing of the products.
to resolve the observations made in the CRL and the majority What would the impact be?
ofquestions raised have been addressed and clarified.
Hikma, Failure by a strategic partner todeliver on its obligations during supported by Vectura, decided to progress a dispute resolution the development phase could result in a delay orcessation of process regarding the remaining outstanding issue, namely the development: this in turn could cause a delay in the product different interpretation of the results from the Clinical Endpoint Study reaching the market which could undermine the products CEP.
The dispute resolution process concluded in March 2018 commercial potential and result in lower returns on investment and the FDA has upheld its original decision and included for Vectura.
arequirement that Hikma completes an additional CEP study.
The marketing and commercialisation strategy taken by partners What would the impact be?
for existing on-market products could materially impact the level Failure to complete the Clinical Endpoint study in a timely manner of royalties and sales milestones earned by Vectura.
could result in the product being launched later than those of competitors resulting in loss of potential future revenues and What could cause the risk to be realised?
Change in partner strategy or priorities.
What could cause the risk to be realised?
Competitor products are approved and launched while the Failure by a partnertomarket the product successfully.
additional CEP study is completed.
Partner failure to obtain appropriate pricing and reimbursement.
The Group is unable to take direct action to mitigate this risk.
Vectura has a broad range of disclosed and undisclosed partners.
In anticipation of an unfavourable outcome from the dispute All collaborations are performed under a suitable legal agreement resolution process, Hikma has already finalised the planning which isassessed by Vectura and its legal advisors.
ofanew clinical study and expects to start patient enrolment inthe coming weeks.
Hikma anticipates being able to submit Typically, for collaborations, a joint steering committee JSC aresponse to the FDA with new clinical data as early as possible isestablished involving both Vectura and partner personnel.
A joint clinical team is in place to oversee the conduct Thisprovides Vectura with a mechanism to ensure that any ofthe study.
jointproject activity is managed appropriately.
Where the Groupsupplies product, regular operational meetings take In addition, the Group has responded to the delay alongside other placetoreview demand forecasts.
factors by reviewing its R&D investment strategy and, as a result, the Group plans to reduce its pipeline risk as detailed above.
The Group also has a commercial and business development department whichmaintains regular dialogue with existing Change since last report andpotential new partners.
Decreasing risk following receipt of the CRL during 2017 andtheunfavourable outcome of the dispute resolution Change since last report processin March 2018.
Maximising Operational Maximising Strong financial High performance pipeline value Excellence partneringvalue discipline culture Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 51 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Principal risks continued Industry-related risks Failure or delay in achieving development Changes in the regulatory, operating or pricing milestones required to advance the product pipeline environment excluding Brexit Risk movement: Strategic priorities impact: Risk movement: Strategic priorities impact: Decreasing Stable OPERATIONAL RISK OPERATIONAL RISK What is the risk?
Vectura increases the value potential of its research and Vectura operates in the highly regulated international development by successfully advancing its pipeline projects pharmaceutical industry, which is subject to change.
Changes in the  landscape, operational Failure or delay in achieving development milestones for the Groups late-stage product development pipeline e. g. VR475 EU and restrictions and downward pricing pressure could impact whether a development product can be developed intoa viable marketable VR647 US, generic programmes and other new development opportunities would impact the potential value of these programmes.
productand the amount of timeand expenses associated with such development.
Pipeline failures or delays could materially impact the future Even if products are approved, they may still facesubsequent revenues, profitability and prospects of Vectura.
difficulties resulting in financial loss andreputational damage.
Phase III VR475 EU orPhase II VR647 US clinical trials Political change.
Manufacturing issuesassociated with aparticular device Regulatory action onpricing.
Ineffective design andexecution of clinicalprogrammes Regulatory changes tend to be slow due to lengthy consultations andprotocols.
and discussions between regulators and the pharmaceutical Failure of outsourced provider of clinical trials.
We work closely with expert regulatory advisors and, Constraints in R&D capacity and investment.
whenappropriate, seek advice from regulatory authorities on thedesign of key development plans for pre-clinical and How do we manage the risk?
Vectura has an established governance process to oversee theconduct and delivery of all development programmes and We work witha number of blue-chip pharmaceutical partners toensure that any potential changes to the development plan or which have significant regulatory expertise.
budget are identified and discussed in a timely manner such that Our business strategy includes investment in generic products mitigating activities or actions can be put in place as required.
which support government initiatives to reduce cost.
Vectura works closely with expert regulatory advisors and, when Change since last report appropriate, seeks advice from regulatory authorities on the design No change.
of key development plansfor pre-clinical and clinical programmes.
Clinical trials are conducted in accordance with prevailing practice and statutory regulatory requirements.
Individuals with the necessary skills and experience havebeen recruited to lead and oversee thedevelopment of our late-stage assets.
Vectura continues to work with anetwork of experienced consultants and contractors which provide additional support and expertise as required.
Operational Excellence initiatives within the R&D function have been established to increase productive capacity.
Change since last report Risk decreasing as aresult of Vecturas revised investment strategy which seeks toreduce overall pipeline delivery risk with increased focus on enhanced delivery of existing medicines and extending our inhaled generics portfolio.
Maximising Operational Maximising Strong financial High performance pipeline value Excellence partneringvalue discipline culture 52 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Industry-related risks Failure to attract or retain talent key personnel Risk movement: Strategic priorities impact: Stable STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL RISK What is the risk?
Vectura relies upon a number of key qualified management, scientific, technical, marketing and support personnel.
Competition for such personnel isintense and there can be no assurance thatthe Group will be able to continue to attract and retain suchpersonnel.
The loss of talent or key personnel could adversely impact theeffectiveness ofthe Groups operations.
Inadequate succession planning talent management.
Organisational disruption and or change.
Failure to attract thecorrect calibre ofcandidates.
Vectura seeks to develop employees for current and future roles and our career development and talent management programmes remain a key area of focus for the Executive Leadership Team.
We continue to invest in ongoing training and development.
Newleadership development training has been developed in2017 and is currently being rolled out, starting with the Executive and BusinessLeadership Teams.
Succession plans for key roles have been developed to ensure a talent pool isidentified, developed and ready for implementation.
These plans include theidentification of emergency successors in the case of unanticipated andimmediate absence.
Vectura offers market-competitive reward packages and a clear career development framework.
Our multiple locations provide flexibility for potential employees and an ability totarget talent pools across a wide geography.
Change since last report No change.
Maximising Operational Maximising Strong financial High performance pipeline value Excellence partneringvalue discipline culture Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 53 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Principal risks continued Risks not specific to the industry or Vectura Failure to protect intellectual property Brexit uncertainty Risk movement: Strategic priorities impact: Risk movement: Strategic priorities impact: Stable Increasing OPERATIONAL RISK STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL RISK What is the risk?
Patent infringement by a competitor organisation or failure to While the impact of the UKs decision to leave the European obtain patents for Vectura-related development could impact Union EU in March 2019 is still uncertain, Brexit may result in an onVecturas ability to deliver itsproduct pipeline or impact increase in cost of operations of the Group and disruption to the on-market products.
Group andpartner supply chains, particularly flutiform, where most raw materials are imported from the EU into the UK by What would the impact be?
Vectura and finished product is exported from the UK into the Such infringement or failure could result in Vectura or a partner EUby a partner.
having to take a licence to third-party IP in order to develop a product, or even being unable to commercialise aproduct, What would the impact be?
Disruption to or additional cost associated with managing materially impacting Vecturas future revenues, profitability andprospects.
Delays may also arise inprogressing the R&D pipelinedue Competitor successful inchallenging Vectura or partner patent.
topotential skills shortages and changes in the regulatory landscape for the UKpharmaceutical industry.
Critical information missing from filed patent.
Further volatility in exchange rates, particularly in the euro and How do we manage the risk?
USdollar versus sterling could materially impact the Groups Dedicated internal resource, supplemented with external reported financialresults.
expertise,  patents and other forms ofintellectual property.
Failure by the UK to negotiate an adequate transition period In conjunction with our partners, where relevant, Vectura takes to prepare for exit fromtheEU.
steps to enforce these rights.
Tariffs introduced on flowof goods between the UK and EU.
Third-party rights that may be of interest to and or have adverse Inability to perform quality assurance release testing for effects onVecturas activities are also monitored so that action products supplied by the Group into the EU.
Reduced labour pool and increased competition for labour Change since last report from EU citizens not wishing or able to work in the UK.
Partner failure to mitigaterisks from Brexit see risk #5 above.
A team comprising senior representatives from relevant functions is in place responsible for monitoring and mitigating the risks from Brexit.
The Group and individuals on the team are members of various professional bodies and trade organisations.
Guidance and intelligence from these organisations is monitored and actions are taken accordingly.
Process mapping is taking place in the supply chain to identify all potential pointswhere Brexit could impact the Groups ability to meet its product supplyobligations.
The Group is raising the risk from Brexit with its partners and suppliers, providing support where required.
Change since last report Increasing risk as negotiations between the UK and EU are ongoing and the deadline of 29 March 2019 is now closer, but an approach to the exit and a transition plan are still to be established.
Maximising Operational Maximising Strong financial High performance pipeline value Excellence partneringvalue discipline culture 54 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
