RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK RISK AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Effective risk and compliance management is essential to the Groups operations and strategy.
The accurate and timely identification, assessment and management of risks are key to achieving the Groups operating and financial targets.
THE RISK AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT: Provides guidelines, standards and best-practice Supervises the operations risk management examples of risk and compliance management Reviews the effectiveness of mitigating actions at the corporate and business unit levels Supports internal stakeholders in key strategic Responsible for the risk and compliance decisions management systems Ensures there are policies, guidelines and Maintains the Groups risk register procedures in place to support the effectiveness Organises and promotes risk and compliance of the Groups internal controls workshops AREAS OF FOCUS AND DEVELOPMENT DURING 2017 RISK COMPLIANCE INTERNAL CONTROL The focus was on the continued Expanding compliance training to Conducting preventative analysis of roles consolidation of risk, compliance and all employees on the Code of Ethics, and profiles to strengthen transaction internal control management processes, anti-corruption, antitrust, the Modern risk management.
which included the following: Slavery Act, etc, through e-learning.
Ensuring SAP transactions are in full Including the Modern Slavery Act as part compliance with delegated authority Independent review of the Groups risk of the Compliance Model.
appetite and tolerance to risk.
of the Groups suppliers to ensure that Ensuring that key in-built SAP automatic Working to achieve a higher maturity modern slavery is not occurring in their controls are appropriate and effective.
level in risk management based on an businesses or supply chains.
independent review and embedding Further information about the Groups Updating due diligence assessments a risk management culture in the risk management systems is given in of suppliers and business partners the Governance section on pages 90 to 95 organisation as a key element in the and in the Sustainability Report on page 65. to include modern slavery-related decision-making process.
Further detailed disclosures in respect of verifications.
Expanding risk analysis to routine financial risks relevant to the Group are set Obtaining the certification of the Groups corporate actions of the Company, out in Note 24 to the financial statements Crime Prevention Model for the third including comprehensive risk consecutive year.
assessment of all matters presented to the Board for approval.
Recognised as one of the top three companies in Chile in managing an Implementing effectiveness audits and ethical and compliant internal culture self-assessments for risk owners, and and receiving the Commitment with verifying the design and effectiveness of Integrity award in Chile.
The recognition key controls through onsite independent encompasses the prevention and peer reviews.
detection of unethical treatment, Setting up a key risk indicators promoting best business practices and dashboard to provide early warning consolidating an organisational culture of increasing risks.
based on the relevance of peoples dignity and a sense of common welfare.
16 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT The Groups risk and compliance management framework comprises: GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE Communicating the Groups vision, Ensuring that there are structures Ensuring that the Group strategy and objectives throughout and processes in place to identify and adheres to internal policies, the organisation, and putting in place evaluate risks, and developing appropriate procedures and controls, as well as appropriate governance structures, controls and mitigation techniques all relevant laws and regulations.
policies and procedures to embed to address those risks.
the key aims and objectives.
Ensuring that key risks, and performance in managing those risks, are reported on a timely basis to the relevant parties.
GOVERNANCE The Board is responsible for determining The provision of this information allows The Code of Ethics sets out the Groups the nature and extent of the significant the early identification of potential issues commitment to undertaking business risks that the Group will accept in order and assessment of any necessary in a responsible and transparent manner.
to achieve its strategic objectives, and for mitigating actions.
The Code requires honesty, integrity and maintaining sound risk management and accountability from all employees and The Audit and Risk Committee assists the internal control systems.
During the year contractors and includes guidelines for Board by reviewing the effectiveness of the an  review of the identifying and managing potential conflicts risk management process and monitoring Groups risk appetite was started and will of interest.
An Ethics Committee comprising key risks and mitigation procedures.
be completed in 2018. members of senior management The Chairman of the Committee reports implements, develops and updates the Code The Board receives detailed analysis of to the Board following each Committee and monitors compliance.
The Code and key matters for consideration in advance meeting and, if necessary, the Board can other compliance matters form part of the of Board meetings.
This includes reports discuss the matters raised in more detail.
induction programme for all new employees.
on the Groups operating performance, These processes allow the Board to including safety and health, financial, Further information on the Board and its monitor effectively the Groups major risks Committees is given in the Governance environmental, legal and social matters, key and mitigation procedures, and to assess section on pages 84 to 104 developments in the Groups exploration, the acceptable level of risk arising from project and business development the Groups operations and development activities, information on the commodity activities.
Risk management reports are markets, updates on talent management sent to the Board quarterly.
and analysis of financial investments.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Risk and Compliance Management The General Managers of each of the Mitigation techniques for significant Department is responsible for risk and operations have overall responsibility for strategic and business unit risks are compliance management systems across leading and supporting risk management.
annually reviewed by the Risk and the Group.
It maintains the Groups risk Risk owners within each operation Compliance Management Department.
register, which specifies the strategic risks have direct responsibility for the risk The Board regularly reviews Group that represent the most significant threats management processes in their operations compliance with all relevant laws and to the Groups performance and and for the continuous updating of regulations, internal policies, procedures achievement of its strategy, along with any individual business risk registers, including and control activities.
A formal risk necessary mitigation activities.
The risk relevant mitigation activities.
The owners of assessment is conducted at least once a register is regularly updated and annual the risks and controls at each business unit year at all the Groups operations, and all strategic risk workshops are held at which are identified, providing effective and direct risks are reported and reviewed quarterly senior management from across the Group management of risk.
Each operation holds by the Audit and Risk Committee.
review the Groups key strategic risks and its own annual risk workshop in which the related mitigation activities.
business units risks and mitigation As the Group has no operations or material activities are reviewed in detail and exposure to the UK, Brexit is not expected The Risk and Compliance Management updated if necessary.
Workshops are also to have any appreciable impact on the Department reports quarterly to the Audit used to assess key risks that may affect Group.
This position is kept under review and Risk Committee on the overall risk relationships with stakeholders, limit as Brexit negotiations advance.
management process, giving a detailed resources, interrupt operations and or update of key risks, mitigation activities negatively affect potential future growth.
co. uk 17 RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK CONTINUED COMPLIANCE The Groups Compliance Model applies Investigating all reports made Methodology for complaints investigation to both employees and contractors.
by whistleblowers and reporting It is clearly defined and is communicated Assessing conflict of interest and due Monitoring analysis of complaints regularly through internal communication diligence on all business partners and improvements to internal control channels, as well as being available on Updating and reviewing all employees 4 COMPLIANCE RISKS AND the Groups website.
All contracts with conflict of interest statements contractors include clauses relating CONTROL ASSESSMENT Strengthening the compliance to ethics, modern slavery and crime The objective of the Compliance Risks and programme and systems prevention to ensure adherence to Control Assessment is to identify, develop the Groups Compliance Model.
Overseeing third-party reviews of the and improve internal controls to prevent Crime Prevention Model and mitigate potential risks.
This The Compliance Model comprises assessment is performed at least annually.
five pillars: Implementing policies and processes to ensure the proper management of any Identification of risks and controls 1 CODE OF ETHICS non-compliance exposure Assessment of risks and controls, The Code of Ethics sets out the Groups Crime Prevention Handbook and improvement of the process values and provides guidelines on the Anti-corruption clauses in contracts The Compliance Model is reviewed behaviour required of all employees Due diligence process, including global regularly, both internally and by third and contractors.
checking parties, and on matters relating to Conflict of Interest Guidelines corruption it has been certified under Antitrust Politically Exposed Person Gifts and Hospitality Guidelines Chilean anti-corruption legislation PEP Facilitation Fees Guidelines Modern Slavery Act See page 65 for more information See page 23 for more information Monitoring the effectiveness on corruption prevention and mitigation activities of the programme Annual Statement 5 COMMUNICATION AND 3 WHISTLEBLOWING Please see our Modern Slavery TRAINING PROGRAMME Employees and external stakeholders can Statement on page 65 The Group has a comprehensive training report concerns about irregular conduct programme to ensure that the policies and or ethical issues through the Companys procedures of the Compliance Model are intranet, by email, or letter, or by using 2 CRIME PREVENTION MODEL clearly understood and embedded in the a dedicated hotline.
All complaints are The Crime Prevention Model ensures culture of the organisation.
The programme investigated and the findings are reported compliance with the anti-bribery and emphasises the right to know, and there to the Ethics Committee and action is taken anti-corruption laws in the United Kingdom are measures in place to enhance the skills if required.
The security and confidentiality and Chile.
The Vice President of Finance required to ensure its effective of employees is ensured for the duration and Administration is responsible for implementation.
of the process, safeguarding individuals overseeing, defining and implementing and thereby achieving greater transparency.
Communications news, intranet, the Model.
As part of the Model, the posters Reporting channels web, telephone, Group regularly undertakes the hotline, email following activities: Training programme induction of new employees and e-learning Training on key risk areas ethics, anti-corruption, modern slavery and antitrust matters VIABILITY STATEMENT principal risks which could impact the prospects of the Group over this period, and consider the most relevant to be risks to the copper To address the requirements of provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK price outlook.
Robust down-side sensitivity analyses have been Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the performed, assessing the impact of a significant deterioration in the prospects of the Group over a period of five years.
copper price outlook over the five-year period, along with the impact Mining is a long-term business and timescales can run into decades.
of the potential occurrence of a number of the Groups other specific The Group maintains life-of-mine plans covering the full remaining principal risks.
This analysis has focused on the existing asset base mine life for each of the mining operations.
More detailed mediumof the Group, without factoring in potential development projects, term planning is performed for a five-year time horizon as well as which is considered appropriate for an assessment of the Groups very detailed annual budgets.
Accordingly, a period of five years has ability to manage the impact of a depressed economic environment.
been selected as the appropriate period over which to assess the These stress-tests all indicated results which could be managed prospects of the Group.
in the normal course of business.
When taking account of the impact of the Groups current position on Based on their assessment of the Groups prospects and viability, this viability assessment, the Directors have considered in particular the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that its financial position, including its significant balance of cash, cash the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities equivalents and liquid investments and the borrowing facilities in as they fall due over the next five years.
place, including their terms and remaining durations.
GOING CONCERN When assessing the prospects of the Group, the Directors have considered the Groups copper price forecasts, the Groups expected Based on the factors considered above, the Directors also considered production levels, operating cost profile, capital expenditure and it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going financing plans.
The Directors have taken into consideration the concern basis.
