Risk management and internal control The Groups risk management and internal control systems are overseen by two Board committees, with overall responsibility lying with the Board of Directors as a whole.
The Audit and Risk Committee, with the Each hospital has a risk register and Assurance over clinical delivery and assistance of the Clinical Governance and supporting governance structure, with clinical regulatory compliance risks Safety Committee CGSC, provides the processes for managing and reporting As a provider of clinical services to Board with a consolidated view of key risks.
Work is ongoing to create a patients, the Group faces a specific set risks from all levels of the Group, advice consolidated overview across the Group, of non-financial risks associated with on the Groups overall risk appetite and with this being a priority area for 2018. such provision.
strategy, and on the effectiveness of the In 2018, the risk management framework In relation to these risks: Groups risk management and internal will be fully embedded and integrated the corporate Clinical Services team, control processes.
with clinical governance and patient which is independent of the hospital experience indicators to drive The risk management framework is operations and is led by the Group risk management as a cornerstone designed to identify, evaluate and mitigate Medical Director, oversees a national of outstanding quality.
the risks that the Group faces at all levels.
programme of clinical audits, in addition This is a core component of driving quality Significant risks facing the Group are to conducting on-site clinical reviews improvement across the Group in order managed through risk registers and are of every hospital and non-hospital unit, to provide outstanding services.
The assessed in terms of consequence and according to the approach taken at underlying process aims to provide robust likelihood.
Each risk has an identified regulatory inspections.
These form management information to enable lead who works to monitor and mitigate part of the overall framework for clinical conscious risk-based decision-making.
Risk registers are reviewed on governance and quality, to ensure that a regular basis at all levels in line with In 2016, the Group implemented risk clinical risk and clinical regulatory the Groups risk policy framework and management software to support its compliance is managed effectively or in response to changes in the risk approach to risk management.
This across all registered sites.
The results environment for example following software has been implemented across of these activities are regularly reviewed a change in regulations.
the Group and is now populated by risk by the corporate Clinical Services team, registers for all hospitals.
This allows a The principal risks facing the Group Operations Directors, Matrons, the greater degree of oversight and analysis are drawn from the Groups risk Executive Committee and the CGSC: across the Group as well as enhancing framework and are linked to the Groups each hospital has a risk register through integrated governance.
Risk management strategic drivers, as set out in the Chief which risks are managed: is supported by a detailed framework and Executive Officers strategy section comprehensive, non-financial methodology to ensure that all hospital on page 14. management information on clinical and business-level risks are identified performance, including safety, clinical and assessed consistently across all of Clinical risks effectiveness and customer experience, Spire Healthcare.
During 2017, the CGSC chaired by is produced and reviewed quarterly Professor Dame Janet Husband focused against pre-agreed standards by the The Board recognises that it has limited on key clinical risks and trends including corporate Clinical Services team, control over many of the external risks the review of notifiable incidents and Operations Directors, Matrons, the it faces, such as macroeconomic events external regulatory inspections across Executive Committee and the CGSC.
and the complex regulatory environment.
A copy of the CGSC Report Specific KPI measures drawn from this However, it is important to consider the can be found on pages 74 and 75. management information are given potential impact of such ongoing risks to on pages 18 and 19: the business and where possible develop Internal controls the Group is subject to substantial contingency plans to minimise the impact The principal internal controls and levels of external inspection and review, of these external risks.
assurance activity over the risks that are both by the range of national healthcare In 2018, the Group will continue to directly manageable by the Group are: regulators and through invited evolve its approach to and use of risk assurance inspections such as the Standard policies and procedures management to drive quality improvement.
rolling programme of health and safety The Group has documented policies and inspections carried out by third-party standard procedures in place covering specialists.
The outcomes of these all significant activities and areas of risk, activities are reviewed by the Executive which are subject to regular review Committee and the CGSC: and and update.
50 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information the structures and processes for Other non-financial operational risks are Continuous learning internal confirmation of clinical managed by means of the application of The Group recognises the importance regulatory compliance and the level best practice, as defined by Group policies of improving services by learning from of evidence and assurance required and standard procedures, in areas such as events that fall below the expected to monitor this on an ongoing basis project management, human resources outstanding quality.
No matter how have been further strengthened and management and IT security and delivery, robust and reliable, internal control formalised in 2017. supported by detailed performance systems and risk management cannot monitoring of outputs and issues.
guarantee to remove all error or loss.
Financial and operational controls The Group takes all instances of incidents Financial control is established through: Internal audit internal control assurance including near misses, complaints, The need for an Internal Audit function control failures, regulatory non-compliance the annual process of preparing business was reassessed by the Audit and Risk or other risk events very seriously.
As such, plans and budgets, followed up by close Committee early in 2017 and it was agreed we have a detailed process in place to monitoring of operational performance that an Internal Audit function should be fully understand the cause and identify by the executive management and established.
A process to recruit a Head learning to minimise the chances of the Board: of Audit was undertaken and the function reoccurrence.
monthly monitoring of actual results, established at the end of Q2 with a remit compared to budgets, forecasts and An open culture is actively promoted and to establish the audit function and create the previous year: monitored within the Group to positively a risk-based audit approach for 2018. all material capital expenditure is encourage the reporting of all risk events subject to an investment evaluation A small team of experienced, professional and other issues arising.
The number and and authorisation procedure: Internal Auditors is being assembled and nature of events arising and the operation common accounting policies and the function will be fully staffed by the of event management processes are closely procedures: and end of Q1, 2018. monitored by hospital management, the the Groups treasury position and Executive Committee, the Audit and Risk Internal Audit works closely with the forecast liquidity are kept under review Committee and the CGSC.
other internal assurance mechanisms, to ensure that borrowings are aligned i. e. Clinical Audit, Health and Safety The Group offers an independent with the Groups growth and are in Audits including engineering and Risk whistleblowing service to facilitate compliance with banking covenants.
Management to align reviews where reporting of any issues or concerns that possible.
Additionally, the Risk Management staff may have that they are unwilling process moved its formal reporting line to raise via any other channel.
from Legal to Internal Audit in Q4.
Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the conditions in the past and the impact of the Group is subject to temporary 2014 revision of the Corporate Governance a number of severe yet plausible scenarios, suspension of trade, with a temporary Code, the Directors assessed the viability based on the principal risks set out in the adverse impact on revenue, for example, of the Group and have adopted a period Strategic Report.
as a result of a successful cyber attack of three years for the assessment.
A threeon key business systems this links with These scenarios may be summarised year period was selected as it corresponds Cyber security : as follows: with the Boards strategic planning horizon.
the downside modelling of a number of Whilst existing bank facilities extend until Spire Healthcare is unable to access risks which result in a decline in earnings, July 2019, this viability assessment has sufficient numbers of appropriately including lower NHS tariffs or referral also considered the ability of the Group to qualified clinical staff, restricting growth, rates or a general economic downturn refinance bank facilities at the end of 2018 driving up clinical staff costs and this links with Macroeconomic conditions based on current market-lending multiples.
constraining the capacity of new hospital and Government policy : and developments this links with Availability the business is subject to significant The assessment conducted considered the of key medical staff : uninsured losses arising from medical Groups revenue, EBITDA, operating profit, a key hospital is subject to temporary malpractice, negligence or similar claims cash flows, risk management controls and suspension of trade, with a permanent this links with Insurance.
loan covenants over the three-year period.
adverse impact on revenues, for example, These metrics were subject to severe Based on the results of this analysis, due to failure to meet Care Quality downside stress testing and sensitivity the Directors confirm that they have Commission CQC regulatory standards analyses over the assessment period, taking a reasonable expectation that the Group this links with Compliance with laws, account of the Groups current position, the will be able to continue in operation and regulations and other applicable Groups experience of managing adverse meet its liabilities as they fall due over requirements : the next three years.
51 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
