34 35 Our principal risks Risk is inherent in running any business The risk profile of the Group Following the UK decision to leave the Changes to our principal risks iii In order to focus our risk management At Derwent London and our risk management procedures As a predominantly London-based Group, EU, there continues to be uncertainty The principal risks and uncertainties facing activities, we have split nonwe aim to deliver on are routinely reviewed and strengthened we are particularly sensitive to any factors surrounding Brexit negotiations and the the Group in 2018 are set out on pages 36 compliance with health and safety to ensure that all foreseeable and which impact upon central Londons growth potential impact this could have on London to 43 together with the potential impact regulation and with environmental our strategic objectives emerging risks are identified, and demand for office space.
Any decline as a major global city.
Although we remain and the mitigating actions and controls in and sustainability legislation from for the benefit of our understood and managed.
in the demand for London office space or both committed to London and assured of place.
Our principal risks are not an regulatory non-compliance.
a significant increase in supply could its resilience see pages 10 to 17, we are exhaustive list of all risks facing the Group stakeholders while Risk management negatively impact upon: proactively managing the risks that could but are a snapshot of the Companys main Increasing risks operating within the The role of our Board, with support from arise in the short to medium term as the risk profile as at 27 February 2018. iv Partly driven by the economic the Risk Committee, is to ensure that our impact of the Brexit negotiations are the valuation of our property portfolio: uncertainty arising from the decision risk tolerance levels risk management and internal controls occupancy rates and, subsequently, realised, by: During the year under review, there has been to leave the EU and the importance set by our Board.
are robust so that we remain able to impact on our income: and a number of changes to our principal risks: of our development pipeline, the swiftly identify and react to new threats availability of properties for acquisition seeking pre-lets of our developments risks of reduced development returns and uncertainties.
Balanced with the and the ease of disposal and refinancing.
with targeted marketing campaigns, New principal risks and contractor subcontractor default maintenance of a flexible business model including greater use of social media: i Due to our significant development have increased.
and strong financial structure, this better The London office market has proven developing properties in locations where pipeline with a number of key projects enables us to weather uncertainties and to be cyclical and can be impacted by a there is greatest potential for future currently under construction including Decreasing risks take advantage of opportunities.
number of external and internal factors.
demand, such as near Crossrail links: 80 Charlotte Street and the Brunel v The risk that the Group is subject For example, changes in political agendas anticipating occupier trends by Building, the risk of delays to our to a cyber attack remains a principal Our overall low risk tolerance, alongside or economic factors can impact upon the: engaging with our current tenants, projects and or cost overruns known risk see page 38 but the assessment a transparent and collaborative work style, local communities and advisers: as on-site risk has been elevated to of this risk has slightly reduced ensures that any potential risk is identified ease of gaining planning permission designing office space that is a principal risk.
during the year due to the substantial quickly.
Our approach to risk management for new development projects: innovative and sustainable with mitigation work being conducted by is contained on pages 98 to 99.
Our risk cost of acquisitions, i. e. stamp duty communal and break-out spaces ii The risk that an act of terrorism management and our IT team.
tolerance is set by the Board and is land tax: and that occupiers increasingly demand interrupts the Groups operations has described in the table on page 98. value of our properties for overseas in order to attract talent: and now been elevated to a principal risk investors due to exchange rate developing and maintaining a due to the recent terrorist activity in fluctuations.
Effect of mitigation actions on our principal risks Risk profile Viability statement See pages 36-43 for risks In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of most leases contain a five-year rent In addition, the level of cash and Strategic the UK Corporate Governance Code, review pattern and therefore five years undrawn facilities increased to 523m 4 4 High the Directors and the senior management allows for the forecasts to include the during the year which meant that the 11 team have assessed the prospects of the reversion arising from those reviews.
entire committed project pipeline on site 5 3 Company over a longer period than the was fully funded as at 31 December 2017.
10 12 months required by the Going Concern The viability review considered a variety Full details of the process undertaken by 11 2 2 Provision, taking account of the Groups of factors including, but not limited to, the Board is detailed on page 111 of the 10 5 current position and the potential impact the Groups cash flows as identified in the Audit Committee report.
latest five-year strategic review, dividend 3 1 7 cover, REIT compliance, financial ratios Financial Corporate Based on the Boards assessment, the 8 The Board conducted this viability review and stress testing of our business model.
6 Directors have a reasonable expectation 9 over a period of five years to 31 December We also reviewed potential Brexit 7 that the Company will be able to continue 2022, which was considered appropriate negotiation outcomes and the likely 1 12 for the following reasons: in operation and meet its liabilities as impact on London and our business.
they fall due over the five-year period 8 the Groups strategic review covers a This years review was carried out in the to 31 December 2022.
9 13 12 13 five-year period: context of the 473m of property disposals for a major scheme five years is a that were made in the past year which reasonable approximation of the further reduced the Groups loan-to-value Property maximum time taken from obtaining ratio to 13.2% and helped increase interest planning permission for a development Low Impact on the Group High cover to 454%.
2014 2015 2016 2017 to letting the property: and Gross risk basis Net risk basis post mitigation Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Probability 36 37 Key Strategic objectives Movement during the year Our principal risks To optimise returns and create value from a To design, deliver and operate our Risk increased 1 4 balanced portfolio buildings responsibly continued To grow recurring earnings and cash flow To maintain strong and flexible financing Risk unchanged 2 5 To attract, retain and develop talented employees Risk decreased 3 Strategic risks That the Groups business model and or strategy does not create the anticipated shareholder value or fails to meet investors and other stakeholders expectations.
Risk Our key controls Potential impact What we did in 2017 Further mitigating actions for 2018 1.
Inconsistent strategy The Groups strategy is not met due to poor strategy The Group conducts an annual five-year strategic review and prepares a budget and Strategic objectives The annual strategic review was performed in May 2017 and fide-risk the Brunel Building development implementation or a failure to respond appropriately to internal three rolling forecasts covering the next two years.
reviewed at the Boards strategy meeting on 23 June 2017. through our pre-letting strategy and or external factors such as: The Board considers the sensitivity of the Group KPIs and key metrics to changes in The Board considered the sensitivity of our KPIs and metrics continued monitoring of construction progress.
the assumptions underlying our forecasts in light of anticipated economic conditions.
to changes in underlying assumptions including interest rates, Monitor our portfolio for further asset an economic downturn and or the Groups development programme 1, 2, 5 If considered necessary, modifications are made.
timing of projects, level of capital expenditure and the extent management activities.
being inconsistent with the current economic cycle: and The Groups development pipeline has a degree of flexibility that enables plans Business model of capital recycling.
Extend income through renewals and re-gears London losing its global appeal with a consequential impact on for individual properties to be changed to reflect prevailing economic circumstances.
Three rolling forecasts were prepared.
for properties not earmarked for regeneration.
the property investment or occupational markets.
Could potentially impact on all The Group seeks to maintain income from properties until development commences Pre-lets have been secured at 73% of 80 Charlotte Street, Decision on whether to commit to Soho Place.
aspects of our business model.
and has an ongoing strategy to extend income through lease renewals and re-gearing.
part of the Groups record year of lettings when 685,700 sq ft Continue with our current controls and Movement during the year: The Group aims to fide-risk the development programme through pre-lets.
of new lettings were secured.
KPIs and key metrics The Group maintains sufficient headroom in all the Groups key ratios and financial During the year the Groups LTV ratio was further reduced Total return covenants and a focus on interest cover.
to 13.2%, its net interest cover ratio was above 450% and Total property return The Board considers this risk to have remained broadly the same.
the REIT ratios were comfortably met.
Throughout the year, the Group continued to benefit from a resilient central London office market.
Adverse Brexit settlement Risk that negotiations to leave the EU result in arrangements The Groups strong financing and covenant headroom enables it to weather a downturn.
Strategic objectives Brexit risk assessments have been performed to understand Continue to monitor Brexit negotiations.
which are damaging to the London economy.
The Groups diverse and high-quality tenant base provides resilience against tenant how the different scenarios of Brexit could impact on our We will continue with our current controls default.
See page 12 for analysis of the Groups tenant base.
and mitigating actions including operating As a predominantly London-based Group, we are particularly The Group focuses on good value, middle market rent properties which are less Monitored Brexit negotiations and discussed potential the business on a basis that balances risk sensitive to any factors which impact upon Londons growth 1, 2, 5 susceptible to reductions in tenant demand.
The Groups average topped-up office outcomes with external advisers.
and demand for office space.
Business model rent is only 49.74 per sq ft.
Monitored letting progress and demand for our buildings.
Negotiations are likely to be ongoing during 2018 and the The Group develops properties in locations where there is greatest potential for future As at 31 December 2017, the Group had cash and undrawn Could eventually impact on most operating framework facing UK businesses and the effect demand, such as near Crossrail stations.
on London post-Brexit cannot be accurately predicted.
Income is maintained at future developments for as long as possible.
Ongoing strategy is to extend income through lease renewals and re-gearing and to KPIs and key metrics Movement during the year: fide-risk the development programme though pre-lets.
Total return Updates received on occupier trends by engaging with our current tenants and advisers.
Total property return Total shareholder return Although some progress on negotiations has been made, the Board considers this risk to have remained broadly the same during the year.
Reputational damage The Groups reputation is damaged, e. g. through unauthorised Close involvement of senior management in day-to-day operations and established Strategic objectives Monitored investor views and press comments while Continue with our current controls and and or inaccurate media coverage or failure to comply with procedures for approving all external announcements.
maintaining contact with other stakeholders.
All new members of staff benefit from an induction programme and are issued with our Performed a review of our social media activity and agreed Implement the social media strategy including Group staff handbook.
a specific social media marketing plan and set advertising providing our staff with additional social 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Movement during the year: The Group employs a Head of Investor and Corporate Communications and retains the budgets for the year.
services of an external PR agency, both of whom maintain regular contact with external Business model Developed a more extensive social media strategy for media sources.
Could potentially impact on all A Group whistleblowing system for staff is maintained to report wrongdoing anonymously.
The Board considers this risk to have remained broadly the aspects of our business model.
Social media channels are monitored.
Ongoing engagement with local communities in areas where the Group operates, KPIs and key metrics We have an established and trusted brand.
Our strong culture, see page 78.
Total shareholder return low overall risk tolerance and established procedures and Total return policies mitigate against the risk of internal wrongdoing.
Total property return Further information on how we mitigate against the risk of non-compliance with legislation can be found on page 40.
Could indirectly impact on a number of our other KPIs and key metrics.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 38 39 Key Strategic objectives Movement during the year Our principal risks To optimise returns and create value from a To design, deliver and operate our Risk increased 1 4 balanced portfolio buildings responsibly continued To grow recurring earnings and cash flow To maintain strong and flexible financing Risk unchanged 2 5 To attract, retain and develop talented employees Risk decreased 3 Financial risks Significant steps have been taken in recent years to reduce or mitigate the Groups financial risks such that few are now considered to be principal risks of the Group.
The main financial risk is that the Group becomes unable to meet its financial obligations, which is not currently a principal risk.
Financial risks can arise from movements in the financial markets in which we operate and inefficient management of capital resources.
Risk Our key controls Potential impact What we did in 2017 Further mitigating actions for 2018 4.
Increase in property yields Increasing property yields, which may be a consequence of rising The impact of yield changes is considered when potential projects are appraised.
Strategic objectives The Group produced three rolling forecasts during the year Continue with our current controls and interest rates, would cause property values to fall.
Interest rates The impact of yield changes on the Groups financial covenants and performance are which contain detailed sensitivity analyses, including the mitigating actions.
have remained low for an extended period and are expected to monitored regularly and are subject to sensitivity analysis to ensure that adequate effect of changes to yields.
gradually rise over the next few years.
Though there is no direct headroom is preserved.
Quarterly management accounts were provided to the 1, 5 relationship, this may cause property yields to increase.
The Groups move towards mainly unsecured financing over the past few years has Board and included the Groups performance against the simplified the management of our financial covenants.
Movement during the year: The Groups low LTV ratio reduces the likelihood that falls in property values have a Our assets and resources significant impact on our business.
Adding value for stakeholders KPIs and key metrics The Board considers this risk to have remained broadly the same during the past year.
Interest cover ratio Total return The underlying value of the properties in our portfolio have Total property return remained resilient and in 2017 have increased by 3.9%, despite Gearing and available resources the continuing economic uncertainties.
Operational risks The Group suffers either a financial loss or adverse consequences due to processes being inadequate or not operating correctly, human factors or other external events.
Reduced development returns The Groups development projects do not produce the targeted Investment appraisals, which include contingencies and inflationary cost increases, Strategic objectives Demand for our developments is evidenced by the significant Further fide-risk the Brunel Building development financial returns due to one or more of the following factors: are prepared and a sensitivity analysis is undertaken to ensure that an adequate pre-letting activity in the year.
delays on site: return is made in all likely circumstances.
Pre-lets were secured in 2017 over 276,900 sq ft 86% of Continue with our current controls and mitigating increased construction costs: and The procurement process used by the Group includes the use of highly regarded the offices of 80 Charlotte Street.
actions with a major focus on project monitoring.
firms of quantity surveyors and is designed to minimise uncertainty regarding costs.
Sale of The Copyright Building for 148.2m, 21% above Business model Development costs are benchmarked to ensure that the Group obtains competitive valuation see page 63 for further details.
For example, delays could lead to penalties payable to pre-let pricing and, where appropriate, fixed-price contracts are entered into.
Our core activities Procedures carried out before starting work on site, such as site investigations, Construction costs now substantially fixed on all Adding value for stakeholders Movement during the year: historical research of the property and surveys conducted as part of the planning development projects.
application, reduce the risk of unidentified issues causing delays once on site.
KPIs and key metrics The Groups pre-letting strategy reduces or removes the letting risk of the Total return development as soon as possible.
The ongoing economic uncertainty arising from the decision to Total property return Post-completion reviews are carried out for all major developments to ensure leave the EU has caused this risk to increase slightly.
Although that improvements to the Groups procedures are identified, implemented and pre-lets have substantially fide-risked our schemes, they have also lessons learned.
led to greater financial exposure should projects be delivered late.
Cyber attack The Group is subject to a cyber attack that results in it being The Groups Business Continuity Plan is regularly reviewed and tested Strategic objectives Independent internal and external wireless penetration tests were Perform an exercise to better understand the unable to use its IT systems and or loses data.
This could lead to further information on page 115. conducted to assess the effectiveness of the Groups security.
potential impact of a cyber attack on our Group.
an increase in costs while a significant diversion of management Independent internal and external penetration tests are regularly conducted The switchover of the IT systems to the Groups back up facility Upgrade firewall protection to enhance time would have a wider impact.
to assess the effectiveness of the Groups security.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Multifactor authentication exists for remote access to our systems.
Independent benchmarking review of the Groups cyber security Further develop our incident response plans.
Movement during the year: Incident response and remediation policies are in place.
Business model was carried out in November see page 114 for further information.
Aim to introduce advanced internet filtering.
The Groups data is regularly backed up and replicated and our IT systems are Embedded an AI Artificial Intelligence layer into our security Full business continuity test to be conducted.
Could potentially impact on all protected by anti-virus software and firewalls that are frequently updated.
Review whether the Group would benefit from aspects of our business model Annual staff awareness and training programmes are implemented.
Replaced legacy hardware and redesigned our network as part cyber insurance.
Risk has slightly decreased due to the controls and procedures Security measures are regularly reviewed by the IT Steering Committee.
of the 25 Savile Row redevelopment project.
KPIs and key metrics implemented during 2017.
Improved data storage retention and security.
Total shareholder return Staff awareness and IT policy training in December to make staff more aware of the techniques that may be used to gain unauthorised access to the Groups systems.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 40 41 Key Strategic objectives Movement during the year Our principal risks To optimise returns and create value from a To design, deliver and operate our Risk increased 1 4 balanced portfolio buildings responsibly continued To grow recurring earnings and cash flow To maintain strong and flexible financing Risk unchanged 2 5 To attract, retain and develop talented employees Risk decreased 3 Risk Our key controls Potential impact What we did in 2017 Further mitigating actions for 2018 7.
N on-compliance with health and safety legislation The Groups cost base is increased and management time is The Group has a qualified health and safety team whose performance is monitored Strategic objectives ORSA presented to the Risk Committee on construction Recruit a new Head of Health and Safety.
diverted through an incident or breach of health and safety and managed by the Health and Safety Committee see pages 80 to 81 for further health and safety matters in May.
Review all our health and safety procedures legislation leading to reputational damage and or loss of our details.
Approved the composition and revised terms of reference and systems, updating them as required.
External advisers ORSA appointed to advise on construction health and safety.
of the Health and Safety Committee.
ORSA to present to the Health and Safety 1, 2, 3, 4 When required, external consultants are used on facilities management matters.
The Risk Committee received regular updates on the Groups Committee and Risk Committee.
Business model The Board and Executive Committee receive regular updates and presentations review of insulation cladding and fire protection procedures Perform an independent review of our This risk was previously included within regulatory non-compliance.
on key health and safety matters.
see pages 81 and 113 for further information.
health and safety indicators during Q1 2018.
Could potentially impact on all All our properties have health, safety and fire management procedures in place The Health and Safety Committee to receive aspects of our business model.
regular reports from each external Project External project managers review health and safety on each construction site Manager on health and safety at each of KPIs and key metrics on a monthly basis.
our construction sites during the year.
Total shareholder return A significant diversion of time could affect a wider range of key metrics.
Non-compliance with environmental and sustainability legislation The Groups cost base is increased and management time is The Board and Executive Committee receive regular updates and presentations Strategic objectives An audit of our entire portfolio in respect of MEES has been Project approval forms to be updated to ensure diverted through a breach of any of the legislation, e. g. Minimum on environmental and sustainability performance and management matters.
No significant issues were identified.
any capital expenditure will not adversely affect Energy Efficiency Standards MEES for buildings.
This could lead The Sustainability Committee monitors our performance and management controls.
Updated our sustainability framework documents to include our carbon target performance or the EPC rating to damage to our reputation and or loss of our licence to operate.
Employment of a qualified team led by an experienced Head of Sustainability.
tougher carbon requirements which align with the Groups of the property.
1, 3, 4 The Group benchmarks its environmental, social and governance ESG reporting new science-based carbon targets.
Implementation of a new carbon measurement New principal risk.
Business model The Group continues to set sustainability targets which are tool to help the Group track its performance This risk was previously included within regulatory non-compliance.
The Group has set long-term, science-based carbon targets aligned with the outcome monitored during the year.
Further information on pages 72 to 85. against new targets.
Could potentially impact on all of the Paris Climate Change Agreement and the UK Climate Change Act COP 21.
Further information on page 72. aspects of our business model.
Production of an Annual Sustainability Report, the key data points and the performance of which are externally assured further information on pages 72 to 77.
KPIs and key metrics Total return BREEAM rating EPC rating A significant diversion of time could affect a wider range of key metrics.
Other regulatory non-compliance The Groups cost base is increased and management time is diverted The Board and the Risk Committee receive regular reports prepared by the Strategic objectives Quarterly review of our anti-bribery and corruption procedures The Board and Executive Committee will through a breach of any of the legislation that forms the regulatory Groups legal advisers identifying upcoming legislative regulatory changes.
by the Risk Committee see page 114 for more information.
continue to monitor the Groups framework within which the Group operates.
This could lead to External advice is taken on any new legislation.
Board and Risk Committee received updates on General Data implementation of the GDPR project.
damage to our reputation and or loss of our licence to operate.
Staff training and awareness programmes.
Protection Regulations GDPR and preventing the facilitation Governance procedures will be reviewed to 3, 4, 5 Group policies and procedures dealing with all key legislation are available of tax evasion further information on page 115. determine our compliance with the revised Movement during the year: on the Groups intranet.
Business model As part of our 2017 staff performance appraisals, all employees UK Corporate Governance Code.
A Group whistleblowing system for staff is maintained to report confirmed they have reviewed and understood Group policies.
Continue with our current controls and Could potentially impact on all wrongdoing anonymously.
No whistleblowing incidents were reported during the year.
The Board considers this risk to have remained broadly the same KPIs and key metrics during the year.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 42 43 Key Strategic objectives Movement during the year Our principal risks To optimise returns and create value from a To design, deliver and operate our Risk increased 1 4 balanced portfolio buildings responsibly continued To grow recurring earnings and cash flow To maintain strong and flexible financing Risk unchanged 2 5 To attract, retain and develop talented employees Risk decreased 3 Risk Our key controls Potential impact What we did in 2017 Further mitigating actions for 2018 10.
On-site risk Risk of project delays and or cost overruns caused by Prior to construction beginning on site we conduct site investigations including Strategic objectives The Board and Executive Committee received regular updates We will aim to substantially fix the costs unidentified issues, e. g. asbestos in refurbishments or the buildings history and various surveys to identify any potential issues.
and programme for the Soho Place scheme ground conditions in developments.
Regular monitoring of our contractors cash flows.
Quarterly cost reports provided an update on development through the appointment of a main contractor.
Off-site inspection of key components to ensure they have been completed to progress from a cost, profitability and programme perspective.
Continue with our current controls and For example, delays could lead to penalties payable to 1, 2, 4 the requisite quality.
Our development teams have managed to substantially fix mitigating actions.
pre-let tenants at 80 Charlotte Street.
Our pre-let strategy Business model Payments to contractors to incentivise them to achieve agreed project timescale the costs for 80 Charlotte Street and the Brunel Building.
and damages agreed in the event of delays cost overruns.
Our core activities New principal risk.
Frequent meetings with key contractors and sub-contractors to review the Adding value for stakeholders work programme.
KPIs and key metrics Total return Total property return Total shareholder return 11.
Contractor subcontractor default Returns from the Groups developments are reduced due to delays The financial standing of our main contractors is reviewed prior to awarding the Strategic objectives The Board and Executive Committee received regular updates To mitigate risk at Soho Place, we will be and cost increases caused by either a main contractor or major project contract.
conducting a two-stage procurement process subcontractor defaulting during the project.
Regular monitoring of our contractors cash flows is carried out.
Quarterly cost reports providing an update on development which allows us to assess and have input into Key construction packages are acquired early in the projects life to reduce the risks progress from a cost, profitability and programme perspective.
1, 2, 4 Movement during the year: associated with later default.
Continue with our current controls and Whenever possible the Group uses contractors subcontractors that it has previously Business model mitigating actions.
Our core activities Regular on-site supervision by a dedicated Project Manager which monitors contractor The risk has slightly increased during the year, partly due to Adding value for stakeholders performance and identifies any problems at an early stage thereby enabling remedial the economic and political uncertainty and the importance of action to be taken.
KPIs and key metrics delivering the Groups key development projects.
Performance bonds are sought if considered necessary.
Total return Our main contractors are responsible, and assume the risk, for any subcontractor default.
Total property return Total shareholder return 12.
Shortage of key staff The Group is unable to successfully implement its strategy due The Nominations Committee considers succession matters at Board level as a Strategic objectives Launch of the Fit for the Future programme.
Set up a working group to propose ideas to the to a failure to recruit and retain key staff with appropriate skills standing agenda item.
The Group recruited 14 new members of staff during 2017 Executive Committee on how to address higher and or inadequate succession planning.
Senior management succession is considered during the five-year strategic reviews.
13 in 2016 and we spent 75,500 on training initiatives.
priority areas following the second employee survey.
Remuneration packages for all employees are benchmarked regularly.
Arranged the Groups first staff awayday which included To continue to cultivate, focus on and manage 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Movement during the year: Six-monthly performance appraisals identify training requirements and career aspirations.
an update on the Groups strategy.
the talent pipeline via the Fit for the Future Business model The Group conducted a second detailed employee survey.
programme, by identifying, assessing and Further information on pages 82 to 84. developing key individuals to enable them to Could potentially impact on all be ready and able to take on future key roles.
The Board considers this risk to have remained broadly the same aspects of our business model.
Continue to support the Group in creating a during the year.
working environment that promotes individual KPIs and key metrics As outlined on page 102, the Nominations Committee will be well-being and a respectful, inclusive, Could impact on any Group KPIs.
focusing on Board succession in 2018. collaborative and safe culture.
Terrorism or other business interruption Elevated to a new principal risk due to recent attacks in European The Group has comprehensive business continuity and incident management Strategic objectives Updated our incident management procedures for each of the Continue with our proactive approach to capital cities.
procedures both at Group level and for each of our managed buildings which buildings in the managed portfolio to reflect increased risks.
anticipating changes to building regulations from are regularly reviewed and tested further information on page 115.
Provided training to our building managers on the management the Dame Judith Hackitt review, such as specifying New principal risk.
Fire protection and access security procedures are in place at all of our of major incidents.
Carry out tests of our business continuity and Comprehensive property damage and business interruption insurance which Business model incident management procedures.
Continue with our current controls and Could potentially impact on all At least annually, a fire risk assessment and health and safety inspection is mitigating actions.
performed for each property in our managed portfolio.
KPIs and key metrics Could impact on any Group KPIs.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
