Principal risks Key: The Groups financial and operational risks, how Risk increased they have changed and how they are managed Risk remained stable are shown below.
Risk decreased Risk change Risk theme Risk description and impact 2017 How we manage the risk Clinical care The Groups future growth depends upon its Spire Healthcare continually monitors its clinical ability to maintain its reputation for high-quality standards, policies and procedures through the services by meeting its quality goals.
Poor clinical Boards Clinical Governance and Safety Committee outcomes, negative media comment or patient, CGSC.
GP and or consultant dissatisfaction could During 2017, regular management information reduce the quality ratings, which could lead and associated reporting has been provided to the to a loss of patient referrals and lost earnings.
Management information is subject to continuous improvement to best leverage underlying clinical data.
There is a schedule of regular Clinical Reviews using the Care Quality Commissions CQC key lines of enquiries.
Each hospital is reviewed at least annually with an action plan for improvement as well as an overarching improving plan across the Group.
The Group reviews and maintains insurance to mitigate the possibility of a major loss.
Adequacy of cover is reviewed annually with the Groups brokers.
Project Outstanding was launched in early 2018 with the overarching objective of achieving a rating of Outstanding across the Group by 2020.
Government Change in the medium-term public funding of The Group derives revenues from three primary policy NHS services provision, and or the prioritisation payor groups PMI, NHS and Self-pay and this of this funding to particular service lines over provides a natural hedge against exposure to risks time elective healthcare, A&E, community care, in each of these payors.
The Group looks to optimise etc.
could adversely reduce the flow of NHS the mix of revenues across each of these payor patients to Spire Healthcare.
groups dependent upon local market circumstances.
For example, restricted access to NHS treatment Changes in the service level requirements for can lead to increased numbers of patients electing providers of NHS services, and service level to pay privately for their healthcare needs.
commitments to members of the public served by the NHS, could adversely impact the The Groups service levels are confirmed by attractiveness of privately funded treatment.
regular surveys of patients, GPs and consultants, which provide ongoing feedback to ensure Changes in fiscal policy could increase the NHS requirements whether as providers or as burden of welfare resulting in a reduction of commitments to its patients are met.
the Board regularly reviews the competitiveness of A fundamental change in the tariff structure its patient offering both NHS and private patients.
pricing arrangements associated with the The Board continually monitors Government policy, provision of services to the NHS could result NHS requirements and associated tariff structures in reduced access to patients, reduced tariffs, to consider the need for cost and or investment or reduced prices leading to reduced revenues reduction, whether in the short, medium or and or margins.
52 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Risk change Risk theme Risk description and impact 2017 How we manage the risk Compliance with The Group operates in a highly regulated The Group continues to strengthen its Group-wide laws, regulations environment, including complying with the risk management framework and associated policies and other requirements of, for example, the CQC, NHS and procedures to ensure that risks are mitigated applicable Improvement and the CMA.
as far as possible, the Executive Committee has requirements appropriate visibility to ensure robust decisionFailure to comply with laws, regulations or making, and the Group has the ability to monitor regulatory standards may expose the Group and react to the changing regulatory framework to patient claims, fines, penalties, damage to of a listed company in the healthcare sector.
reputation, suspension from the treatment of NHS patients, loss of hospital licence and loss The Group has a significant centralised clinical of private patients, such that the Group may not services team which assists hospitals in establishing be able to operate one or more of its hospitals, and maintaining a high level of clinical performance.
causing a significant reduction in profit.
Emerging legal or regulatory changes are monitored The CQC has continued its inspection regime by the Board, the Executive Committee, the Audit which assesses and rates hospitals and makes and Risk Committee and the CGSC, in addition these results publicly available.
If a hospital fared to consultations with external advisers and badly in one of these inspections, it could result industry briefings.
in that hospital being assessed as Inadequate A GDPR implementation board is leading on which could have significant regulatory and preparation for GDPR.
Progress has included reputational impacts.
As at the end of 2017, a detailed gap analysis and the identification no Spire Healthcare hospitals had received an of associated risks and mitigations.
The introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR will bring tighter controls and responsibilities to how the Group controls and processes personal data.
The Group is aware that HMRC has indicated it will hold a public consultation on reforms to the IR35 Regulation.
It will be important that the Group understands the impact that any changes would have.
In addition, the Group could fail to anticipate legal or regulatory changes leading to a significant financial or reputational impact.
Insurance Healthcare companies, including Spire The Group holds third-party liability insurance to Healthcare, are sometimes subject to actions partially cover patient, third-party and employee alleging negligence, malpractice and other legal personal injury claims, and is partially self-insured up claims that may involve large potential damages to predetermined levels, above which its third-party and significant defence costs, whether or not liability insurance applies.
the defendant is ultimately found liable.
The Group reviews and maintains insurance The Group could be subject to litigation for adequacy of cover annually with the Groups broker.
actions by third parties or may be found liable for damages which may not be covered by its insurance policies, if the claims are in excess of cover or claims are not covered by the Groups insurance due to other policy limitations or exclusions or where it has failed to comply with the terms of the policy.
The Groups insurance premiums may increase and, if there is a significant deterioration in its claims experience, insurance may not be available on acceptable terms.
53 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Principal risks Continued Risk change Risk theme Risk description and impact 2017 How we manage the risk Concentration of The PMI market is concentrated, with the The Group works hard to maintain good PMI market top four companies Bupa, AXA, Aviva and relationships and a joint product patient health VitalityHealth formerly PruHealth having offering with the PMI companies, which, in the a market share estimated at over 85%.
opinion of the Directors, assists the healthcare sector as a whole in delivering high-quality patient care.
Loss of an existing contractual relationship with any of the key insurers could significantly The Board believes continuing to invest in its wellreduce revenue and profit.
placed portfolio of hospitals should provide a natural fit to the local requirements of all the PMI providers.
Further consolidation of the PMI market could adversely impact Spire Healthcares relative The Group continues to ensure we have long-term bargaining power in any ongoing commercial contracts in place with our PMI partners to avoid arrangements.
Availability of key Growing demand for healthcare, changes to the The Board focuses on staff retention, with trends medical staff working requirements and a limited supply of and changes in our staff survey informing our appropriately qualified key medical staff may strategy for engagement with a focus on incentives, lead to a shortage of medical staff.
Profitable staff development and training.
growth, in line with the Groups strategy, Management deploys productivity tools and requires an expansion of clinical services in pursues opportunities to reduce clinical nursing hospitals, particularly including more complex time spent on non-clinical activities to optimise surgical procedures and ongoing treatment of the effectiveness of its clinical staff base.
higher-risk patients, which could be impacted by a shortage of key medical staff.
In order to The Group has looked to ensure that all significant expand our directory of services at hospital level, contracts run for a minimum of a year to avoid in line with our strategy, it is vital to have access co-termination of contractual arrangements across to appropriately qualified, clinical staff.
The market may see salary rates rise as The Group believes consultants are attracted by competition for staff increases and, as a result, its advanced facilities, technology and equipment, the Groups costs may increase and its profits excellent brand and reputation, the availability of may reduce.
a broad range of treatments, skilled nursing staff and medical support staff, and the efficiency of There may be further complexity to recruitment administrative support.
continuous investment in its equipment, facilities and services to retain high-quality consultants and also provides theatre capacity to new consultants.
This is confirmed by good consultant satisfaction levels, though these fell in 2017.
Macroeconomic Approximately 70% of the Groups revenue The Board manages this risk by regularly reviewing conditions is dependent on private patients having PMI, market conditions and economic indicators to assess paid by their employer or paid by the individual, whether actions are required.
or being able to afford its services Self-pay.
As successfully employed in the recent economic In an economic downturn, the number of downturn, if the private market contracts, the Group insured individuals falls with the level of can try to reduce costs and future investment to employment and individuals have reduced improve profit and cash flow, and may be able to real income to fund insurance or Self-pay offer the released capacity to the NHS at its lower for procedures.
tariff, reducing the impact on profit.
This would have an adverse effect on the Macroeconomic conditions may put comparable Groups business, the results of its operations finance strain on competitors, who may not be as and prospects.
Opportunities may arise from reduced competition or market consolidation.
Competitor Spire Healthcare operates in a highly competitive The Group maintains a watching brief on new and challenge market.
New or existing competitors may enter existing competitor activity and retains the ability the market of one or more of our existing to react quickly to changes inpatient and hospitals, or offer new services.
The potential impact would be the loss of The Group considers that a partial mitigation of the market share due to a new competitor and impact of competitor activity is ensured by providing reduced profitability and cash flow.
patients with high-quality care and by maintaining good working relationships with GPs and consultants.
54 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Risk change Risk theme Risk description and impact 2017 How we manage the risk Cyber security The Groups information technology platform Spire Healthcares technical IT teams continually supports, among other things, management monitor these developments as a business as usual control of patient administration, billing and activity.
Working with a number of specialist and financial information and reporting processes.
industry leading technical partners, Spire Healthcare In common with other corporate organisations, has created multiple layers of business protection the Group faces the challenges of a continually through the use of advanced intrusion detection evolving external cyber threat landscape, and and protection systems, web access firewalls and could become vulnerable to computer viruses, advanced content filtering to combat denial of break-ins and similar disruption from service attacks.
Business processes are also kept under review and The Groups business could be disrupted if its user education regularly carried out to minimise information systems fail or if its databases are the possibility of ransomware incidents.
This could Regular third-party penetration testing is performed cause financial and reputational impacts.
on Spire Healthcares core IT systems.
New IT system The level of risk to Spire Healthcares IT developments are subject to rigorous penetration architecture and systems continues to grow testing prior to release.
as the volume of cyber security threats are This approach allows us to keep pace with the increasing and becoming more sophisticated.
increasing risk profile, ensuring that the risk to Spire Healthcare has remain stable.
Investment plans The capital investment programme which The Group conducts a financial and operational and execution includes IT system developments at any time appraisal process to evaluate the expected returns consists of a number of individually significant on capital during the evaluation phase of the project.
Comprehensive project management is employed With any major project there are risks, such throughout the project, from the evaluation, as major cost overrun or substantial delay to the bid process, agreement of contract terms in delivery, or disruption to business activities and conditions, cost forecasting, as well as regular during capital builds which could impact monitoring and management of progress.
upon the expected returns, the Groups Regular reporting of all significant projects to planned profit growth and future cash flow.
the executive sponsor and the Board is provided.
Learnings from recent new builds will strengthen the process going forward.
Liquidity and The Group may not have sufficient liquid The Group actively monitors and manages its covenant risk resources to meet its financial liabilities as they liquid asset position, its financial liabilities falling fall due, or breach financial covenants linked due and the cover against its loan covenants.
The Board has considered the risk in detail as part Failure to meet its obligations or covenants of its assessment of the viability of the Company.
would have a substantial adverse effect on the Groups reputation and may lead to borrowings becoming repayable earlier than contracted for.
The Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 55, was reviewed, approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 1 March 2018.
Garry Watts Chairman 1 March 2018 55 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
