Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has carried out a robust assessment of its risks and controls during the period under review, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The process involves the maintenance of a risk register, which identifies the risks facing the Company and assesses each risk on a scale, classifying the likelihood of the risk and the potential impact of each risk to the Company.
This helps the Audit Committee and Board focus on any identified risk of particular concern and aids with the development of the Board's risk appetite.
In developing the risk management process, the Board took into consideration the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Board has established controls to mitigate against risks faced by the Company, which are reviewed on a regular basis to ascertain the effectiveness of each control.
The Company's operations are undertaken by third-party service providers who have established controls to mitigate against risks identified by the Board.
The controls and operations of each service provider are subject to a detailed analysis of their operations, which includes testing their key systems to identify any weaknesses, by independent auditors on at least an annual basis.
The findings of each review are detailed in Assurance Reports, copies of which are provided to the Audit Committee for their review, so that it can gain a greater understanding of the risk management processes and how they apply to the Company's business.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 are set out below.
The risks arising from the Companys financial instruments are set out in Note 22 of the financial statements, on pages 87 to 92.
The Board has determined that the three key risks for the Company are portfolio concentration: potential key man dependency: and the outsourced service provider model.
Portfolio risk: Portfolio concentration risk The Company invests a significant proportion of its assets in early-stage companies and early-growth companies.
Such companies may not have the financial strength, diversity and resources of larger, more established companies and may find it difficult to operate, especially in periods of low economic growth.
The shares of such companies, quoted and unquoted, may be less liquid, and as a consequence their share prices may be more volatile than larger capitalised investments.
The success of such quoted and unquoted companies may depend on commercial and technical milestones, some of which may not be in their control for example, the failure of a clinical trial in a biotechnology company.
The performance of the Companys individual holdings, together with market events, may create short-term volatility in the Companys NAV.
Some of the Companys investments may demonstrate potentially swift growth, which could lead to those investments representing larger proportions of the portfolio than might be expected.
The Board feels that in those circumstances, portfolio concentration is acceptable as it evidences the success of the Portfolio Managers judgement.
The alternative, imposing limits on the size of any one investment, would potentially result in the Company being a forced seller of an investment that still had further growth potential.
The Board does not feel that this would be in the best interests of the shareholders and this view is in line with the Portfolio Manager's investment strategy.
The risk linked to any portfolio concentration might be compounded due to the nature of some of the business and the risk associated with both commercial and technical milestones.
Mitigation The Company's portfolio is monitored closely by the Board and Portfolio Manager.
The Company seeks to invest in a diversified portfolio across a wide range of companies so as to mitigate against the risk posed by an individual early-stage or early-growth company.
However, the Board is mindful that the Company was established with the aim of providing long-term growth and that concentration should be a sign of success as a result of assets backed becoming more valuable.
Short-term liquidity problems with the Company's underlying holdings, which may be compounded by market events, should be mitigated over time when such companies deliver on their milestones and value is recognised.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 35 Portfolio Manager and key man risk The departure of some or all of the Portfolio Manager's investment professionals could prevent the Company from achieving its investment objective.
In particular, Neil Woodford is considered a key individual as the fund manager principally responsible for the management of the Company's assets.
The past performance of the Portfolio Manager's investment professionals cannot be relied upon as an indication of the future performance of the Company.
The Portfolio Manager could terminate its contract with the Company.
This event would have an impact on the management of the portfolio and on the provision of the debt facility.
Mitigation The Portfolio Manager has developed a suitable succession planning programme, which seeks to ease the impact that the loss of a key investment professional may have on the Company's performance.
The Board has reached an agreement with the Portfolio Manager that any change in its key professionals will be notified to the Board at the earliest possible opportunity and the Board will be made aware of all efforts made to fill a vacancy.
Furthermore, investment decisions are made by a team of professionals, mitigating the impact of the loss of any key professional within the Portfolio Manager's organisation on the Company's performance.
The risk of Woodford terminating the contract is thought to be very low given the key part in the Woodford portfolio that the product plays and the associated risk to reputation.
Outsourced service provider model risk The Company has no employees and the Directors have been appointed on a non-executive basis.
The Company is reliant upon the performance of third-party service providers for its executive function.
The AIFM, the Portfolio Manager, the depositary, the Company Secretary and the administrator will be performing services that are integral to the operation of the Company.
Failure of any of its third-party service providers to perform in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a material detrimental impact on the operation of the Company.
Furthermore, any of the Company's service providers could terminate their contract.
Mitigation The performance of the Company's service providers is monitored closely by the Board and its Committees.
Gearing The Company has the ability to employ gearing up to a maximum of 20 per cent of NAV, calculated at the time of borrowing.
The Company is utilising its gearing facility in order to invest further behind specific portfolio companies.
With an established portfolio and limited gearing capacity remaining, there may be less flexibility to make new investments and provide follow-on funding to the portfolio companies.
A higher level of gearing may have a significant downside effect to the Company's NAV during a period of poor performance or decline in the market.
Mitigation the Board reviews gearing very regularly.
It may set additional limits on the gearing facility and reviews these limits at each Board meeting.
The Portfolio Manager also provides a thorough analysis of any anticipated funding commitments and possible liquidity events of the portfolio companies at each Board meeting.
This allows the Board to carefully assess the companies ability to meet its commitments and maintain its financing facility.
36 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
