Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES FRAMEWORK FOR MANAGING RISK The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group maintains an effective risk management system.
It determines the Groups approach to risk, its policies and the procedures that are implemented to mitigate exposure to risk.
PROCESS The Board continually assesses and monitors the key risks in the business and Polypipe has developed a risk management framework to identify, report, and manage its principal risks and uncertainties.
This includes the recording of all principal risks and uncertainties on a Group Risk Register and a Group Risk Profile which are both updated at least every six months.
Risks are fully analysed, allocated owners, scored for both impact and probability to determine the exposure to the business, which should be prioritised, and what mitigation is required.
External risks include economic conditions, the weather, Government action, policies and regulations, raw material prices and information systems disruption.
Internal risks include reliance on key customers, and recruitment and retention of key personnel.
The Board seeks to mitigate the businesses exposure to strategic, financial and operational risk, both external and internal.
The effectiveness of key mitigating controls is continually monitored and subjected to periodic testing by the Group Financial Controller.
The table below highlights the principal risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on the Groups performance and prospects and the mitigating activities which are aimed at reducing the impact or likelihood of a major risk materialising.
These risks have all been considered by the Board when developing the Groups Viability Statement.
The Board does recognise however that it will not always be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
In addition, the principal risks listed below do not comprise all of the risks that the Group may face and they are not listed in order of priority, probability or magnitude of potential impact.
Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability Raw material prices The Group is exposed to Any increase in the market The Group seeks to pass on raw material price No change volatile raw material prices, price of crude oil or other increases to its customers wherever possible.
There particularly polymers, due to petroleum feedstocks, is usually at least a three-month time lag from fluctuations in the market foreign currency exchange notification of the raw material price increase before price of crude oil and other rate movements, or changes selling prices can be adjusted in the market.
petroleum feedstocks, foreign to suppliers manufacturing Competitors of the Group are likely to experience currency exchange rate capacity could have a direct the same pressures of any sustained raw material movements, and changes impact on the prices the Group price increases.
to suppliers manufacturing pays for raw materials which capacity.
could adversely affect its financial results.
Business disruption The Groups manufacturing Such incidents could result The Group has developed business continuity, crisis No change and distribution operations in the temporary cessation in response, and disaster recovery plans.
could be subjected to activity, or disruption, at one of The Group performs regular maintenance to disruption due to incidents the Groups production facilities minimise the risk of equipment failure.
including, but not limited to, impeding the ability to deliver Finished goods holdings across the operations act as fire, failure of equipment, its products to its customers, a limited buffer in the event of operational failure.
power outages, workforce thereby adversely affecting the The Group has the ability to transfer some of strikes, or unexpected or Groups financial results.
its production to alternative sites and could also prolonged periods of severe In addition, prolonged periods subcontract out some of its tooling to reduce any weather.
of severe weather could potential loss in production capacity.
result in a slowdown in site The Group maintains a significant amount of construction activity reducing insurance to cover business interruption and damage the demand for the Groups to property from such incidents.
products thereby adversely Independent insurer inspections take place across affecting its financial results.
all sites to identify and assess potential hazards and business interruption risks.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability Reliance on key customers Some of the Groups Failure to manage relationships The Groups strategic objective is to broaden its No change businesses are dependent with key customers, while customer base wherever possible.
on key customers in highly continuing to provide high The Group focuses on delivering exceptional competitive markets.
quality products delivered on customer service and maintains strong relationships time in full, and developing with major customers through direct engagement at new innovative products, all levels.
could lead to a loss of business The Group maintains customer service matrices thereby adversely affecting the which are continually tracked and monitored with Groups financial results.
The Group closely manages its pricing, rebates, and commercial terms with its customers to ensure that they remain competitive.
The Group continually seeks to innovate and develop its product lines to ensure its products are to the standard our customers expect.
Recruitment and retention of key personnel The Group is dependent on Loss of any key personnel The Group has a formal succession plan in place Increased the continued employment without adequate and timely facilitating staff retention and progression through and performance of our senior replacement could disrupt the Group.
management team and other business operations and the The Group aims to provide competitive remuneration key skilled personnel.
Groups ability to implement packages and incentive schemes to retain and and deliver its growth strategy.
Economic conditions The Group is dependent on Lower levels of activity within The Group closely monitors trends in the industry, No change the level of activity in the the construction industry could invests in market research and is an active member construction industry and reduce sales and production of the Construction Products Association.
The is therefore susceptible to volumes thereby adversely Group uses Construction Products Association and any changes in its cyclical affecting the Groups financial Euroconstruct forecasts in its budgeting process.
The Group closely manages its demand forecasts and costs through weekly operational review meetings.
Government action and policies The Group is in part Significant downward trends The Groups strategy is to have its operations No change dependent on Government in Government spending on structured so that it has a balanced exposure to action and policies relating to public and private investment the residential, commercial and infrastructure public and private investment arising from economic construction sectors so as to reduce the impact of and is therefore susceptible uncertainty and ongoing any adverse Government action or policy on any one to changes in Government austerity policies could have of the construction sectors.
an adverse impact on the The Group closely monitors trends in the industry, construction industry which invests in market research and is an active member could impact on sales and of the Construction Products Association.
production volumes thereby The Group closely manages its demand forecasts and adversely affecting the Groups costs through weekly operational review meetings.
31 31 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability Government regulations and standards relating to the manufacture and use of building materials The Group is subject to the Failure of the Group to The Group has a formal Health, Safety and No change requirements of UK and comply with changes to Environmental policy, and procedures are in place to European environmental environmental regulations and monitor compliance with the policy.
and occupational safety and other obligations relating to The Group performs internal environmental audits health laws and regulations, environmental matters could and is subjected to external environmental audits on including obligations to result in the Group being liable a periodic basis.
investigate and clean up for fines, require modification The Group performs weekly and monthly reporting environmental contamination to operations, increase on key Health, Safety and Environmental matters on or from properties.
manufacturing and delivery which require the attention of the Board.
costs, and could result in the suspension or termination of necessary operational permits, thereby adversely affecting the Groups financial results.
Product liability The Group manufactures A product failure or recall The Group operates comprehensive quality assurance No change products that are potentially could result in a liability claim systems and procedures at each site.
vital to the safe operation of for personal injury or other Wherever required, the Group obtains certifications its customers products or damage leading to substantial over its products to the relevant national and processes.
These products financial settlements, European standards including Kitemarks, BBAs, are often incorporated into damage to the Groups WRCs and WRACs.
the fabric of a building brand reputation, costs and The Group maintains product liability insurance or dwelling, or buried in expenses and diversion of key to cover third party claims arising from potential the ground as part of an managements attention from product failures or recalls.
infrastructure system and in the operation of the Group, each case, it would be difficult which could all adversely affect to access, repair, recall or the Groups financial results.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability Information systems The Group is dependent on the Disruption or failure of the The Group contracts with several third party providers Increased continued efficient operation information systems could affect to supply off-site, business continuity arrangements of its information systems the Groups ability to conduct its for wholesale or partial recovery of the key servers and is therefore vulnerable to ongoing operations which could and applications which are used within the various potential failures due to power adversely affect the Groups business units of the Group.
These continuity losses, telecommunication financial results.
arrangements are subject to periodic validation and failures, or from an external testing.
Some business units of the Group also take security breach due to advantage of their multi-site operations to provision the increasing levels of server and applications recovery between those sites.
sophisticated cyber-crime now There are a range of local, business unit specific, threatening businesses.
backup processes which are performed on a daily, weekly and monthly basis.
Firewalls are in place to protect the perimeter of the Groups networks and any off-site access to the Groups servers and applications is through secure Virtual Private Network connections.
In addition, email and internet traffic filtering is in place to protect against potential viruses or malware entering the Groups networks.
User and server computing devices have anti-virus software installed to protect from potential infection.
The Group continually invests in the maintenance and upgrade of IT infrastructure and information systems.
All upgrades are carefully planned and actively managed by senior personnel to minimise potential business disruption.
Acquisitions The management of Ineffective management of Full due diligence is performed before any acquisition No change acquisitions activity and their acquisitions could lead to is made.
integration play a part in management distraction, a The Group seeks contractual assurances from the delivering the Groups growth drain on financial resources, and sellers to mitigate against any identified issues or strategy and there is a risk impact on the Groups ability risks.
that any acquisitions may not to successfully implement and Formal Board level approvals are required in perform as expected.
accordance with the Groups delegation of authority structure for any acquisition activity.
The progress of any integration is closely monitored at Board and senior management team level.
33 33 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES Change in potential impact and or Risk Potential impact Mitigation probability Financial risk management The Groups operations expose The Group has in place financial risk management it to a variety of financial risks procedures that seek to limit the potential adverse that include the effects of: effects of the financial risks as follows: Foreign currency exchange Foreign currency exchange rate The Group enters into forward foreign currency Increased risk The risk that the fair fluctuations could adversely exchange rate contracts for the purchase and sale of value of a financial instrument affect the Groups financial foreign currencies in order to manage its exposure or future cash flows will results.
to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate because of changes primarily in respect of US Dollars and Euros relative in foreign currency exchange to Pounds Sterling.
It is not possible for the Group to rates.
The Groups risk relates mitigate foreign currency exchange rate movements primarily to its operating which impact the translation of its overseas activities where the revenue subsidiaries results and net assets as all of the or expense is denominated Groups long-term borrowings are Pounds Sterling in a currency other than denominated.
the functional currency of the entity undertaking the transaction.
Credit risk The risk that a The failure of a counterparty to Customer credit risk is managed by each business No change counterparty of the Group meet their financial obligations unit subject to the Groups established policy, will not be able to meet its could lead to a financial loss for procedures and controls relating to customer credit obligations under a financial the Group.
Credit quality of the customer instrument or customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating contract.
The Group is scorecard and individual credit limits are defined in exposed to credit risk from accordance with this assessment.
its trading activities primarily Outstanding customer receivables are regularly from trade receivables and monitored and any shipments to major export from its financing activities, customers are generally covered by letters of credit including deposits with banks.
Where the Group perceives there to be a significant credit exposure it will take out credit insurance or obtain an irrevocable letter of credit prior to any transaction.
Credit risk arising from cash deposits with banks is managed in accordance with the Groups established treasury policy, procedures and controls.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with banks that have as a minimum a single A credit rating.
Liquidity risk The risk that Insufficient funds could result The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to Reduced the Group will not be able to in the Group not being able to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meets its financial obligations fund its operations.
meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and as they fall due.
stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
Interest rate cash flow risk Increases to interest rates To reduce the Groups exposure to future increases Increased The risk that interest rates could result in significant in interest rates, the Group has entered into interest could rise impacting on the additional interest rate cash rate swaps from variable to fixed interest rates.
payments being required on any borrowings.
EU REFERENDUM AND UK DEPARTURE FROM THE EU The result of the Referendum on the UKs membership of the EU leading to the expected departure of the UK from the EU Brexit, could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty around our business, including affecting our relationships with our existing and future customers, suppliers and colleagues.
These disruptions and uncertainties could adversely affect the Groups financial results.
As further details of the Brexit terms emerge, management will continue to assess the potential risks and impact of these on the Group.
