Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties During 2017, each BU and Group level This year, the Board also received regular The principal risks identified function also maintained separate updates on the acquisition process and that face the Group are set organisational change risk matrices due integration planning in respect of AFW, out below.
During the year to the AFW acquisition.
providing more visibility and rigour on the process, risks, and controls in place.
the Board has carried out a The aggregation of the individual risk registers into a Group risk register is Brexit was not considered to be a robust assessment of these reviewed twice a year, during 2017 by principal risk for either legacy Wood principal risks and monitored the ELT and going forward by the Risk Group or legacy AFW.
Following the the Groups risk management Committee, to ensure that the material acquisition of AFW and the disposal of risks for the Group are appropriately the legacy AFW UK upstream business, and internal control systems.
The focus of the this assessment was revisited and first Risk Committee in January 2018 was confirmed for the combined business.
on defining the new set of principal risks Risk management for the combined business following an Monitoring the risk management The Board is responsible for: initial review of the principal risks of both and internal control systems and legacy businesses at the November Board Identifying the nature and extent processes meeting.
After the ELT or Risk Committee of the principal risks faced The Board received bi-annual updates review, the summary of principal risks Determining the extent of those risks on the key controls in place in relation is formally reviewed by the Board twice it is willing to take in achieving its to each of the principal risks, the level a year.
Emerging risks are identified strategic objectives its risk appetite of assurance activity carried out, and throughout the year via the BU and Performing a robust assessment managements assessment of the functional risk processes and escalated adequacy of the assurance provided of those risks to the ELT during 2017 and now the Risk and the effectiveness of the controls.
Committee: and Board as required.
Each Monitoring and reviewing the risk As part of this monitoring, the Board of the non-executive directors provides management and internal control could ensure that corrective action was their perception of emerging risks, and a systems, and providing oversight of the taken where necessary.
cross-check against the emerging risks processes that management follows identified by Woods peer group is also To ensure that responsibilities for risk undertaken, both of which inform the The Board is assisted in this assessment and assurance were clear within the mid-year Board discussion on risk.
by the Audit Committee and the committee structure, each principal Safety, Assurance and Business risk and area of risk was assigned to The principal risks considered by the either the Board or one of the Board Ethics Committee, who are delegated Board in March 2018 are set out on committees during 2017. responsibility for various aspects of risk, pages 33 and 34. internal control and assurance.
Overall the control environment was Risk appetite considered to be operating effectively.
For more information on the effectiveness Ongoing improvements are planned of internal control systems: The organisations risk appetite was See page 37 in certain key areas in 2018 including further documented and discussed during project execution in certain specific areas the May 2017 Board meeting.
Six broader and protection against major incidents.
risk appetite statements were defined Identification of principal risks Details of improvements in financial and that cover our principal risks.
The suitability A bottom up and top down approach IT internal controls are included in the of these risk appetite statements for to identifying risks operates within the Audit Committee report on page 48. the combined business was confirmed organisation.
Following the acquisition following the acquisition of AFW.
of AFW in October 2017, the risk For more information on the The Groups risk appetite is taken into internal control environment: management framework has been See page 37 account when setting the nature and redesigned to reflect the increased scale extent of the key control mechanisms in and diversity of the new business.
This place and the level of assurance activity includes a new Risk Committee attended Going concern required for each risk.
by the full executive leadership team The Groups business activities, together ELT, which meets twice yearly, and with the factors likely to affect its future a revised risk matrix used across the Robust assessment of principal risks development, performance and position combined business.
The Board has carried out a robust are set out in the Strategic Report on assessment of the principal risks Risk registers are developed at an pages 01 to 31.
The financial position facing the business.
To support this, individual contract or project level and of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity the Board and its committees received rolled up into business unit BU risk position and borrowing facilities are regular reports from key functions registers, which are reviewed by the BU described in the Financial Review on such as safety, ethics, compliance, Leadership Teams every quarter.
In addition, note 17 to the finance, legal, IT, internal audit and Chief Executive and the Group CFO Group financial statements includes the people & organisation P&O, along subsequently review the BU risk registers Groups objectives, policies and processes with operational reports from the BUs, as part of the quarterly BU review for managing its capital, its financial which include key risks, information on meetings.
Group level functional risk risk management objectives, details of compliance with controls and reports on registers are also maintained with the its financial instruments and hedging assurance activities where applicable.
functional leadership teams reviewing activities, and its exposures to credit risk these risk registers twice a year.
32 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Group has considerable financial In making their assessment the directors In order to make this assessment, the resources together with the cash inflows have considered these factors both Board considered the current trading individually and in aggregate and have position and reviewed a number of generated from its existing activities as set out in notes 13, 15 and 27 to decided that, on balance, three years was future scenarios which stress-tested the the most appropriate period.
viability of the business in severe but the Group financial statements.
consequence, the directors believe that Immediately after the AFW acquisition, the Group is well placed to manage its in October 2017, the Group refinanced its These scenarios considered the potential principal risks successfully.
long-term funding requirements to include financial and operational impacts a package of multi-currency revolving of the Groups principal risks and Having made the appropriate enquiries facilities incorporating a $1.75bn revolving uncertainties arising and the degree including a review of cash flow projections credit facility expiring in May 2022 and of effectiveness of mitigating actions.
and key sensitivities, the directors consider, a $1.0bn term loan expiring in October As indicated in the table below these in accordance with the UK Corporate 2020.
These are set out in note 15 to the included, individually and in combination, Governance Code the Governance Code, Group financial statements.
failure to integrate the AFW business that the business is a going concern.
The and deliver the cost synergy and In making their assessment of a threedirectors also considered it appropriate deleveraging targets, multi-year year period the directors have assumed to prepare the financial statements on reductions in demand, project execution that the $1bn term loan, which expires the going concern basis, as explained in and contracting risk, forecasting risk, within the 3-year period is renewed or the Basis of Preparation paragraph in the the impact of a catastrophic safety replaced and the other current committed Accounting Policies.
incident or the damage sustained by an financing which extends to February 2022 ethical or regulatory breach.
The directors believe the modelling performed, the Boards Viability statement that it is reasonable to assume that the assessment was that the strength of The directors have assessed the Groups term loan will be renewed or replaced, our balance sheet, the flexibility of our well in advance of the expiry date.
viability over a three-year period to 31 business model and the mitigating December 2020. actions available meant that in all The committed long-term financing plausible scenarios considered the together with factors such as the The process of establishing the period business would continue to be viable for Groups asset light and flexible business over which the Groups viability has been at least three years.
model, the Groups planning cycle, the assessed is subjective and considers period over which the synergies from the a range of factors, all of which are Based on this assessment, the directors AFW acquisition will be delivered and the indicative of slightly different time have a reasonable expectation that visibility of operational backlog led the frames.
This assessment has also the Group will be able to continue in directors to select a period of three years been reviewed considering the recent operation and meet all its liabilities as to assess the Groups viability.
they fall due up to 31 December 2020.
Analysis of principal risks Board assessment of change in risk from 2016: Risk has increased since 2016 No change in risk since 2016 Risk has decreased since 2016 Considered as part of viability assessment New Risk Profile Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Strategic Established an integration steering committee to ensure adequate governance, led Delivery of integration: by the ELT with regular reporting to the Board Failure to ensure business continuity while Designated integration management structure, project team and project schedule successfully integrating the business through delivering organisational change and integration Governance framework and risk registers developed for each BU and functional area projects and delivering cost synergy targets.
to capture and manage all integration projects This is a new risk in 2017 due to the AFW acquisition.
Utilised existing and successful organisational design principles, functional blueprints and ERP deployments Prioritised and incorporated existing change programmes where required into the integration programme Cost synergies opportunities identified and targets distributed across the business Robust cost synergy identification, verification, monitoring and tracking process Target business cash performance and ongoing monitoring Deleveraging: Designated process for governance of capital expenditure on fixed assets With the acquisition of AFW our leverage is currently higher than our target of 0.5-1.5 times Established processes for monitoring of working capital net debt:EBITDA.
To reduce this it will be critical to Target improvement in day sales outstanding generate cash to repay debt as well as generate Credit policy in place with monthly reporting process profit.
Monthly monitoring and reporting of aged debt including any unbilled amounts Identification and sale of non-core assets John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties Health, Safety, Security & Environment HSSE Safety and integrity are Wood requirements underpinned by HSSE and integrity Major incident: management systems which include standards for critical processes Significant HSSE event leading to a major incident Life Saving Rules and safety essentials set a minimum standard for critical work resulting in multiple loss of life, significant harm, activities and safe behaviour across the Group damage to the environment and damage to our reputation.
Group Incident Review Panels for high potential and high severity incidents New Group Operations Assurance team focused on Technical, Quality and HSSE areas and assurance against standards Commercial and Operations Development and roll out of revised contracting policy and associated approvals Contracting: process Weaknesses in the contract bidding and award Implementation of enhanced tender governance process including tender review process, inappropriate pricing, misalignment of committee contract terms, or failure to comply with contractual conditions could lead to reputational damage, Increased focus on fixed priced contracts or poor financial performance.
Group Head of Commercial appointed Start up and execution plans for key projects supported by monitoring and reporting Project execution: Ineffective project start up, new country entry or Group strategy & development team embed learnings from previous projects failure to successfully execute projects safely and Further developed tender governance process including tender review committee to expected quality, on time and within budget.
Implementation of enhanced project governance process and associated project Increased financial risk due to AFW portfolio of reviews fixed price contracts.
Financial Group and BU review of budget and reforecast information Forecasting: Forecast information used to inform business Established budgeting process and frequent reforecast process decisions and the external perception of Woods Bottom up and top down assessments of budgets and reforecasts prospects for growth varies materially from actual results.
This risk has remained high due to the challenging oil and gas environment.
Consolidation of existing environments through a risk based IT integration programme Information security: Appointment of an IT Director for Information Security & Risk Management and Loss of Wood or client data or disruption to Wood Information Security & Data Protection steering committee established as part of business operations through unauthorised access, the integration process cyber-attack and or physical or environmental event.
Increased risk following the acquisition of AFW due IT security policy standards and Acceptable Use policy to more diverse IT infrastructure whilst transitioning Information security roadmap and associated investment including perimeter to a common operating environment.
security, application and end point protection, security incident & event management Security Operations Centre enabling 24 7 detect respond capability Compliance and Litigation Suite of Wood policies that mandate compliance with applicable laws and Major regulatory investigation: policies.
Includes the Business Ethics policy which covers the use of commercial Regulatory investigation or proceedings resulting intermediaries from non-compliance with applicable legislation.
Business management system across functional teams ensuring compliance with Increased risk due to ongoing Serious Fraud Office external verification of the management systems SFO, Department of Justice DOJ and Securities & Exchange Commission SEC investigations into Assurance framework across technical and non-technical business processes legacy AFWs historical use of agents and legacy Group Legal and Compliance provides support and guidance to the business Wood Groups internal investigation into historical engagement of Unaoil.
Group Litigation report provided to the Board on a monthly basis Controls over major incident, major regulatory investigation, contracting, and Litigation: project execution risks Legal action can result from a major incident, a major Group Legal team with experience in litigation supported by external specialist regulatory investigation, contracting issues, or project lawyers where necessary execution.
Failure to manage litigation can lead to increased claims, damages, fines and penalties.
Regular review of significant and pending litigation with the Board, Chief Executive, Increased risk due to legacy AFW ongoing litigation.
CFO, and BU leadership Data Protection programme delivering improvements to prepare for GDPR Data protection and Privacy: This was previously considered as part of the Wood Data Protection Officer DPO appointed information security risk, however the data Data protection management system designed to deliver compliance with global protection risk has increased with the EU General data privacy laws and regulations Data Protection Regulation GDPR coming into Plan to attain Binding Corporate Rules BCR status to allow intra-group transfers force from May 2018. of personal data across borders in compliance with European data protection laws 34 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
