Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Risk management IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING RISKS The Groups strategy exposes it to variousrisks.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the risks that the Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board has an ongoing process a defined organisational structure The Groups system of internal controls for identifying, evaluating and with appropriate delegation of including each of those detailed managing the principal risks faced authority and clearly defined lines above has been in place for the year by the Group.
of reporting and responsibility, under review and up to the date of whereby the incurring of the approval of this Annual Report.
The Board has performed a robust expenditure and assumption of This system is regularly reviewed by assessment of the principal risks contractual commitment can only the Board and a review of the facing the Group, taking into account be approved by specified effectiveness of all material controls those that would threaten its business individuals and within pre-defined was carried out by the Audit model see page 32, future limits: Committee during the year.
This performance, solvency or liquidity, effectiveness review considered the formal authorisation procedures for aswell as the Groups strategic design of controls associated with key all banking transactions, objectives see page 22.
In addition, risks and the evidence as to their expenditure and investment the Board considered how risks evolve proper operation throughout the decisions: and potential emerging risks.
No significant failings or a comprehensive system for most significant risks arising from this weaknesses were uncovered in the budgeting and planning whereby assessment, including details of their course of this review.
annual budgets are prepared and management and mitigation, are approved by the Board and detailed in the Strategic Report on Brexit subsequently monitored with pages 49 to 52.
The Group is aware that the variances reported to the Board at referendum vote in June 2016 Board meetings: and The Group has a system of internal pursuant to which the United regular and comprehensive controls which is designed to manage Kingdom has indicated its intent to information provided to the and mitigate these risks and which withdraw from the European Union Boardfrom the Groups senior the Board is responsible for.
This might present risks for companies, management team, covering system is in accordance with the including uncertainty about the financial performance and key Guidance on Risk Management, process, timings and consequences performance indicators, including Internal Control and Related Financial of the final withdrawal.
and Business Reporting as issued by does not currently trade with Europe.
the Financial Reporting Council and It is also not in receipt of EU foreign its key features include: direct investment FDI.
Most of the Groups future sales are likely to be in US Dollars.
Therefore, the risk relating to Brexit is low for the Group and is not considered one of its principal risks.
The Group continues to monitor political, regulatory and legislative aspects of the withdrawal from the European Union and is aware of the aspects of this potential risk.
48 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Key to risk management Risk increasing No change Risk decreasing STRATEGY PRINCIPAL RISKS MITIGATION TREND LINK STRATEGIC RISKS The geological, mining, processing and 1 Exploration and infrastructure challenges of the Project are inherent in a mining and infrastructure 3 development Project of this size, and are not of an extraordinary level or nature.
The Group is completely dependent on 4 the ability of the Project and engineering Site investigation work through a programme team to successfully deliver operational of seismic surveys and investigative boreholes mine and infrastructure facilities.
continues as part of the Project.
As engineering progresses this risk naturally reduces.
Development risks are assessed, evaluated and reduced as far as reasonably possible as part of the Project management function performed by our experienced owners team.
FINANCIAL RISKS We have a strong Board and management 1 Liquidity risks team with extensive experience in financing large, multi-billion Dollar Projects.
The Groups current activities do not 3 generate revenues and there is a risk We have been successful in raising funds in that, despite raising the initial funds to the recent past, including in 2016 to 4 commence construction, we will have commence construction of the Project and insufficient funds to finalise development signing a non-binding mandate letter with and construction of the Project to a point financial institutions in relation to a potential of production where the Group senior debt financing which would fund the generates positive operating cash flows, majority of the remainder of the operating which will affect our ability to manage costs and capital expenditure required to operating costs and capital expenditure.
finalise the development and construction of There is no assurance that adequate the Project and reach a point of production funds will be available when they are where the Project generates positive required.
Our research team continues to analyse 1 Commodity price various fertilizer markets, including NPK, potash and polyhalite.
Current studies There is a risk that fertilizer prices, 2 support the continued growth in world including potash and polyhalite, could demand and a positive price outlook over fall to levels at which it would not be the medium term.
3 economically viable to develop the Project.
Such conditions would materially Feasibility study work indicates that the and adversely affect production, 4 anticipated cost of production for polyhalite earnings and the financial position and is circa US$30.
At this cost, the Project would could result in the cessation of mining rank in the bottom quartile of potash activities that become uneconomic or producers and is therefore well positioned could result in the economics of the for significant price downturns.
Project not being sufficient to enable the Group to raise the next stage of funding to take the Project to production, halt or delay the development of new areas to mine, and reduce funds available for proving reserves, resulting in the depletion of reserves.
There is no assurance that, even as commercial quantities of polyhalite ore are produced, a profitable market will exist for it.
49 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Risk management continued STRATEGY PRINCIPAL RISKS MITIGATION TREND LINK The Group has mitigated the currency risk 2 Currency inthe medium to long-term, by planning a capital structure where it has raised funds in Sirius Minerals will have currency 4 Pounds Sterling and US Dollars, to broadly This risk is exposures arising from both its capital increasing as the match the anticipated currency split of its expenditure and operating costs and the time frame for expected capital expenditure and operating Brexit draws sale of polyhalite ore. cost needs.
closerand drives increased volatility Revenue from polyhalite sales and the The Group monitors its exposure to currency in the foreign majority of future financings for the risk based on the Project expenditure exchange Project are expected to be denominated markets.
As the forecast and the stage of development.
in US Dollars, providing a natural proceeds from the Thetreasury policy sets out appropriate risk stage 1 financing exchange rate hedge.
However, a tolerances for currency exposure and the are spent, the significant portion of the construction, treasury team implement appropriate Groups exposure development and operating expenses for hedges to ensure the Group is compliant to sterling is also the Project will be incurred in non-US with the treasury policy.
increasing Dollar currencies, in particular Pounds because the Sterling.
stage2 financing is likely to be predominantly in Accordingly, appreciation of such US Dollars.
non-US Dollar currencies, without offsetting improvement in US Dollar denominated polyhalite prices, could adversely affect the Projects profitability and financial position.
EXTERNAL RISKS The Group is in possession of the planning 1 Permits and permissions required to commence the construction of the minehead, MTS, MHF and 3 licences has also received a development consent order for the construction of the harbour The Project requires a range of permits facility.
Any changes applied for do not 4 and licences to operate.
As the Project affect these permissions, but rather either progresses, the details of the works will modify or replace the existing permissions require changes to the planning once approved.
There is no guarantee thatthese will be forthcoming.
Up to this point the minor non-material changes sought have been approved.
Aminor material change for the Woodsmith Mine site has also been approved by theNYMNPA.
Sirius Minerals has a broad range of consultant advisers that specialise in obtaining the remaining permits, licences and secondary approvals and licences needed for the Project to operate.
50 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGY PRINCIPAL RISKS MITIGATION TREND LINK Our polyhalite product contains four of the 2 Competitors six macro-nutrients potassium, sulphur, magnesium and calcium required for plant There are high barriers for potential new 4 growth.
Polyhalite is an effective, direct entrants into the market.
The major application, multi-nutrient fertilizer and can competitors all have substantial existing also be combined with nitrogen and infrastructure, less leverage and phosphorous to create high-value NPK substantially greater financial resources.
fertilizer products that contain all six macroThere can be no assurance that Sirius nutrients.
As such, we are less exposed to the Minerals or its Project will be able to existing potash supply structure with respect successfully respond to such competitive to product supply and demand dynamics.
pressures or the competitive activities of The Group continues to develop its the other major suppliers in its markets.
marketing and sales strategy to utilise the unique characteristics of polyhalite.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Detailed assessment and planning will 1 Construction delays becarried out continuously by the management team and external The Project may experience construction 2 consultants as part of the Projects and schedule delays due to unforeseen continued development to mitigate and technical issues.
fide-risk the Project during construction.
3 The Group also continues to pursue all 4 acceleration options available to reduce thetime required to reach first production.
Contractors are incentivised to bring their scopes forward..
This risk would manifest itself in cost, delay 1 Contractors and and or quality issues.
3 suppliers An active and experienced management team is in place with a focus on being clear The performance of our contractors and about expectations, verifying performance, 4 suppliers is critical to the success of the and doing everything possible within the Project.
Performance issues or a lack of contracts to ensure the success of our alignment could introduce cost and contractors and suppliers.
Performance is schedule risks to the Project.
actively monitored and managed, with mitigating change instigated should performance not meet expectations.
In working with our contractors we are focused on ensuring that they are working within their area of specialisation, that their senior management are engaged in our Project, that regular communication and progress updates are maintained and thatmajor construction contractors are incentivised around the success of the Project.
51 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Risk management continued STRATEGY PRINCIPAL RISKS MITIGATION TREND LINK The owners team has a strong focus on cost.
2 Construction cost Confidence in the final cost will increase 4 overruns asdetailed engineering progresses and contracts are put in place for the works.
The Project may experience construction cost overruns due to unforeseen Prices received from contractors and technical issues or scope change.
suppliers so far have been in line with the DFS and budget.
In addition, the Project was costed with significant contingency and escalation provisions in case of cost pressures.
The fall in the value of the pound also provides comfort in this area.
We continuously assess the risk and ensure 1 Safety and that we have the right people in the right place.
Nonetheless, the Group is not 3 environmental complacent about the risks in this area.
performance The owners team is set up to manage safety 4 and the environment effectively.
A key part A significant safety or environmental of our work in this area is in ensuring that we incident would affect the delivery of the engage contractors who have the right Project and the Groups reputation.
attitude and systems, and that we welcome expertise and improvement from employees, contractors and external parties.
Ongoing focus areas include leadership activities, work with our contractors including onboarding processes and auditing, developing the culture of the Project team, and the identification and control of major hazards.
52 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over afive-year period, taking account of the Companys current position and principal risks.
Time frame The Board believes that five years is the most appropriate time frame over which the Board should assess the longterm viability of the Company.
The Companys current activities do not generate any revenues or positive operating cash flow, and construction of the Project and the development necessary to commence production and generate revenues will require significant capital expenditures.
The Project is not expected to generate positive net cash flow until approximately 2022, some four years from now.
Assessing viability The main assumptions are that the stage 2 financing of up to US$3 billion is completed in the second half of 2018 and that the U$300 million royalty financing due from Hancock British Holdings Limited is paid on or around the same time.
Ifthese transactions are not concluded in this time frame the Company may not be able to ensure that the Project will become operational, nor that commercial production will commence on schedule or at all.
Principal risks In addition, in making their assessment, the Board has taken into account the principal risks as described in detail on pages 49 to 52 and also the scenario modelling and sensitivity analysis undertaken by the Company and various consultants which has been conducted as part of the development of the Project.
The modelling demonstrates profitability over a range of negative assumptions, both individually and in aggregate.
The scenarios considered took into account the impacts of: a Project capital cost overrun: a delay in Project completion: lower realised polyhalite sales prices: lower long-run polyhalite sales volumes: higher long-run operating costs: and a reasonable downside scenario taking into account a combination of the above.
Based on the financial impact of theanalysis outlined above and the associated risk, management actions and controls that are either in place or could be implemented, the Board has been able to conclude that the Group will be able to deliver the construction of the Project, provided the stage 2 financing is completed as described.
Confirmation of viability Taking account of these matters, theDirectors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2022, assuming that the stage 2 financing referred to above is completed as described.
The Groups going concern statement is detailed in note 1 onpage 114.
53 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 56 Board of Directors 58 Chairmans introduction 60 Corporate governance 66 Audit Committee report 70 Nominations Committee report 73 Remuneration Committee report 76 Directors remuneration policy 86 Annual report on remuneration 99 Other statutory information 102 Directors responsibilities 54 Credit: Ebor images North York Moors National Park 55 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
