Principal Risks and Uncertainties Strategic Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk We actively monitor developments in Our highly trained and often specialist Shift in Business Model new technologies and their use in the consultants maintain an extensive The emergence of new platforms recruitment sector.
qualified candidate database which we technology providers offering HR solutions use to resource candidates for our clients As well as our ongoing day to day and consulting may lead to increased at an overall cost that they cannot match.
interaction with clients and candidates, competition and pressure on margins which we conduct formal surveys through We have established an innovation may adversely affect the Groups results if it the Exact Target programme which we infrastructure with Executive Board is unable to respond effectively.
are standardising across the Group to Governance and regional innovations understand how candidate and client groups embedded globally.
teams continually generate ideas that are evaluated and those that pass our We continue to develop Page Outsourcing criteria are developed and piloted.
For in response to RPOs and the expansion Audit Committee we have hired a Group of internal recruitment functions.
We partner with the large providers, such We have also set up a review, led by our as LinkedIn and Facebook, to ensure that Group Marketing Director on how we can we use this form of media to enhance our capitalise on the data we have with the value to clients.
All consultants are trained developments in data analytics and AI.
in utilising the benefits of social media in their day-to-day activity.
Our IT strategy and transformation initiative recognises the need for us to be Our revenue attribution model built using able to respond more rapidly in rolling out google analytics and AI provides data enabling technologies.
driven ROI implementation addressing online and offline conversions and spend allocations.
Transformation and change We have developed a transformation plan, by region, of the global template programme which will manage the which is appropriately resourced to We have a programme of activity which change activities we have defined.
This ensure we can protect business as usual will complete the transformation of our IT programme will be governed by the senior and support regional management in capability to a Group wide service delivery IT leadership Team who are responsible the successful delivery.
This is a two year programme for both the programme and the provision utilise the expertise of our third party which will build on the work done to date of IT services.
The components of the systems implementation partner and on centralising our IT in shared service programme have been defined such that have dedicated resource within our centres, standardising our infrastructure they can be implemented in discrete IT programme management office to and applications and migrating to cloud phases allowing us to determine the co-ordinate GFS activity requirements services.
This level of activity poses success of each prior to progressing to alongside business as usual and IT a change management risk to both the next stage.
We are being supported in transformation.
successfully deliver the new model the programme by a specialist third party maintain service levels to the business.
organisational change implementation The Group is in the process of partner.
We have built and implemented the This has been developed centrally and has global template into the UK, US and been successfully rolled out to the UK, US ROW regions.
We have a phased rollout and ROW businesses with the plan to roll out to all remaining regions by 2019.
We have programmes that gain feedback We have a programme of activity which PageGroup brands and reputation actively from our clients and candidates.
ensures that we communicate effectively The quality and relevance of service we We utilise Exact Target, an event based the Page brands, keeping awareness high provide to both clients and candidates, survey, and are developing an event based among both current and potential clients could have a significant impact on how approach of feedback gathering through and candidates.
We train our consultants to use new media As the way clients and candidates source We actively monitor media online through effectively, making the channels available information changes the awareness of the Brandwatch to identify where there are to them as part of their day-to-day activity.
PageGroup brand and services of clients unusual references to the PageGroup, We have a comprehensive brand and candidates could deteriorate.
Michael Page, Page Personnel, Page management policy which includes In the short-term, any event that could Executive and Page Outsourcing key areas such as social media, data cause reputational damage is a risk to trademarks.
the Group, such as a failure to comply Our marketing strategy recognises the We have in place a tested incident with legislation, or other regulatory need to engage with candidates and response process with clear escalation requirements, or confidential data lost clients using the latest media available in and activity guidelines to ensure any or stolen.
Use of new social media a way that reflects changing behaviours.
network sites has increased the speed of We conduct ongoing surveys of clients and communication and reach, increasing the We are supported by external advisers candidates to ensure that we understand impact of an incident.
who provide ongoing advice on the their requirements and can adapt our protection and management of our brand.
35 | Strategic Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION People Actions to Mitigate Risk We have made significant investment in the UK in February, has now been People attraction, development in HR resources, adding a Group Talent rolled out in Europe, LATAM and APAC and retention Director and business partners in Europe and will be rolled out to all operations by PageGroup needs to hire, train and retain and a North America HR Director.
We early 2018. a large number of appropriately skilled have also appointed a new Group HR We have Group-wide initiatives which people across the Group to achieve its Director.
These will all support our HR look at the issues around achieving vision.
programmes which are focused on diversity.
These are part of our wider The factors that motivate, encourage and addressing issues around attraction, PageGroup programmes which enable individuals to perform to their best development and retention.
combined will ensure we create an open have and will continue to evolve with an We are also addressing issues such environment where working practices suit emphasis on work life balance, flexibility as work-life balance, flexible working and encourage diversity in all its aspects.
and benefits schemes and equality We have also established mentoring Diversity is a key enabler to any that are seen to have a positive impact programmes, a Group-wide appraisal successful business.
A lack of diversity on employees.
Our Page programmes process and are reviewing our reward in our people will impact on the covering these areas have been rolled packages.
We conduct exit We conduct regular employee surveys, interviews to ensure that we are aware Our biggest challenge is still to address with the last one in September 2017. of any underlying issues that need to attrition levels during the first year of This shows us how our people view be addressed.
working in PageGroup and provides us We have invested more in online learning with feedback to address and focus capabilities, BOOST!, which commenced on improving.
Financial Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk We maintain our investment in Large, High we have also reduced our dependence on Macro-economic exposure Potential markets.
Our strategy recognises Accounting and Financial Services.
Recruitment activity is driven largely by Large, High Potential markets in which we Driving domestic business in new economic cycles and the levels of business operate, namely Germany, Greater China, markets.
In newer markets, for example confidence.
Businesses are less likely to Latin America, South East Asia and the Japan and China, we are driving to shift need new hires and employees are less US, where we believe it is appropriate to our client base to include more domestic likely to move jobs when they do not have continue to invest through the economic businesses.
confidence in the market so leading to cycle for the long-term.
This investment We are expanding our variable costs reduced recruitment activity.
is principally in our people in these areas structure.
This enables us to respond A substantial proportion of the Groups and can be offset by balancing against to changes in business levels driven profit arises from fees that are contingent costs in other regions where we seek to by economic circumstances.
As well upon the successful placement of a drive efficiencies.
as our variable front end staffing costs, candidate in a position.
If the client cancels We look for opportunities to develop our principally bonus payments, our move to the assignment at any stage in the process, brands and disciplines in each geography.
an IT service based model and the rollout the Group receives no remuneration.
We have diversified our business by of a cloud and service based finance Brexit has increased the levels of expanding geographically, by increasing system solution enhances this capability.
the number of disciplines we support, and Our regional shared service centre by establishing four brands to address approach to support activities gives us the different levels of the recruitment greater flexibility in resource reallocations.
market: the clerical professional sector: We continue to balance our mix of the qualified professional market and permanent and temporary recruitment.
We have This is in line with the ratio of our expanded our presence in IT recruitment, permanent to temporary business in each initially in Germany, but also in the UK of the markets in which we operate.
The region and have expanded our US temporary business tends to be more footprint so that we are not as dependent resilient in times of economic downturn.
on financial services in New York.
Overall We do not anticipate any hedging for We have a relatively small amount of Foreign exchange translation translation and focus on ensuring the cross border trading activity so the The majority of the Groups operating market correctly adjusts for any impact.
impact on transactions is limited to profit is derived from operations outside intercompany activity.
of the UK, so material changes in the We are, however, repatriating funds and strength of Sterling against the Groups converting them back to Sterling to main functional currencies could have an protect against a Sterling recovery.
Our adverse effect on the Groups reported Group Treasury function takes a much Sterling profits in the financial statements.
more proactive role in the management of The main functional currencies in addition our cash resources.
to Sterling are the Euro, Australian Dollar, Swiss Franc, Chinese Renminbi, Singapore and US Dollars.
Strategic Report | 36 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Operational Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk Our core operating systems standards ensures that relationships with third party Information Systems have been defined globally and under suppliers are appropriately defined and Our systems are an integral part of our tighter global governance are delivered operationalised.
A major loss of systems regionally.
We have and continue We have invested in resource to support capability would have a high impact on to migrate to standard platforms, vendor and asset management.
We have our performance, impacting the quality procedures and processes which gives in place service delivery contracts with of service we provide to clients and us a greater degree of resilience.
In our key vendors which include levels of candidates and our ability to deliver our addition, the current transformation in IT resilience appropriate to the nature of our financial performance.
creates global accountability to adopt business.
Failure of our IT systems to adapt to and implement the defined standards.
Our new Global Service Delivery model levels of business activity could result in We now have a standard disaster will enable faster rollout of our piloted lost opportunity during periods of rapid recovery plan appropriate for all regions new services as we standardise our expansion or excessive costs during with the option of transferring to a infrastructure and applications across periods of contraction.
Cloud service for each of our services the Group.
Our Global Service Delivery The move to the delivery of IT as a in the event of a disaster with our core model will ensure these services operate flexible service increases our reliance on systems.
Our core finance systems effectively and achieve the benefits third party vendors for service delivery.
are in the process of migrating onto a planned before they are deployed.
Should one of these vendors fail we are Cloud service.
Our IT transformation Our IT strategy and infrastructure team at risk of a service disruption.
programme includes the migration of are changing our model to one which is Our systems must be able to adapt core IT services to third party providers common applications based, enabling to the evolving technologies around on a SAAS basis.
Activity can quickly and faster adoption of innovation.
Cloud to allow faster implementation of economically be scaled up or down with innovation or we could miss business business requirements.
We select vendors through a robust vendor selection process which ensures those chosen have the ongoing capability to support our business requirements effectively.
This is reviewed and managed on an ongoing basis through the Services Delivery team.
Our central procurement team, in addition to supporting management in commercial negotiations, We have information security policies in Supplier contracts are negotiated and Cyber Security place for the management of confidential, reviewed to ensure data protection and Confidential, sensitive and personal sensitive and personal data.
Security IT security obligations are included as a data is held across the Group.
Failure risks are identified through a structured standard requirement.
to secure and handle this data properly process of assessment and a programme New IT projects and initiatives are could expose the Group to loss of of remediation activities is executed, reviewed for security risk, to ensure new business, financial penalties and or with activities prioritised according to the technologies are adopted safely.
associated level of business risk.
Security vulnerabilities are assessed Our move to the delivery of IT as a We have a dedicated Global Information regularly and the remediation of identified flexible service increases our reliance Security team that ensures our risks and alerts is tracked to conclusion.
As a consequence, we information remains protected.
This Regular security assurance checks take also have an increased reliance on the includes ensuring appropriate multiplace across all regions and penetration third parties IT security to secure our layered protection at network and system testing is undertaken by specialist third confidential and sensitive data.
levels, regular monitoring and third parties.
We operate in an external environment party testing of our capabilities.
The The Board and Audit Committee reviews that is seeing an increase in, and Information Security team comprises data security on a regular basis and sophistication of, cyber attacks from Security Operations, Security Architecture receives updates on the status of our organised crime and nation states.
In and Information Security Management.
addition, the increased use of social The team not only deals with IT security media and digital communications matters, but also works directly with We continue to review our processes channels, as well as reliance on third suppliers and key business stakeholders and resource requirements in line with parties, Cloud computing and mobile to ensure everyone across the business developments in how our business data facilities, increase our exposure.
protects the data of our Group, clients operates, the level of reliance on and candidates.
third party suppliers and the level of external risk.
During the year we further We have technical security protections in strengthened the team with additional place that mitigate the risks posed by the resource to maintain this focus.
use of modern communications media, Cloud services and mobile devices.
The threat landscape is under constant review to ensure our technology provides the right level of protection.
37 | Strategic Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Operational Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk Fiscal and legal compliance The Company Secretary and local legal The Gr oup tax function regularly monitors and compliance teams are advised by transfer pricing requirements and The Group operates in a large number leading external advisers, as required, developments to ensure that appropriate of legal jurisdictions that have varying with regard to changes in legislation that actions are being taken and appropriate legal, tax and compliance requirements.
affect the Groups business, including documentation is being maintained to Any non-compliance with client contract employment, legislation, tax and corporate meet local reporting and compliance requirements and legislation or regulatory governance.
requirements could have an adverse effect on the Groups brands or financial Our staff receive induction training and The Gr oup holds all normal business results.
regular updates regarding the Groups insurance cover including employers policies and procedures and compliance liability, public liability and professional with relevant legislation covering for indemnity insurance.
example, discrimination legislation, antiSales and pr ocurement contracts include bribery and corruption, sanctions and clauses to ensure the Groups rights are pre-employment checks.
All non standard contracts are The Group has central tax and treasury legally reviewed and where appropriate functions, which manage the Groups approved by senior management.
cash position and tax compliance.
The Group has financial policies and efficiencies, enable more effective control Financial management procedures which are reviewed on a of activities through common processes and control regular basis.
Changes are approved by and segregation of control activities.
Failure to maintain adequate financial the Audit Committee.
The Finance structure mirrors and and management processes and Regional and local finance teams ensure supports local, regional and Group controls could lead to poor quality that Group reporting requirements adhere management structures.
management decisions, resulting in the to these policies as well as ensuring local Group not achieving its financial targets There are compliance teams located statutory requirements are met.
The Group or in errors in the Groups financial in each region that support the local, Finance function reviews submissions to reporting.
regional and Group management in ensure policies are adhered to.
ensuring revenues are appropriately Monthly management information is recognised.
produced that supports effective financial Internal Audit regularly review local and management.
regional financial controls and report on The Group operates regional shared the results to the Executive Board and the service centres which, as well as driving Audit Committee.
Data Protection Regulations We have convened a GDPR Steering legislation.
Training will be delivered in Committee to agree requirements, a repeatable, tracked manner, allowing New European data protection legislation champion implementation and monitor staff to receive regular refresher training.
This progress to ensure that we are compliant Specialist training will be provided where increases data governance and with the regulatory requirements by required.
management requirements significantly, the implementation date.
We are being as well as increasing the potential W e have engaged with third party supported by external specialists in data penalties for non compliance or consultants to assist in interpreting the protection.
highly complex high-level law and advise A gap analysis has been performed and on an appropriate course of action.
Legislation was also introduced in we are implementing the new processes June 2017 in the Peoples Republic of Wher e necessary, this could include and procedures required.
Amongst others, China, which requires data of Chinese migrating the data of Chinese nationals we are updating the Companys Data citizens to be held and processed in including candidates, clients and Protection Policy and Data Retention Mainland China.
employees into datacentres and Cloud Policy, updating contracts with all suppliers services in Mainland China for the that process personal data, creating the purpose of processing candidate data, documentation required to demonstrate finance and payroll and our own data compliance at all times and updating processing activities.
our procedures to respond to statutory Management have appointed a Gr oup requests from data subjects in good time.
Data Protection Officer, who, together A programme of data protection with the legal teams in our regions, will awareness and training has been put proactively monitor the ever-changing together to ensure that personnel and legislative landscape to ensure we remain management are aware of the new ready and able to respond as necessary.
Similar to prior year Lower than prior year Increased since prior year The Boards view of direction of travel of gross risk: Strategic Report | 38 Principal Risks and Uncertainties typically three years.
Our Strategic Vision The scenarios were designed to be Going Concern provides a clear vision for the Group, severe, but plausible and were modelled In adopting the going concern basis for aligns the Group to one clear culture, individually and in combination.
In preparing the financial statements for provides clarity on investment priorities, each case, the Group remained viable accounting purposes under International branding, belief in achievable goals, and throughout.
However, it is considered Accounting Standard 1 Presentation clarity on the goals for our financial vision.
extremely unlikely that this combination of of Financial Statements, the Directors events would ever occur.
Controls are also The period over which we confirm have considered the business activities in place, where possible, to mitigate longer-term viability of the Group as well as the principal risks the impact of these scenarios and these and uncertainties as set out on pages Within the context of the above, in are described on pages 35 to 38.
Based on the Groups level accordance with provision C. 2.2 of Various events may also alert the Main of cash, the level of borrowing facilities the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate and Executive Boards to a potential threat available, the geographical and discipline Governance Code, the Board has to viability for example, macro-events diversification, the limited concentration assessed the viability of the Group.
drive the recruitment industry, a drop in risk, as well as the ability to manage the Given the inherent uncertainty involved, the GDP in a particular country may lead to a cost base, the Directors are satisfied that period over which the Directors consider it reduction in gross profit growth rates.
the Group has adequate resources to possible to form a reasonable expectation We consider that this stress testing based continue in operational existence for the as to the Groups longer-term viability is assessment of the Groups prospects is foreseeable future, being a period of at the three year period to 31 December reasonable in the circumstances given the least 12 months from the date of approval 2020.
This period has been selected as it inherent uncertainty involved.
As a result, the going is short enough to present the Board and, concern basis continues to be appropriate therefore, users of the Annual Report with Confirmation of longer-term viability in preparing the financial statements.
a reasonable degree of confidence, while The Directors confirm that their still providing an appropriate longer-term assessment of the principal risks and Viability Statement outlook.
While the Board has no reason to uncertainties facing the Group was robust.
believe the Group will not be viable over Assessing the prospects of the Based upon the robust assessment of the a longer period, the Board has taken into Company principal risks and uncertainties facing the account the short-term visibility inherent in Our strategy and the key risks we face Company and the stress testing-based a recruitment business with a permanent are described on pages 8 to 16 and 35 assessment of the Companys prospects, recruitment bias.
A full business forecasting process all of which are described above, the Stress testing is performed on a quarterly basis, with a Directors have a reasonable expectation full budget for the following year created The forecasting and budgeting process that the Company will be able to continue during October and November, being is also supported by scenarios that in operation and meet its liabilities as presented to the Board in December.
encompass a broad range of potential they fall due over the period to 31 The Board reviews the Groups strategy outcomes.
These scenarios are designed December 2020.
However, we operate and approves an annual Group budget.
to explore the resilience of the Group in an environment of limited visibility, Performance is then monitored by the to the potential impact of the significant dependent upon confidence in the global Board through the review of monthly risks as set out on pages 35 to 38, or a marketplace.
Further weakness in the reports showing comparisons of results combination of those risks.
We considered macro-economic outlook may cause us against budget, quarterly forecasts and cyber incidents, disintermediation by way to adapt our strategy during the threethe prior year, with explanations provided of innovation, changes in technology, year period in response, leading to a for significant variances.
Discussion movements in foreign exchange rates, re-evaluation of additional risks involved around strategy is undertaken by the and a global downturn.
We have assumed which might impact the business model.
Board in its normal course of business, as that, as in the past, as downside risks well as at an annual dedicated strategy materialise our headcount will flex through day.
natural attrition in line with the drop in gross profit, such that the impact on We also prepare longer-term projections operating profit is partially mitigated.
which drive our Strategic Vision.
