Risk Management In the intervening periods the risks The Executive Board and the Board Principal Risks associated with changes in either the continue to focus on Strategic, People The Group recognises that the effective external environment or as a result of and Financial risks.
For these, we disclose management of risk is key in achieving internal proposals are discussed as part KPIs which we use to monitor the risk our objectives.
of our ongoing business reviews and are impact, and the rewards and incentives responded to accordingly.
we apply to ensure effective management.
A Group risk review process is in place which identifies the strategic and We also have well established compliance See strategic framework on page 9. operational risks which could impact teams: IT risks and security, who focus Our Operational risks are those that the our business and determines the on delivery of activity to mitigate our IT Executive Board have agreed can be mitigating actions required to ensure that risks and systems and data security: and managed by our people on a day-to-day these risks are controlled to an acceptable regional revenue recognition compliance basis.
These are included within our risk level.
Our agreed level of risk appetite, teams who ensure accurate reporting of registers and are reviewed by the Board approved by the Board, guides the level our revenue worldwide.
Our Internal Audit programme of activity The risks around data security cyber risk The process of risk management is an aligns the provision of assurance to the is one such exception which is reviewed integral part of our business, forming part controls that mitigate the risks identified at Board level on an ongoing basis.
of our strategy review, our business plans from this process.
and the delivery of our daily activity.
Our risk evaluation includes matters Our risk management process relating to all our key stakeholders It is supported by risk registers that are categorises our principal risks into and encompasses considerations of maintained locally at country and process Strategic, Financial, People and governance, social, environmental and level and consolidated twice a year.
then combined with a top-down review of Within this process we assess all risks risks conducted with senior management that could have a significant impact on the and the summarised output formally ability of the business to deliver its shortreviewed by the Executive Board and the term plans and medium and long-term Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Our Risk and Control Framework Risk and Control Framework Controls Functions Review Business Reviews Management Internal Control Checklists Policies and Procedures Executive Revenue Compliance Teams Board Risk Management Board Audit Committee IT Security Team Group Financial Control Risk Registers Group Finance Audit Reports Internal Audit Quarterly Updates Group Governance Framework 33 | Strategic Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Risk Appetite and Net Risk Levels Recruitment is inherently cyclical and provides limited forward visibility.
This makes it sensitive to the economic environment and thus financially volatile creating a higher gross risk environment.
PageGroup operates in this environment with a low risk appetite, seeking to Shift in business model mitigate its strategic risks, maintain Transformation a strong financial position and only and change People, attraction, taking the operational risks it has the PageGroup brands Strategic People development and retention experience and capability to manage.
and reputation Our growth model is organic, rolling out the proven disciplines for brands to a Risk wide geographic spread.
We drive this Categories by developing and promoting our people from within the business, ensuring Information systems consistency of model and business Cyber security Macro-economic Financial Operational culture across the Group.
Fiscal and legal compliance exposure Financial management and control Foreign exchange We maintain a strong sales driven, translation risk Data protection regulation meritocratic culture with a commitment to operating in an ethical, legal and sustainable manner.
We will always operate a conservative financial position with a strong balance sheet, reflecting the degree of operational gearing inherent in the business.
This measured approach to taking risk ensures we are best placed for success globally.
Risk level Unacceptable to Intended improvements Higher willingness to take risk take risk 2016 1.
Data protection regulation Further planned improvements Risk appetite range PageGroup actual net risk assessment Strategic Report | 34
