Risk management Managing risk: our framework for balancing risk and reward A robust and effective risk management framework is essential for the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to ensure that the directors are able to manage the business in a sustainable manner, which protects its employees, partners, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ongoing consideration of, and regular updates to, the policies intended to mitigate risk enable the effective balancing of risk and reward.
The design and ongoing effectiveness of the Governance key controls over the Groups principal risks are Overall responsibility for the risk framework and documented using a risk and control matrix, which definition of risk appetite rests with the Board, includes an assessment of the design and operating who through regular review of risks ensure that effectiveness of the controls in question.
The key risk exposure is matched with an ability to achieve controls over the Groups identified principal risks the Groups strategic objectives.
Risk identification are reviewed by management, the audit and risk is carried out through bottom-up process via committee and the Board at least twice a year.
operational risk registers maintained by individual However, the Groups risk management programme teams, with additional top-down input from the can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance management team with non-executive review being that principal risks are managed to an acceptable level.
carried out by the audit and risk committee.
During 2017 we have continued to build on our Risk management process existing risk management framework, enhancing risk management and internal control processes.
This Ranking of the Groups risks is carried out activity included the development of operational by combining the economic, operational or risk registers for front line operations and central environmental impact of risks and the likelihood functions, a number of control reviews supported that they may occur.
Those risks that are considered by our external risk consultants PwC, including a to pose the greatest threat to the Group and score review of the US operations, an integration risk the highest are identified as principal risks.
The review and a review of the controls over our principal operations of the Group, and the implementation of risks.
We have continued to support the Executive its objectives and strategy, are subject to a number of Committee and Board through regular meetings of principal risks and uncertainties.
Were more than one the Risk Council.
Priorities for 2018 include amending of the risks to occur together, the overall impact on our risk management framework to reflect new the Group may be compounded.
team structure post the integration of Touchstone Innovations plc.
46 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Risk management KEY IP Group risk management framework Direct Reporting Review & Challenge FIRST LINE SECOND LINE THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE OF DEFENCE OF DEFENCE Front line ownership of Oversight and challenge by the Independent assurance risk process, reporting and Risk Council, Central Functions effectiveness and Management Board Executive Audit & Risk IP Exec Committee Management IP Capital Risk Council IP Assist Collated risk IP Group Inc. registers Front Line Operations Central Functions HR Lifesciences Finance Internal & external audit IT Technology Legal & Cosec 47 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine CONSOLIDATION, ANALYSIS, REPORTING, OVERSIGHT CHALLENGE, FEEDBACK, LEARNING Risk management CONTINUED Summary of principal risks and mitigants A summary of the principal risks affecting the Group and the steps taken to manage these is set out below.
Further discussion of the Groups approach to principal risks and uncertainties are given on page 78 of the Corporate Governance Report and pages 100 to 103 of the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, while further disclosure of the Groups financial risks is set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 130 and 132.
RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI y The success of those portfolio y The Group has significant balance sheet y The Group completed a successful equity placing, y Change in fair value 1 It may be difficult for the companies which require and managed funds capital to deploy in raising net proceeds of 181.0m.
of equity and debt Group and its early-stage significant funding in the attractive portfolio opportunities.
y The Group completed a business combination companies to attract capital.
future may be influenced y Total equity y The Group operates a corporate finance with Touchstone Innovations plc: the rationale by the markets appetite for The Groups operations are reliant on net assets.
function which carries out fundraising for this transaction includes improved access to investment in early stage capital markets, particularly those in mandates for portfolio companies.
capital via increased scale and critical mass.
y Profit loss companies, which may not be the UK.
As the Groups operations, attributable to y The Group maintains close relationships y The Group held Deep Tech Forum events sufficient.
and the operations of the majority of equity holders.
with a wide variety of co-investors that in Shenzhen and Beijing in China, bringing its portfolio companies, are based in y Failure of companies within focus on companies at differing stages of together ten of our portfolio companies and the UK, the financial and operational the Groups portfolio may development.
over 300 Chinese private equity and venture performance of the Group and make it more difficult for capital investors, corporate representatives and y The Group frequently forecasts cash particularly the ability of its portfolio the Group or its spin-out government bodies.
requirements of the portfolio and ensures companies to attract development companies to raise additional all capital allocations are compliant with capital is influenced by the general capital.
budgetary limits, treasury policy guidelines economic climate and trading and transaction authorisation controls.
y The Group acquired Parkwalk Advisors Ltd in the year, the leading EIS fund manager in the UK.
While Parkwalk Advisors operates independently they have been and continue to be an important co-investor of the Group supporting shared portfolio companies.
y Portfolio company failure y The Groups staff have significant experience y The group completed a combination with y Change in fair value 2 The returns and cash directly impacts the Groups in sourcing, developing and growing Touchstone Innovations plc, resulting in increased of equity and debt proceeds from the Groups value and profitability.
early-stage technology companies to diversification of the Groups portfolio.
early-stage companies can be significant value, including use of the Groups y At any time, a large proportion y Purchase of y The Groups portfolio companies raised very uncertain.
systematic opportunity evaluation and of the Groups portfolio value equity and debt approximately 315m of capital.
business building methodologies within may be accounted for by investments.
The following risks are typically y The Group maintained board representation on delegated board authorities.
one, or very few, companies, associated with early-stage y Proceeds from approximately 70% of companies by number.
which could exacerbate the y Members of the Groups senior team often companies: the sale of equity impact of any impairment serve as non-executive directors or advisers investments.
y may not be able to secure later or failure of one or more of to portfolio companies to help identify and rounds of funding: these companies.
Oxford remedy critical issues promptly.
Nanopore is an example of y may not be able to source or retain y Support on operational, legal and company such a portfolio company that appropriately skilled staff: secretarial matters is offered to minimise has the potential to materially failures due to common administrative y competing technologies may enter impact the Groups results.
the market: y The value of the Groups drug y The Group has spin-out company holdings y technology can be materially discovery and development across different sectors managed by unproven and may fail: portfolio companies may be experienced sector-specialist teams to significantly impacted by a y IP may be infringed, copied or reduce the impact of a single company negative clinical trial result.
stolen: failure or sector demise.
y Cash realisations from the y The Group maintains significant cash y may be more susceptible to cyber Groups portfolio through balances and seeks to employ a capital crime: and trade sales and IPOs could efficient process deploying low levels of y other administrative, taxation or vary significantly from year initial capital to enable identification and compliance issues may lead to to year.
mitigation of potential failures at the earliest company failure.
KEY Increase Decrease No change Create Develop Deliver 48 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Risk management RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI y The success of those portfolio y The Group has significant balance sheet y The Group completed a successful equity placing, y Change in fair value 1 It may be difficult for the companies which require and managed funds capital to deploy in raising net proceeds of 181.0m.
SEE OUR STRATEGY SEE OUR KPIs ON PAGES 16 TO 17 ON PAGES 18 TO 19 49 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Risk management CONTINUED RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI y Termination or non-renewal of y Dedicated New Business & Partnerships y Completed investments with two new US y Number of 3 Universities or other arrangements through failure team to service existing partnerships and university partners.
new portfolio research-intensive to perform obligations may source new opportunities.
y The Group acquired Parkwalk Advisors Ltd during institutions may terminate result in the loss of exclusive y The Group continues to consider and, where the year.
Parkwalks investment vehicles include their partnerships or other rights.
appropriate, enter into new and innovative the University of Cambridge Enterprise Funds, collaborative relationships y The loss of exclusive rights partnerships and collaborations with the University of Oxford Innovation Funds and with the Group.
may limit the Groups research institutions.
the University of Bristol Enterprise Funds.
The ability to secure attractive Directors believe that Parkwalks strong links to y The Group has been able to source The Groups business, results of IP opportunities to university partners will be beneficial to the Group.
opportunities through non-exclusive operations and prospects are at least commercialise.
y The Group strengthened its university partnership partially dependent on competitive y This could potentially have network during the year having signed 9 new y Members of the Groups senior team work advantage gained from access to a material adverse effect commercialisation agreements with the top closely with partner institutions to ensure leading scientific research through on the Groups long-term universities in Australia and New Zealand and that each commercial relationship is mutually partnerships and other collaborative business, results of operations, through the combination with Touchstone adding beneficial and productive.
arrangements with research-intensive performance and prospects.
strong links with Imperial College London through institutions and commercial partners y The Groups track record in IP its Technology Pipeline agreement TPA.
y With several new entrants to such as Oxford Sciences Innovation commercialisation may make the Group our market, this may reduce y Completed seed investments with both Oxford plc, Cambridge Innovation Capital a partner of choice for other institutions, our opportunities to create Sciences Innovation and Cambridge Innovation and the UCL Technology Fund.
acting as a barrier to entry to competitors.
Capital as co-investors, demonstrating the value University partners may terminate of our strategic stakes in these partners.
their partnerships or may move to non-exclusive sourcing models.
y Loss of key executives and y Senior team succession plans are in place y The Group continues to promote an open culture y Total equity.
4 The Group may lose key employees of the Group or and updated regularly.
of communication and provides an inspiring and y Net assets.
personnel or fail to attract an inability to attract, retain challenging workplace where people are given y The Groups corporate culture and values are and integrate new personnel.
y Number of and integrate appropriately autonomy to do their jobs.
We are fully supportive well-articulated and consistently promoted.
new portfolio skilled and experienced staff of flexible working and have enabled employees The industry in which the Group y The Group carries out regular market companies.
could have an adverse effect with technology to work flexibly.
The Group also operates is a specialised area and comparisons for staff and executive on the Groups competitive continues to dedicate resources to remuneration the Group requires highly qualified remuneration and seeks to offer a balanced advantage, business, financial and incentivisation.
There incentive package comprising a mix of salary, condition, operational results y Staff attrition increased during the year to 11%, it is a risk that the Groups employees benefits, performance-based long-term and or future prospects.
remained at low absolute levels.
Approximately could be approached and solicited incentives and benefits such as flexible 44% of staff have been with the Company for at working and salary sacrifice arrangements.
by competitors or other technology least five years.
based companies and organisations, y The Group encourages staff development or could otherwise choose to leave the and inclusion through coaching and Group.
Given the relatively small size mentoring, and carries out regular objective of the Group, its operations are reliant setting and appraisal.
on a small number of key individuals.
Scaling the team, particularly into foreign jurisdictions such as the US, presents an additional potential risk.
y The UKs recession has had y Management team receives regular capital y Macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions y Change in fair value 5 Macroeconomic conditions and may continue to have market and economic updates from the remain uncertain in the UK, Europe and the rest of equity and debt may negatively impact the an adverse effect on trading Groups capital markets team and its brokers.
Groups ability to achieve its conditions and availability of y The Brexit process remains a source of y Six-monthly budget and capital allocation y Total equity.
capital in the UK, particularly uncertainty in the year.
process and monitoring against agreed y Net assets.
Adverse macroeconomic conditions y Profit loss y The success of those could reduce the opportunity to y Regular oversight of upcoming capital attributable to portfolio companies which deploy capital into opportunities or requirements of portfolio from both the equity holders.
require significant external may limit the ability of such portfolio Group and third parties.
funding may be influenced companies to raise third party funds, by the markets appetite for develop profitable businesses or investment in early stage achieve increases in value or exits.
companies, which may not be Political uncertainty, including impacts sufficient.
from Brexit or similar scenarios, could y A significant proportion of the have a number of potential impacts, Groups portfolio value is held including changes to the labour in companies quoted on the market available to the Group for AIM market and decreases in recruitment or regulatory environment values to this market could in which the Group operates.
result in a material fair value impact to the portfolio as a whole.
50 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Risk management KEY Increase Decrease No change Create Develop Deliver RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI y Termination or non-renewal of y Dedicated New Business & Partnerships y Completed investments with two new US y Number of 3 Universities or other arrangements through failure team to service existing partnerships and university partners.
SEE OUR STRATEGY SEE OUR KPIs ON PAGES 16 TO 17 ON PAGES 18 TO 19 51 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Risk management CONTINUED RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI y Changes could result in y University partners are incentivised to y Changes to UK Substantial Shareholding y Total equity.
6 There may be changes to, universities and researchers protect their IP for exploitation as the Exemption rules reduce the level of uncertainty y net assets.
impacts from, or failure to no longer being able to own, partnership agreements share returns around the exemption of disposal gains were comply with, legislation, exploit or protect intellectual between universities, academic founders enacted in Finance No, 2 Act 2017. government policy and property on attractive terms.
y Ongoing focus on regulatory compliance regulation.
y Changes to tax legislation y The Group utilises professional advisers as including third party reviews.
or the nature of the Groups appropriate to support its monitoring of, y UK Government has committed to university There may be unforeseen changes in, activities, in particular in and response to changes in, tax, insurance funding and has emphasised the importance of or impacts from, government policy, relation to the Substantial or other legislation.
regulation or legislation including Shareholder Exemption, may y The Group has internal policies and taxation legislation.
This could include y Specialist therapeutics advisory panel continually adversely affect the Groups procedures to ensure its compliance with changes to funding levels or to the consulted.
tax position and accordingly applicable FCA regulations and these are terms upon which public monies y Increased focus on cyber security including its value and operations.
are made available to universities further development of the Groups controls using y Regulatory changes or and research institutions and y The Group maintains D&O, professional the UK Governments ten steps approach and breaches could ultimately lead the ownership of any resulting indemnity and clinical trial insurance review of the Cyber Essentials regime and how to withdrawal of regulatory intellectual property.
this applies to the Group.
permissions for the Groups y The Group reviews its data and cyberFCA-authorised subsidiary security processes with its external resulting in loss of fund outsourced IT provider and applies the UK management contracts, Governments ten steps framework.
y A data security or cyber breach could occur or the Group could otherwise fail to adhere to data protection regulations.
52 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Risk management KEY Increase Decrease No change Create Develop Deliver RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI y Changes could result in y University partners are incentivised to y Changes to UK Substantial Shareholding y Total equity.
SEE OUR STRATEGY SEE OUR KPIs ON PAGES 16 TO 17 ON PAGES 18 TO 19 To assess the impact of the Groups principal risks Viability statement on the prospects of the Group, the plan is stressThe Directors have carried out a robust assessment of tested by modelling several severe but plausible the viability of the Group over a three-year period to downside scenarios as part of the Boards review of December 2020, considering its strategy, its current the principal risks of the business.
These scenarios financial position and its principal risks.
envisage the impact of adverse outcomes in the Groups principal risk areas, primarily through The strategy and associated principal risks underpin reducing the fair value of the Groups portfolio the Groups three-year financial plan and scenario company interests, reducing the amount of capital testing, which the Directors review at least annually.
that the Group can raise, lowering the deployment of The three-year plan is built using a bottom up model.
capital and decreasing portfolio company divestment The three-year plan makes certain assumptions about proceeds.
The scenarios also consider the impact of the level of capital deployed into, and realisations available mitigating actions.
from, its portfolio of companies, the financial performance and valuation of the underlying Based on this assessment, the Directors have a portfolio companies, the Groups utilisation of its debt reasonable expectation that the Group will continue finance facility and ability to raise further capital, and to operate and meets its liabilities, as they fall due, up the level of the Groups net overheads.
