STRATEGIC REPORT 32 RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has established risk management and internal control systems which support the identification, understanding and mitigation of the key risks that it faces.
Approach Risk Governance These three committees assist the Audit The Groups risk management processes The Ferrexpo Board is ultimately Committee and Board in the identification provide a framework to support responsible for defining the Groups attitude and analysis of risk.
Assurance on the the identification, prioritisation and to risk and ensuring that appropriate internal control and risk management management of the risks involved in the systems of risk management and internal systems is provided in the form of Companys activities.
It is not and cannot control are established and embedded management information, reports and be designed to eliminate risk, particularly in across the Group, in conformity with its updates from the Group internal audit an emerging market economy.
Ferrexpos desired risk management culture.
Its function, external audits and the oversight risk management policies and procedures responsibility extends to ensuring that by the Executive Committee, Audit have been established to identify and the principal risks faced by the Group are Committee and Board.
analyse the risks faced by the Group, to robustly assessed and that the Companys set appropriate limits and controls and exposure to such risks are aligned with its 2017 Risk Assessment take relevant mitigating actions where strategic objectives.
The risks set out in the matrix were considered by the Board of Ferrexpo and assessed by the Finance and Risk its executive management to be beneficial.
The Audit Committee assists the Board Management Committee, Executive in its regular monitoring of risk exposures Compliance Committee and the Audit Risk Assessment and the Groups risk matrix, and is Committee, as appropriate, and the risks The Groups risk matrix is regularly responsible for evaluating the adequacy identified as posing the biggest threat reviewed and monitored by the Executive and effectiveness of the established risk to the Companys operations based on Committee and its sub-committee, the management and internal control systems.
their potential impact and taking account Finance and Risk Management Committee, It also oversees how management monitors of the mitigating measures in place were as well as the Audit Committee and the compliance with risk management analysed in order to identify the principal Board.
This review process includes policies and procedures, with assistance risks faced by the Group for assessment by ensuring that any new risks are identified, from the Group internal audit function the Board.
The principal risks identified are their potential impact on the Group which conducts ad-hoc reviews of risk set out on pages 34 to 39. assessed and appropriate controls management controls and procedures established.
The risks identified are ranked as part of its annual programme of work.
At each Board meeting throughout based on the potential impact and the For more information relating to the Audit the year, the Board reviewed the risk probability of occurrence in order to assess Committees monitoring and assessment register and assessed the risks facing the their impact on the Groups operation and of the effectiveness of the risk management Company over both the short and long viability.
The impact and the probability and internal control systems, see the Audit term.
The Viability Statement is set out on are reassessed on a regular basis based Committee Report on page 61. page 40. on latest developments in the Groups macro and micro environment.
It is the The Finance and Risk Management responsibility of the Groups Executive Committee oversees the centralised Committee to define appropriate actions financial risk management structures, to adequately monitor those risks and while the Corporate Safety and Social establish an effective control environment.
Responsibility Committee monitors safety, The controls are generally conducted environment and community risks and the by the Groups internal audit function or Executive Compliance Committee monitors members of the Executive Committee and compliance risks.
updates are provided to the Executive Committee and the Board.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS FERREXPO BOARD Overall responsibility for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems Sets strategic objectives and defines risk appetite Monitors the nature and extent of risk exposure AUDIT COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CSR COMMITTEE Support the Board in monitoring risk Assess and mitigate Oversight of CSR matters exposure and risk appetites Company-wide risk and performance Review effectiveness of risk Monitor internal controls management and control systems FINANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Monitor centralised financial risk management structures EXECUTIVE COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Monitor Group compliance Monitor Group and local compliance officers INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION Support the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of risk management Internal control systems OPERATIONAL LEVEL Risk management processes and internal controls embedded across all Ferrexpo operations RISK MATRIX HEAT MAP The risks identified in the heat map to the right highlight which could have the greatest impact shaded grey on the 5 Groups operations and viability.
1.1 2.1 2.3 1.2 1.3 2.2 3 4 UNLIKELY ALMOST CERTAIN Likelihood Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts Impact VERY LOW SEVERE
