STRATEGIC REPORT 34 PRINCIPAL RISKS The list of the principal risks and uncertainties facing Ferrexpos business that are listed below is based on the Boards current understanding.
Due to the very nature of risk it cannot be under more general headings.
Interest rate In addition, the iron ore fines price which expected to be completely exhaustive.
risk, however, is no longer considered to be forms a major component of the Groups New risks may emerge and the severity principal and has been removed.
received price is volatile, while the or probability associated with known risks Groups asset base is located in Ukraine, may change over time.
All risks and their mitigations are actively an emerging market.
As such, Ferrexpo considered monthly at the Groups recognises and accepts the risks present In order to provide a more concise overview Finance and Risk Management Committee in its business and looks to mitigate them of the principal risks facing Ferrexpo, it meetings based on detailed analysis.
has grouped the risks into nine categories compared to 17 risks reported in 2016.
Ferrexpo operates in the mining industry The Board of Ferrexpo has ultimate Most of the principal risks reported in 2016 where there is an inherent level of risk responsibility for the identification of risks are still present but have been grouped present due to the nature of its operations.
REALISED PRICE The pricing formula used for long-term contracts in the pellet industry is, in general, based on the Platts 62% Fe iron ore fines prices, a negotiated pellet premium usually agreed annually and the cost of international freight usually referenced to the C3 index.
Ferrexpos achieved price can vary significantly from period to period as it is dependent on the global price for 62% Fe iron ore fines, pellet premiums and freight all of which Ferrexpo has little or no control over as a price taker.
LOWER IRON ORE PRICES EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY A decline in the 62% Fe iron ore fines price will reduce Group revenue, profitability and n a Ferrexpos market share of the total cash generation.
A reduction in cash generation could impact the Groups ability to fund iron ore market is very low and, as such, it maintenance and development capital investment.
Lower levels of maintenance investment is considered a price taker.
could result in lower production volumes, further reducing cash generation and impacting balance sheet strength.
RISK APPETITE: Medium The iron ore fines price averaged US$71 per tonne in 2017 compared to US$58 per tonne STRATEGIC LINK in 2016.
Most market analysts expect the price to fall in 2018 and 2019, averaging US$63 1 per tonne and US$59 per tonne respectively.
For further information on iron ore prices 123 45 and the market environment see pages 12 to 16.
MITIGATION Ferrexpo is a low cost producer and is currently in the lowest quartile of the cost curve.
Ferrexpos operating costs are partly linked to commodity prices.
In times of low prices for the end product, costs are also typically reduced.
Furthermore, the Ukrainian Hryvnia is a commodity-related currency and historically it has depreciated during periods of low commodity prices.
Ferrexpo regularly reviews options to hedge the price of its output: however, its current strategy is to not enter into hedging agreements.
Ferrexpo has maintained positive profit through the iron ore price cycle.
1 As of 14 February 2018 expected average price comprises forecasts from 13 investment banks.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have indicated how our principal risks would impact our ability to deliver against our strategy.
SELL TO A WORLD CLASS CUSTOMER PORTFOLIO 4.
MAINTAIN A SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE 5.
MAINTAIN APPROPRIATE CAPITAL ALLOCATION BETWEEN A STRONG BALANCE SHEET, RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTMENT FOR GROWTH 1.2.
PELLET PREMIUMS AND PELLET SUPPLY EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY Ferrexpo receives a pellet premium for its product in addition to the iron ore fines price.
Chief Marketing Officer and CEO.
Currently, a substantial portion of its profitability is due to this premium.
The average Atlantic pellet premium from 2011 to 2017 was US$35 per tonne.
RISK APPETITE: Medium Average pellet premiums in 2017 were over 70% higher than 2016 and traded at a nineSTRATEGIC LINK year high.
The outlook for premiums in 2018 is good, with the average premium expected to increase.
12345 Approximately 10 million tonnes of high cost pellet supply is expected to re-enter the market during 2018 and 2019.
Steel mills, however, are currently enjoying high levels of demand and profitability, underpinning pellet demand.
Post 2018, it is possible that pellet supply which is currently not in production will re-enter the market.
This could coincide with a reduction in steel mill profitability, impacting demand for pellets and resulting in an oversupply of pellets to the market.
A decrease in the pellet premium would reduce the Groups revenue, profitability and cash generation.
MITIGATION Ferrexpo sells high quality pellets which underpins demand for its product throughout the commodity cycle.
Should the pellet premium decline, Ferrexpo has one of the lowest pellet conversion costs in the industry, which should ensure that it is able to remain a competitive producer.
For further information on pellet premiums and the market environment see pages 12 to 16.
SEABORNE FREIGHT RATES EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY As iron ore is a bulk commodity, seaborne freight rates are an important component of Chief Marketing Officer and Group Freight the cost to deliver product to a customer.
An increase in freight rates will reduce the net Manager.
price received from a customer while a reduction in freight rates will increase the net price received from a customer.
RISK APPETITE: Medium Seaborne freight rates, such as C3, are published by the Baltic Exchange and represents STRATEGIC LINK the cost for ocean transportation for iron ore from the Brazilian port of Tubarao where the largest seaborne pellet supplier is based to Qingdao, China the largest steel producer in 123 45 the world.
As Ferrexpo sells to international customers, the price it receives includes reference to C3 or other appropriate global benchmarks.
Freight rates are largely influenced by the price of oil.
In 2017, the average C3 freight rate increased to US$15 per tonne from US$9 per tonne in 2016.
MITIGATION Ferrexpo has its own in-house freight and distribution specialists who procure freight competitively on behalf of the Group.
Ferrexpos geographic proximity to its European customers is a competitive advantage compared to other iron ore producers.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT 36 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 2.
OPERATING RISKS AND HAZARDS INCL.
MINING, PROCESSING AND LOGISTICS COMPANY SPECIFIC RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY Ferrexpo operates large-scale mining operations which can pose significant challenges Chief Operating Officer, Chief Marketing and environmental risks.
This may result in production-related shortfalls or shutdowns Officer, Operating Committee, Executive due to geotechnical incidents, mining or processing equipment failure as well as logistics Committee, Board of Directors.
RISK APPETITE: Low The Groups operations require sustaining capital expenditure and repair and maintenance programmes to ensure availability of equipment.
A reduction in sustaining capital or repairs STRATEGIC LINK and maintenance expenditure can result in equipment failure.
12345 Production stoppages will increase costs and lower output.
It can also reduce the quality of the product and lead to late delivery to customers.
Lower volumes, higher costs, financial penalties due to poor quality and late delivery of product can impact the Groups cash generation ability, reducing liquidity levels, impacting capital investment levels as well as balance sheet strength.
The late delivery of product can also impact the Groups ability to perform according to customer contracts and impact its ability to renew contracts in the future.
MITIGATION During the year the Group completed a 55-day refurbishment of pelletiser line number 4.
Pelletiser line number 3 was refurbished in 2014.
The Group plans to refurbish the final two pellet lines in 2018 and 2019 respectively.
See pages 25 to 27, and page 44 for a description of the factors impacting the Groups operations in 2017.
In 1Q 2015, the Group completed a Quality Upgrade Programme which has allowed Ferrexpo to increase the overall quality of its product.
Since 2007, Ferrexpo has invested more than US$2.15 billion, which has included modernisation of existing equipment and investment in its logistics capabilities.
Where possible, Ferrexpo owns its own logistics infrastructure.
This includes 2,252 rail cars, which reduce reliance on state rail cars for transportation of pellets to border points, 150 barges for transportation of pellets into Central Europe, and a 49.5% interest in the port of TIS Ruda on the Black Sea, which guarantees the Group independent access to seaborne markets, avoiding reliance on the state port.
MAINTAIN APPROPRIATE CAPITAL ALLOCATION BETWEEN A STRONG BALANCE SHEET, RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTMENT FOR GROWTH 2.2.
HEALTH AND SAFETY RISKS COMPANY SPECIFIC RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY The mining and processing of iron ore is often associated with a hazardous working Chief Operating Officer, Operating environment as it includes the use of explosives and the operation and repair of heavy Committee, Executive Committee, CSR machinery, amongst other things.
Failure to provide a safe working environment for the Committee, Board of Directors.
Groups workforce and failure to ensure an improved and sustained performance in safety behaviour can impact the Groups social licence to operate.
Fatalities and lost time injuries RISK APPETITE: Low also result in production stoppages as well as negatively impact employee moral.
STRATEGIC LINK During 2017, there was one fatality compared to two fatalities in 2016.
A total of 23 lost time injuries occurred across the Group during the year compared to 22 in 2016.
The lost time 123 4 5 injury frequency rate per million man hours worked was 1.17, in line with 2016.
MITIGATION Safety performance is regularly reviewed throughout the organisation.
All accidents are fully investigated, using Incident, Cause and Analysis methodology.
To eliminate reoccurrence, the significant incident register is reviewed six-monthly to update controls and develop additional actions.
Safety training is regularly provided to employees to instil a culture of accountability.
The goal of these safety workshops is to emphasise and ensure that all employees understand and appreciate the importance of strict adherence to safety procedures and that protection of our employees is paramount.
A near miss reporting process has been established to learn from low consequence events.
Employee remuneration is linked to safety performance.
Ferrexpo has modernised its mining and production facilities, improving safety and environmental performance.
OPERATING COST INCREASES EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY The production of iron ore pellets is a more capital intensive process than other Chief Operating Officer, Operating types of iron ore production as it requires the enrichment of relatively low grade Committee, Finance and Risk Management ore into a high grade product.
As such, in general, pellet producers have higher Committee, Executive Committee, Board.
operating costs per tonne of output than producers of iron ore fines or lump.
RISK APPETITE: Low Approximately 60% of Ferrexpos C1 cash cost of production is commodity related, including fuel, electricity, gas, explosives and steel grinding media.
In STRATEGIC LINK times of relatively high iron ore prices the cost of production tends to increase due to commodity cost inflation: however, during periods of low commodity 1234 5 prices the cash cost is reduced.
In addition, over half of the Groups operating costs, including in-land logistics costs, are incurred in Ukrainian Hryvnia.
As such, the Groups cost of production is sensitive to local inflation, exchange rate fluctuations between the Hryvnia and the US Dollar and US Dollar commodity cost inflation.
In 2017, the Groups C1 cash cost increased from US$28 per tonne to US$32 per tonne.
See page 25 to 27 for a description of the factors impacting operating costs.
MITIGATION Ferrexpo sits in the bottom quartile of the pellet cost curve.
Many of its costs which relate to commodity prices will impact its peers to a similar extent.
As such, in times of higher commodity prices the Group should be able to maintain its cost competitiveness relative to its competitors.
Ferrexpo looks to increase production volumes to ensure fixed cost dilution and enable the Group to offset to some extent external cost inflation.
The Group has a Business Improvement Programme aimed at increasing efficiencies and reducing costs by 1% to 2% per annum.
The Ukrainian Hryvnia is a commodity-related currency and historically has depreciated during periods of low commodity prices.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT 38 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 3.
UKRAINE COUNTRY RISK EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY Ukraine has been an independent country since 1991.
During this time, the country Ferrexpo Board of Directors and CEO.
has witnessed two revolutions, in 2004 and in 2014.
It has also been subjected to the annexation of Crimea, and there is an ongoing conflict in Eastern Ukraine.
The general RISK APPETITE: Medium political instability has negative social and economic consequences and is capable of damaging Ferrexpos ability to operate without disruption in Ukraine.
STRATEGIC LINK Economic weakness can reduce the governments ability to fund social services, leading 12345 to tensions within local communities.
It can also impact the governments ability to meet payment obligations to exporters such as VAT refunds and or lead to higher taxes including increased royalty payments.
Services provided by state monopolies such as the supply of electricity, gas and freight transportation can also be disrupted in this environment.
This can affect Ferrexpos ability to export product reliably.
Transparency International ranks Ukraine as 130th out of 176 countries in terms of the level of perceived corruption with 176th being regarded as the most corrupt.
There is a risk that counterparties are involved in activities that are not in compliance with relevant international standards.
Further, a weak judicial system can be susceptible to outside influences and can take an extended period of time for courts to reach final judgment.
The Group holds mining licences and the other permits required to carry out mining operations.
If mining licences were to be revoked or not renewed, Ferrexpos ability to continue to produce pellets would be at risk.
Ukraine is a recipient of IMF funding for which, in return, the government has undertaken to implement a number of systemic reforms.
In August 2017, Moodys rating agency upgraded Ukraines sovereign rating from Caa3 to Caa2 with a positive outlook.
The driver for the upgrade was based on the cumulative impact of structural reforms that, if sustained, are expected to improve the governments financial position.
The rating upgrade was constrained by the governments heavy debt maturity profile over the next several years that is expected to require additional foreign currency lending.
In 2017, Ferrexpo raised new debt facilities, extended FPMs mining licence for 20 years and received all outstanding VAT.
Also see Debt maturity profile impact.
MITIGATION Ferrexpo prioritises sufficient liquidity levels and strong credit metrics to ensure smooth operations should geopolitical or economic weakness disrupt the financial system of the country.
Ferrexpo makes meaningful contributions to national and local communities.
Ferrexpo invests in energy efficiency, including alternative fuels to augment gas consumption, and maintains close contact with electricity suppliers.
Ferrexpo has established several sources of suppliers for key products as well as several supply routes.
Ferrexpo maintains and invests in its logistics capabilities to ensure available capacity to better service its customers, lower costs and reduce reliance on state providers.
Ferrexpo prioritises a strong internal control framework including high standards of compliance and ethics.
Ferrexpo monitors its commitments under its various mining licences in order to ensure conditions contained within the licences are fulfilled or the appropriate waivers are obtained.
For further information on Ukraine see page 10 of the Strategic Report.
MAINTAIN APPROPRIATE CAPITAL ALLOCATION BETWEEN A STRONG BALANCE SHEET, RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTMENT FOR GROWTH 4.
TAX EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY Ferrexpo is a large taxpayer in Ukraine and also pays tax internationally.
The growing Chief Financial Officer, Finance and complexity of tax legislation around the world can result in unforeseen tax payments.
Ferrexpo is subject to transfer pricing regulations both locally and internationally.
The Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS project initiated by the G20 and OECD is likely RISK APPETITE: Medium to increase scrutiny of cross-border tax transactions and may result in challenges from different jurisdictions.
STRATEGIC LINK Legislation and regulations are not always clearly written and are subject to varying 1234 5 interpretations and inconsistent enforcement by local, regional and national Ukrainian tax authorities, and other governmental bodies.
The uncertainty of application and the evolution of Ukrainian tax laws, including those affecting cross-border transactions, could result in additional tax payments having to be made by the Group which would reduce cash flows and impact liquidity levels.
For further information see Note 12 of the financial statements.
MITIGATION Ferrexpo conducts transparent and open dialogue with local, regional and national tax authorities.
Its tax strategy is in line with best international standards and it is in compliance with all known requirements.
The Group regularly takes advice on tax matters from Ukrainian and international tax experts.
DEBT MATURITY PROFILE EXTERNAL RISK CHANGE ROOT CAUSE AND IMPACT RESPONSIBILITY Ferrexpo operates in a volatile commodity market while the majority of its assets are based Chief Financial Officer, Finance and in Ukraine, which has a weak country credit profile as defined by international credit rating Risk Management Committee.
From 2013 until 2016, the debt capital markets for commodity producers with assets in Ukraine were closed due to geopolitical factors as well as low commodity prices.
RISK APPETITE: Medium As such, the Group can experience periods where the capital markets are closed or where the cost of funding increases significantly.
STRATEGIC LINK In 2018, Ferrexpo has US$309 million of debt amortisations falling due, and in 2019 123 4 5 US$283 million of amortisations fall due.
In November 2017, Ferrexpo raised a new bank facility of US$195 million at 450 basis points US LIBOR compared to the Groups 2017 average cost of debt of 8%.
As of 31 December 2017, the Group had strong credit metrics with total liquidity of US$312 million including the new bank debt facility and net debt to EBITDA of 0.73x.
If the 62% Fe iron ore fines price or the pellet premium was to fall significantly in 2018 or 2019 without any offsetting impact from cost reductions, it could affect the Groups cash generation and its ability to meet debt amortisations.
MITIGATION Ferrexpo has a strong balance sheet with prudent credit metrics, enabling it to attract additional debt facilities should it be required.
Ferrexpo is a low cost producer and has maintained positive profit through the iron ore price cycle, including an average EBITDA margin of 36% from 2007 to 2017.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts
