Principal risks and uncertainties The Board recognises that effective risk management is essential to Hansteen achieving its objectives and has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board recognises that effective risk controls are established to mitigate newly facing the Group: the Board considers them management is essential to Hansteen identified risks, parameters are set under to be consistent with the prior year with the achieving its objectives and has carried out which management can operate and, where exception of the risks related to foreign arobust assessment of the principal risks necessary, action is taken to improve currency, the probability of which the Board facing the Group, including those that existing controls.
The Audit Committee, as considers to have reduced.
wouldthreaten its business model, future part of its remit, also consider in detail the performance, solvency or liquidity.
significant risks faced by the Group and the The current key risks identified by the Board, adequacy of the controls in place.
Further their potential impact and the steps taken to The Board, senior management and staff details regarding the Groups internal control mitigate them are presented below.
continually monitor the significant risks and risk management procedures are set which they believe the Group is facing.
out in the Report of the Audit Committee on Therewill always be some risk when pages 26 to 30. undertaking property investments and the control process is aimed at mitigating and Following the sale of the German and Dutch minimising these risks where possible, businesses in the first half of the year the rather than eliminating them.
Appropriate Board has re-assessed the principal risks Principal risk Cause Impact Probability Risk management High dependence High Medium The Board believes such risk is to some extent Over reliance on Joint Chief mitigated through the appointment and support of on key Executives.
high calibre employees and professional advisers.
such appointments are approved by a member of the Board and performance is monitored regularly.
Recession and High Low Whilst there is always a risk that recession or new Significant reduced legislation may affect specific industry types, the tenant failure.
Board is satisfied that Hansteens exposure is mitigated by operating with an extremely diverse tenant base without reliance on any particular tenants or industries.
Vacancy rates, arrears and bad debts are monitored on a regional basis with trends investigated to determine any systematic problems with a portfolio or type of tenant.
Banks under High Medium The Board acknowledge that there may be occasions Lack of internal pressure when banks are under internal pressures which may availability to improve conflict with existing financing arrangements and it ofcapital.
may prove more difficult to secure the more challenging properties.
Detailed due diligence is Banks considering carried out prior to the purchase of each property.
unutilised loans Regular meetings are held with a portfolio of banks too expensive.
to keep them fully appraised of commercial opportunities and alert to any potential issues early on.
Hansteen also considers alternative sources of finance to develop its strategy and reduce exposure.
18 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risk Cause Impact Probability Risk management Failure to protect High Medium The Board believes this risk to be mitigated to some Information information and extent by the Group outsourcing much of its and cyber information day-to-day processing to reputable third party security systems from organisations.
Due diligence designed to assess the breaches unauthorised integrity of third party processes and systems is resulting in access, misuse, undertaken by management as part of the tendering data leakage, disruption, and appointment process and is maintained on an financial loss, modification or ongoing basis.
Internally, the Group has developed destruction.
policies and procedures designed to mitigate reputational information and cyber security risk as far as possible, damage or these include: the secure encryption of all payroll and business personal data, rigorous use of passwords and firewall disruption.
defences, externally facilitated staff training programmes, bulletins to raise risk awareness and encourage good practice, development of secure mobile working policies, incident response and disaster recovery procedures and the establishment of anti-malware defences.
Over paying for an High Low Supply and demand is reviewed continuously Poor acquisition.
through direct information from Hansteens network returnon of managing agents and managers.
Experienced investment Prices driven up by members of management review each acquisition and increased and due diligence is carried out by external parties.
The Board is required to approve all acquisitions and in operating disposals over a prescribed amount.
Medium Medium The Board believes such risks are reduced by Financial Banking difficulties at adherence to a Cash and Liquidity Management counterparty institutions Policy that sets out how funds can be invested.
holding significant balances and borrowings are maintained with a Lack of deposits.
Treasurer reviews the cash balances on a daily basis, and where possible, surplus cash is put on interest bearing deposit.
