CEO Overview of the Year continued New sales commission plans are being UBM, 78% up 3%pts see UBM as Sustainability is one of the central tenets implemented as SX is rolled-out across having an outstanding future and 75% of who we are as an organization it the business.
There have been changes up 6%pts of employees see we are matters to the people who work in UBM to the divisional long-term incentive committed to ethical ways of working.
and positively impacts our ability to programme, which rewards multi-year, We saw a reduction in voluntary attrition attract and retain talent and importantly organic revenue growth with 75% of globally to 14% and a reduction in global we see it as part of our license to awards aligned to three-year revenue sales attrition to 16%.
All indicators of a operate in society.
plans for each division, and the remaining strengthening organisation.
On page 2429 you can read about the 25% on profit delivery for the Group Over 60% of staff in the business wide range of sustainability initiatives over the same three-year period.
However at senior levels, driven by the people in UBM and These changes, plus the inclusion of unacceptably, women are less well supported by the business there is much a revenue measure in the Executive represented.
At the Executive Committee pride in UBM about the good we can do.
Directors' LTIP performance conditions level, while better than many FTSE see page 68, significantly accentuate Conclusion companies, it is not good enough the revenue growth strategic objective.
UBMs 2017 financial performance reflects with female representation at 37.5%.
the attractive characteristics of the A renewed focus on performance and Our clear commitment is to increase the Events industry, with good organic growth talent management is starting to bear representation of women at senior levels supported by acquisitions, high margins fruit.
Great credit goes to the leaders to 50% by 2020.
We will use all practical and strong cash generation.
and managers who have driven this measures to achieve this including cultural change throughout the business.
changing how we manage recruitment, The Events First strategy is delivering Through a structured process, we can review annual and off-cycle pay practices value for shareholders and underpins the now track the performance of employees and calibrate talent.
prospects of delivery of the previously and identify and develop those with the On page 25 you will see we have, for stated goals of underlying growth in line potential to do more or support those the second year, published our gender with the Events industry average and to a who need to improve.
pay statistics for our UK businesses.
medium term margin target of 30%.
We completed our biennial Voice Survey Whilst there is no visible gender pay We enter 2018, a biennial down year, during the year.
Participation was gap for comparable jobs, the overall with good momentum in the business strong at 71%.
It was satisfying to gender pay analysis reflects the over as the Events First strategy translates see other indicators of engagement representation of women at junior levels in into performance.
also increasing: 86% up 2%pts of the organisation and under representation employees understand how their work at the more senior levels.
contributes to the overall success of Americas LGBTQ 100% UBM is proud to announce that its business in the US has received a perfect score of 100% on the 2018 Corporate Equality Index CEI.
CEI is a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer LGBTQ workplace equality, administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation.
UBM joins the ranks of leading major US businesses.
We are proud and honoured that our US team have been recognised on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation's Annual Scorecard on LGBTQ Workplace Equality said Scott Schulman, CEO, UBM Americas.
We at UBM Americas stand by the importance of supporting an inclusive, vibrant work environment and culture that celebrates the diversity of our employees and the communities we serve.
"This recognition from the Human Rights Campaign reinforces one of our core value commitments to continuously nurture and grow the passion of our people and create an inspiring place to work. """
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Executive Committee Our experienced Executive Committee ExCo provides strategic and operational leadership across the Group.
I was pleased to appoint Lucy Dimes As part of shifting the balance of resource to ExCo when she joined in October as towards the operating businesses both CEO of UBM EMEA.
Lucys experience Jane Risby-Rose and John JP Petevinos and particular knowledge in technology left the business in 2017. will complement the mix of talent and They leave with our sincere thanks for experience around the ExCo table.
the contributions they have made to UBM in general and to the development and implementation of Events First in particular.
Tim Cobbold Marina Wyatt Chief Executive Officer CEO Chief Financial Officer CFO Scott Schulman Lucy Dimes Jim Essink Chief Executive Officer, UBM Americas Chief Executive Officer, UBM EMEA Chief Executive Officer, UBM Asia Simon Hollins Mark Peters Eleanor Phillips Group Chief Information Officer Group Company Secretary Group Human Resources Director UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21
