Risk management overview Ensuring effective risk identification and management Introduction How we assess risk We recognise that effectively managing risk is integral to allowing us to achieve our strategy.
Therefore we have 1 2 implemented a five step process Identify risks Define risk appetite for monitoring and managing risk While overall responsibility for risk lies Our systems and processes are designed at the Board level, the Directors have to manage our exposure to risk rather throughout our business and to allow delegated authority for risk identification than eliminate the risk completely.
the Directors to conduct a robust to the Executive Committee, pulling assessment of the principal risks Therefore the Board, with the Executive on the operational board expertise Committee, will reassess the Groups facing our business.
risks appetite each year with this in Risks and delivering on A bottom up approach has primarily mind.
The Board will consider the risks our strategic objectives been undertaken to provide a detailed associated with conducting our business review of risks by the relevant business and delivering on our strategy, assessing In order to deliver our strategy and owners and this is led by the Risk Officer the risks we are exposed to and evaluating achieve excellence under our business quarterly.
The output is then reassessed whether this exposure is acceptable model, both operationally and financially, by the Executive Committee to provide given the likelihood and severity of the we must ensure that we maintain the assurance over completeness and risk.
Then the Board can decide how to right balance between safeguarding existence of risks in the risk register.
address the risk whether to tolerate, terminate, treat or transfer the risk.
against potential risks and taking advantage of potential opportunities.
Our key business objectives are: 4 3 Focusing on the customer Respond, manage and mitigate Assess and quantify Enabling business agility Each risk is reviewed quarterly.
At Risks are assessed to understand the Delivering with the right people each review date, the existing controls trigger, the likelihood and the financial are reviewed for adequacy and impact of the risk crystallising.
Leading with the best technology effectiveness.
Due to the ever changing We assess these looking at the We operate within various different business landscape and the industry following areas: geographical markets which may have we work in, it is quite possible for the Financial control requirements to change and different and diverse risks attaching for processes and policies to require Operational to them.
Therefore it is important that updating.
If this is the case, then a Reputational we assess and manage our risk across business owner is identified and they are Legal each of these markets to ensure we have responsible for implementing changes.
Our customers are at the centre of everything we do and depending on the 5 customer profile, they may be impacted Monitor and review by different regulatory, legislative and The Executive Committee monitors progress against the principal risks.
This has been shared with our newly appointed internal auditors, KPMG LLP, in Q4 2017.
Therefore we have also taken into The Board reviews the summary risk register and assesses the adequacy of the principal account, where applicable, the relevant risks identified, as well as the mitigating controls and procedures which are in place and risks where they attach to our business.
Risks are reviewed at least quarterly Tracking it this way provides us with by the risk owners as part of our easy access to the register, including Audit and Risk Committee meeting.
dashboards highlighting key risks and Our risk register is documented in action points, whilst also providing a our project and issue tracking history of our decision making and software tool which we use for all discussion points.
of our project development work.
32 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The processes and systems Risk management framework which support the risk management process Board Our risk register is documented in our Overall responsibility for risk management including setting project and issue tracking software tool the risk appetite and agreeing key risks and mitigations used for all of our project development work.
By tracking it this way, we are Audit and Risk Executive Committee provided with easy access to the Identifies, assesses, monitors and manages risks Committee register, including dashboards including establishment of controls and mitigation Assesses scope and highlighting key risks and action points, of risk: effectiveness of risk whilst also providing a history of our management processes Exploits opportunities in line with strategic aims decision making and discussion points.
and procedures along whilst being cognisant of risk appetite across the four with the overall internal areas of financial, legal, operational and reputational The complete risk register is reviewed control framework risk assessment: at least quarterly as part of our Audit Ensures appropriate internal controls are in place: and Risk Committee meeting and Ensures risk register is assessed quarterly, is up-toownership of the risk register sits with date, including being accurate and complete: and the Risk Officer.
Embeds risk managements processes throughout the business.
The impact of each risk is determined by assessing the financial, legal, regulatory and operational impact, in conjunction Operational Board members with the likelihood of the risk crystallising.
Embed risk management processes in the business and assess whether these are being complied with on a day-to-day basis Principal risk analysis 1.
Talent recruitment and retention Internal auditors Review appropriateness of risk management policies 2.
Project delivery and support Give relevant practical advice and guidance on the implementation of processes and policies 3.
Product management At certain intervals, assess whether the risk management processes 4.
E conomic, political and have been appropriately embedded in the business social environment 5.
IT security cyber risks 6. Business interruption or continuity Focus for FY18 We have continued to focus on our risk management process and set a plan of objectives for the coming year as follows: 1 Ad hoc audits and reviews Ongoing data protection We have recently appointed KPMG in As new regulations come into force an internal audit capacity and we will we will continue to strengthen our 2 4 undertake a number of internal audit processes and protections to ensure 3 reviews over the financial areas where that we fully comply.
We will also 6 Brexit undertake a number of IT audits over 5 Our Board and Audit and Risk our key systems and processes with a Committee have considered the number of third party suppliers.
potential impact of exiting the Impact Cyber security European Union on our business, our Cyber security remains an important people and our strategy.
While it is risk area and we intend to work to difficult to predict the impact of an enhance and refine our controls in exit, there could be an impact on the this area.
Although the Directors do not see this as a standalone risk, it is one which we will continue to monitor and to assess.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 33 Probability
