Principal risks and uncertainties The Directors consider the following matters to be the principal risks and uncertainties in no specific order affecting our business at this time.
Risk movement from prior year Increase Decrease Unchanged 1.
Talent recruitment and retention Impact: High Probability: Unlikely Movement: How it impacts us What we are doing about it Strategic priorities Our business is very much dependent Continuing to ensure that Alfa is a great place to work is a key Delivering with on our people as they are integral to objective.
the best people the development and delivery of We continue to recruit graduates and experienced hires from Alfa Systems.
We operate in an industry a diverse range of sources, from varied backgrounds and where there is intense competition for ethnicity and with varied core skills.
engineers and consultants, both at the Our training programmes are focused on both developing our graduate level as well as highly people as engineers but also in giving them market and experienced individuals.
These programmes continue to evolve as we grow and we are committed to ongoing training throughout Failure to attract, train and retain high our peoples careers.
quality individuals in our key operating We benchmark our remuneration levels each year and aim to regions may impact our ability to deliver be competitive, through base pay and, going forward, through implementations, maintain product share ownership in our business.
quality and leading edge functionality, Quarterly employee engagement surveys allow areas of manage customer relations and deliver improvement to be identified, giving feedback on new actions on our strategic plan.
or programmes and retaining an anonymous forum for continuous improvement.
Annual career and succession planning is carried out to provide for continuity of operations.
Project delivery and support Impact: Severe Probability: Unlikely Movement: How it impacts us What we are doing about it Strategic priorities Our business is dependent on Our implementations and ongoing development and support Enabling business continued delivery success our services are delivered using our standard Alfa implementation agility customers depend on Alfa Systems to methodology meaning that there is constant interaction with Focusing on be the heart and lungs of their business our customers to create one team including both customer the customer and therefore failure to deliver timely personnel as well as the Alfa team.
Time frames and go live and effective implementations and dates are agreed as a team and continuously monitored.
maintain sufficient levels of postOur development methodology uses a four-weekly time box implementation support could harm approach which serves to maximise success as development our reputation and cause loss of is undertaken on a continuous basis of four-weekly sprints.
This increases the efficacy of quality reviews and testing cycles as there is a regular check-in approach.
Product management Impact: High Probability: Unlikely Movement: How it impacts us What we are doing about it Strategic priorities As Alfa Systems is central to how an Our approach to product development is very much a Leading with the asset finance company operates, it is partnering approach with the customer.
Through our Alfa best technology imperative that it continues to evolve to standardised implementation methodology, we improve Focusing on meet our customers, and prospective the communication between the business owners at our the customer customers, ever changing needs.
customers and our on-site teams where we receive Enabling business immediate and constant feedback on Alfa Systems agility Such changes could come from development and improvements and also the current issues increased regulation, adopting a new or challenges facing our customers CEO, CIOs or CTOs.
or more modern operating model or We also ensure there is a flow of internal communication a desire for increased efficiency.
between developers, product teams at head office and sales Failure to manage our product road and marketing when assessing strategic projects or map in light of customer demand could development plans.
result in an inappropriate investment We have retained a one product approach, which allows us to focus which does not meet our provide a simple, common upgrade path for all our customers, customers business needs.
This in turn allowing all of them to take advantage of new functionality could increase the risk that customers developed to meet the demands of a changing marketplace could look for alternative solutions, and requirements of regulators.
resulting in the loss of new or existing revenue streams, and could stall longterm growth prospects.
34 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 4.
Economic, political and social environment Impact: High Probability: Likely Movement: How it impacts us What we are doing about it Strategic priorities Alfa derives all of its revenues from Alfa has a diverse customer base, both geographically and by Focusing on providers of finance in the asset asset type i. e. auto, equipment but also by type of customer the customer finance sector.
The finance industry is i. e. banking, OEM or independent which therefore have Enabling business sensitive to changes in economic different and often contrasting risk characteristics.
This agility conditions and unforeseen external mitigates some of this risk as there is often a degree of events, such as political instability, geographical cyclicality in trends affecting the asset inflation and other unforeseen events finance industry.
which may put pressure on profitability We aim to maintain our pipeline with the same mix to allow for of the players in this market.
a diverse portfolio in following years.
In times of uncertainty, regulation and focus on operational This in turn may decrease the amount efficiency may increase and Alfa revisits the product roadmap they have to spend on improving their and strategy to ensure that such changes become business internal systems and processes or may opportunities in times of economic, political and social extend the decision making when uncertainty.
contemplating a new asset finance system.
If the pace of change decreases and Alfa fails to attract new customers or retain existing ODS work, this may have an adverse impact on revenue and profitability in the short to medium term.
IT security and cyber risks Impact: Severe Probability: Unlikely Movement: How it impacts us What we are doing about it Strategic priorities In recent times, IT security risk and We have established an internal IT and cyber security team Focusing on cyber risk has increased and we are with a focus on identifying key security and cyber risks, the customer cognisant that no system, network or assessing and monitoring the control framework of our key Leading with the product is immune to the risk that technology suppliers tier 3 and above and day-to-day best technology outside elements may target Alfa with monitoring of IT security incidents.
attacks, specifically designed to disrupt We have a process for implementing continual improvements our business or harm our reputation.
in our IT security environment and maintaining an education and training process for all staff annually.
Although we do not store our Where we provide pass through hosting services, in third party customers data, a targeted attack environments, we have a continuity plan in place to transfer our on Alfa could adversely affect our customers data to a similar supported environment should the customers or future customers services not be available.
In addition, a security breach could impact our ability to operate our business, including our ability to continue to provide support to our customers.
6. Business interruption or continuity Impact: Severe Probability: Unlikely Movement: How it impacts us What we are doing about it Strategic priorities We are at risk of disruption to our day We have a detailed and tested incident management Focusing on to day operations if there is a disaster procedure and escalation process which is well established the customer incident which causes our internal IT over a number of years.
We have a disaster recovery and Leading with the systems to fail or we do not have business continuity plan which is reviewed and tested annually.
best technology access to our office space.
A failure to be able to use key IT systems or access our infrastructure could lead to a failure to deliver maintenance services to our customers and therefore have a negative reputational impact.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 35
