Risk report RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are in place.
12 Levels of defence Our ERM programme 1 5 3 2 3 4 4 The Board sets the Groups risk appetite Our risk management procedures clearly let processes is provided by the Groups annually and reviews the Groups principal us down in 2017, so we are strengthening Corporate Audit team, the Head of Risk and risks throughout the year as part of its normal our cultural, organisational and people external assurance providers.
agenda, adopting an integrated approach to capability to ensure that we do not have Level 4: Oversight risk management by regularly discussing similar issues again.
The Board, Executive Committee and Audit & principal risks.
In addition, in the middle and at Risk Committee provide oversight and the end of each year, the Board assesses the How GKN manages risk direction in accordance with their respective Groups principal risks through our enterprise responsibilities, more information on which risk management ERM programme described The Group has four levels of defence through is set out in the governance section of this below, taking the strength of the Groups which it manages significant risks.
control systems and our appetite for risk into account.
We have a risk matrix which ensures Level 1: Risk ownership and control that, between the Board and its committees, Our businesses are responsible for maintaining Our ERM programme all the Groups principal risks are reviewed an effective risk and control environment during the course of the year.
as part of day-to-day operations under the GKNs enterprise risk management ERM direction of the Chief Executive and the programme facilitates a common, Group-wide The Board delegates responsibility for Executive Committee.
This includes approach to the identification, analysis, and day-to-day risk management to the Executive implementation and regular monitoring and assessment of risks and the way in which they Committee, including the identification, review by divisional management of processes are managed, controlled and monitored.
evaluation and monitoring of key risks facing and controls which are designed to ensure the Group and the implementation of Group- 1 Identify and analyse: A broad spectrum of compliance with the Boards appetite for risk, wide risk management processes and controls.
risks is considered through the ERM process.
Group policies and delegated authority levels, The Executive Committee is supported in this The Executive Committee and the Board and the GKN Code.
These front line controls by its Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk.
review the output from ERM at both divisional are regularly updated to respond to the and Group levels.
The Audit & Risk Committee keeps the Groups changing risk profile.
effectiveness of the Groups risk management 2 Manage and mitigate: Management Level 2: Monitoring and compliance systems under review and reports to the controls designed to monitor and mitigate Group functions monitor adherence to Board on the results of its review.
Any material the risks are documented.
Risk owners are the procedures set out by the Executive control issues, serious accidents or major assigned for each risk.
Committee and provide guidance to the commercial, financial or reputational issues, businesses on their application.
This includes 3 Assess: The ERM process provides a or the identification of new risks, are reported ongoing reviews by our health and safety consistent set of definitions and a common to the Board and or Audit & Risk Committee audit team, Group IT and financial control approach to risk evaluation and assesses both as appropriate.
functions as well as our trade compliance risk likelihood and impact.
In the final quarter of 2017, executive function.
Representatives of these functions 4 Respond: The risk response is based on the management carried out a thorough report their findings to the Executive Subassessment of potential risk exposure and an investigation into potential accounting Committee on Governance and Risk or directly acceptable level of tolerance.
The response misstatements in Aerospace North America to the Executive Committee.
The Subreflects whether we accept the risk on the see page 26.
In response to the findings of Committee reports twice a year to the basis of its assessed level of exposure and this investigation, we considered the impact on Executive Committee on matters relating to mitigating controls currently in place, or our principal risks and our internal control and the Groups governance, risk management reduce the risk through additional mitigation to risk management system.
Where relevant, we and assurance framework, including areas bring it in line with required levels of tolerance.
updated our principal risks, as set out below, of concern or proposals for improvement.
and commenced a targeted improvement 5 Monitor: The output from the ERM process Level 3: Independent assurance plan to address identified issues and further is regularly reviewed together with the Independent assurance over the Groups strengthen our risk management systems.
ongoing monitoring of progress against risk management, control and governance planned improvement actions.
30 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION gkn.
com 31 Risk report continued PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board has carefully considered the type and extent of the principal risks to the Group achieving its objectives and delivering a satisfactory return for shareholders.
These are summarised below, categorised according to the strategic objective to which they relate most closely.
We seek to carefully manage risk, while at the same time recognising that we need to take some risk to achieve our stated objectives of transforming our business and achieving world class financial and operational performance.
In February 2018 the Group announced a new strategy see page 7.
Over time, our risk profile evolves and the Boards view of the principal We have reassessed our principal risks in light of the objectives of risks facing the Group is updated accordingly.
Each principal risk is this new strategy and updated them accordingly, describing the described on the following pages together with the corresponding impact, where relevant, below.
mitigating actions that are in place and an overview of the risk trends during 2017 and the outlook for each risk into 2018.
Risk trend Improve cash flow and margin Grow Separate Deliver improved cash flow and Grow the improve segments in line with Operationally now and formally margins across the Group.
market, and grow the grow and develop when it maximises shareholder value.
Increasing People capability Technology and innovation Stable Highly competitive markets Programme management Pension funding Customer concentration Supply chain Operating in global markets Product quality Contract risk Health and safety Information systems resilience Laws, regulations and corporate reputation Reducing 32 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION People capability Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook The Groups ability to deliver its strategy is dependent Competitive reward Attracting and retaining talent has been challenging on the recruitment and retention of sufficiently packages together with during the year, with increasing turnover at qualified, experienced and motivated people.
focused training and management level in certain divisions and regions, development programmes.
It is critical for the Group to secure and maintain the relevant capabilities in specific geographical regions A culture that motivates As part of our new strategy announced in February, and disciplines in both existing markets and to individuals to perform to we confirmed the Groups intention to dispose of support growth markets.
the best of their abilities.
some non-core businesses and to split the remaining businesses when the time is right.
While we are Potential impact Strong succession and confident this approach will maximise shareholder development programmes.
The failure to recruit, or the loss of, key personnel, value, it is natural that some uncertainty will be and the failure to plan adequately for succession Local initiatives designed created for certain employees within the Group which or develop the potential of employees may impact to engage young people, may challenge our ability to recruit and retain talent in the Groups ability to deliver its strategic and promote science, technology, the short term.
engineering and mathematics During the year we rolled out performance STEM subjects and management training to over 3,300 managers, encourage the next as well as linking management reward more closely generation of young to our performance evaluations: however, we plan to engineers.
As a part of Project Boost, we have realigned our management incentive schemes more closely to the operational and financial focuses of the Group as outlined in the new strategy.
We are confident that the closer correlation between performance and reward will help us retain our best talent and recruit additional talent.
In addition to the measures announced with our new strategy, during 2017 we established two recruitment Centres of Excellence in the US and UK.
These will improve control, visibility and consistency across our recruitment process, and are producing encouraging early results.
The recruitment and development of young engineering talent continues to be a focus.
This is supported by Group-wide and divisional graduate programmes and a strong apprenticeship programme.
We develop and align resources and capabilities through the Group-wide organisation planning process.
We are implementing a functional competency framework to further improve the process of defining and assessing levels of competency in key functions across the Group.
com 33 Risk report continued Highly competitive markets Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook GKN operates in highly competitive markets with Maintaining a balanced Strong competition and customer pricing pressures customer decisions typically based on price, quality, portfolio of businesses across have continued throughout 2017.
Aerospace margins technology and service.
Contracts for major different end markets continue to experience pressure from existing programmes are subject to highly competitive bidding provides some protection competitors, as well as emerging ones, such as the processes and the strength of our competitors and against competition in maturing Chinese aerospace industry.
In GKN general market conditions continue to drive pricing particular markets.
Driveline, change is being driven by the high growth pressure and challenging contractual terms.
electric and hybrid automotive vehicle markets, as Regular review of competition well as rising costs of raw materials.
Despite these Our margins may come under pressure if and market trends.
challenges, we continue to win new business and competition increases or as a result of customer Targeted investment in differentiate ourselves through our technology.
An inability or delay in developing or engineering, and a maintaining sufficient or appropriate engineering We have continued a GKN-wide fixed-cost commitment to Lean and manufacturing capabilities in our markets could optimisation programme and taken actions to manufacturing, quality and further increase the risk.
progressively redirect expenditure towards customer relationships.
Within the aerospace Customer vertical integration including OEMs taking Flexible management of our division, the integration of Aerostructures Europe production in-house, the entry of new competitors variable and fixed-cost base and Fokker Technologies into GKN Aerospace, and the consolidation of existing competitors also including outsourcing and Aerostructures and Systems Europe and Asia was contribute to increased competition.
low-cost sourcing initiatives announced in October 2017 aiming to improve Potential impact where appropriate.
customer focus and operational efficiency.
Project Boost will further strengthen the competitive position Competition risk, if not addressed, could result in of the Group.
reduced sales and profit margins and potentially lost growth opportunities.
An inability to secure GKN Driveline has continued to benefit from new business awards on major programmes could improved strategic and customer alignment following significantly impact future growth, cash flow its reorganisation into two global product lines at the and profitability.
Customer concentration Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook There is significant customer concentration in the Regular review of the Groups There have been no significant changes in the OEM automotive and aerospace industries so a large relations with and exposure customer landscape with the proportion of business portion of the Groups revenues comes from to key customers.
from the Groups top ten customers remaining stable a relatively small number of customers.
No individual customer accounts for Extensive and regular 50% of the Groups revenue is derived from its more than 10% of Group revenue.
dialogue with key customers top ten customers.
and strong commercial and Because most of our major OEM customers are Potential impact engineering relationships.
within the automotive and aerospace industries it is unlikely that the disposals of non-core businesses The insolvency of, damage to relations with, or Quality, service and delivery as outlined in our strategy will affect this risk in the significant worsening of commercial terms with performance are regularly short term.
a major customer could seriously affect the Groups reviewed based on future results, and could result in loss of market customer KPIs.
share and future business opportunities, asset Credit exposure is actively write-offs and restructuring actions.
34 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Product quality Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook Maintaining a high level of quality and safety in our products Robust engineering Excellence in quality has continued to be is essential.
We are exposed to warranty, product recall and design and validation a priority during the year with continuous liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform processes from initial improvement programmes ongoing in each of as expected.
design and development our businesses.
We continue to monitor quality through production and and delivery performance as viewed by our In automotive, the industry in general has experienced higher into service.
customers and strive to continuously improve levels of recalls in recent years and the OEMs often seek product quality, safety and delivery key contributions from throughout the supply chain.
This risk High levels of quality performance indicators.
increases where: assurance are embedded in robust manufacturing Our cross-divisional Quality Committee has vehicle manufacturers offer longer warranty periods: systems.
introduced an annual quality control checklist more vehicles are being built on standard platforms, so and started a process of peer reviews to Ongoing assessments a single quality issue can affect a large number of vehicles: accelerate the sharing of best practice.
During of supply chain quality.
2017 we have intensified the rigour of certain more complex products are involved, such as electric and Regular reporting and key controls and processes around product all-wheel drive: and monitoring of quality quality, and have also put in place the regulators and our customers are taking a more stringent performance based foundations for an enhanced quality approach to recalling vehicles, particularly if there is on customer KPIs.
Maintenance of critical In aerospace, customers and regulators impose very strict parts lists.
product safety and quality obligations on all aircraft suppliers.
External agency quality Potential impact reviews and certifications.
A product failure could result in serious losses, damaging Robust contract terms GKNs financial performance and potentially our reputation.
In particular, the costs associated with vehicle or aircraft recalls can be significantly higher than the cost of simply replacing defective products.
Health and safety Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook Safety is our number one priority.
We manage safety Consistent Group-wide Regrettably, there was one fatality during the carefully through extensive Group-wide processes, yet application of health and year see page 42 for further details.
A full we recognise we can never be complacent.
investigation has been carried out and lessons continue to include this as a principal risk and an area learned have been incorporated into our Regular reporting and which will always be a priority for GKN.
monitoring of health and Potential impact safety performance.
After several years of reduced accident rates the Groups AFR and ASR increased slightly during A serious accident in the workplace could have a major Health and safety audits 2017 compared to 2016.
We continued to impact on employees as well as their families, colleagues to ensure adherence to increase our near-miss reporting as a key leading and communities.
Such an incident could also result in Group policies and indicator of our health and safety performance.
legal claims, reputational damage and financial loss.
Our global contractor accreditation programme A focus on process and has been successfully piloted in 2017 with plans behavioural safety to roll out globally in 2018.
Hazard awareness through a number of and risk assessment programmes continued with Group-wide risk a particular focus on identifying and addressing assessment and training potential catastrophic hazards.
We have also made good progress through Maintenance of insurance the year in preparing for the roll out of for costs associated with ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety injury-related actions or Management.
com 35 Risk report continued Information systems resilience Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook The Group could be impacted negatively Formal risk-based governance The Group has continued to strengthen its mitigating by information technology security framework including dedicated IT processes and controls over the security of our information threats including unauthorised access to security policies and related systems.
During 2017, we completed a project to ensure intellectual property or other controlled compliance processes, ongoing risk compliance with new US Government information security information.
Interruptions to the Groups reviews, IT security awareness standards at all relevant sites across the Group.
We have information systems could also adversely training and robust systems and also prepared for a 2018 project which will focus on further affect its day-to-day operations.
processes to manage access, strengthening system segregation between office information assets, threats and environments and manufacturing areas.
A programme The inherent security threat is vulnerabilities.
to introduce automated vulnerability scanning was also considered highest in GKN Aerospace successfully introduced during 2017. where data is held in relation to civil External support and benchmarking aerospace technology and controlled of best practice information systems Our information systems will be a key enabler during military contracts.
2018 as we roll out Industry 4.0 and increase the pace of our automation agenda as a part of Project Boost.
Potential impact Ongoing development of appropriate incident detection and A major disruption to information response plans and capabilities.
systems could have a significant adverse impact on the Groups operations or its Disaster recovery contingency plans ability to trade.
The loss of confidential which are regularly tested including information, intellectual property or data centres where the risk is controlled data could result in fines and deemed to be the greatest.
damage to the Groups reputation, and Executive Committee oversight of IT could adversely affect its ability to win security and assurance matters.
Laws, regulations and corporate reputation Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook The Group is subject to applicable laws A strong culture of doing the right There have been no significant new regulations impacting and regulations in the global jurisdictions thing which is regularly emphasised the Group during 2017, but our markets continue to be and industries in which it operates.
subject to robust enforcement activities in relation to includes certain territories where strong existing regulations, particularly in relation to vehicle safety.
Group-wide governance policies and ethical standards may not be well procedures, ongoing compliance We continue to regularly remind our senior managers about established or where parts of the markets training and strong oversight.
the importance of doing the right thing in all our activities.
in which we operate are highly regulated.
We emphasised its importance to all senior managers as part Regulations include those related to Ongoing monitoring of regulatory of our divisional leadership conferences and as an integral export controls, environmental and developments in major jurisdictions.
We also continue to rely on our GKN safety requirements, product safety, Ongoing monitoring of employee Governance Handbook to remind employees of our key tax laws, intellectual property rights, concerns through our independent Group policies and procedures, and during 2017, launched competition laws and other ethical employee disclosure hotline.
refresher training on export controls and anti-bribery.
During the year, GKN has started to prepare for the Potential impact implementation of the European General Data Protection Non-compliance could expose the Group Regulation GDPR which will become fully enforceable to fines, penalties, damage to reputation, in the EU member states as from 25 May 2018. suspension or debarment from In response to the findings of our North American Balance government contracting or suspension Sheet Review, we have commenced a detailed improvement of export privileges.
plan to address identified issues and prevent similar issues occurring in the future see page 26.
36 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Technology and innovation Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook Developing innovative technologies for our Regular assessment of During 2017, the pace of change has continued to customers is critical to maintaining our market and technology increase.
This is especially true in our automotive business differentiation and competitive advantage.
where products are also becoming more complex.
We may lose market share or be subject Close relationships and We continue to invest in technology and develop to additional market pressure if we fail to technical partnerships with internal capabilities to help meet customers expectations develop innovative technologies that our customers.
for improving efficiency of aircraft, cars and other vehicles customers want or need.
with solutions that are lighter and more fuel-efficient.
Divisional technology plans Potential impact We monitor developments and refresh our eDrive aligned to emerging and strategy regularly.
The failure to launch new products, new product future trends and business applications or derivatives of existing products strategy.
We have continued to diversify into targeted areas to meet customer requirements could have of new technology including additive manufacturing, Technical leadership and a significant impact on future profitable growth.
bionic tooling and vehicle electrification.
We have promotion of engineering continued to prioritise our projects around automation best practice by our and data exchange as we move toward Industry 4.0.
A key part of the Groups new strategy page 7 Regular review of current is differentiated capital allocation models across our and future technology plans main product segments.
This will enable us to direct the by the Group Technology investment of capital towards the areas of our business Strategy Board.
where returns will be greatest.
This new approach Consideration of technology to capital allocation will help us maintain our early plans as part of the Boards leadership positions on technologies which we see as key annual strategy review.
to our markets in the future, such as eDrive and additive manufacturing.
It will also enable us to get the most out Focused investment in of more mature segments of the business by investing research and development.
where there is opportunity to grow in a way which boosts margins and returns.
Programme management Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook Many of the programmes entered into by Embedded programme During the year we continued to implement the improved the Group are complex and long term and are management, including programme management framework which was subject to various performance conditions which investment phasing and introduced in 2016 and to implement the lessons learned must be adhered to throughout the programme.
from programme management issues we experienced The management of such programmes brings that year.
We have further strengthened a number of Periodic impairment reviews risks related to: standard procedures, gate reviews and reporting.
of capitalised development delays in product development or launch costs, including formal review This will continue in 2018, where we plan to extend our schedules: at half year and year end.
process of peer reviews and sharing of lessons learnt.
Our programme management processes will also failure to meet customer specifications or Ongoing review and approval benefit from the upgrade in skills and capabilities and predict technical problems: of key programmes by the an improvement in our product launch processes which Executive Committee and inability to manufacture on time for the start of will be achieved as part of Project Boost.
This will include the Board.
production or to required production volumes: an investment in both our methodology and the tools we Regular review of lessons use to deploy it.
dependence on key or customer-nominated learned and best practice suppliers: sharing.
failure to manage effectively internal or Periodic inspection of customer-driven change: and programmes by customers.
inability to forecast accurately and to manage costs.
Potential impact Ineffective programme management could result in damage to customer relationships or cancellation of a contract resulting in claims for loss and reputational damage.
Poor performance against a contract could also undermine the Groups ability to win future contracts and could result in cost overruns and significantly lower returns than expected.
com 37 Risk report continued Supply chain Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook Our suppliers are key to our success.
It is essential that Ongoing communication of our We continue to carefully manage and monitor suppliers and subcontractors continue to meet our high expectations of suppliers through our supply chains and, where appropriate, standards of technical competence, innovation, product our Supplier Code of Conduct.
build on long-term supplier relationships.
quality, reliability, delivery performance, cost, financial During the year, we have undertaken Contract terms and conditions stability, safety, ethics and social responsibility.
enhanced supplier risk assessment and that require our suppliers to meet benchmarking exercises as part of a longer Our supply chain network is exposed to potentially specified performance standards.
term project to improve visibility and adverse events such as physical disruptions, Ongoing assessment of supplier monitoring of key parts of our supply chain.
environmental and industrial accidents, scarcity of technology and dependency.
supply and the insolvency of a key supplier, any of We have also continued to roll out the Supply which could impact our ability to deliver orders to Monitoring of the financial and Chain Excellence Model alongside a maturity our customers.
operational viability of key mapping project focused on sales, inventory suppliers.
This project The cost of our products can be significantly affected will help track our progress towards becoming by the cost of the underlying commodities and materials Ongoing monitoring of inventory a world class supply chain function.
Fluctuations in these costs levels to ensure availability in cannot always be passed on to our customers.
We continue to place an emphasis on developing our people and equipping them Potential impact Contingency plans designed to with the skills to succeed.
180 supply chain enable us to secure alternative A sustained supply chain disruption, or the delivery professionals and business leaders have key material supplies at short of defective product to us, could impact our ability attended our Supply Chain Excellence notice, to transfer or share to meet customer requirements, result in additional programme during 2017.
We have production between contractual liabilities and have a consequential impact continued to focus on our supply chain manufacturing sites and to use on financial performance.
talent management agenda through the year substitute materials where in order to continue to build capability and required.
strength in depth throughout the function.
Dual sourcing where appropriate Projects to improve our procurement to reduce dependence on processes for both direct and indirect materials single suppliers.
We Supplier quality reviews and expect these to begin mitigating some of the audits.
risk in our supply chains during 2018 as well as delivering significant margin and cash benefits.
Contract risk Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook Across our businesses, an increasing percentage of Robust bid and contract During the year, we continued to follow revenues are generated through contracts which are management processes including the strengthened contract management long-term in nature and subject to complex terms and thorough reviews of contract processes previously introduced in each conditions.
Contracts include commitments relating terms and conditions, contractdivision.
These processes aim to ensure to pricing, quality and safety, and technical and specific risk assessments and effective management of risks associated customer requirements.
clear delegation of authority with complex design and build contracts.
Both our aerospace and automotive businesses enter into design and build contracts.
These are complex Continuous review of contract contracts that are often long-term, so it is important performance.
that the contracted risk is carefully managed.
Specifically within GKN Aerospace, the Group has risk and revenue sharing partnerships with key engine manufacturers.
These contain formalised risk-sharing arrangements relating to risks which are not always within GKN management control.
Potential impact A failure to fully understand contract risks or to anticipate technical challenges and estimate costs accurately at the outset of a contract can lead to unexpected liabilities, increased outturn costs and reduced profitability.
38 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Pension funding Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook The Group has a number of defined Close cooperation with scheme Following the conclusion of the 2016 valuation exercise, benefit pension plans with aggregate fiduciaries regarding management the Group reduced the volatility of future deficit recovery net liabilities of 1,504 million at of pension scheme assets and payments as it closed the UK defined benefit pension 31 December 2017.
These plans are liabilities, including asset selection to future accrual and made a 250 million lump sum exposed to the risk of changes in asset and hedging actions.
payment to the scheme in October 2017. values, discount rates, inflation and Alternative funding and risk The uncertainty following the UKs decision to leave the mortality assumptions.
mitigation actions are implemented EU continues to have a potential impact on the yields on Potential impact where appropriate.
long term bonds and, thereby, on the UK pension liability, as will any wider issues in global financial markets.
We will Increases to the pension deficit could Agreed recovery plans where required.
continue to monitor the impact of future market volatility, lead to a requirement for additional cash and seek to reduce volatility where appropriate.
contributions to these plans, thereby reducing the amount of cash available While the initial takeover offer has been rejected, as this to meet the Groups other operating, process continues there remains a level of uncertainty investment and financing requirements.
over the future impact on our pension schemes.
Any changes in the Groups ownership structure and financing may impact the level of covenant support provided to the schemes, and the contributions required by the schemes independent Trustees in the future.
We continue to maintain an open and constructive dialogue with the Trustees on these matters.
Operating in global markets Description Mitigation Changes in 2017 and outlook We operate globally and, as such, The Group has a diversified portfolio Market conditions are discussed in the Chief Executives results could be impacted by global or of businesses across markets review on pages 5 and 6 and the markets overview section regional changes in the macroeconomic providing some protection against on pages 8 and 9. or political environment, leading to individual market or country risks.
Political and economic uncertainty continued into 2017, changing consumer demand and Lead market indicators are regularly with geopolitical tensions remaining and impacted by preferences.
reviewed so that we can respond policy changes from the new US administration.
Despite Our businesses could be affected by quickly to changing trading conditions.
encouraging economic development in 2017, there changing consumer preference and remains a level of uncertainty from the gradual normalisation Our mitigation strategy includes: associated volatility in automotive of monetary policy by the US Federal Reserve, the Bank of demand: challenging credit conditions planning, budgeting and Japan and the European Central Bank.
We expect to resulting in lack of access to finance by forecasting processes: receive a significant benefit following tax reforms enacted customers and end consumers: delay in a number of key territories for the Group.
These should flexible management of variable or cancellation of orders for civil aircraft see the long term group tax rate drop by 2%.
We also and fixed cost base, investment and changes in the amount or timing believe the US tax reforms will limit tax leakage on the spending and working capital: of US military spending: volatility in planned disposals of non-core businesses which we agricultural and construction and mining further diversification into other outlined in our strategy.
markets: exchange rate fluctuations: sectors which present new The UKs vote to leave the EU and the absence of detailed and changing oil prices.
opportunities: agreements between the UK and the EU has resulted Potential impact focused restructuring activities, in uncertainty in future trading arrangements between the where necessary, to respond to UK and the rest of the world, and lower expectations for UK Major or prolonged economic or markets which have suppressed GDP in the short to medium term.
GKN is a global business financial market deterioration, including levels of economic activity: and with 90% of its sales generated outside the UK: this will movements in exchange rates of key limit the effect of the vote on the Group.
currencies or political uncertainty in one regular review of our financial risk of our key markets, may significantly management processes, including impact the Groups operational foreign currency hedging.
Alignment of our debt to the principal Sustained market weakness could lead currencies in which our revenues and to impairment of assets or site closures.
cash flows are generated through It may also materially impact our cross currency swaps.
customers, suppliers and other parties with whom we do business.
Currency hedging within our hedging policy.
com 39 40 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
