Bottom up Top down Risk exposure identification At the Group level, risk and assessment at the oversight and assessment business unit level 42 Risk management The Board recognises that operating in a dynamic and rapidly evolving commercial environment requires a pragmatic, flexible and responsive risk management framework that changes with the business and provides management with a comprehensive view of the Groups risk profile at any given time.
Risk management responsibilities The Board, having overall responsibility for risk management, has approved a formalised, but pragmatic, Group risk management framework.
Agrees the Groups risk strategy and defines its risk appetite Board Reviews reports and recommendations from the Audit Overall responsibility Committee on risk governance for risk management Maintains oversight of key risks and mitigation plans Oversees the risk management processes and controls Audit Committee Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure against Monitors the effectiveness risk appetite of the Groups internal control processes Set the risk management processes and controls Melrose senior Consider emerging risks management and Oversee and challenge risk mitigation plans business unit senior managers Risk identification, assessment and monitoring at the business Operational unit level managers Implementing risk mitigation plans and controls and financial Embedding risk awareness and culture throughout the business controllers The Boards view of our principal risks and uncertainties The Board further confirms that the systems, processes and is detailed in the table on pages 44 to 49. controls in place accord with the guidance contained in the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Business Reporting.
Risk management strategy and framework The objectives of the Directors and senior management are The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the risk to safeguard and increase the value of the businesses and management and internal control processes implemented across assets of the Group.
Achievement of these objectives requires the Group, through regular updates and discussions with the development of policies and appropriate internal control management and a review of the key findings presented by the frameworks to ensure the Groups resources are managed external and internal auditors.
The Board is responsible for properly and any key risks are identified and mitigated, considering the Audit Committees recommendations and ensuring where possible.
implementation by management of those recommendations it deems appropriate for the business.
A description of the Audit The Board recognises that it is ultimately responsible for Committees activities during the year on risk management can determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing be found on page 75. to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
It also recognises the need to define a risk appetite for the Group, to maintain sound risk During 2017, in accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the UK management and internal control systems and to monitor its risk Corporate Governance Code, the Audit Committee undertook a exposures and mitigations to ensure that the nature and extent robust review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management of risks taken by the Group are consistent and aligned with its and internal control systems, covering all material controls including strategic objectives.
financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Audit Committee reported its findings to the Board.
From this review of The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, the risk management and internal control systems, the Board did evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company not identify, nor was it advised of, any failings or weaknesses which and that these systems, which are subject to regular monitoring it would determine to be significant.
The Board concluded that and review, have been in place for the year under review and up to the Groups risk management and internal control systems and the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
processes were operating effectively and therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions to be undertaken has not been considered appropriate.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 43 Risks and uncertainties p. 44 Governance overview p. 60 Risk management framework Identification Evaluation Mitigation Analysis Review and Financial and Risk exposure Risk owners Risks analysed monitoring non-financial risks reviewed and identified and for impact and Robust mitigation recorded in controlled risks prioritised action plans probability to strategy subject risk registers implemented determine gross to regular and exposure rigorous review The Group operates on a decentralised basis and the Board fully embedding the Melrose risk register methods and risk has established an organisational structure with clear reporting profile mapping application throughout the Nortek business procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority, as divisions.
These provide the Board with greater levels of detail depicted in the diagram on the previous page.
Consistent with and visibility on the risk management systems and processes this, the Group operates a top-down bottom-up approach to in place, and illustrate each principal risk facing the Group from risk management, comprising Board and senior management both a gross risk pre-mitigation and net risk post-mitigation oversight coupled with bottom-up risk management embedded position.
The risk mapping application provides Directors in the day-to-day activities of its individual businesses.
with a clear risk profile for the Group and enables the Board to determine the degree to which its profile is aligned with its Risk appetite risk appetite: and The Board has undertaken a comprehensive exercise to consider reviewing and improving the Groups processes around the its risk appetite across a number of key business risk areas.
assessment of principal risks and the monitoring and reporting The results of this review indicate the relative appetite of the Board of the Groups risk management performance.
across the risk factors at a specific point in time.
Any material changes in risk factors will impact the Boards assessment of Assessment of principal risks its risk appetite.
During the year the Board undertook a robust, in-depth and comprehensive assessment of the principal risks facing the Group The Board has a higher risk appetite towards its strategic and and specifically those that might threaten the delivery of its strategic operational risks and a balanced appetite towards macrobusiness model, its future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board seeks to minimise all health and safety risks and has a low risk appetite in relation to legal, A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties that could compliance and regulatory risk.
Similarly, a conservative appetite impact on the Groups performance is shown on pages 44 is indicated by the Board with respect to pension and financeto 49.
Further information detailing the internal control and risk related risks.
management policies and procedures operated within the Group is shown on pages 70 to 71 of the Corporate The results of the risk appetite review will support the Boards Governance Report.
It is the intention to undertake a review of the Boards risk appetite at least annually.
Risk management priorities for 2018 Continual improvements have been made during 2017 in Risk management actions respect of the Groups risk management processes.
However, During 2017, the Board continued to deliver on the key the Board recognises that Melrose cannot be complacent.
management priorities identified in the 2016 review across the In 2018, management will continue to focus on refining the risk Group, utilising and updating where necessary the enhanced risk management framework and embedding a culture of effective management framework implemented in 2015.
Specific actions risk management across the Group to ensure that risks and undertaken during the year include: opportunities are identified and managed, to support the delivery reviewing and reaffirming the Boards risk appetite: of long-term value creation.
Further resources will be devoted monitoring the implementation and risk management to strengthening the mechanisms for providing independent governance framework across all business divisions.
This assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework defines the Melrose principles for risk management governance, processes and controls.
and sets the standards for the identification, evaluation, prioritisation, recording, review and reporting of risks and their management or mitigation throughout the organisation: Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
