Risk management and our principal risks Our aim is to identify material risks that could impact us, and to focus management attention on effective mitigation of the significant risks to achievement of our strategic objectives and safeguard our reputation.
An evolving risk landscape What we will do in 2018 During 2017 we continued to see challenges from We will continue to refine our key standards and uncertainty and changes in political leadership, terrorist controls, and through support and training we will help events, weak economic recovery, geopolitical shifts, all businesses operate them effectively.
Functional teams general migration and the on-going instability in the will use the results of control self-assessments to assist Middle East.
These have created risks and opportunities countries with full compliance.
In addition, internal audits for the security industry.
G4S continues to face will continue to test the operational effectiveness of our operational and health and safety risks often particular standards and controls.
Regional Audit Committees will to the security industry, along with financial and continue to review, challenge and direct improvements commercial risks common to all multinational in the performance of control standards, financial companies.
Regulations on data privacy continue to be judgments and reporting.
Through continued tightened with high fines for non-compliance.
Our drive engagement and review by country, region and for increased growth through delivering significant cost Group management, we will enhance the quality and savings and innovative service excellence to customers timeliness of the identification of risks and the delivery may lead to a changed risk profile.
We continue to assess that the risk to G4S from the During the year we will further improve the reporting vote for the UK to leave the EU is not significant as we of risks and use metrics to assist with risk identification.
mainly operate within national boundaries with around Risk Management and Appetite 83% of total Group revenues outside the UK and minimal cross-border trading.
However, depending on As in prior years we have undertaken a bottom-up the terms of the UKs exit from the EU there might be review, with businesses completing an assessment of a range of business factors that could affect us including their major risks and developing mitigating actions to the availability of labour, regulations and taxation.
It is reduce the likelihood of those risks crystallising.
These also possible that continuing uncertainty during the reviews require management teams to identify the negotiation period reduces economic growth in the UK essential controls needed to mitigate high inherent risks and Europe, further affecting both our customers and to acceptable residual risk levels, in line with the groups our competitors.
We continue to monitor developments risk appetite, further encouraging effective compliance through our risk and governance framework.
with the Groups core standards and controls.
These risk assessments are reviewed, challenged and amended as What we did in 2017 necessary by regional teams, who are also responsible Progress continues to be made on increasing risk for monitoring delivery of required improvements.
This awareness and ensuring accountability for risk is combined with a top-down review from group management rests with business management teams.
functional leaders, to ensure that the risks captured are The Groups mandated control standards have been complete and appropriately assessed.
The risks are then further enhanced to ensure they address our key risks, summarised and presented to the Risk Committee for with appropriate training and challenge to facilitate their consideration before being presented to the board for effective performance.
The resulting principal residual risks, with any completed by all businesses.
These are reviewed, identified changes and mitigating actions, are outlined in challenged and best practice shared by region and group the following pages 62 to 65.
The residual risk level has functional experts, and compliance has been tested not changed significantly compared to the prior year.
Our quarterly Regional Audit G4S operates in high-risk areas of business, in which Committees continued to focus on financial judgments our core competence and value-add to customers is and to address internal and external audit findings, managing those risks effectively.
We have a higher risk which has enabled further improvement in financial appetite for growing and transforming businesses in control awareness and effective performance.
which we have the expertise to deliver and to achieve a good commercial return for the risk we are accepting.
We have a low to very low risk appetite for noncompliance with laws and regulations, appropriate culture and values, health and safety and people risks, as these are priority areas for our stakeholders and failure in these key risk areas could have a material impact on our business.
60 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE MODEL BOARD The board has responsibility for ensuring risk-management processes are effective by reviewing the most critical risks and controls.
RISK COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Risk Committee meets four times per year and The Audit Committee meets four times per year and reviews the Groups risk appetite, assesses the ensures the Groups control framework is operating Groups principal residual risks and assesses the effectively.
overall enterprise risk management process.
GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGIONAL AUDIT COMMITTEES The Group Executive Committee oversees the The committees meet four times a year, also management of the Groups principal residual risks.
attended by the external auditor, and review: 1.
The progress of closing internal and external auditfindings: and 2.
Reports on status of financial controls andsignificant accounting judgments.
GROUP AND REGIONAL ETHICS COMMITTEES The committees are responsible for whistleblowing and related investigations across the regions.
OPERATING COMPANIES AND SHARED-SERVICE FUNCTIONS Our operating companies and shared-service functions planning process with updates made in senior identify and assess the risks to their business objectives management team meetings and trading reviews.
and plan appropriate mitigating actions.
These are Control self-assessments of compliance with Group recorded in our Group-wide risk management tools.
control standards are completed annually bi-annually Athorough review is conducted as part of the annual forfinancial control standards.
Operating ST 1 LINE: BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT companies Responsibility for the first line sits with the managers Result: Ensures standards expected by the Group, our We employ of our businesses, whether line management or customers and other stakeholders are met.
The senior management team within each of defence business is responsible for implementing and to control maintaining appropriate controls across their business.
and manage risks across the Group.
ND 2 LINE: CONTROL AND OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS The second line consists of oversight functions at both Result: Provides support to business managers.
regional and Group level including: risk, finance, legal, human resources, operations, information technology, commercial and CSR.
RD 3 LINE: INTERNAL INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE The third line comprises the internal audit function.
Result: Provides independent assurance over the Aspart of its annual programme of work, internal design and operation of controls.
audit conducts regular reviews of risk management processes and gives advice and recommendations on how to improve the control environment.
EXTERNAL AUDIT Financial reporting risks are considered as part of the external audit.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 61 Risk management and our principal risks continued Principal risk Link to strategy HEALTH AND SAFETY H&S We reviewed the appropriateness of our Golden Rules which Risk reflect critical safety risks and are mandatory for all G4S businesses, The provision of security services to protect valuable assets, often and failure to adhere to them is linked to our disciplinary in hostile or dangerous circumstances, presents health and safety procedures.
Good practice and progress in delivering H&S challenges.
In addition to the significant impact on individuals, a improvements are recognised and rewarded, while poor practice serious breach of health and safety could disrupt the Groups and insufficient progress lead to close executive scrutiny, and can business, have a negative impact on our reputation and lead to impact performance-related pay for business leaders if appropriate.
In 2017, 25 2016: 47 employees lost their lives in work-related incidents, of which eight 2016: 20 Mitigation priorities for 2018 were as a result of armed attacks and 11 2016: 17 were We will continue to refine our standards, policies and controls road-traffic incidents as the year-on-year improvement in road where we see an opportunity to reduce H&S risks further.
There were three 2016: 9 non-natural deaths compliance with these group requirements will again be self of people in our custody.
assessed during 2018 and reviewed by H&S and internal audit teams.
A revised H&S training programme for our front-line Risk mitigation employees is under development which supplements existing We are committed to protecting the health, safety and well-being training provided by businesses on key H&S risks.
Safety of our staff, people in our care or custody and third parties.
The improvement plans are required for all businesses.
Business Groups mandatory H&S standards target the critical safety risks leaders take responsibility for leading safety performance and in the Group including road and firearm safety and are putting H&S at the forefront of their day-to-day activities.
supplemented by training for front-line staff through to business leaders.
During 2017 the annual self-assessment by countries of compliance with our standards was supported by site reviews from local, regional and Group H&S managers and was included in the scope of country internal audit visits.
Reporting was enhanced to include high potential incidents which are investigated thoroughly.
Controls are reviewed in light of lessons learned from serious incidents.
CULTURE AND VALUES opportunity to raise concerns themselves.
In 2017, our Risk whistleblowing hotline and case-management system received G4S provides security for people, premises and valuable assets.
a total of 300 reports from our employees 2016: 402.
Matters The Care & Justice services business provides services to of a serious nature were investigated at a senior and independent detainees, victims of crime, people needing assistance, and other level, with 59 investigations completed during 2017 2016: 55. members of the public.
We operate in many different countries with a diversity of local and national cultures.
Having an Mitigation priorities for 2018 appropriate set of values strongly embedded as our corporate For our front-line employees, we will extend the values-based culture is very important to ensure staff meet our high training materials already developed to reflect common expectations including compliance with our ethical business experiences or particular challenges which come to light from conduct standards.
Failure to do so risks not delivering on our whistleblowing cases, internal grievances or feedback from the commitment to our colleagues, customers and other stakeholders global employee-engagement survey conducted in 2017. and may fail to comply with legislation and international standards.
For managers, the newly-revised competency framework has Risk mitigation helped guide the development of on-line training, which is due to We have a set of values, detailed on page 17, which are continually be launched in 2018.
The training uses realistic scenarios in which reinforced to all employees through a variety of key processes participants are required to make value-based decisions from a including recruitment, induction training, and recognition schemes range of options in order to achieve the right outcomes.
The as well as communications materials.
Nominated values training will be mandatory, and cascaded to all managers to ambassadors in businesses are helping to cascade values-related complete before the end of 2018. communications.
HR and learning and development leaders have Our reward and recognition schemes will continue to be aligned assisted in the production of materials for increasing awareness and to the values, to ensure they are promoted in everything we do.
In everything we do, no matter how A new group-wide scheme will supplement local efforts and challenging the circumstances, we require our people to behave in enable us to showcase the types of behaviour which exemplify line with our values and to be prepared to use our whistleblowing the values and reflect the great work that our employees do.
facility, Speak Out, if they become aware that others are not doing so.
Ethics steering committees ata Group level and in each region oversee the whistleblowing investigation process and provide constructive guidance to countries on ethical matters.
We continue to focus on building awareness of the importance of our corporate values andwhistleblowing, particularly in places where we work with people who may be more vulnerable and have less 62 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Principal risk Link to strategy PEOPLE We review in detail the performance and potential of managers Risk across the Group to help identify development needs and build In a global and diverse security business such as ours, there are succession plans.
We also deliver regional leadership programmes risks associated with recruiting, training, engaging, rewarding and tonurture talented individuals early in their careers, and help managing people, as well as ensuring we retain critical talent to develop them into more senior roles as they move through the deliver increasingly sophisticated services through our 570,000 organisation.
Staff turnover is a key indicator to us of employee employees.
Screening and vetting is a particular challenge in some satisfaction, and reducing it improves service excellence and territories which lack supporting infrastructure from the relevant reduces recruitment costs.
During the year staff turnover reduced authorities.
Any incident where our people fail to meet from 27.6% in 2016 to 25.3% in 2017 see page 17. expectations of customers and other stakeholders could lead to financial and reputational damage to the Groups business.
Whilst Mitigation priorities for 2018 our controls are robust we still face the risk of an employee not We will use theinformation from our fifth global employee survey behaving in line with our values.
to help develop initiatives to enhance standards further and ways in which to ensure the standards are embedded.
Compliance with Risk mitigation our Core HR Standards will again be self-assessed during 2018 The Groups mandatory human resource standards cover core and reviewed by local, regional and group teams as well as tested requirements for delivering the HR strategy, such as ensuring by internal audit.
Direct support will be provided as necessary to there are effective organisational structures in place, that enhance compliance with our standards.
employees are screened, inducted and trained to perform their jobs, and that there are appropriate mechanisms in place for managing on-going performance and recognising great performance.
During 2017 the annual self-assessment by countries of compliance with our standards was supported by site reviews from local and regional teams, and included in the scope of country internal audit visits.
MAJOR CONTRACTS For our large multinational customers, account managers oversee Risk performance of these contracts across relevant countries and have The Group operates a number of long-term, complex, high-value regular updates with customers to ensure we deliver against contracts with multinational companies, governments or strategic contractual terms.
Key risks include: accepting onerous contractual terms: poor mobilisation of contracts: not transitioning effectively from Mitigation priorities for 2018 mobilisation to on-going contract management: not delivering While great improvements have been made in reducing the risk contractual requirements: inaccurate billing for complex contracts: of taking on onerous contracts, as the impact can be significant, ineffective contract-change management: and not managing wewill continue to enhance the quality of the analysis used in sub-contractors appropriately.
thebidding process and ensure that lessons are learned from underperforming contracts.
We will also embed into the Risk mitigation SalesForce opportunity management tool our updated approval During 2017 we updated our strict thresholds for the approval requirements to make compliance and monitoring effective.
of major bids, involving detailed legal review and senior management oversight.
For a selection of our most significant contracts in the UK, we perform 360 reviews of all aspects of contract management and performance.
We also perform a quarterly financial review of the top 25 and low-margin contracts in each region.
Link to strategy People and values Customers and service excellence Growth and innovation Operational excellence and productivity Financial and commercial discipline Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 63 Risk management and our principal risks continued Principal risk Link to strategy LAWS AND REGULATIONS Risk Risk mitigation G4S operates under many complex and diverse regulatory Our policies and procedures clearly set out the requirement for frameworks, some of which have extraterritorial reach and many local management teams to comply with all relevant laws and where regulations change regularly.
Risks include: new or changed regulations.
Group and regional leadership, together with our restrictions on foreign ownership: difficulties obtaining all relevant Ethics Committees at Group and regional level provide oversight licences to operate: complying with employment legislation and support our businesses to mitigate the risks.
Group legal and covering a wide range of requirements: complying with often regional leadership closely monitor changes in foreign ownership complex and broad ranging local tax regulations: increasing laws and make appropriate plans to respond.
G4S continues to litigation and class actions: bribery and corruption and complying liaise with relevant governments and authorities to influence with human rights legislation.
Failure to meet the required positively the regulatory environments in which we work.
standards can lead to higher costs from claims and litigation: Mitigation priorities for 2018 inability to operate in certain jurisdictions, through either direct ownership or joint ventures: loss of management control: damage We will continue to focus on seeking full compliance with laws to our reputation: and loss of customer confidence.
and regulations across all jurisdictions we operate in and ensure that concerns are addressed appropriately by local management with support and guidance from Group and regional leaders.
GROWTH STRATEGY We are able to mitigate local reduction in growth opportunities Risk through the diversity of industries and markets we serve, and by Our focus is on investing in the development and marketing of leveraging our portfolio of products to offer alternative costinnovative and integrated products and services and improving efficient solutions.
All our product development initiatives and business efficiency to strengthen service excellence and support business transformation projects are closely monitored by Group improved margins over time.
There are risks with adopting such and regional teams, with appropriate challenge and approval to a strategy: that we fail to create higher-value solutions that maximise the opportunity and minimise the risks.
differentiate us from local commoditised competitors: that we fail to deliver our core services effectively and consistently: that we Mitigation priorities for 2018 lose contracts or growth opportunities through price competition In 2018, we will focus our investments in innovative product and market changes: that we fail to enter target markets development and in transforming the efficiency of our business and successfully: that we become over-reliant on large customers: the capabilities of our people and systems.
Customer satisfaction and that our business transformation initiatives do not deliver reviews will guide how we deliver integrated solutions to existing as expected.
and potential customers across all businesses.
This would include: proprietary security systems, video and intelligent camera systems, Risk mitigation video management systems, global security intelligence systems and We continue to focus on delivering excellent service through the software tools including incident-management systems such as best-practice service delivery guidelines in place for both Secure RISK360 in our Secure Solutions business.
For Cash Solutions, Solutions and Cash Solutions service lines.
Our newly developed development would include: retail solutions, CASH360, Deposita information systems supporting the end-to-end order-to-cash cash-recycling systems and solutions for our smaller retailers.
Our process in our Secure Solutions service line, including finance, new information systems for the Secure Solutions service line will human resources and operational delivery, was launched in Ireland be implemented in the UK in 2018, with plans to expand into in 2017.
We use our centres of excellence to develop innovative other countries once proven to deliver as expected.
Focused solutions for customers, particularly in electronic security and business transformation projects will also be implemented to drive CASH360 in Cash Solutions.
We leverage our global network to further efficiency and improve margins.
Oversight, challenge and offer integrated solutions internationally and our global accounts approval of detailed business cases for all such initiatives will be programme supports and promotes our multinational accounts enforced by Group and regional teams.
Our consistent focus on delivering excellent service to customers has led to an increase in our Net Promoter Scores.
Link to strategy People and values Customers and service excellence Growth and innovation Operational excellence and productivity Financial and commercial discipline 64 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Principal risk Link to strategy GEOPOLITICAL all businesses must comply with.
Those based in high-risk countries Risk self assess their compliance with these standards annually, with We operate in many countries across the world, with wide-ranging this assessment reviewed by Group and checked by internal audit.
government and political structures, different cultures with varying We have a mandatory supplier code of conduct which includes degrees of compliance with laws and human rights, particularly within anti-bribery and modern slavery requirements.
Our G4S Risk conflict and post-conflict zones.
The risk factors include: political Management business has particular expertise inproviding secure volatility, including the outcome of elections and referendums solutions in very high risk, low .
affecting trade rules and regulations and changes in policies towards business, revolution, terrorism, military intervention, mistreatment of Mitigation priorities for 2018 migrant workers and employees working for our suppliers.
These In markets where potential government policy or trade agreements risks impact us in many ways: the health and safety of our staff and may have a significant impact on our ability to trade we will customers: the continued operation of our businesses: and the ability continue to engage with national and international governments to to secure our assets and recover ourprofits.
promote the benefits that G4S brings to a market and an economy, to ensure that we minimise the impact of any trade restrictions or Risk mitigation trade policy.
We will increase the number of countries that We collaborate with our local partners: conduct early risk complete human rights control self-assessments and carry out assessments before and during security assignments: develop human rights risk assessments in all key business areas.
We will also robust operating procedures: and work closely with our local work to build awareness of human rights responsibilities across the and global customers in managing the risks of operating in such business and our partners and increase engagement with suppliers environments.
We have clear standards on human rights which to ensure they are also complying with human rights.
INFORMATION SECURITY are supported and run.
This will ensure policies and best practice Risk are applied consistently across all operating businesses.
In late Increased regulations and sanctions relating to the potential failure to 2017 we commenced a programme of investment in Cyber secure sensitive and confidential data, which we are entrusted with defence tools, to improve the levels of compliance for managing by customers, staff, suppliers and other stakeholders, have increased these risks across the many systems and infrastructures that exist our risks in this area.
Like all organisations, we face cyber attacks from globally.
We are also introducing additional standards and a variety of sources which, if successful, could result in censure and guidance to ensure compliance with General Data Protection fines by national governments: loss of confidence in the G4S brand Regulation GDPR across the UK and Europe.
and specific loss of trust by customers, especially those in government and financial sectors.
Additionally, we face the risk of Mitigation priorities for 2018 disruption to service delivery from system failures, incomplete backup We will continue to strengthen the effective performance routines, inadequate business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
of our IT processes through the centrally-managed IT structure, and complete the implementation of our new Cyber Tools Risk mitigation programme to increase the security of our IT systems and We have defence-in-depth technologies i. e. multiple layers of infrastructure, including managed cyber security products, defence in key systems to protect business information entrusted centralised infrastructure management tools and cyber to us.
During 2017 we brought our IT function under direct vulnerability assessments.
management of the Group team, to enhance the way our systems CASH LOSSES branch and head office and compliance is supported and Risk monitored by regional teams and through internal audit.
We also We provide a wide range of cash-management services, including have clearly-defined standards for physical cash security for our cash processing, fit-sorting of notes for recycling, holding funds on employees, vehicles and processing centres.
The Group and behalf of customers, secure storage, a range of ATM services, as regional cash security teams are responsible for monitoring well as transporting high values of cash and valuables including compliance with these through self-assessments performed by international shipments and fully-outsourced cash-management branches and visits to country: for monitoring attacks and other solutions such as CASH360.
Our cash business is at risk of cash losses: and for communicating lessons learned.
Innovative external attacks, internal theft, poor cash reconciliations and weak security-defence products such as cash-box tracking, vehicle management supervision, which could lead to loss of profit, protection foam and protective boxes are used in a number increased cost of insurance and health and safety considerations of businesses.
for our staff and the public.
Mitigation priorities for 2018 Risk mitigation Our new Global Cash Solutions division will give additional focus During 2017 we refined the standards for Reconciliation and to drive improvement in the effective performance of physical Operational Cash Controls and continued through an e-learning security and cash reconciliations throughout our cash businesses, academy and direct support, to ensure wide-spread awareness to reduce both the number and value of losses.
and effective performance of these controls.
Self assessments against these standards are performed twice a year by each Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 65
