44 Risks and uncertainties The table below lists the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the Group and highlights the mitigating actions that are being taken.
The content of the table, however, is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties that may arise and nor is the order of the list intended to be any indication of priority.
A risk management and internal controls framework is in place within the Group to ensure that such risks and uncertainties can be identified and, where possible, managed suitably.
Each Group business maintains a risk register which is reviewed regularly by both the management of the business and the Melrose Board.
Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility Risk Trend Strategic trend commentary priorities Strategic risk Acquisition The success of the Groups acquisition strategy depends on identifying available and suitable targets, obtaining any consents or Structured and appropriate due diligence undertaken.
Executive As the bid for GKN plc Buy 1 of new authorisations required to carry out an acquisition and procuring the necessary financing, be this from equity, debt or a combination Focus on acquisition targets that have strong headline management indicates, the Group is currently Improve businesses of the two.
In making acquisitions, there is a risk of unforeseen liabilities being later discovered which were not uncovered or known fundamentals, high-quality products, leading market share but actively looking to secure and at the time of the due diligence process.
Further, as per the Groups strategy to buy and improve good but under-performing which are underperforming their potential and ability to generate its next acquisition and is Sell improvement manufacturing businesses, once an acquisition is completed, there are risks that the Group will not succeed in driving strategic sustainable cash flows and profit growth.
confident that opportunities strategies operational improvements to achieve the expected post-acquisition trading results or value which were originally anticipated, that Hands-on role taken by Directors and other senior employees will be available.
the acquired products and technologies may not be successful or that the business may require significantly greater resources of the Group.
If anticipated benefits are not realised or trading by acquired businesses falls below expectations, Development of strategic plans, restructuring opportunities, it may be necessary to impair the carrying value of these assets.
The Groups return on shareholder investment may fall if acquisition capital expenditure and working capital management.
The Groups financial performance may suffer from goodwill or other acquisition-related impairment charges, or from the identification of additional liabilities not known at the time of the acquisition.
Timing of In line with our strategy and depending where the Group is within the buy, improve, sell cycle, the expected timing of any disposal Directors are experienced in judging and regularly reviewing Executive The responsiveness of the Buy 1 disposals of businesses is considered as a principal risk which could have a material impact on the Group strategy.
Further, due to the Groups the appropriate time in a business cycle for a disposal to realise management Nortek business to the Melrose Improve global operations, there may be a significant impact on timing of disposal due to political and macroeconomic factors.
Depending on maximum value for shareholders.
methods have meant that the timings of disposals and nature of businesses operations there may be long-term liabilities which could be retained by the Group Each disposal is assessed on its merits, with a key focus on disposal may be considered Sell following a disposal.
Insufficient allowance for such retained liabilities may affect the Groups financial position.
However, management will remain disciplined and there is no obligation to sell before it is appropriate to do so.
Operational risk Economic The Group operates, through manufacturing and or sales facilities, in numerous countries and is affected by global economic Regular monitoring of order books and other leading indicators, to Executive There continues to be a degree Buy 1 and political conditions.
Businesses are also affected by government spending priorities and the willingness of governments to commit substantial ensure the Group and each of its businesses can respond quickly management of geopolitical uncertainty in Improve resources.
Current global economic and financial market conditions, including any fluctuation in commodity prices in particular, the to any adverse trading conditions.
However, the Board notes prices of oil and gas, the potential for a significant and prolonged global recession and any uncertainty in the political environment of cost reduction and efficiency measures.
that economic uncertainty can Sell may materially and adversely affect the Groups operational performance, financial condition and could have significant impact on Finance for acquisitions is readily available to the Group from depress business valuations timing of acquisitions and disposals.
This has proven to be available to the Group and this may increase the even during periods of economic downturn, for example during number of potential acquisition Following the EU referendum on 23 June 2016, there continues to be some uncertainty in the UK regarding the nature of Brexit and the global financial crisis in 2008. opportunities for Melrose.
what this will mean for business and the economy.
However, the majority of the Groups revenue is generated in North America, where any effects are expected to be minimal, and the Group remains agile and well positioned to deal with any short-term uncertainty in the UK.
A recession may also materially affect customers, suppliers and other parties with which the Group does business.
Adverse economic and financial market conditions may cause customers to terminate existing orders, to reduce their purchases from the Group, or to be unable to meet their obligations to pay outstanding debts to the Group.
These market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to the Group or to change the credit terms they extend to the Groups businesses.
1 Comprises executive Directors and Melrose senior management.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 2 Strategic Report 45 Strategic risk profile Our updated view of the current strategic risk profile is shown below.
The residual risk scores have been calculated on a post-mitigation basis.
Risk trend since No Risk rating Risk title last Annual Report Moderate Acquisition of new businesses Decrease 1 and improvement strategies 2 Moderate Timing of disposals No change Moderate Economic and political No change 3 4 Moderate Loss of key management No change 1 3 5 Moderate Legal, regulatory and environmental No change 4 7 8 5 Moderate Information security and cyber threat Increase 6 6 7 Low Foreign exchange rate No change 9 8 Low Pensions No change 9 Low Liquidity No change Remote Unlikely Possible Likely Very likely Probability Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility Risk Trend Strategic trend commentary priorities Strategic risk Acquisition The success of the Groups acquisition strategy depends on identifying available and suitable targets, obtaining any consents or Structured and appropriate due diligence undertaken.
Impact on financial condition Very low Low Moderate High Very high Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 46 Risks and uncertainties Continued Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility Risk Trend Strategic trend commentary priorities Operational risk continued Loss of key The success of the Group is built upon strong management teams.
As a result, the loss of key personnel could have a significant Succession planning within the Group and its businesses is Executive Succession planning remains a Buy 1 management impact on performance, at least for a time.
The loss of key personnel or the failure to plan adequately for succession or develop new coordinated via the Nomination Committee in conjunction with management core focus for the Nomination talent may impact the reputation of the Group or lead to a disruption in the leadership of the business.
Competition for personnel is the Board and includes all Directors and senior employees.
Improve intense and the Group may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, particularly engineering professionals.
The Company recognises that, as with most businesses, Succession planning of Sell particularly those operating within a technical field, it is executive Directors and senior dependent on Directors and employees with particular management, together with managerial, engineering or technical skills.
Appropriate visibility of potential successors remuneration packages and long-term incentive arrangements within the Group, has been are offered in an effort to attract and retain such individuals.
selected as an area for targeted management focus during 2018.
Compliance and ethical risk Legal, There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete compliance with laws, regulations or permits, for example concerning Regular monitoring of legal and regulatory matters at both Executive The Group undertakes annual Buy 1 regulatory environmental requirements.
The Group could be held responsible for liabilities and consequences arising from past or future a Group and business level.
Consultation with external advisers management reviews to ensure it has a and environmental damage, including potentially significant remedial costs.
There can also be no assurance that any provisions for where necessary.
robust legal and compliance Improve environmental expected environmental liabilities and remediation costs will adequately cover these liabilities or costs.
A robust control framework is in place underpinned by framework and considers Sell comprehensive corporate governance and compliance the risk to be consistent with The Group operates in highly regulated sectors.
In addition, new legislation, regulations or certification requirements may require procedures at both a Group and business level.
additional expense, restrict commercial flexibility and business strategies or introduce additional liabilities for the Group or Directors.
Due diligence processes during the acquisition stage seek to For example, the Groups operations are subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, competition, anti-trust identify legal, regulatory and environmental risks.
At the business and trade compliance laws and regulations.
Failure to comply with certain regulations may result in significant financial penalties, level, controls are in place to prevent such risks from crystallising.
debarment from government contracts and or reputational damage and impact our business strategy.
Any environmental risks that crystallise are subject to mitigation by specialist consultants engaged for this purpose.
External consultants assist the Group in complying with new and emerging environmental regulations.
Insurance cover mitigates certain levels of risk.
Information Information security and cyber threats are an increasing priority across all industries and remain a key UK government agenda item.
Management continues to work with information security Executive Information security and cyber Buy 1 security consultants to better understand the extent to which the Group is management threats are an increasing Like many businesses, Melrose recognises that the Group may have a potential exposure in this area.
Potential exposure to Improve and cyber exposed to cyber security risk and to ensure appropriate mitigations priority across all industries.
such risks remains a constant threat to the Group due to the size and complexity of the Groups operations and the nature of the threat are in place.
Cyber security breaches of the product portfolio.
Sell Management has developed an information security strategy to Groups IT systems could result mitigate the Groups exposure to cyber risk which follows the UK in the misappropriation of governments recommended steps on cyber security, covering all confidential information the relevant security areas, including: network security: malware belonging to it or its customers, protection: active monitoring of information systems and networks: suppliers or employees.
In home and mobile working: and incident management.
response to the increased This strategy has been successfully implemented across the whole sophistication of information Group with significant progress made during the year and is also security and cyber threats, subject to regular monitoring, together with the Groups Business the Group has worked, and Continuity and Disaster Recovery policies and procedures, continues to work, with external supplementing those already in place.
consultants to monitor and refine its Group-wide strategy to aid the prevention, identification and mitigation of any threats.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 47 Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility Risk Trend Strategic trend commentary priorities Operational risk continued Loss of key The success of the Group is built upon strong management teams.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 48 Risks and uncertainties Continued Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility Risk Trend Strategic trend commentary priorities Financial risk Foreign Due to the global nature of operations and volatility in the foreign exchange market, exchange rate fluctuations have and could The Group policy is to protect against the majority of foreign Executive Group results are reported in Buy 1 exchange continue to have a material impact on the reported results of the Group.
exchange risk which affects cash, by hedging such risks with management Sterling but a large proportion Improve financial instruments.
of its revenues are denominated The Group is exposed to three types of currency risk: transaction risk, translation risk and risk that when a business that is Protection against specific transaction risks is taken by the Board in currencies other than predominantly based in a foreign currency is sold, it is sold in that foreign currency.
The Groups reported results will fluctuate Sell on a case-by-case basis.
Following the Nortek as average exchange rates change.
The Groups reported net assets will fluctuate as the year-end exchange rate changes.
acquisition, movements between the US Dollar and Sterling and Renminbi and the US Dollar could have a material adverse effect on Group results, whilst exposure remains in Brush against the Czech Koruna and the Euro.
Pensions Any shortfall in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes may require additional funding.
As at 31 December 2017, the Groups The Groups key funded pension plans, including the Nortek plans, Executive No structured changes Buy 1 pension schemes had an aggregate deficit, on an accounting basis, of 17.6 million.
Changes in discount rates, inflation, asset values are closed to new entrants and future service accrual.
Improve or mortality assumptions could lead to a materially higher deficit.
For example, the cost of a buyout on a discontinued basis uses funding arrangements are agreed with the Trustees and reviewed The Group is satisfied that more conservative assumptions and is likely to be significantly higher than the accounting deficit.
following completion of actuarial valuations.
pension liability risks are well Sell Active engagement with Trustees on pension plan asset Alternatively, if the plans are managed on an ongoing basis, there is a risk that the plans assets, such as investments in equity and mitigated.
The net deficit is allocations and strategies.
debt securities, will not be sufficient to cover the value of the retirement benefits to be provided under the plans.
The implications relatively small for a group of a higher pension deficit include a direct impact on valuation, implied credit rating and potential additional funding requirements of this size.
In the event of a major disposal that generates significant cash proceeds which are returned to the shareholders, the Group may be required to make additional cash payments to the plans or provide additional security.
Liquidity The ability to raise debt or to refinance existing borrowings in the bank or capital markets is dependent on market conditions and the To ensure it has comprehensive and timely visibility of the liquidity Executive The Group is satisfied that it has Buy 1 proper functioning of financial markets.
As set out in more detail in the Finance Directors review on page 38, the Group has a US position, the Group conducts monthly reviews of its cash forecast, management adequate resources available to Improve $1.25 billion term bank loan and revolving credit facility, which is partially utilised.
In January 2018, in connection with the Companys which are in turn revised quarterly.
proposed acquisition of GKN plc, the Group entered into a term loan and a revolving credit facility which comprised a 2.6 billion The Group operates cash management mechanisms, including Sell facility, a $2 billion facility and a 0.5 billion facility.
The new facilities will only become available if the proposed acquisition of GKN plc cash pooling across the Group and maintenance of revolving completes and if this occurs the debt drawn under the existing US $1.25 billion facility will be repaid and the facility cancelled.
credit facilities to mitigate the risk of any liquidity issues.
Furthermore, in line with the Groups strategy, investment is made in the businesses capital expenditure in excess of depreciation The Group operates a conservative level of headroom across its and there is a requirement to assess liquidity and headroom when new businesses are acquired.
In addition, the Group may be financing covenants which is designed to avoid the need for any unable to refinance its debt when it falls due.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 49 Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility Risk Trend Strategic trend commentary priorities Financial risk Foreign Due to the global nature of operations and volatility in the foreign exchange market, exchange rate fluctuations have and could The Group policy is to protect against the majority of foreign Executive Group results are reported in Buy 1 exchange continue to have a material impact on the reported results of the Group.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
