Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Key Provide the best cinema experience give Be technological leaders in the industry to our customers a choice of how to watch a offer the latest audio and visual technology movie, with a range of retail offerings, all underpinned by the best customer service Drive value for shareholders by delivering our growth plans in an efficient and Expand and enhance our estate effective way toprovide consistent, high quality, moderncinemas 1.
E xpansion and Growth A c ritical system interruption Performance of ofOur Cinema Estate ormajor IT security breach Unsuccessful delivery of estate FilmContent encountered expansion that offers profitable L ack of access to high quality, opportunities to grow diverse and well publicised movieproduct Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner Deputy CEO CCO CEO Impact Impact Impact Any critical system interruption for a Underpinning the overall success of the Growth in the estate is dependent on the sustained period could have a significant Group is the quality of the movie slate, the development of new sites or the acquisition impact on the Groups performance.
In timeliness of release, the release window of existing cinemas.
Planning laws, the addition, any breach cyber or otherwise of andthe appeal of such movies to our economic environment, availability of capital data protection rules or security measures customers.
Where the movie studios do for developers and location choice are some surrounding the storage of confidential and notproduce sufficiently attractive movies, of the factors that may impact the Groups proprietary information including movie or movies underperform, this has a direct development and growth plans.
content could result in unauthorised impact on cinema attendance and, access, loss or disclosure of this information.
therefore, box office revenue for the Group This could lead to claims, regulatory may decline.
penalties, disruption of operations of the Group and ultimately reputational damage.
Mitigation activity Mitigation activity Mitigation activity The Group IT function monitors, We work closely with distributors to The Group devotes a considerable manages and optimises our systems, acquaint ourselves, as early as possible, amount of time assessing new site including ensuring their resilience with the upcoming film slate in order to opportunities as part of our future through regular back-ups and the forecast likely movie performance.
Although access to the latest movie slate We also maintain good relationships with External experts are employed where is reliant on our relationship with the potential key development partners.
This necessary to oversee and help manage distributors, the Groups strategy is to allows us to be aware of the availability major projects involving the upgrading show a wide range of movies over and of space in new developments and to or replacement of key systems.
above the traditional Hollywood ensure factors such as local planning blockbusters.
This allows us to capitalise laws and demographic changes are The Group continually reviews its on specific local area demand for type understood and monitored.
approach to information security, and content of movies shown.
specifically controlling the sensitive data Board approval is obtained for all new it holds through restricted access.
Changes in the year Changes in the year Changes in the year The number of international cyber The level of admissions in 2017 The Group grew the estate as a further attacks has shown how all companies hascontinued to demonstrate an nine new cinemas, four in the UK and five arevulnerable in the current climate.
undiminished appetite for cinema in the ROW, opened during the year.
Although we have not experienced any attendance.
In addition, the acquisition of Empire breaches from these, cyber risk has been In the ROW territories locally produced Newcastle has added a further 16 a Board focus throughout the year.
movies continue to be very popular, screens.
The impending introduction of the often outperforming the Hollywood Four smaller sites, originally scheduled General Data Protection Regulation blockbusters, especially inPoland.
for Q4 2017, will now open in early 2018.
GDPR in 2018 has meant a review has The Group proactively managed been undertaken of all relevant systems, itsexisting estate through the processes and procedures.
To set out refurbishment and selective closure and monitor the journey to compliance ofcertain sites.
aroad map has been developed.
For further details please see the Chief Executive Officers Review on page 10.
Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity Continuing the programme of There is a strong movie release The acquisition of Regal will provide a investment in systems and ensuring our programme for 2018 and therefore we platform for entering into a new territory processes are robust will strengthen the expect these to drive continued growth and be transformational in terms of the day-to day operations across the Group.
The increase in geographic footprint will further enhance our ability to mitigate against year on year volatility to the individual cinema markets.
19 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued 4.
Cinema Operations Failure to maintain and andCompetition Concession Offerings operatewell run and cost The quality of products and Delivery of a retail concession effectivecinemas services offered fails to meet the offering that does not meet the needs of the customer and deliver requirements and preferences an enhanced viewer experience ofour customers Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner COO CCO COO Impact Impact Impact Although cinema admissions are Retail concession sales generally fluctuate Operating cinemas well is pivotal to predominantly driven by the quality and in line with admissions and the genre of film theoverall success of the Group.
Key to availability of films, ensuring that the Group on show.
Therefore, if admissions were to thisis to ensure that cinema management continually enhances the viewer experience fall, revenue from retail sales could understand the local market film is crucial.
Any decrease in the quality of the decrease.
Retail spend may also decrease scheduling, pricing and retail offerings, services we offer, from the ease of booking due to changes in customer preferences, effectively manage their employees, and the technology we use to a friendly decreased disposable income or other maintain service standards, and are able farewell on departure, could result in loss economic and cultural factors.
In addition, toreact to incidents should they occur.
ofcustomers to competitors and or other the cost of items such as energy and Areduction in performance in any area can leisure entertainment attractions.
foodstuffs as well as the potential have a direct effect on the overall viewer introduction of the Soft Drinks Industry experience, reputation ofthe cinemas and Levy has a direct impact on price.
ultimately the Groups financial performance.
Mitigation activity Mitigation activity Mitigation activity Our strategy is focused on continually Through our ongoing monitoring of Cinema management continually improving the quality of services we various metrics, including spend per monitor their staffing requirements, offer to customers and making a visit person, we have the ability to making adjustments to scheduling based toour cinemas a unique experience.
understand and react quickly to the on customer demand, forecasts and film changing customer needs.
This includes increasing the efficiency ofonline booking, cutting edge cinema A key strategy for the Group is to On a monthly basis detailed operational design, removing clutter from the foyers, maintain a strong relationship with and financial reviews are undertaken by investing in technical innovation and theprincipal retail suppliers.
cinema management teams to ensure premium offerings 4DX andother large performance matches expected targets.
We run targeted promotions and bring screen formats, upgrading seating indifferent ranges of products to meet Ongoing evolution and updating options further rollout of the VIP changing customer demand.
ofcinema operational processes offering to 12 sites in total and andprocedures.
The introduction of franchising models improving retail offers.
for some of the key suppliers has also We also focus on our approach to been an important wayof enhancing the customer interaction with theGroup range of offerings.
outside of the cinema environment.
We are working closely with our drinks partners to reduce and where possible mitigate the potential impact of the proposed Soft Drinks Industry Levy.
Weare doing this by broadening our ranges of diet and sugar free options along with water and trialing innovation with reformulated products whilst stillproviding consumer choice based onpreferences.
Changes in the year Changes in the year Changes in the year Our investment in ensuring we can offer Retail revenue remains a function of There is continual improvement in the as many screen formats as possible admissions and spending trends in each operating effectiveness of the cinemas continued with a further eleven 4DX local market.
This has been positively inthe Group underpinned by continual screens, two IMAX screens and two impacted by the expansion ofthe investment in learning and development Superscreens added across the Group Groups retail offerings including five programmes during 2017. new Starbucks and three new VIP sites.
A restructure of operational delivery The increasing popularity of our VIP structures was completed during the year.
For further details see the Chief Executive Officers Review on page 10 and Financial offering across the twelve sites where For further details please see Resources and Officers Review on page 26 itisavailable.
Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity Introduction of further technology such as Ongoing review and enhancement of the Further sharing of operational best practice, virtual reality into the cinema experience.
systems and processes across the Group.
20 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key Provide the best cinema experience give Be technological leaders in the industry to our customers a choice of how to watch a offer the latest audio and visual technology movie, with a range of retail offerings, all underpinned by the best customer service Drive value for shareholders by delivering our growth plans in an efficient and Expand and enhance our estate effective way toprovide consistent, high quality, moderncinemas 7.
Retention and A major statutory, regulatory or Performance Attraction contractual compliancebreach The approach to setting, Failure to attract and retain communicating, monitoring and SeniorManagement and or executing a clear strategy fails otherkeypersonnel todeliver long-term objectives Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner CFO Deputy CEO Deputy CEO Impact Impact Impact The Groups business and operations are Although the overall strategy for the Group The Groups performance and its ability to affected by regulations covering such is not a complex one, it is key that this mitigate significant risks within its control matters as planning, the environment, health isexecuted.
depend on its employees and Senior andsafety cinemas and construction sites, Management teams.
Therefore, reliance Any diversion from this strategy couldresult licensing, food and drink retailing, data isplaced on the Groups ability to recruit, in loss of market share tocompetitors, protection and the minimum wage.
Failure develop and retain Senior Management and failure to capitalise onemerging market to ensure ongoing compliance with other key employees.
If the Group loses key opportunities, reduction in potential regulation legislation could result in fines people this could have an impact on its revenue profits and therefore loss in and or suspension of activity.
ability to deliver business objectives.
Mitigation activity Mitigation activity Mitigation activity Management operate an ongoing A structure is in place to support To ensure the long-term success of the cinemacompliance programme, effective strategy development, as well Group, it uses a variety of techniques to supplemented by independent as ongoing reporting and monitoring of attract, retain and motivate its staff, with compliance assurance reviews by business performance on a daily, weekly, particular attention to those in key roles.
monthly, quarterly and annual basis.
These techniques include the regular Monitoring Senior Management Group support functions use a review of remuneration packages, share performance against their agreed combination of ongoing staff incentive schemes, training, regular personal objectives is an ongoing exercise.
development as well as updates communication with staff and an annual fromprofessional advisors to ensure There are various communication performance review process.
management are aware of the latest strategies emails, meetings and Nurturing talent across the Group is a key regulations in key areas.
conferences used to ensure the part of our strategy and, in support of that, strategic goals of the Group are internal succession plays a key part with clearlyunderstood and executed more than 50% of cinema management bySenior Management.
positions filled by internal applicants.
Changes in the year Changes in the year Changes in the year The results of our cinema compliance On 28 February 2018 the Group There have been a number of additional programmes, health and safety completed the acquisition of Regal.
The Senior Vice Presidents promoted and or assessments and wider assurance enlarged Group is now a global cinema recruited to help support the expanded activity continue to indicate no exhibition business of significant scale.
significant increase in risk exposure, As the requirements for individuals with withstandards of compliance in all specific skills and experience becomes areasremaining high.
more focused, recruitment of the level of One focus in the year has been on talent required has been a challenge for working towards compliance with GDPR some departments.
that will be mandatory from May 2018.
For further details please see Resources and Acombination of data audits and Relationships on page 23. datamapping exercises have been undertaken across the Group to help prioritise key areas for improvement.
For further details please see Risk Management and Internal Controls section pages 42 and 43.
Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity Continue the evolution of our approach Continual focus on and review of As the Group grows there are increasing to managing compliance to ensure it is strategy ensures the Board are well opportunities for further internal embedded in our day-to-day operations placed to assess value adding promotion, and transfers.
and therefore ensures efficient processes opportunities as they arise.
The acquisition of Regal has resulted inthe enlarged Group becoming the second largest operator in the world bynumber of screens.
21 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Key Viability Statement Provide the best cinema experience Be technological leaders in the give our customers a choice of how industry to offer the latest audio In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance to watch a movie, with a range of retail andvisual technology Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the offerings, all underpinned by the best enlarged Group over a period longer than one year, Drive value for shareholders by customer service taking into account the Groups current position, the delivering our growth plans in an Expand and enhance our estate efficient and effective way recent acquisition of Regal and the potential impact of toprovide consistent, high quality, the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages moderncinemas 19 to 22.
The Directors have determined that a three year period from the date of approving the financial statements constitutes an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
Three years was determined based on the visibility of the future film slate, the enlarged Groups property expansion 10.
Terrorism and and renovation plans, investment in technology and InternalControl CivilUnrest relationships with the film distributors.
A critical internal control and Inability to respond The Groups business model and strategy, which are or governance failing occurs toamajorincident not expected to change significantly as a result of the Regal acquisition, other than to be implemented in the US following the completion of acquisition, are central to an understanding of the Groups prospects, and Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner Risk trend Link to strategy Risk owner details can be found on pages 14 to 15.
The nature of CFO COO the enlarged Groups activities are long-term and the business model is open-ended.
The Groups current overall strategy has been in place for several years, Impact Impact subject to the ongoing monitoring and development.
Maintaining corporate governance Cinema businesses could be affected standards and an effective and efficient by civil unrest or terrorist acts threats, The Directors viability assessment has taken into risk management and internal control resulting in the public avoiding going consideration the potential impacts of the principal system, proportionate to the needs of to the cinema.
The Group may be risks in the business model, future performance, the Group, is a key part of short and subject to an increased risk of solvency and liquidity over the period, including long-term success.
Any failure and or boycott, targeted civil unrest or principal mitigating actions such as reducing capital weakness in this area financial and terrorist action threat as a result expenditure and dividend payments.
For the purpose non-financial could have an impact ofoperating in and being linked to of assessing the enlarged Groups viability, the onthe efficient andeffective operations certain countries or types of film.
Directors identified that, of the principal risks detailed ofthe Group.
Thiscould adversely impact the on pages 19 to 22 are the most important to the financial performance of the Group.
assessment of the viability of the enlarged Group: availability and performance of film content, viewer Mitigation activity Mitigation activity experience and competition, and the expansion and The Group uses various mechanisms We receive communications from growth of our cinema estate.
to support the implementation and relevant government authorities Based on the principal risks identified above, scenario effectiveness of controls.
and law enforcement agencies based assessments were performed for the enlarged which keep us informed and allow These include: Group.
The scenarios applied included: us, when needed, to monitor any implementation of the Group Risk potential impact external events reducing both admissions, as a result of lack of film Management Framework: could have on the security of our content or increased competition through the ongoing self-assessment process cinema estate.
emergence of new technology or alternative for monitoring cinema formats to watch movies, Should an incident occur at one compliance and financial control ofthe Groups sites, business reducing average ticket price, as a result of lack standards: continuity and disaster recovery offilm content, and or increased competition regular consultation and advice plans are in place to ensure that through the emergence of new technology from external advisors: management can react oralternative formats to watch movies, appropriately.
a risk-based cinema compliance no further expansion of the cinema estate, and and financial control audit Appropriate insurance is in place a combination of the above.
programme: tomitigate the financial In performing the scenario assessments the enlarged consequences.
the delivery of targeted riskGroup would still be able to continue to meet its based internal audit reviews: and day-to-day liabilities as they fall due over the three the use of technology for live year period.
Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that the enlarged Group may face, the Directors Changes in the year Changes in the year consider that the scenario-based assessment Continued evolution of the Groups Incidents of terrorism across the prepared on the enlarged Groups prospects is risk management programme and globe means the Group continues reasonable in the circumstances given the inherent the delivery of supporting assurance to focus on this as part of its uncertainty involved.
activity areproviding ongoing ongoing cinema operations.
improvements to the overall system The Directors believe the risk management and of internal control.
internal control systems in place allow them to monitor the key variables that have the ability to For further details please see Risk impact the liquidity and the solvency of the enlarged Management and Internal Control report onpages 42 and 43.
Group and are confident that management are able tosufficiently mitigate certain situations should they Opportunity Opportunity arise.
Mitigating actions that could be taken include Continue to further enhance the use Continuous review of processes reducing capital expenditure, reducing dividend of technology for embedding which can identify areas for payments and reducing variable costs.
automated controls and providing operational improvement and Based on this robust assessment, and having considered ongoing live assurance.
improve overall safety at oursites.
the established and expected controls for the risks and the available mitigating actions, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the enlarged Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period.
