Strategic Report Risk management Senior executives are responsible for the The appetite for risk in the areas of legal and Morgan has an established risk strategic management of the Groups principal regulatory compliance is extremely low and management methodology risks, including related policy, guidelines and the Group expects its businesses to comply process, subject to Board oversight.
with all laws and regulations in the countries which seeks to identify, where they operate.
The Group has a low Throughout 2017, the Board reviewed the status appetite for financial risk.
Certain risks, such prioritise and mitigate risks, of all principal risks with a significant potential as pension funding, are likely to take a longer underpinned by a three lines impact at Group level.
Additionally, the Audit period to be mitigated.
Committee carried out focused risk reviews of defence model comprising of each Division GBU.
These reviews included As in 2016, an indication of the Boards an internal control framework, an analysis of both the principal risks, and the assessment of the trend of each risk i. e. controls, monitoring and assurance processes whether the potential impact has increased, internal monitoring, and established to mitigate those risks to acceptable decreased or is broadly unchanged over the past independent assurance levels.
As a result of these reviews, a number year is included.
The Board has also identified of actions were identified to continue to improve new risks to the delivery of the Groups strategy processes.
internal controls and the management of risk.
and these are indicated in the table below.
The Board considers that risk management and High-level guidance on the Boards appetite The following are the Groups principal risks internal control are fundamental to achieving the for different risks is included again this year.
and uncertainties, representing those risks Group aim of delivering long-term sustainable The Group is willing to take considered risks that the Board feels could have the most growth in shareholder value.
significant impact on achieving the Groups to develop new technologies, applications, strategy of building a sustainable business for partnerships and markets for its products, and Risks are identified both top down by the the long term and delivering strong returns to meet customer needs.
The Group strives Board and the Executive Committee, and to the Groups shareholders.
to eliminate risks to product quality and health bottom up through the Groups global business and safety, which are essential to the success units GBUs and Divisions, and are quantified of our products and the safety of our people by assessing their inherent impact and mitigated and contractors.
probability to ensure that residual risk exposures are understood and prioritised for control throughout the Group.
Risk description, assessment and trend from 2016 Mitigation The Group has a Chief Technology Officer and a dedicated 1.
Technical leadership technology team which monitors relevant technology and business The Groups strategic success depends on maintaining and developing developments globally using technology roadmaps linked to 20 major its technical leadership in materials science over its competitors.
technology families to ensure it remains at the leading edge of Unforeseen unmitigated technology obsolescence, the emergence of development.
Two global Centres of Excellence were previously competing technologies, the loss of control of proprietary technology established, with a further Centre opening in Hayward California, or the loss of intellectual property know-how would impact the USA in 2017.
A fourth Centre is being established at Penn State Groups business and its ability to deliver on its strategic goals.
University, Pennsylvania, USA, which will formally open in 2018.
These Centres focus Morgans expertise and research resources on The advanced technological nature of the Group requires people with highly differentiated skillsets.
Any inability to recruit, retain and develop core technologies.
They are supported by a Technical Advisory Board comprising some of the worlds leading academics in relevant fields, the right people would negatively impact the Groups ability to achieve its strategic goals.
who provide ongoing insight, advice and challenge to inform the Groups technology plans.
Trend The technology team proactively manages the Groups technology Unchanged pipeline and R&D investment in existing technologies, as well as actively managing the technology lifecycle.
The technology pipeline and key R&D projects are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board.
Where Group products are designed for a specific customer, they are developed in partnership with the customer in order to maintain leading-edge differentiation.
The Group seeks to secure intellectual property protection, where appropriate, for its existing and emerging portfolio of products: external advisers manage this protection globally.
The Group continued its Global Leadership Programme in conjunction with Cranfield University, adding an advanced programme to develop more high-potential commercial, functional and technical leaders.
The Graduate Leadership Programme continued to run in 2017.
Further detail on our people can be found on pages 52 to 53.
Further detail on R&D can be found on pages 18 to 19.
26 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Strategic and external risks Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk key Increase No change Decrease Risk description, assessment and trend from 2016 Mitigation Changes to operational processes are carefully considered by site, 2.
Operational execution organisational change GBU and Divisional management before implementation.
Personnel sales effectiveness improvements have been made within the businesses to oversee As part of the Groups strategy to improve the efficiency of its operations operational changes, for example with a new VP of Operational and organisation, various changes have been made to operational Excellence joining the Technical Ceramics GBU in 2017. processes at individual sites, to the Groups structure, and the structure Operational improvements and savings are monitored against budget of and incentives for our sales force.
Further improvements and changes by the Executive Committee to ensure that changes deliver the savings are planned for future years.
Failure to adequately manage these changes promised without disruption to business operations.
Organisational could result in interruption to operations or customer service, or a failure changes are assessed by the CEO, the Executive Committee and to maximise the Groups opportunities.
sometimes the Board before being implemented in line with local employment regulations.
Changes to our sales structures and Trend incentives are reviewed at various levels of the organisation, before New risk, no change being launched.
The Board performs regular reviews of the Groups portfolio and has 3.
Portfolio management disposed of non-core businesses in 2017.
The Group operates across a range of product and technology families.
These are subject to long-term market trends which may lead to either obsolescence or opportunities to further expand the Group.
Failure to proactively manage the Groups portfolio of businesses in line with this technology profile may lead to the value of the Groups businesses being eroded over time or a failure to exploit opportunities to acquire businesses with the capability to add further value to the Group.
Trend New risk, no change The Groups broad market and geographic spread helps to mitigate 4.
Macro-economic and political environment the effects of political and economic changes.
The Group operates in a range of markets and geographies around the Budgets and forecasts for Morgans different businesses are used to world and could be affected by political, economic, social or regulatory monitor delivery against expectations and anticipate potential external developments or instability, for example an economic slowdown or risks to performance.
These are subject to regular review by the issues stemming from oil and natural resources price shocks.
The UKs exit from the EU may have an impact on the Group if The overall macroeconomic environment has improved during subsequent tariff changes, or border effects, negatively impact the the course of the year and the Group has delivered organic growth.
profitability of the Groups products.
The current value of Group UK exports to the EU is approximately 30 million, and imports The impact of the UKs exit from the EU could be mitigated by moving into the UK from the EU are approximately 15 million.
production to alternative sites where tariffs are not applied to products.
Trend Decreased Managing its operations safely is the Groups number one priority.
En vironment, health and safety EHS Group has a comprehensive EHS programme managed by the Director The Group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around the EHS, with clear EHS standards and a programme of independent audits world.
A failure in the Groups EHS procedures could lead to to assess compliance.
environmental damage or to injury or death of employees or third The Director EHS sets annual priorities for EHS which are approved by parties, with a consequential impact on operations and increased risk the Executive Committee.
These form the basis for individual sites own of regulatory or legal action being taken against the Group.
Any such EHS priorities and plans, and complement the Groups thinkSAFE action could result in both financial damages and damage to reputation.
Trend EHS performance is monitored by the Executive Committee and the Unchanged Board.
As at 31 December 2017 the Group was managing projects to remediate legacy contamination at three former sites and one operational site in conjunction with external specialists and relevant authorities.
The anticipated costs of these projects are provided for in the financial statements.
Further detail of the EHS programme can be found on pages 46 to 51.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 27 Operational risks Strategic and external risks Strategic Report Risk management continued Risk description, assessment and trend from 2016 Mitigation Many of the Groups products are designed to customer specifications.
Product quality, safety and liability Our businesses quality management systems and training help ensure Products used in applications for which they were not intended that all of Morgans products meet or exceed customer requirements or inadequate quality control over-commitment on customer and national international standards.
specifications could result in products not meeting customer The Group Legal Policy requires that contracts relating to products requirements, which could in turn lead to significant liabilities used in potential high-risk applications are subject to legal review to and reputational damage.
ensure that appropriate protections are in place for product Some of our products are used in potentially higher risk applications quality risks.
such as in the aerospace, automotive, medical and power industries.
The Group insurance programme includes product liability insurance: this Group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
Trend Unchanged The Group has an Information Technology IT Policy and guidelines 7.
I T and cyber security in place as well as Group and business IT teams to manage the Groups Information security cyber risks are dynamic and ever-present in infrastructure, IT systems and information security risks.
A new IT the external environment.
If the Group were to lose critical data or Security Policy was launched in 2017 to further enhance security.
information, including proprietary technology information, through In 2018 the Group is required to comply with the National Institute of inadequate data management or compromised information security, Standards and Technology NIST cybersecurity framework in the USA the business would be impacted and could suffer reputational damage.
and the EUs General Data Protection Regulations.
Programmes to The effective management of the Groups IT infrastructure is deliver compliance with these requirements are well advanced.
important in enabling our businesses to reliably deliver customer The Group continues to deploy and upgrade enhanced enterprise requirements.
If a key business system were to fail or core systems resource planning ERP systems in those businesses where a need implementation were ineffective, the ability of the business to deliver for improvement is identified.
These deployments are managed in on its strategic goals might be impacted.
line with IT project management standards.
Trend Unchanged The Group has a diversified manufacturing, customer and geographic base 8.
Supply chain business continuity which provides a level of resilience against single-point exposures.
Were The Group has a number of potential single-point exposure risks, any site to be unavailable, production in most cases could be switched to which include: other sites.
Single-point supplier a significant interruption of a key internal or Management of these risks also involves monitoring and reviewing supply external supply could impact business continuity.
chains internal and external, dual multiple sourcing of materials or Single-point customer the unmitigated loss of a major customer could have an impact on Group profit.
The Groups largest customer strategic stock, site security and safety mechanisms, business continuity represents circa 2% of Group revenue.
plans, the maintenance of product quality and strong customer Single-point site a key site exposed to a strike, a natural catastrophe or relationships.
serious incident, such as fire, could impact business continuity.
One The Group insurance programme includes business interruption cover Group site, Hayward, is situated in the California earthquake zone, USA.
and specific cover in relation to the impact of an earthquake in California, USA: this Group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
Trend Unchanged The Groups treasury function operates on a risk-averse basis.
Treasury Required controls over selection of banks, cash management and The Groups global reach means that it is exposed to uncertainties in other treasury practices and payments globally are documented in the financial markets, the fiscal jurisdictions where it operates, and the Morgans Treasury Policy and related procedures.
The Group treasury banking sector which heighten the Groups funding, foreign exchange, team manages the Groups funding, liquidity, cash management, interest tax, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks as well as the risk that a bank rate, foreign exchange, counterparty credit and other treasury-related failure could impact the Groups cash.
Treasury matters are regularly reviewed by the Board and Audit Committee.
Trend Decreased In 2017 the Group repaid 20 million and $175 million of private placement debt utilising the funds raised by the 2016 US private debt placement.
Further detail on our Treasury Policy is set out in the Group Financial Review, and can be found on page 39.
28 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Financial risks Operational risks Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk description, assessment and trend from 2016 Mitigation The Groups tax function, working in conjunction with external specialists 10.
Tax as required, closely monitors fiscal developments and changes such as The Group operates in many jurisdictions around the world and could BEPS and US tax reform, to ensure that the Groups tax arrangements be affected by changes in tax laws and regulations within the complex and practices continue to comply with the requirements of all relevant international tax environment.
jurisdictions whilst also enabling efficient management of the tax liability.
The OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS framework The Groups Head of Tax reports periodically to the Audit Committee provides additional obligations and filing requirements for the Group as on key tax issues and initiatives.
countries implement the actions in the framework.
These could have an impact on the tax paid by the Group.
Tax reform in the US could also impact the Groups tax rate.
Trend Unchanged Morgans primary means of mitigating pensions funding risk is proactive 11.
Pension funding management of the pension scheme assets and liabilities through an The Group sponsors several Defined Benefit pension arrangements integrated pension strategy focusing on funding, investment and benefit whose liabilities are subject to fluctuating interest rates, investment risk.
This involves both internal management within the Group and values and inflation.
This coupled with the increased longevity of also externally through the scheme Trustees, corporate actuaries members will result in increased funding burdens on the Group and professional advisers.
In the UK, the Morgan Senior Executive Pension and Life Assurance The deficit in Morgans global Defined Benefit pension schemes Scheme closed to future accrual in April 2016 and the Morgan Pension calculated on the basis required for IAS19 accounting disclosures Scheme will close to future accrual in April 2018.
In consultation with the increased from 204 million as at 31 December 2015 to 271 million Company, the Trustees have also adopted a pro-active approach to the at 31 December 2016, reducing to 218 million at 31 December 2017. management of risk in the Schemes investment portfolios, significantly reducing their unhedged interest and inflation rate exposure.
Trend Decreased In the USA, in June 2016 one Defined Benefit Pension Plan completed a full legal termination, and for the other remaining Scheme, a formal offer of a , lump-sum cash payment was made to members.
In December 2017, the Company made an additional contribution of $36 million to this Scheme.
The Group has an in-house legal function supplemented by specialist 12.
As a global advanced materials business supplying components into The Group Legal Policy requires in-house legal review of high-value or critical applications, the Group may be exposed to liabilities arising high-risk contracts to ensure they contain appropriate protections for the from the use of its products.
Ineffective contract risk management Group.
The Policy requires CEO approval before a business can enter could result in significant liabilities for the Group and could damage into an unlimited liability contract or one where the liability cap exceeds customer relationships.
Trend During 2017 the legal function transitioned to a geographic model to Unchanged enable closer engagement between the Groups businesses and lawyers.
This model is delivering improved collaboration in managing contract risks.
To the extent that risk cannot be mitigated through contractual arrangements, the Group has insurance cover in place, including product liability insurance.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate and 13.
This commitment is set out in the Groups Core Values The Groups global operations must comply with a range of national Statement and Ethics Policy, and is underpinned by ongoing investment and international laws and regulations including those related to bribery in the in-house Responsible Business Programme RBP.
The RBP is a and corruption, human rights, trade export compliance and wide-ranging programme which includes policies, standards and guidance: competition anti-trust activities.
training materials: the provision of an employee ethics hotline: and systems A failure to comply with any applicable laws regulations could result to support effective screening and due diligence of third parties.
in civil or criminal liabilities and or individual or corporate fines and A new Director of Ethics & Compliance has been appointed who will could also result in debarment from government-related contracts or be oversee further improvements to the RBP in 2018. rejection by financial market counterparties and reputational damage.
The Group also has an Export Compliance Director in the USA whose role is dedicated to ensuring compliance with export controls.
Trend Unchanged In addition to Group level compliance specialists, our businesses are required to establish compliance officer roles, which are responsible for supporting local training and monitoring.
Morgan also employs country-specific trade and export compliance specialists in higher risk businesses and jurisdictions.
Further details on the RBP can be found on page 45.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 29 Legal and Compliance Risk Financial risks
