Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk Management Supporting growth through effective risk management Principal Risks and Uncertainties Principal Risk Assessment In addition, the Board remains vigilant Operating as a cinema chain that is now The Board has undertaken a robust onthe possible impact of Brexit, but in ten different territories presents a assessment of the principal risks facing currently does not believe the UKs exit number ofrisks and uncertainties that the Group during the year, including from the European Union willhave a continue to be the focus of the Boards those that would threaten its business significant impact on the underlying ongoing attention.
model, future performance, solvency trading performance of the Group going and liquidity.
This is on the basis that we Risk Management Approach donot trade across borders but within The Groups approach to risk management The time-frame horizon for consideration territories, we are an attractive place and internal control is designed to of the principal risks is aligned to the towork and therefore have many manage risk at all levels.
Where possible, three year period used when considering applications for roles, and the nature the Group has implemented appropriate the future viability of the Group.
For ofour business has a proven consumer mitigation strategies to reduce the further details please see the Groups appeal throughout all economic cycles.
overall risk exposure in line with the viability statement on page 22.
For further details Appetite The acquisition of Regal will have a direct please see the Group approach to risk The Board undertook a formal annual impact on the principal risks of the management set out on pages 42 and 43. review of risk appetite, ensuring that enlarged Group over this time-frame theview it has established for each of During the year the Group further horizon and therefore consideration is the principal risks reflects its current strengthened the components of the being given by the Board as to its impact perspective and its willingness to accept Risk Management Framework with the on the existing principal risks and the risk in pursuit of the strategic objectives introduction of an executive Risk requirement for any additional principal of the Group.
For further details please Committee consisting of the Deputy risks that should be added.
see the Group approach to risk CEO, CFO, Head ofRisk and Assurance Two examples of the additional risk management set out on pages 42 and 43. and alternating business representatives factors being considered include: that meets quarterly.
This has helped Viability integration of the enlarged Group: ensure that therisk profile remains In addition, the Directors viability andthe economic and environment up-to-date andaccurately reflects the assessment has taken into consideration conditions of operating in the US.
the potential impact of the principal risks in the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period, including principal mitigating actions such as reducing capital expenditure.
More details about the viability assessment may be found on page 22.
Principal Risks Risk Strategic Relevance Trend Owner 1.
Technology and Data Deputy CEO 2.
Availability and Performance of Film Content CCO 3.
Expansion and Growth of Our Cinema Estate CEO 4.
Revenue from Retail Concession Offerings CCO 6.
Strategy and Performance Deputy CEO 9.
Retention and Attraction Deputy CEO 10.
Terrorism and Civil Unrest COO 18
