STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL REVIEW ACADEMIC PUBLISHING academics and researchers with the latest peer-reviewed HIGH QUALITY developments and research findings in their particular 2.0% field, providing knowledge on which to build further research and discoveries.
underlying revenue SCHOLARLY growth 2016: 0.3% The performance of the Books business improved in 2017, following a strong end to the year in specialist upper level RESEARCH AND books, which account for the vast majority of revenue.
Textbooks that address lower level undergraduate study 8.1% REFERENCE-LED have continued to suffer from broader market headwinds, reported revenue particularly in the US, where higher education enrolment CONTENT growth 2016: 9.6% is down and alternative, cheap, book rental models are becoming more popular.
We have limited exposure to this market, which was further reduced at the end of 2017 REVENUE m through the sale of the Garland Science textbooks business.
30% A series of operational initiatives was launched in the Books 2014 408.9 of Group revenue business during the year, designed to improve publication 2015 447.4 2016: 36% efficiency and customer service.
This benefited trading, as 2016 490.4 did the launch of a new single online platform for ebook 2017 530.0 content in September 2017.
Our books are typically purchased as individual units or in bulk orders by distributors, and are 7,100 produced in a format-agnostic way where customers decide whether to receive an ebook or a printed book.
Demand for ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m new books published ebooks remained consistent in 2017 at 26% of Books revenue, in 2017 compared with 25% in 2016.
2014 150.0 2015 164.8 We continued to look for opportunities to invest in new areas of growth in 2017.
This saw us add Dove Medical Press to the 2016 187.2 Division, a publisher of high quality, open access medical and 2017 208.0 health sciences journals.
Open access journals provide an alternative publishing model for authors, allowing them, their funding body or institution to ur Academic Publishing Division curates and pay a fee for research to be published once it has passed publishes high quality scholarly research and through peer review.
That content is made freely available for reference-led content in a range of specialist anyone to access.
We have been steadily building our open subjects for academic communities, typically access content and capabilities in recent years, providing authors Oindividuals in the later years of undergraduate with more options and greater flexibility, and ensuring we service study, postgraduates, professional researchers, and research this growing market.
The addition of Dove adds further capacity bodies and institutions.
It operates as the Taylor & Francis and capability in open access, increasing the Divisions portfolio Group and is recognised as one of the worlds leading upper of established open access journals to nearly 300. level academic publishers.
Brands and imprints include Routledge, CRC Press, Cogent OA and Taylor & Francis.
In May, we invested in colwiz, a digital services business that applies big data analytics and machine learning to global 2017 FINANCIAL AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE research activities and trends, to create new insights on scientific The Academic Publishing Division delivered another robust developments for researchers and institutional funders.
and consistent financial performance in 2017, posting underlying revenue growth of 2.0%.
A significant development for the Academic Publishing Division in 2017 was the appointment of Annie Callanan as Divisional The Division comprises a Global Journals and a Global Books Chief Executive Officer.
Having most recently been CEO at business, both predominantly serving the upper level academic information and software services group Quantros, Annie has community, but with differing growth drivers and characteristics.
brought a deep understanding of the application of technology Journals continued to perform strongly over the year, maintaining to knowledge and information services, something that is a high level of subscription renewals and consistent, modest increasing relevant in the academic market.
This was supported by the depth of specialist content Annies initial focus has been on engaging with customers, in its portfolio and the benefits of GAP investments made in its suppliers and distributors as widely as possible in the US, online platform, T&F Online, which have made content more Europe, China, India and Australia, to gain a full understanding discoverable and flexible.
All our journals are produced and of market trends and customer requirements.
delivered digitally and are typically purchased individually or in packages by university libraries or departments, research institutions and, occasionally, by individuals.
They provide 42 43 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED ACADEMIC PUBLISHING CONTINUED ACADEMIC PUBLISHING MARKET TRENDS Another key trend is the use of technology and digital platforms, CONNECTING BOOK CONTENT, The market for scholarly research and reference-led academic whether for content delivery, customer tracking or search content is global and predominantly based on the English capability.
The nature of peer-reviewed research, with its citations CREATING NEW OPPORTUNITIES language.
Authors, funders, institutions and users are based and cross references to other research, makes it well suited to a In 2016, Taylor & Franciss Journals content moved all over the world, with research developments readily travelling digital format, allowing readers to switch easily between articles onto a single online platform T&F Online a new, across borders amongst specialist communities.
and search for other relevant material on the same subject.
This optimised and user-friendly repository for nearly 4m has been a driver of journal content usage in recent years.
China is becoming an increasingly important hub for research in a number of key disciplines, and Taylor & Francis is commissioning Book content also has the potential to become more valuable In 2017, it was the turn of the Divisions ebooks content and receiving more submissions from Chinese authors than ever through more granular digitisation, with the ability to identify over 100,000 ebooks, 1.4m chapters, countless as the countrys academic output grows, supported by a team of individual chapters and sections relevant to a particular topic.
paragraphs and every subject area we publish on to around 30 colleagues based in Beijing and Shanghai.
In a world where electronic search is ubiquitous, the importance migrate to a single digital destination for the first time.
of making content discoverable in this way is likely to increase.
In some countries, academic research funding is managed Mark Majurey, Commercial Director & Vice President, at a national level.
For example, in 2017 Taylor & Francis Digitisation also creates an opportunity for publishers to better Digital, at Taylor & Francis explained: The project to unify launched an initiative to provide journal content to academics understand customers and anticipate their needs by tracking our books content, making the huge amount of knowledge and the wider public in Egypt, as part of an agreement with and analysing usage and consumption.
Such analytics can housed in this format more discoverable and usable the Egyptian Knowledge Bank, a government-backed inform commissioning decisions, balancing typically supplyfor customers and better showing the wealth T&F based editorial models with demand-based evidence.
At a time national knowledge archive.
publishes, was the next part in a Division-wide GAP when budgets at many institutions and libraries are relatively flat, investment initiative.
analytics are also being used to assist customer purchasing decisions and demonstrate value, with annual and multi-year The challenge was huge we have one of the largest packages tailored to content usage.
collections of e-content in book form of any publisher.
DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY TYPE % 2018 FOCUS AND POSSIBILITIES It took 11 months building and testing, during which we The focus for the Academic Publishing Division in 2018, in trialled the platform with six institutions from the US, its first full year under the leadership of Annie Callanan, is to UK and Hong Kong, to make sure it would address how maintain a consistent performance in the core Journals and individual researchers and institutions would actually Books businesses, while extending and capitalising on the use it and understand where the gaps were.
digital publishing initiatives undertaken through GAP.
Subscription 53% The Taylor & Francis ebooks platform at Investment will continue in end-to-end digital processes Unit sales 47% www.
com went live to all customers and capabilities that respond to the way knowledge is used over September and October.
But as Mark explains, and shared today, that support increased content use and this is just the first step.
discoverability, generate new analytics and insight, and allow the business to explore new areas of innovation and The reception has been positive.
The platform opens growth, such as digital research services.
up more possibilities and value for customers now that they can more quickly and accurately find content on We will continue to offer a range of flexible publishing models.
their specialist topic that might have been buried before, This will include further expansion in open access, through new connect chapters in different books, gain new insights, and journal launches and potentially converting certain subscription make and share new discoveries.
With more use being journals to this model, leveraging the specialist production made of the content, author satisfaction is also improved.
capabilities acquired with Dove Medical Press.
Operating an efficient and scalable business will also remain Commercially, increasing usage means that over time, DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY % a focus, with further initiatives underway to capture efficiencies we can build on our current ebook revenue streams in common areas of operational and production processes.
and explore new opportunities from additional digital services.
Were excited about the possibility of adding Quality, depth and specialism of content are at the core of what extra features that make ebooks behave differently to the business provides to customers.
Academics and institutions print books from animation to additional data sets.
rely on the quality assurance that accompanies new research North America 51% published in major journals to adopt new thinking and apply it to We can also see exactly what users are interested in and Rest of World 25% their own research.
Equally, they expect rigorous analysis and are consuming, target them with related content in a more challenge for their research output to be recognised, published personalised way, share analytics with institutions and Continental Europe 13% and associated with our reputed brands or those of society work with them to tailor pricing to the value their users UK 11% partners such as the Mathematical Association of America, are getting.
It also makes it easier to add new content on which we will launch a journal with in 2018. a continuous basis.
Through curating, publishing and disseminating such knowledge professionally and effectively, we provide value to the academic community that can benefit the wider population.
44 45 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
