PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Description Key mitigations Change Links to strategy As we move towards more centralised production and national distribution, any interruption All of our supply sites have contingency plans in place.
We simulate scenarios and test Loss of No change to production may have a significant impact on our customers.
We have identified alternative supply sources for key production ingredients and products.
Our property insurers conduct annual site inspections, helping us to protect our facilities.
Due to our  structure, and the fact that we freshly prepare food every day in our Procedures are in place throughout our supply sites and shops to ensure that food safety is Product quality No change retail premises, we may have a greater exposure to food safety risk than many of our competitors.
Compliance is monitored both internally and by regulatory bodies.
and safety We may suffer a loss of trade due to customer confidence being impacted by an external food scare Most of the products on sale in our shops are made by our staff in our bakeries.
Routine checks Food scare No change beyond our control.
are carried out to confirm the integrity of our products and ingredients.
Changing customer habits such as the increasing popularity of online shopping impact on our ability We are progressively diversifying the market segments in which we trade, reducing the reliance Market No change to attract footfall into our shops.
This includes opening shops in travel and workplace locations as well as developing pressures our food offer to match the needs of customers outside of general shopping hours.
We continue to implement our strategy of transformation into a food-on-the-go retailer, requiring We phase our change activity to avoid affecting the Company as a whole wherever possible.
Business No change restructuring, capital investment and new systems implementation.
Timelines and forecasts are clearly defined and agreed.
Progress against these is reported on change a regular basis to our Operating Board.
Expected timelines or savings may not be met, and there may be disruption to our customers.
As with all businesses, our data and systems are exposed to external threats such as hackers or viruses.
We actively monitor our networks and systems, including conducting regular penetration testing.
Cyber and No change These could lead to data breaches, or disruption to our operation.
Our approach to information security is closely monitored by the Board.
data security The new General Data Protection Regulation GDPR provides a rigorous control framework, with severe We are working to ensure compliance with the GDPR requirements, including data mapping, penalties for non-compliance.
policy development and staff training.
As customers become more concerned about nutrition, health and the provenance of food, our We continue to work on improving the nutrition of our traditional products, including a Consumer No change traditional products may be perceived as less attractive.
The publication of the Governments 25 year commitment to reduce sugar in line with the Governments Childhood Obesity Strategy.
trends Environmental Strategy and growing concern over the environment may give rise to the introduction Our Balanced Choice range provides healthier options and is growing well.
of additional levies and taxes.
We are working hard to reduce our impact on the environment, including reviewing our packaging designs, introducing a reusable hot drinks cup and continuing to reduce our carbon intensity.
Following the implementation of new Sentencing Council guidelines, large financial penalties could We have a system of controls and monitoring in place, and our teams are provided with extensive New Regulatory be imposed on the business for breaches of Food Safety or Health & Safety legislation.
Due to the training on safe processes and procedures.
Our audit processes confirm whether proper and compliance number of stores we operate, and the volume of customer transactions we handle on a daily basis, procedures are being followed.
we may be exposed to isolated incidents which fall below our expected standards and may expose us to prosecution.
Increased uncertainty about the economy and the outcome of Brexit impacts on consumer confidence.
As a leading value brand, we take steps to control our costs whilst maintaining the quality of our New Economic Wider economic uncertainty and job insecurity may cause consumers to be more cautious with their customer offer.
We closely monitor our competitiveness and are focused on remaining great climate discretionary spending.
As our reliance on third parties for services, ingredients or business support increases, we become more Our own contingency arrangements consider the implications of key systems or ingredients being New Management exposed to their business interruption risks.
This could impact on our ability to produce, distribute or sell unavailable.
All third parties are vetted prior to us engaging with them.
Key supplier relationships of third party our products.
are managed by our central procurement team.
relationships Market forces and particularly the impact of Brexit may result in a shortage of available workforce.
This We offer attractive remuneration and benefit packages to reward our teams, along with training New Ability to may be compounded by the relative complexity of our shop operations compared with other retailers.
We carry out an annual opinion survey to ensure high levels of attract retain employee engagement.
motivate people We are working to streamline our shop processes and simplify operations for our teams.
As part of our business change programme, we are investing in improved recruitment processes.
In addition to the risks relating to the economy and resources highlighted above, there is uncertainty Developments continue to be monitored, with regular review by our Operating Board.
New Impact regarding the possibility of changes to trading arrangements, customs agreement, tariffs etc.
This may Contingency arrangements are being considered.
of Brexit give rise to increased costs.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 36 Strategic Report Description Key mitigations Change Links to strategy As we move towards more centralised production and national distribution, any interruption All of our supply sites have contingency plans in place.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
