Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that risks are managed appropriately The responsibilities of key participants within the Our risk management approach risk management process are summarised below: We have well-established risk management processes embedded within the business, which Board of Directors Audit Committee enable us to identify, evaluate, record and monitor Ultimate responsibility for ensuring risks are significant risks.
Taking an appropriate level of risk is managed appropriately: an inherent part of any business, but in doing so we full annual review of the risk management process: assess the likelihood and impact of each risk arising.
regular consideration of key strategic risks and new and emerging risks: and The diagram below sets out our approach and shows robust annual assessment of principal risks as the various information flows.
set out on the following page.
Business Assurance Function Risk Committee Operating Board Quarterly detailed discussion of significant risks: understanding the business exposure to risk: Key Other New & Insured Functional Project supporting the implementation of the strategic strategic emerging risks risks risks risks risks risks Companys risk management strategy: and escalating significant matters to Main Board, via the Audit Committee.
Risk Manager Risk Manager Maintaining the corporate risk register: supporting the Risk Committee to operate effectively: and Risk Committee Operating Board ensuring adequate insurance is in place, as determined by the Main Board.
Business Assurance function Main Board Audit Committee Providing independent internal audit coverage of the business, reporting findings to Audit Committee : oversight of the risk process: and support to the whistleblowing process, which allows staff to raise matters of concern.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently Principal risks and uncertainties known to management or deemed less material These risks are those which the Directors consider currently, may also have an adverse effect on the to present the most significant threat to the business business.
Further, the exposure to each risk will future development or performance.
evolve as we take mitigating actions, or as new risks emerge.
The risks set out below provide a snapshot Additional risks have been disclosed this year of the position at the date of the annual report.
This is in response to guidance from the Financial Reporting The risks are described along with the strategic Council, along with a peer review of the disclosures pillars to which they are linked, and the movement of other companies operating in the retail environment, in net risk level during the year.
They are ranked which has encouraged reporting of a broader range based on their perceived impact and likelihood, of risks to enhance stakeholder understanding.
As taking into account the effectiveness of existing a result, we have reported on five additional risks in controls i. e. the net risk faced by the business.
All risks reported in last years statement remain relevant.
Our principal risks can be mapped to our strategy and categorised as follows: Where appropriate, the impact of these risks occurring has been considered when developing the scenarios tested as part of the financial viability statement as set out opposite.
Great tasting freshly Best customer Competitive First class prepared food experience supply chain support teams Loss of production Product quality Product quality Food scare Food scare Market pressures Business change Cyber & data security Consumer trends Regulatory and compliance Economic climate Management of third party relationships Ability to attract retain motivate people Impact of Brexit Key Strategic risk Operational risk Compliance risk Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 34 Strategic Report In order to stress-test the Companys financial Viability statement resilience three separate scenarios were created to The Directors have assessed the Companys simulate the impact arising from the occurrence of prospects and viability taking into account its current the following principal risks: position, plans and principal risks.
A brand-damaging food scare resulting in a remains cash-generative and has no debt other than significant one-year sales reduction followed normal trading liabilities to creditors and the by gradual recovery of confidence.
In making obligations arising under commercial leases and its assumptions the Directors considered real defined benefit pension scheme.
In assessing the examples of companies in the food sector that Companys prospects the Board has taken into had experienced such issues.
The impact of a ten per cent annual sales The Companys strong financial position and decline as a result of changing shopping habits cash-generative nature.
The continued growth of out-of-home eating 3.
Temporary loss of production capacity for the and the alignment of the Companys offer to this Companys iconic pastry savoury products growing market.
and the consequences for liquidity as capacity The potential for further growth in existing is restored.
markets and investment plans to support this.
The maintenance of a competitive, differentiated In each case the Directors reviewed the mitigating offer to customers.
actions that would be necessary to protect the Controls over and mitigations of the occurrence Companys liquidity.
These included: of principal risks and uncertainties.
Temporary suspension of dividend payments in order to preserve cash for operational use, In assessing the Companys viability the Board including the restoration of customer has considered potential scenarios that have confidence in the Greggs brand.
been envisaged to reflect the occurrence of the Restriction of capital investment to cover only principal risks that the business faces.
These include essential maintenance of infrastructure, taking threats to its operations, such as a loss of production into account capital commitments to major capacity, and the occurrence of risks affecting investment programmes.
confidence in the Greggs brand.
Addition of temporary financing facilities, taking into account the Companys In carrying out its assessment the Board has borrowing capacity.
reviewed the three-year operational and financial Drawing on the Companys insurance plan to 2020.
This is the period over which the Board arrangements on the occurrence of an reviews managements business planning and insured risk.
therefore the Board believes that this is the most appropriate timeframe over which to make the The scenarios tested represent more extreme viability assessment.
circumstances than the Company has ever experienced.
Based on the results of the analysis, The principal risks to which the Company is exposed the Directors have a reasonable expectation that ultimately affect the ability of its shops to trade the Company will be able to continue in operation successfully, either through an interruption to supply and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the or because of a loss of confidence in the Greggs three-year period of their detailed assessment.
A significant loss of sales would be particularly damaging given the Companys vertical integration in that the cost of the internal supply chain cannot be reduced quickly.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35
