S E V h I T C E J B O C I G E T A R T S S E V h I T C E J B O 32 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management is embedded throughout the business with all employees aware of the role they play.
Risk governance Risk appetite The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal Risk appetite is the level of risk the Group is willing to take to control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
This has achieve its strategic objectives and is set by the Board.
The been designed to assist the Board in making more risk-informed, Board looks at the Groups appetite to risk across a number strategic decisions with a view to creating and protecting of areas including market, nancing, operations, strategy and shareholder value.
execution, developments, cybersecurity and technology and brand.
The risk management framework The Groups risk appetite is set in the context of our focus on one sector funeral services.
As experts in this sector we are able to mitigate the risk involved in growing the business by Accountability and Governance Communication ownership acquisition, development and our active asset management strategy.
This focus on our core strengths is balanced by a more cautious approach to risk in other areas.
Whilst the Groups structured approach to risk management continues, given the changes in the market and the fact that IDENTIFy & ANALySE we will be testing a number of pricing and services initiatives during the year, the risk appetite of the Group has increased.
Risks and impact identied Risks mapped to controls currently in place Residual risks prioritised for mitigation Our approach to risk management confirmed with the Board The Group has a well established governance structure with internal control and risk management systems.
The risk management process: Provides a framework to identify, assess and manage risks, both positive and negative, to the Groups overall strategy and the contribution of its individual operations.
RISK ASSESSMENT ACTION IMPLEMENT PROCESS Allows the Board to fulfil its governance responsibilities by making a balanced and understandable assessment of the Controls identied Existing control operation of the risk management process and inputs.
enforced and tested Suggested action plans agreed Remedial action plans implemented Responsibilities and actions Options for controls identied and costed Board member accountable Plans approved The Board by the Board The Board is responsible for monitoring the Groups risk and their mitigants.
Risk process Every six months the Audit Committee formally considers the risk register and approves it for adoption by the Board.
Review Assess Report Respond Risk assessment Executive Directors and senior management are responsible for identifying and assessing business risks.
Identify Risks are identified through discussion with senior management and incorporated in the risk register as appropriate.
Assess The potential impact and likelihood of occurrence of each risk is considered.
Mitigating activities Mitigants are identified against each risk where possible.
Review and internal audit The link between each risk and the Groups policies and procedures is identified.
Where relevant, appropriate work is performed by the Groups internal audit function to assist in ensuring the related procedures and policies are appropriately understood and operated where they serve to mitigate risks.
C I G E T A R T S S E V h I T C E J B O C I G E T A R T S Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 33 Links See Strategy and business model: p. 14 and p. 15 See KPIs: p. 16 to p. 18 See Governance: p. 44 to p. 74 Risk status summary and new risks The ongoing review of the Groups principal risks focuses on how Our principal risks and uncertainties these risks may evolve.
Since the publication of last years Annual Report, we consider the following key principal risks to have an Outlined here are the principal risks facing the Group.
In assessing which risks should be classied as principal, we assess the probability of the risk materialising and the Increasing and emerging risk trends financial or strategic impact of the risk.
The focus of both the government and the media on the cost of funerals has increased which may aect the ability to increase Operational risk management average revenues per funeral or cremation.
In addition, there appears to be increased competition in both the funeral and Price competition pre-arranged funeral plan markets.
significant reduction in the death rate Nationwide adverse publicity Consumers are becoming more price conscious and prepared Ability to increase average revenues per funeral to shop around.
This is driven to a considerable extent by the or cremation internet which is changing the way that they seek information and make decisions on funeral-related matters.
The impact of significant reduction in market share the Groups digital and online presence on its risks therefore Demographic shifts in population needs to be considered.
Competition Taxes As a result of the changes in the competitive landscape, the Group has recognised that its exposure to a number of its Regulation of pre-arranged funeral plans principal risks has increased.
Regulation of the funeral industry Changes in the funding of the pre-arranged funeral Cyber risk plan business The increasing prevalence of cyber attack across the world, means that along with all large corporates, our business systems are under increasing level of attack.
Over the last few years we Financial risk management have invested signicantly in this area both in upgrading all Financial Covenant under the Secured Notes aspects of our systems and our internal resources and also using external consultants to perform regular external and internal penetration tests and using the results to drive a continuous The principal risks we have identied improvement programme.
We maintain a detailed register of principal risks and uncertainties covering strategic, operational, financial and Regulation compliance risks.
We rate them according to likelihood The increased focus on the whole sector may increase the of occurrence and their potential impact.
likelihood of regulation of funerals in the UK as a whole and not In the tables on pages 34 to 36 we provide a summary just in Scotland.
In addition, this could lead to regulation of the of each risk, a description of the potential impact and funeral plan sector with the Funeral Planning Authorities being a summary of mitigating actions.
re-constituted to be more of a regulatory body.
Whilst the Group believes that this would be beneficial, there still remains a risk Key: Risk trend measures that regulation could be imposed that may result in a significant cost burden to the Group.
Risk exposure increased Risk exposure decreased No significant change 34 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risk management Strategic Risk description and impact Mitigating activities 2017 Commentary Change objective link significant reduction in the death rate The prole of deaths has historically The number of deaths in 2017 1 3 5 There is a risk that the number of deaths in any followed a similar prole to that predicted was higher than expected.
This would have a by the ONS, giving the Group the ability to See Chief Executives review: direct result on the financial performance of plan its business accordingly.
The risk is p. 06 to p. 13 both the funeral and crematoria divisions.
mitigated by the geographical spread of locations, the ability to control costs and the ability to acquire funerals.
Nationwide adverse publicity This risk is addressed by ensuring appropriate There have been no such 1 3 4 5 Nationwide adverse publicity for Dignity could policies and procedures are in place, which are events in the period.
result in a significant reduction in the number designed to ensure excellent client service and See The Client Survey of funerals or cremations performed in any careful selection of reputable partners.
For pre-arranged funeral plans, adverse publicity for the Group or one of its partners could result in a reduction in the number of plans sold or an increase in the number of plans cancelled.
This would have a direct and significant impact on the financial performance of that division and the Group as a whole.
Ability to increase average revenues The Group believes that its focus on excellent Average revenues increased 1 5 per funeral or cremation client service helps to mitigate this risk.
in line with the Boards Operating profit growth is in part attributable to However, the Group took decisive action to expectations but will be lower increases in the average revenue per funeral or reduce its funeral pricing in January 2018, in 2018. cremation.
There can be no guarantee that which will be supported by an improved See Operating review: future average revenues per funeral or online presence.
p. 20 to p. 26 cremation will be maintained or increased.
significant reduction in market share Market share was lower than The Group believes that this risk is mitigated 1 5 It is possible that other external factors, such the Boards expectations.
for funeral operations by reputation and as new competitors and the increased impact recommendation being a key driver to the See Operating review: of the internet on the sector, could result in choice of funeral director being used.
In p. 20 to p. 26 a significant reduction in market share within addition the Groups actions in January 2018 funeral or crematoria operations.
This would on pricing and promotion seek to protect the have a direct result on the financial Groups funeral market share.
For crematoria performance of those divisions.
operations this is mitigated by diculties associated with building new crematoria.
In such situations, Dignity would seek to follow There have been no material Demographic shifts in population 1 3 5 the population shift.
This is mitigated by the changes, with satellites being There can be no assurance that demographic geographical spread of locations coupled with opened and businesses shifts in population will not lead to a reduced the ability to acquire funeral locations in areas acquired in appropriate areas.
demand for funeral services in areas where of higher demand.
See Operating review: p. 20 to p. 26 Established local reputation continues to be We have commented on 1 Competition 3 4 5 the increasingly competitive The UK funeral services market and crematoria important in attracting clients, although this is environment across our market is currently very fragmented.
In addition the Group is enhancing business.
and developing its digital presence.
There can be no assurance that there will not See Chief Executives review: be further consolidation in the industry or that There are barriers to entry in the crematoria p. 06 to p. 13 increased competition in the industry, whether market due to the need to obtain planning in the form of intensied price competition, approval for new crematoria and the cost of service competition, over capacity or otherwise, developing new crematoria.
would not lead to an erosion of the Groups market share, average revenues or costs and consequently a reduction in its profitability.
There are a number of potential anity The retention of anity partners who sell the partners who could replace existing ones or Groups pre-arranged funeral plans is essential to add to existing relationships.
the long-term development of the pre-arranged funeral plan division.
The loss of an anity partner could lead to a reduction in the amount of profit recognised in that division at the time of sale.
Failure to replenish or increase the bank of pre-arranged funeral plans could affect market share of the funeral division in the longer-term.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 35 Risks in the context of our strategic objectives Key and link to strategic objective The Group has a proactive approach to measuring performance Continue to prioritise excellent client service which we believe will 1 lead to organic growth.
and considers risk as an integral part of decision-making, both about current and future performance, with the Board being 2 Control our costs without compromising the quality of our service.
responsible for the level of risk that the Group is willing to accept.
3 Expand our funeral and crematoria portfolios.
The Board manages this by linking risk appetite to its strategic objectives, being mapped against dened impact and likelihood 4 Gain new clients through the sale ofpre-arranged funeral plans.
scales, in order to define where the level of risk sits.
5 Increase our returns through efficient capital management.
Operational risk management continued Strategic Risk description and impact Mitigating activities 2017 Commentary Change objective link Taxes There are currently specic exemptions No significant changes noted 1 5 There can be no assurance that changes will under European legislation for the UK on in the period.
not be made to UK taxes, such as VAT.
VAT is the VAT treatment of funerals.
Any change not currently chargeable on the majority of the would apply to the industry as a whole and Groups services.
The introduction of such a tax not just the Group.
could therefore signicantly increase the cost to clients of the Groups services.
Regulation of pre-arranged funeral plans Any changes would apply to the industry as No significant changes noted 4 5 Pre-arranged funeral plans are not a regulated a whole and not just the Group.
This risk is in the period.
product, but are subject to a specic financial also mitigated through the high standards See Chief Executives review: services exemption.
Changes to the basis of any of selling and administration of pre-arranged p. 06 to p. 13 regulation could affect the Groups opportunity funeral plans operated by the Group.
to sell pre-arranged funeral plans in the future or could result in the Group not being able to draw down the current level of marketing allowances, which would have a direct impact on the profitability of the Pre-arranged funeral plan division.
Regulation of the funeral industry The Group already operates at a very high We continue to seek regulation 1 2 3 5 During the period, the Scottish Government standard, using facilities appropriate for the of our markets.
recruited an Inspector of Funerals.
Dignity dignied care of the deceased.
Regulation could result in increased compliance costs for the industry as a whole or other unforeseen consequences.
Changes in the funding of the pre-arranged There is considerable regulation around 4 5 The latest actuarial valuation funeral plan business insurance companies which is designed, of the pre-arranged funeral The Group has given commitments to preamongst other things, to ensure that the plan Trusts demonstrates arranged funeral plan members to provide insurance companies meet their obligations.
This is certain funeral services in the future.
supported by robust average The Trusts hold assets with the objective assets per plan.
Funding for these plans is reliant on either of achieving returns slightly in excess of insurance companies paying the amounts ination.
See Note 29. owed or the pre-arranged funeral plan Trusts having sucient assets.
If this is not the case, then the Group may receive a lower amount per funeral than expected and thus generate lower profits.
36 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial risk management Strategic 2017 Commentary Risk description and impact Mitigating activities Change objective link No significant changes noted Financial Covenant under the The nature of the Groups debt means 5 in the period.
However, Secured Notes that the denominator is now xed unless following the trading update The Groups Secured Notes requires EBITDA further Secured Notes are issued in the and price changes in January to total debt service to be above 1.5 times.
This means that the covenant 2018, covenant headroom in If this financial covenant which is applicable headroom will change proportionately 2018 will be reduced.
to the securitised subgroup of Dignity is not with changes in EBITDA generated by achieved, then this may lead to an Event of the securitised subgroup.
See Financial review: Default under the terms of the Secured Notes, p. 27 to p. 31 which could result in the Security Trustee taking control of the securitisation group on behalf of the Secured Noteholders.
In addition, the Group is required to achieve a more stringent ratio of 1.85 times for the same test in order to be permitted to transfer excess cash from the securitisation group to Dignity plc.
If this stricter test is not achieved, then the Groups ability to pay dividends would be impacted.
Viability statement The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the subsequent three years to December 2020.
The key consideration of viability is the Groups ability to service its Secured Notes as and when those obligations fall due, twice a year.
The Directors have fully considered severe but reasonable scenarios, and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions, on the Groups ability to generate funds to meet those obligations.
Consistent with the prior period, three years has been selected as the appropriate period of review.
In making this statement the Directors have reviewed the overall resilience of the Group and have specifically considered: the Groups current position and trading prospects: the current and ongoing strategy: the Boards appetite for risk: and a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and how they are managed, as explained in this Strategic Report pages 32 to 36.
