34 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for maintaining INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK effective internal control and risk management systems.
It keeps them under constant review Framework element Monitoring process through its regular monitoring of its subcommittees and executive management.
Management structure These activities are supported by The Merlin Defined reporting lines, accountabilities, Regular visits to attractions.
It is the Boards aim authority levels and duty segregation.
Reporting by internal and external assurance that these values should drive good behaviours Principal operating business units and functions providers to confirm operation of authority and actions by allemployees.
are led by Executive Committee members.
Internal control framework Leadership teams at each attraction and Regular review and update of authority levels The creation of an effective internal control function.
framework has been delegated to executive Strategic planning, risk management and management by the Board to ensure: business performance monitoring proper financial records are maintained: Annually updated five year strategic plan.
Reporting and discussion of principal risks the Groups assets are safeguarded: that could prevent strategic plan objectives Business objectives and performance measures being achieved, together with associated compliance with laws, regulations, policies and set annually together with budgets and forecasts.
procedures including those relating to health Regular business performance reviews.
and safety matters: Reporting by executive management at every Pipeline for new attractions reviewed regularly Board meeting on business performance, effective and efficient operation of to ensure developments are on schedule, new commercial risks and opportunities.
ideas fit with our brand portfolio and expected Board review and approval for major capital The internal control framework is designed to commercial returns are acceptable.
expenditure, for example new product manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure development activities or acquisitions.
to achieve the Groups objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance Policies and procedures against material misstatement or loss.
Policies and procedures are in place to manage Reporting by internal and external assurance The key elements are described right.
operational, performance and compliance providers on compliance with policies, obligations.
Monitoring to ensure these remain appropriate as the business grows and external factors, legislation or regulatory requirements change.
Internal controls Regular reporting of operational performance The most notable internal controls are in the metrics to the Board.
following areas: Operational performance indicators used to Regular reporting by assurance providers ensure safe, effective and efficient attraction to confirm internal controls are operating operation.
Health, Safety and Security Safety Management Reporting by profit protection professionals to System in place to ensure compliance with support management in addressing fraud and regulatory and legislative requirements.
theft risks at an attraction level.
Information Technology technical, security Regular deep dive reviews on treasury, taxation and disaster recovery controls operate to and IT.
Ad hoc matters are covered as necessary.
ensure a stable infrastructure platform exists.
Self-certification by management of compliance Financial oversight controls to support and control issues.
prevention and detection of financial reporting misstatement or fraud.
Transactional level controls operate on a day-to-day basis.
Business continuity planning disaster recovery plans incorporate escalation procedures and crisis management protocols.
Business continuity plans allow attractions to operate or reinstate performance on the occurrence of adverse events.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 35 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The risk management framework sets out the relevant responsibilities within the Group for risk management together with the oversight, monitoring, reporting and management activities performed to support those responsibilities.
The key elements are described below: TOP DOWN Oversight, identification, assessment and mitigation atcorporate level Responsibilities Processes OVERSIGHT THE BOARD Overall responsibility for risk management and internal Monitors risks against Group strategy.
Receives regular updates from the Committees noted below.
Sets strategic objectives and defines risk appetite.
Annual reporting confirms risk management policy and Provides tone and direction for risk management compliance with procedures.
MONITORING ANDREPORTING REGULAR UPDATESTO THE BOARD 1 Health, Safety and Security HSS Committee Ongoing review of principal risks and groupwide risk assessment Oversight and guidance on management of HSS risks.
Responsible for ensuring compliance with legislation or Ongoing assessment of whether material changes in the external industry standards in safeguarding guests, employees, visitors landscape or recent trading trends require alternative approaches and contractors.
to monitoring and managing risk.
1 Audit Committee Members of the various risk committees regularly receive deep Oversight and guidance on financial process risk.
Responsible dive updates on topics of significant risk to the organisation, such for assessing the effectiveness of the Groups overall as treasury, taxation, IT security, EU GDPR, property portfolio approach to risk management and internal control.
management and online brand safety.
Commercial and Strategic Risk Management Regular reports on assurance programmes covering financial 2 Committee processes and health, safety and security controls across Oversight and guidance on management of commercial and the Group.
Responsible for the treatment of animals in our care.
OPERATING GROUPAND FUNCTIONAL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Delivery of strategic direction.
Ongoing reviews of operational risk assessment for mitigating actions.
Identification of significant risks and mitigation plans for inclusion in the Group risk register.
Quarterly updates provided to the Board by the custodian of each risk area to provide insight into risk management process.
Monitoring of significant risk and adequacy of mitigating actions at attraction and functional level.
ATTRACTIONS AND FUNCTIONS Execution of strategy.
Peer review by the senior leadership team of risk registers to ensure completeness and accuracy prior to submission Identification of significant risk and mitigating measures to the Operating Group and executive management teams.
at attraction and functional level for inclusion in local risk registers.
Reviews of operational risk assessment of mitigating actions.
Identification, assessment and mitigation at attraction and function level BOTTOM UP Notes: 1 Sub-committee of the Board.
See pages 52 to 57 for details of Committee membership and the frequency of meetings.
2 Delegated responsibility from the Executive Committee.
This Committee is chaired by the CFO and meets four times a year, with membership drawn from the ExecutiveCommittee.
36 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED The only change in the historic direction of Plans for 2018 19 Risk appetite the gross risk profile is the liquidity risk moving We continue to refine and strengthen The Groups risk appetite falls into two distinct categories: from reducing to stable.
This is on the basis our internal control framework across that the Group has adequate banking facilities the business.
The continued roll out of Compliance risk the requirement to comply in place that currently mature in March 2020. accesso, our admissions system, and the with legislative or regulatory requirements planned implementation of modern finance in all territories where the Group operates.
Brexit systems, will help in this regard through the It includes, but is not limited to, ride safety, With specific regard to Brexit, the impact standardisation of business processes and accounting practices, fraud and bribery, as is expected to be limited in the short term greater automation of transactional level and well as ensuring compliance with the Groups given the Groups global footprint and the period end control activities.
A new HR system values and ethical principles.
In these areas the fact that an attractions cost base and supply is also being implemented that will enhance Board is risk averse and does not countenance chain sit largely in the individual country of our ability to comply with the requirements any breaches in compliance obligations.
In the medium term, a shift in the of the upcoming EU GDPR legislation.
availability of skills in the UK workforce could Commercial risk commercial risks are impact recruitment in our UK businesses, taken to maximise profitable growth and KEY which the Group will continue to monitor.
These commercial The Group has identified the principal risks as risks must never compromise the health, Effectiveness of risk management and set out on pages 37 to 39 as those that have safety and security of guests, employees, internal control systems thepotential to impact the Groups strategy.
contractors, animals or other visitors.
They Based on its review of risk management We categorise risks to align to the strategic must also be aligned with the Groups policies systems, both throughout the year and elements they impact as follows: on sustainability and the environment.
The annually, the Board is satisfied that the risk Group manages these commercial risks management and internal control systems Delivering high growth through an appropriate analysis of threats and inplace remain effective and confirms that: opportunities together with structured review there is an ongoing process for identifying, processes, independent expert opinions and assessing, managing and monitoring the High return decision making authority levels.
Factors such Groups principal risks: as the scale of possible commercial upside, managements assessment of the principal the potential market size, the quantum of risks is considered to be appropriate and Strong brands downside risk and timescales involved may those risks that have the potential to impact all be relevant to commercial risk decisions.
liquidity have been considered in the Quantitative and qualitative measures ensure assessment of the Groups viability: Global portfolio effective governance of the Groups risk the principal risks and internal control appetite.
Quantitative measures include processes have been in place and considered defined financial and non-financial targets by management and the Board throughout such as EBITDA, ROCE and customer the year and up to the date of approval of satisfaction scores.
Qualitative measures Increasing risk the Annual Report and Accounts: and consider items such as reputational impact and compliance with laws and regulations.
no significant failings or weaknesses in internal control processes have been Stable Principal risks identified.
Management has identified the principal The Groups risk management and internal risks as set out on pages 37 to 39. control process in relation to financial process Decreasing risk The risk committees consider both gross risk has been documented within the risk and net risk.
Gross risk reflects the exposure management and internal control section of before mitigation and is used to compare to the Audit Committee Report on page 62. the previous year as to whether significant HSS Health, safety and security risk risks are stable, increasing or decreasing.
CS Commercial and strategic risk The risk profile for the Group remains FP Financial process risk consistent with last year, with the following key changes.
City centre businesses are being increasingly impacted by concerns over personal security and, as well as for international inbound tourists, volatility in exchange rates.
These risks have been combined this year due to their overlap and are described in a new risk Commercial impact of external threats to city centres leading to displacement of tourists.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 37 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Risk Description How risks are managed Safety HSS CS Health and safety is one of Merlins Key Regular performance reviews.
Proactive ownership of HSS risks by line Serious incidents leading to guests, staff management.
members or contractors being harmed as a Competent operational and engineering staff result of: monitor and inspect facilities in accordance a failure to follow safety management with a planned programme, backed up by systems when operating rides: professional HSS teams.
inadequate maintenance and management Annual risk register and action planning ofbuildings, infrastructure and vegetation: processes by each attraction.
substandard build quality, asset degradation, Regular internal and independent external fire, flood, storm or utility failure.
Contractor selection, approval and monitoring by in-house qualified project managers.
Security HSS CS Reduction in guest confidence to visit the Detailed security protocols before guests Groups attractions as a result of sabotage or oremployees access an attraction e. g. bag a terrorist attack on a ride or attraction searches.
leading to a guest or staff member or animal Regular infrastructure reviews to reduce the in our care being harmed.
opportunity for physical threats to guests, staff or animals.
Regularly tested major incident management plans.
Co-operation with local and national security forces.
Innovation, brand development and customer Customer feedback collected at every Customer satisfaction is one of Merlins Key satisfaction CS location and analysed against challenging Performance Indicators.
Actions then taken Our growth potential could be impacted accordingly.
ifguests: Ongoing investment in our attractions to consider our offerings are outdated, continually refresh the customer experience.
nolonger relevant or enjoyable: or Engagement with the public and on social provide negative social media comments media to take any requisite action.
that adversely influence the likelihood of a customer to visit an attraction.
People availability and expertise CS Staff engagement is one of Merlins Key Driving greater productivity to ensure more Performance Indicators.
The increasing challenge of attracting and Personal development plans across the retaining appropriately experienced and business to encourage long term well-motivated customer service orientated employment stability.
staff could impact: Proactively managed succession planning guest satisfaction: or processes embedded across the Group.
the successful delivery of planned future Annual employee survey to monitor expansion.
employee engagement and identify opportunities to develop HR policies and processes.
Competition and Intellectual Property IP Competition for leisure time: from new Diversification of the portfolio.
CS orexisting providers of location based Ongoing investment to ensure continued entertainment: and for IP around which appeal to visitors.
Withdrawal of permission to use third party Dedicated in-house creative team to deliver IP content where contractual obligations are new and innovative compelling propositions not met or partner relationships are not and IP.
Proactive management of IP partnerships.
Commercial impact of external threats Personal security concerns that flow from Increased geographical hedging as a result of tocity centres leading to displacement terrorist activity result in falling visitation to further global diversification.
oftourists CS a location in which the Group operates, Ability to direct marketing and promotional with displacement of both international and activity towards domestic or international domestic tourists.
audiences depending on tourism trends.
Exchange rate volatility can have a positive Ability to promote access to a wide portfolio or adverse impact on inbound tourism.
of attractions using annual pass or cluster If exchange rates work against a country ticketing.
in which the Group generates significant revenue this can adversely impact visitation.
38 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Description How risks are managed Animal welfare CS Incidents or staff behaviours leading to animals External zoo licence audits.
in our care being harmed as a result of: An internal ethics committee and the Merlin a failure to follow prescribed welfare Animal Welfare and Development team protocols: or monitor the treatment of animals.
inadequate maintenance and management of A comprehensive range of policies, standards, buildings, infrastructure and vegetation.
Training programmes for all staff that interact with animals.
Planned preventative maintenance programmes to ensure buildings, infrastructure and vegetation remain suitable for displaying the animals in our care.
Availability and delivery of new sites and The ability of the Group to grow in line with Experienced site search and business attractions CS strategic objectives could be inhibited by the development teams, working several years in lack of: advance to maintain a strong pipeline of economically viable sites to locate Midway opportunities.
attractions and LEGOLAND parks: and Sites regularly update development timely approval of planning consent required masterplans and work closely on fostering links for building new rides and attractions.
with local communities and planning authorities.
The New Openings team provides dedicated resources to support the Groups roll out strategy.
IT robustness, technological developments The Group operates various IT systems and.
Strategic focus to ensure the long term stability and cyber security CS applications, the obsolescence or failure of of operating systems and data security, whilst which could impede trading or the ability to keeping pace with changing consumer IT operate an attraction.
Increasing resilience and stability of IT Without the technical developments necessary infrastructure and security through an to meet consumer or business expectations the expanded use of secured hosting partners and Group may fail to deliver the growth required penetration testing regimes.
Further security measures to mitigate the Failure to put in place adequate preventative increasing threat of cyber security risk.
measures, if attacked, could lead to data loss or A number of data protection policies are in inability to use the IT systems for a prolonged place to protect the privacy rights of individuals period or loss of personal data resulting in an in accordance with relevant data protection EU GDPR compliance investigation.
A dedicated group has been established to work towards compliance with EU GDPR that comes into force in 2018.
Anti-bribery and corruption FP While Merlins business model is lower risk as A well embedded corporate culture in which the majority of transactions are of low value and fraud and bribery at any level are not tolerated.
typically from individual customers, a number of Global fraud and bribery training programmes the territories in which Merlin is operating and and a fraud policy sign off for all staff.
proposing to enter have a greater historic Effective financial and contractual controls with propensity for incidents of bribery and regard to procurement activities.
Internal audit monitors purchasing processes on a rotational basis.
Any such incident could lead to criminal or civil A separate profit protection team monitors for prosecution, fines and cause reputational theft or other criminal activity across the damage to the Group.
Group and ensures best practice for protection is shared between sites.
A whistleblowing policy is in place together with an independently operated employee hotline.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 39 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Risk Description How risks are managed Liquidity cash flow risk FP A lack of liquidity could inhibit the ability of the A 300 million multi-currency revolving Group to grow in line with the strategic credit facility assists with seasonal cash flow objectives if: requirements.
Continued geographical insufficient cash is generated during peak expansion reduces exposure to any one trading periods to cover fixed costs and peak trading period.
capital investments including strategic Review of weekly cash flow forecasts acquisitions, the roll out of Midway ensures ongoing liquidity.
attractions, the development of new Strategic plans cover at least four future LEGOLAND parks and new accommodation years and are reviewed regularly to ensure offerings : and sufficient financial headroom exists and to changes in the global credit market impact meet the covenant tests set out in the the Groups long term ability to meet current Groups banking facilities.
Merlin maintains strong relationships with anumber of lenders and keeps the debt markets under review in order to ensure that funding can be obtained at the right time and at the right price to ensure the availability of funds to meet strategic growth plans.
Foreign exchange translation risk FP Merlin generates its main profits in Sterling, The Group presents constant currency Euros and US Dollars and has long term debt in figures where appropriate to show these currencies.
underlying results excluding the impact of translation differences.
Merlin reports its results in Sterling and is Treasury policies in place and reviewed therefore subject to translation risk from annually with regular reviews of currency exchange rate fluctuations when reporting its exposures.
Broad match of borrowings in the currencies of underlying profits.
Currency exposures hedged where appropriate.
Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a four year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented on pages 37 to 39 of the Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period until December 2021.
The Groups strategic planning process occurs annually on a rolling basis, in the middle of the year, covering the current year plus four further years.
It is then reviewed as necessary to take into account the Groups latest view of market conditions.
The strategic plan considers all elements of the Groups growth strategy.
It focuses on capital investment in the existing estate, where the review period matches or is in excess of pre-determined capital investment cycles: new business development including the roll out of Midway attractions and the development of committed new LEGOLAND parks: and the expansion of our accommodation portfolio.
The Group also considers strategic acquisition opportunities and other uncommitted potential major capital projects within the plan period to assess the availability of appropriate funding.
Accordingly, the Directors have determined that a four year period to December 2021 is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
The Board also carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its growth drivers, futureperformance, solvency or liquidity as well as the Groups approach to risk management as set out in this Strategic Report.
The outputs fromthese reviews were then used to perform liquidity and debt covenant headroom analysis, including a downside sensitivity review based onprincipal risks.
While the review has considered all the principal risks identified by the Group, severe but plausible events were focused on for enhanced stress testing.
Examples include ride safety incidents and acts of terrorism.
The results take into account the controls implemented by the Group as well as the availability and likely effectiveness of specific mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the identified underlying risks.
The diversification of the Groups attractions helps minimise the risk of serious business interruption for many of its risks, for example extreme weather conditions or changing economic and political environments.
It is important to note that a significant portion of planned spending on both the existing estate and for new business development is discretionary in nature.
This gives us flexibility to manage cash flows.
Merlins ability to flex the cost base and the ability to rephase or delay capital investment provides some protection to our viability in the face of macro events or uncertainty not in the Groups control.
Merlins banking facilities currently mature in March 2020.
Taking into account Merlins profitability and financial position it is anticipated that the Group will be able to refinance these bank facilities.
The Group will undertake a process to extend or replace these facilities well in advance of the expiry date and therefore the Group does not consider there to be any material impact on the viability assessment.
