6 4 8 7 8 8 7 100% 7 100% 8 100% 88% 100% 100% 88% 88% 100% Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 50 51 Corporate Governance Report Governance INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Howdens is founded on the principle that it should provide value are safeguarded and the business is run in a fair and effective to all concerned.
This principle guides the Boards decision way.
Our approach to compliance is that we should not only making and defines our strategic objectives because it is an adhere to the letter of the UK Corporate Governance Code but enduring philosophy that has supported the good governance the spirit of it too.
and, in turn, the success of the business over time.
51 Corporate Governance Report The Board must ensure that the culture and values of the While the Company is clearly accountable to its shareholders, business are aligned to its decision making processes.
We must 51 Introduction from the Chairman it is our customers, investors, suppliers, staff, and local both challenge and collaborate with management to ensure their communities that have contributed to making Howdens the goals and objectives remain aligned with the businesss values 52 Board of Directors and Executive Committee leading supplier of kitchens in the UK.
Howdens is a business and culture.
55 Corporate Governance Framework built on relationships.
We do not take these relationships for In 2017, the Board approved the continued and steady granted and we ensure that we govern in a way that reinforces 61 UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Table investment in the capacity and capability of the business to build them a strong culture which permeates through all levels a strong foundation from which Howdens can continue to grow of Howdens and which has shaped our business model and 65 Nominations Committee Report for the long-term benefit of our stakeholders.
strategy is fundamental to supporting this please see page 12 for further information on Culture and Purpose.
72 Remuneration Committee Report In 2018 we will continue to ensure Howdens is prepared for both the challenges and the opportunities which will arise and that The importance of setting the tone from the top cannot be 85 Audit Committee Report sufficient resource is in place to meet our strategic objectives for underestimated.
The purpose of the Board and our framework of sustainable growth.
corporate governance is to ensure the interests of stakeholders 94 Directors Report MEETING ATTENDANCE The figures below show the number of meetings individual Although members of the Executive Committee have also Directors that served during the year could have attended taking attended at the invitation of the Chairman and Chief Executive account of eligibility, appointment and retirement dates during Officer their attendance is not shown below.
the year and the percentage of those meetings they actually In addition to formal Board meetings, the Non-Executive Directors attended.
met four times during the year without the Executive Directors If a Director is unable to attend a Board meeting, they are present.
nevertheless provided with all the papers and information relating to the meeting and encouraged to discuss the issues arising directly with the Chairman and Executive Directors.
Richard Mark Andrew Geoff Tiffany Matthew Mark Michael Debbie 1 2 4 5 Pennycook Allen Cripps Drabble Hall Ingle Robson Wemms White No.
of meetings Attendance 1 Mark was unable to attend a meeting on 6 July 2017, which had been called on short notice.
2 Geoff was unable to attend the Board meeting on 20 April 2017 due to ill health.
3 Matthew was excused from attending a meeting on 6 July 2017 due to his direct interest in the business of the meeting.
4 Michael retired from the Board on 2 May 2017.
5 Debbie was appointed to the Board on 15 February 2017.
Denotes Chairman of the Board Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board www.
com investors governance schedule-matters index.
asp Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 52 53 Key to Board committee membership Corporate Governance Report Chairman of Committee Audit Committee BOARD OF DIRECTORS Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee CHAIRMAN SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TIFFANY HALL RICHARD PENNYCOOK Senior Independent MARK ALLEN ANDREW CRIPPS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Richard was appointed to the Board in September 2013 and became NonTiffany was appointed to the Board in May 2010 and appointed Mark was appointed to the Board in May 2011.
Andrew was appointed to the Board in December 2015.
Remuneration Committee Chair in May 2014 and Senior Independent Other FTSE appointments Other FTSE appointments Director in April 2017.
Skills and experience Chief Executive of Dairy Crest Group plc Non-Executive Director of Booker Group plc Skills and experience Richard has extensive experience in logistics, supply chain management, Skills and experience Skills and experience manufacturing and consumer goods having served as a public company Tiffany has a strong background in marketing, sales, digital and Mark has significant experience in operating a  Andrew has extensive experience in finance and accounting having qualified director for over 20 years and having served as Group Chief Executive customer service having previously served as Managing Director at business and in particular in manufacturing, B2B, consumer goods and as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG and held executive director roles in of The Co-operative Group.
His other past roles also include Senior BUPA Home Healthcare, Marketing Director at BUPA and Head of logistics, distribution and supply chain management.
Mark joined Dairy the UK and Europe with Rothmans International, where he was Corporate Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Persimmon Marketing at British Airways.
She was also Chairman of Airmiles and Crest in 1991 as a general manager following a period at Shell and, after Finance Director.
Andrew is Deputy Chairman of Swedish Match AB, Nonplc.
Richard has also previously held Finance Director roles in a number of BA Holidays and prior to that held other positions at British Airways being promoted through a variety of roles including Sales & Operations Executive Director of Booker Group plc and Senior Independent Director public companies.
including Head of Global Sales and Distribution and Head of UK Sales Director and two divisional Managing Director roles, he was appointed to and Chairman of the Audit Committee at the 2 Sisters Food Group.
Tiffany was also previously a Non-Executive Director of Dairy Crests main Board in 2002, becoming Chief Executive in 2007. has also been a non-executive director of a number of public companies Think London.
with consumer-facing and manufacturing businesses.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GEOFF DRABBLE DEBBIE WHITE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Geoff was appointed to the Board in July 2015.
Debbie was appointed to the Board in February 2017.
Other FTSE appointments Other FTSE appointments Chief Executive officer of Ashtead Group Plc Chief Executive Officer of Interserve Plc MATTHEW INGLE ANDREW LIVINGSTON Skills and experience Skills and experience Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Designate Geoff has a notable background in in the building products and Debbie has significant experience of the B2B industry and of finance construction markets and is the Chief Executive Officer of Ashtead Group and accounting.
She was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Interserve Matthew was appointed Chief Executive Officer in October 2005 and Andrew was appointed CEO Designate in January 2018 and will be Plc, the FTSE100 international equipment rental company which operates Plc in September 2017 and prior to this served as Global CEO of Sodexo will retire from the Board on 2 April 2018. formally appointed to the Board on 2 April 2018. a model across multiple sites, with incentivised local managers.
He was Healthcare and Sodexo Government.
Debbie also held various other Skills and experience Other FTSE appointments appointed as Chief Executive in January 2007, having served as Chief positions within Sodexo, including CFO in the UK & Ireland, CFO of Sodexo Matthew set up Howdens in 1995 and has been responsible for its growth Non-Executive Director at LondonMetric Property Plc Executive Designate from October 2006 and as a Non-Executive Director Inc. and later CEO for Sodexo UK & Ireland.
In 2013, she became a trustee into a successful business today.
Prior to joining the Company he had since April 2005.
Geoff has also previously held the position of Executive of the charity Wellbeing of Women and is now Chair of the Audit Committee.
Skills and experience been Managing Director of the Magnet Trade operation.
He was elected Director of The Laird Group plc where he was responsible for its Building Debbie started her career with Arthur Andersen in the UK, before joining Andrew was the Chief Executive of Screwfix Direct Ltd from 2013, where to the Board of the Company in 1998.
Prior to joining The Laird Group, he held a number of AstraZeneca where she held a range of financial roles.
She later became a he had previously held the position of Commercial and Ecommerce senior management positions at Black & Decker.
Matthew has no external appointments.
director at PwC Consulting where she worked across a number of sectors in Director.
Prior to joining Screwfix, Andrew was the Commercial Director a global capacity.
and Chief Operating Officer at Wyevale Garden Centres and prior to that the Commercial Director of Kitchens and Bathrooms at B&Q.
Andrew holds an MBA from London Business School.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE An exercise was undertaken during 2017 using a skills matrix to highlight where the skills and experience of our Non-Executive Directors MARK ROBSON were particularly strong and where there were opportunities to further grow the Boards collective knowledge and inform the Boards Deputy Chief Executive future composition as Non-Executive Directors naturally rotate off the Board.
and Chief Financial Officer Howdens-specific skills Mark was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in May 2014, having joined The matrix showed that the Board is rich in skills that are considered to be of high importance to the Howdens business model, strategy COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE the Board in April 2005 as Chief Financial Officer.
and sectors within which the Company operates.
These included: The Board comprises two Executive Directors, the Chairman and Skills and experience Vertical integration five Non-Executive Directors.
Mark spent the six years prior to joining Howdens as Group Finance B2B Director at Delta plc.
Between 1985 and 1998, he held a number of senior The Board considered that all of the Non-Executive Directors were Multi-site depot operation financial positions with ICI.
He is a Chartered Accountant and qualified independent for the full duration of the period and that Richard Manufacturing with Price Waterhouse.
Pennycook was independent upon his appointment as Chairman in May 2016.
Logistics, supply chain management and distribution Mark has no external appointments.
For further biographical details of each Director, please visit www.
com about who-we-are board index.
asp Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 54 55 Corporate Governance Report continued EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND COMPANY SECRETARY 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The principal purpose of the Executive Committee is to implement the Groups strategy and operational plans.
The Committee monitors the operational and financial performance of the business, and is responsible for the optimisation of resources and the identification and control of operational risk within the Group.
The Committee generally meets twice a month, Board of Directors or more frequently if required.
RICHARD PENNYCOOK Chairman KEVIN BARRETT CLIVE COCKBURN ROB FENWICK GARETH HOPKINS Group Development Director Chief Information Officer Chief Operating Officer: Interim Group HR Director TIFFANY HALL & Commercial Director of the Howden Joinery Supply Division Senior Independent Director Trade Division ANDREW CRIPPS MARK ALLEN Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director GEOFF DRABBLE DEBBIE WHITE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Kevin joined Howdens in Clive joined Howdens in October Rob joined Howdens in January Gareth joined Howdens in April 2001 and has been a member of 2015 as a member of the Executive September 2015 as a member of 2002 and has been a member of the Executive Committee.
the Executive Committee since the Executive Committee since Committee.
Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience COMPANY Before joining Howdens, Kevin Clive was appointed as CIO Since October 2005, he has been Gareth was appointed Interim Executive Directors spent 10 years at Sainsburys having joined Howdens in 2002 responsible for transforming the Group HR Director having SECRETARY where he held a variety of roles as Head of IT Infrastructure and Supply Division from a vertically previously worked in the business ANDREW LIVINGSTON including Director of Strategy for Service Delivery.
Prior to joining, integrated operation to a as a HR consultant for 15 months.
FORBES Chief Executive Officer the whole company, and Head he held senior IT positions in Hays commercial organisation.
Prior to He has worked as an interim HR MCNAUGHTON of Distribution for Sainsburys Logistics UK, United Transport joining Howdens, Rob worked in Director in FTSE 250 companies Bank.
He started his career Limited and Exel Logistics plc.
the automotive, FMCG and other for 15 years and was previously MARK ROBSON as a management consultant industry sectors.
Group HR Director at Dairy Crest Deputy Chief Executive & atAccenture.
Chief Financial Officer THERESA KEATING ANDY WITTS FORBES MCNAUGHTON Group Finance Director Chief Operating Officer: Company Secretary Howden Joinery Trade Division Executive Committee KEVIN BARRETT GARETH HOPKINS Interim Group HR Director Group Development Director Theresa joined Howdens in Andy joined Howdens in July Forbes joined Howdens in July CLIVE COCKBURN September 2000 and has been 1995 and has been a member of 2012 and was appointed Group THERESA KEATING Chief Information Officer a member of the Executive the Executive Committee since Company Secretary in May 2014.
Group Finance Director Committee since February 2012.
ROB FENWICK ANDY WITTS Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Chief Operating Officer: Chief Operating Officer: Theresa was appointed Finance Andy was one of the founding Forbes joined the Company as Supply Division Trade Division Director in May 2014, having members of the Howdens depot Deputy Company Secretary been Group Financial Controller management team, having joined in 2012 following a period of since 2007.
She joined the from Magnet in 1995.
He was secondment from KPMG.
He is a Group Finance team in 2000 promoted from the Regional fellow of the Institute of Chartered The CEO, CEO Designate, and having previously held various team to become Sales Director in Secretaries and Administrators DCEO & CFO are also members commercial finance roles at January 2007 and was appointed ICSA and is Secretary to the of the Executive Committee.
Chief Operating Officer of the Executive Committee as well as Theresa is also a trustee of Trade Division in January 2014. to the Board of Directors.
Effective 2 April 2018 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 56 57 Corporate Governance Report continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK THE BOARDS ROLE THE COMPANY SECRETARYS ROLE THE EXTERNAL ADVISORS ROLE The role of the Board is to direct the affairs of the Group so that long-term, sustainable performance may be achieved which The Company Secretary is an officer of the Company External advisors provide a range of services meets stakeholder and shareholder interests.
and shares various legal obligations with the to the Board and its Committees including Directors.
He provides the Board with guidance banking, brokerage, legal, audit, actuarial, The Directors are collectively responsible for developing the strategy of the Group and ensuring there are sufficient resources to and advice on various governance and regulatory financial PR and Executive remuneration, as successfully implement that strategy, and for challenging the performance and decisions of the senior management team and matters under the direction of the Chairman and well as other consulting services.
Both the for providing counsel to the senior management team in their day-to-day running of the business.
They are also responsible for ensures that information flows effectively and in a Executive Committee and the Board rely on such setting and protecting the culture and values of the business a role particularly pertinent to Howdens where integrity, respect timely manner between the Board and the senior advisors to provide counsel and guidance on and recognition are fundamental tenets of the business.
management, as well as within the Board and specialist matters when necessary.
The NonMatters which are reserved for consideration by the Board, and are not delegated to a Board Committee or to the Executive between the Boards Committees.
Executive Directors can engage with advisors Committee, are detailed in a schedule which is reviewed annually this was last reviewed and approved by the Board in November at the Companys expense, independent of The Company Secretary is also responsible for 2017.
These matters include setting the Groups values, standards and strategy as previously described as well as taking management where appropriate.
developing and overseeing the systems which decisions about: ensure compliance with various legal and code The competency, value, length of tenure and acquisitions and disposals Group borrowing facilities requirements and for supervising the day-to-day independence of advisors is reviewed by the administration of the Company.
A list of principal risk management significant financial and operational matters advisors to the Company can be found on internal control The Board also considers legislative, environmental, page149.
significant capital projects health & safety, governance and employment issues.
annual budgets THE CHAIRMANS ROLE THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ROLE The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and Non-Executive Directors have the same general effectiveness of the Board and for creating a culture of openness, legal responsibilities to the Company and the same debate and challenge in the boardroom.
He is also responsible for commitment to its success as the Executive Directors.
ensuring effective communication with our shareholders.
However, the Non-Executive Directors are removed from the day-to-day management of the Company and so are The Chairman is responsible for setting the Boards agenda with able to provide independent judgement and oversight, support from the Company Secretary and ensuring that adequate and to constructively challenge senior management.
time is given to discussion of all agenda items at meetings.
Non-Executive Directors are also key to providing the DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES business with valuable insights, specialist knowledge The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO are held by separate members of the Board and are and creative solutions gained from experience outside clearly defined.
This provides a crucial safeguard so that no one person has unlimited decision-making power the Company.
Our Non-Executive Directors, therefore, and that no one person is responsible for monitoring their own performance.
The Senior Independent Director have been selected for the diversity of their backgrounds, SID role also ensures that issues may be raised in the event a principal shareholder feels unable to raise perspectives, experience and personal attributes, as well them with the Chairman directly and ensures that there is an alternative communication channel between the as for their impressive business acumen.
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ROLE As well as their general legal responsibilities as Directors of The Deputy Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the daily the Company, the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief management of the business, while the Chief Executive Officer SID CHAIRMAN CEO DEPUTY CEO Executive and Chief Financial Officer have been delegated focuses on the businesss continuing development and the Day-to-day the day-to-day running of the Group by the Board and are implementation of the strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer Leading an effective Continuing Providing an management of the responsible for satisfactory execution of the policies and also has a particular focus on maintaining and continuously Board, which development of the alternative point of business as well strategy agreed by the Board.
developing the strong and unique Howdens culture, which has provides direction business and the served the Company well throughout the years and continues to contact for principal as responsibilities ensure its success for the future.
to the Executive Howdens culture shareholders as Chief Financial team Officer Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 58 59 Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD ACTIVITY DURING 2017 SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE CAPITAL Employee share awards Key Agenda Items Considered Group Financial Performance Monitoring Relations with Shareholders Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 24 on page Outside of Board meetings, the Board were provided with The Boards relationship with both the Companys institutional and Strategy 125.
Shares held by the Howden Joinery Group Plc Employee Share performance updates every four weeks and weekly updates were private investors is considered to be very important and the Board The Board considered strategy at various points during the year.
In Trust abstain from voting at the Companys general meetings.
This was intended to complement readily enters into dialogue with them.
The Company remains mindful particular, the Board discussed the UK depot opening programme, the more detailed operational and finance reports that were of the stewardship obligations of institutional investors, as set out future warehousing capacity, depot manager autonomy and the Acquisition of the Companys own shares provided at each scheduled meeting during 2017. in the UK Stewardship Code, and will continue to work with them to ongoing European depot tests.
During 2017, the Company returned nearly 48m to shareholders ensure that they are able to satisfy these requirements.
by repurchasing 11,171,060 of its ordinary shares representing a Employee Development Howdens Culture and Purpose Both of the Executive Directors, the Chairman, and the nominal value of 1,117,106, which equated to 1.8% of the called The Board regularly discussed the Groups people agenda The Board attended a bespoke in-house culture training session Remuneration Committee Chair along with the Company up share capital of the Company at the beginning of the period during 2017, with particular regard to organisational design in September 2017 and was also invited to attend Howdens Secretary met with principal shareholders during the year to excluding Treasury shares.
Repurchased shares are either placed and development including succession planning for senior events at various locations throughout the year.
This gave our discuss the ongoing progress of the Company and Executive into Treasury for the satisfaction of employee share awards or managers.
Each divisions HR heads presented to the Board and Non-Executive Directors the chance to meet with employees at incentive arrangements.
All of the Directors make themselves arecancelled.
answered questions on topics including succession planning, all levels and in all divisions and served to underpin the Boards available for meetings with shareholders as required.
apprenticeships and learning and development.
Further understanding of the unique Howdens culture.
At the AGM on 2 May 2017, the Directors were granted authority information about our employees may be found on page 40.
The Board receives regular reports from the Head of Investor by shareholders to purchase up to 63,119,324 of the Companys Board Effectiveness Evaluation 2 Relations in relation to major shareholders and developments and ordinary shares through the market.
The authority expires at the Health & Safety The 2017 Board evaluation was conducted internally by our Senior changes in their shareholdings.
Regular feedback reports are also conclusion of the next AGM or within 15 months from the date of Divisional H&S updates were provided at each of the scheduled Independent Director, Tiffany Hall.
Independent Board Evaluation commissioned by the Board from the Companys joint brokers, passing the resolution whichever is earlier.
Updates included information in IBE were invited to provide support to Ms Hall, following their UBS and Numis.
relation to new training initiatives and an update on the Companys successful facilitation of the 2016 external Board evaluation.
Substantial shareholdings journey to embrace behavioural safety, which builds on the The Companys corporate website, www.
As at 28 February 2018, the Company had been notified in Further information about the 2017 Board evaluation and progress extensive work already carried out on our H&S systems.
com, includes a dedicated investor relations section and provides accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, since the 2016 evaluation can be found in the Nominations an effective and easily accessible communication channel for of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company: Pensions Committee Report on page 70. existing and potential investors.
Matters in relation to the defined benefit scheme were considered I BE does not have any other business relationship with the Company or with any by the Board.
However, a separate Funding and Investment member of the Board.
% of total Annual General Meeting Strategy Committee consisting of members of the Executive voting Date of last The 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at UBS, Committee was established in 2017 to provide a vehicle for Substantial Shareholder rights notification 5 Broadgate London, EC2M 2QS on 2 May 2018 at 11:00am.
communication with the Pension Trustees on routine funding and Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5.1% Aug 2017 Shareholders will have the opportunity to discuss Howdens investment matters and this Committee, in conjunction with the progress and operations directly with their Board at the AGM.
Standard Life Aberdeen plc 7.1% Aug 2017 Companys actuaries, reported to the Board on these matters twice during the year.
FMR LLC Below 5% Jan 2017 The notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 21 clear days before the meeting and will detail the resolutions The percentage interest is as stated by the shareholder at the time Board Meeting Attendees to be voted on.
of notification and current interests may vary.
In addition to the Executive Directors, the Divisional Chief Operating Officers, the Group Finance Director, the Interim Share Capital Significant agreements Group HR Director and the Company Secretary were present There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or at all scheduled Board meetings during the year to take questions Issued share classes Ordinary only fully paid terminate upon a change of control such as commercial contracts, from the Non-Executive Directors.
Voting rights at general meetings One vote per share bank loan agreements and employee share plans.
The only one of these which is considered to be significant in terms of likely impact Fixed income rights None on the business of the Group as a whole is the bank facility as Individual special rights of control None described in note 18, which requires majority lender consent for 1 Holding size restrictions None any change of control.
1 Transfer restrictions None If the lender were not prepared to consent to a change of control, a mandatory repayment of the entire facility would be triggered.
The The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for transfer of shares or on voting rights.
loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Treasury shares The Company held 7,420,580 ordinary shares in Treasury at the end of the period 30 December 2017.
Shares held in Treasury 2 At prices ranging between 10p and the higher of a 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange have no voting rights and are used solely for the satisfaction of Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on employee share awards.
which the ordinary share is purchased: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current 1 Governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association which may be independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange amended by special resolution of the shareholders and prevailing legislation.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
