Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee The Chairman of the Committee, David Membership and meetings Lowden, has recent and relevant financial Set out below is the current membership of experience.
He is a chartered accountant the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
and has previously held senior financial During the year, all the members of the positions within other international Committee were independent Noncompanies.
Mark Brooker, John OReilly executive Directors.
and Robin Terrell are all financially literate and have significant general business Director experience of executive roles in both private David Lowden, Chairman and public organisations.
Robin Terrell is Mark Brooker from 3 April 2017 also a chartered accountant.
Mark Brooker and John OReilly provide the Board John OReilly from 2 January 2017 with considerable sector experience, in Robin Terrell from 2 January 2017 accordance with the Code provision C. 3.1.
Details of each directors significant current The Board approved changes to the and prior appointments are set out on David Lowden composition of the Committee in November pages 54 and 55.
Chairman, Audit and Risk 2017 during a periodic review to optimise Management Committee the Committees composition.
Prior to Committee remit 16 November 2017, each of the other Nonexecutive Directors of the Board excluding A full copy of the terms of reference for the I n 2017 the Committee the Chairman, namely Sir Roy Gardner, Committee can be obtained via the website continued to prioritise on Georgina Harvey and Imelda Walsh, also www.
com or by request to the effective risk management and served on the Committee.
controls, which was important The Company Secretary acts as secretary The Committees principal responsibilities in the context ofthe ongoing to the Committee.
Other individuals are to: transformation programme attend at the request of the Committee review and advise the Board on the and executive focus on Chairman and during the year this included: Groups half yearly and annual financial representatives of the external auditor, the operational performance.
statements and its accounting policies, Chairman, the CEO, the CFO, the Group and monitor the integrity of the financial Director of Legal Services, the Director statements and announcements relating of Risk and Audit, the Head of Internal to financial performance: Audit and the Director of Group Finance.
assist the Board as necessary in In addition, members of the management ensuring that the Companys Annual team, including the Group Chief Information Report and Accounts is fair, balanced Officer, attend by invitation to report to and understandable in accordance the Committee on key matters raised and with applicable legislation and to provide clarification and explanations governance recommendations: where appropriate.
review the major risks affecting the In view of the regulated nature of the Group and assist the Board with Companys business, the Group Money reviewing the effectiveness of the Laundering Reporting Officer also attends controls operating over the Groups two meetings each year in order to provide financial and non-financial risks: a formal report on anti-money laundering review the nature and scope of the to the Committee.
work to be performed by the external In addition, the Committee also meets with and internal auditors, the result of that the external auditor and the director of Risk work, managements response, and and Audit without executive management their effectiveness: present on a regular basis.
The Committee met on five occasions during 2017 and details of attendance at Committee meetings are set out on page 68.
William Hill PLC 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee continued oversee the relationship with the 2017 calendar of Audit and Risk Management external auditor including making Committee activity recommendations to the Board regarding their appointment or removal and developing a policy regarding the February December provision of non-audit services to the Review of 2016 full year results, Annual Update on plans regarding Data Centre Group.
The Committee is also responsible Report and Accounts, and external and Disaster Recovery for overseeing the rotation or tender of audit report Review and discussion of progress external audit services in accordance with Annual review of the Group control on GDPR applicable legislation or good governance: environment and principal risks Approval of 2018 internal audit plan meet with the executive directors and Annual controls, effectiveness and risk Initial discussion of key financial management, as well as privately with management self-assessment process judgements and accounting policies both the external and internal auditors: Review and approval of Non-Audit fees forthe 2017 Annual Report and incurred in 2016 Standing items at each report to shareholders annually on its Discussion of the Anti-Money Committee meeting role and responsibilities.
Laundering Officers Report also Review of reports from Group Risk A formalised whistle blowing policy October meeting and Audit function, including: key and procedure for staff to raise issues Private meetings of the Committee operational controls, internal audits regarding possible improprieties in matters undertaken since the last Committee with the Group Risk and Audit team and of financial reporting or other matters the external auditor Deloitte without meeting, key open internal audit is in place and operated during the year.
management present actions, whistle blowing reports and It is the responsibility of the Committee status of business continuity planning May to monitor its effectiveness and any Review and approval of external auditor Overview of requirements regarding notifications made.
No material issues non-audit fees the EU General Data Protection arose as a result of whistle blowing during Regulations GDPR Review and update of a 12-month rolling the year, and further information can be plan for the Committee found on page 64.
The Committee has Review of strategy regarding Data access to the services of the Group Risk and Centre and Disaster Recovery plans Approval of previous Committee Audit function and Company Secretarial meeting minutes and follow-up on Technology Security Update departments and is authorised to obtain outstanding actions Business Continuity Planning Update independent professional advice if it Corporate Governance updates also considers it necessary.
October meeting Main activities during 2017 July The calendar of Committee activities below Review of 2017 half-year results and provides an overview of the key areas of half-year external auditor report focus for the Committee in 2017.
External Audit review and strategy for tender Annual update on Tax Approval of updated terms of reference October Update on Online gaming controls Update on GDPR preparations Technology Security update Update on plans regarding Data Centre and Disaster Recovery Approval of Group Tax Strategy and Public Statement Approval of the external audit plan forthe 2017 financial year Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 management also reported to the prohibited services include projects with Approach to core remit Committee regarding steps taken in the contingent fee structures: accounting and Financial statements year to ensure that the Annual Report payroll services: legal services and provision During the year, the Committee and Accounts remains FBU for users of of internal audit services.
reviewed and discussed the financial the presented financial information: The policy continues to be applied across disclosures made in the full-year results the Annual Report and Accounts was the Group, to ensure close monitoring of announcement, the Annual Report subject to final approval by the Board, any material consultancy projects proposed and Accounts, and the half-year results following review and comment by both to be delivered by either the current together with any related management the Committee and individual Board external auditor, or any potential tender letters, letters of representation and members: and participants.
This ensures the continuing detailed reports from the external auditor.
improvements have been made to independence of all potential participating Significant financial reporting issues and the Annual Report to improve the firms given the onerous pre-qualification judgements were discussed and reviewed.
explanation and presentation of requirements of the regulations in respect There were no material changes to adjusted results.
significant accounting policies during the The 2016 Regulations provide for a cap on year, however, the Group complied with Internal control and risk non-audit services of a maximum of 70% FRS101, which provides a reduced disclosure management of the average of the audit fees paid on framework for reporting groups, for the a rolling three year basis.
The first threeThe Committee closely monitored first time across the Groups subsidiary year measurement period, covering the the Groups internal control and risk financial statements.
2017, 2018 and 2019 financial years, will end management systems and received regular The UK Corporate Governance Code and be subject to reporting in 2020, and reports and presentations from senior requires the Board to also confirm that they the Committee is well prepared to comply management covering the major risks consider the Annual Report and Accounts, with related disclosure requirements at and events faced by the Group, and the taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and that time.
procedures established to identify, assess, understandable FBU and that it provides manage, monitor and mitigate these risks.
The Committee approved the external the information necessary for shareholders The calendar of Committee activities on the auditors engagement letter, audit fee and to assess the Companys position and previous page provides further information the annual audit plan including the planned performance, business model and strategy.
regarding the specific areas covered by levels of materiality as usual during the A robust process, which was reviewed the Committee, with a continuing focus on year.
Letters of representation were andundertaken during the financial year, technology security generally, the controls reviewed during the year, prior to signature isoperated whereby the Committee assists environment in the Online gaming business, by executive management.
the Board in the discharge of this duty.
and preparations for GDPR compliance.
The external auditor regularly attended The Committee provided assistance to The Committee, in conjunction with Committee meetings in 2017 and receives the Board by overseeing the process by the Group Risk and Audit function, took all reading papers and minutes in respect which the Annual Report and Accounts responsibility for reviewing and approving of the meetings of the Committee.
In particular the Committee the statements on internal controls on external auditor met at least once during noted that: pages 64 and 65 on behalf of the Board.
2017 with the Committee without executive The statements applied any developments guidance is initially issued to the project management present.
The Chairman of the in practice regarding internal control and team regarding FBU obligations: Committee has also met privately with the risk management to the disclosures within external auditor.
all content is subject to rigorous review the Report.
byboth the contributors and by the In 2017 the Committee reviewed both the Senior Executive Team: Audit Quality Inspection Report published Oversight of the external the CFO, the Company Secretary and the by the FRC in respect of Deloitte, and their auditor Director of Strategy, Brand and Investor published response.
The report showed The Committee has responsibility for Relations perform a review to ensure that no matters of material concern for the overseeing the relationship with the the Report promotes consistency and Committee, in which the FRC identified external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and balance between the narrative front half a small number of recommendations for it continues to review and monitor and the financial notes: Deloitte to address.
the external auditors independence, a clear and cohesive framework objectivity and the effectiveness of the facilitates integrated key messaging, The external audit engagement audit process.
The policy to safeguard market and segment reviews, Deloitte are the Companys current external the independence of the external auditor, performance overviews, and principal auditor and the Committee monitors inline with the Statutory Auditors and risks to the business.
Sufficient forward theethical guidance regarding rotation Third Country Auditors Regulations 2016 looking information is also provided and of the external audit partner.
Paul Franek the 2016 Regulations, was maintained a balance is sought between describing is the current audit partner, having been bythe Committee.
potential challenges and opportunities: appointed in 2014.
The policy covers the appointment, the Committee had received briefings tendering and rotation of the auditor: during the year on the material reporting restrictions on the employment of former changes which would be required to staff of the auditor: ongoing independence be observed or which would represent criteria: and the supply of non-audit good practice: services.
The policy explicitly prohibits a range of non-audit services in accordance with relevant legislation.
Examples of William Hill PLC 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee continued During 2017, the Committee received regular Deloitte has been the external auditor of The CFO and Audit Committee will discuss reports from the external auditor, including the Group for more than 20 years, having later in 2018 the timing of the tender, a formal written report dealing with the been originally appointed to the Company which will be completed in line with the audit objectives, the auditors qualifications, in December 2001 just prior the Group transitional arrangements permitted by expertise and resources, procedures and listing on the London Stock Exchange.
policies for maintaining independence and Deloitte provided audit services to other compliance with the ethical standards Group entities prior to their appointment Internal audit issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
in 2001, their relationship with the Group WilliamHill has a Group Risk and Audit commencing on 22 January 1991.
A tender The Committee also assessed the function which includes an Internal Audit in respect of the external audit has not team.
The Group Risk and Audit function effectiveness of the audit process during been sought since WilliamHill was listed on the financial year.
In addition, the external has unrestricted access to all Group the London Stock Exchange in 2002.
There documentation, premises, functions and auditors management letter was reviewed, are no contractual obligations restricting as was managements response to employees as required to enable it to the Groups choice of external auditor.
The Committee confirms that it continues to be satisfied with the performance of In accordance with the policy on the The appointment and removal of the the external auditor and with the policies Director of Risk and Audit and Head Independence of the external auditor, and procedures in place to maintain their the Committee regularly considers the of Internal Audit is the responsibility objectivity and independence.
The Director of Risk relationship with the external auditor.
Inline with the policy, at each meeting the and Audit and Head of Internal Audit The Committee recommended that Deloitte have direct access to the Board and Committee considered and approved as be re-appointed at the forthcoming Annual appropriate any non-audit work undertaken Committee Chairman.
During 2017 the General Meeting and the Board accepted Director of Risk and Audit and Head of by the external auditor involving fees in and endorsed this recommendation.
Where no Committee Internal Audit continued to meet regularly The Committee notes and confirms with the Committee Chairman without meeting was scheduled within an compliance with the other provisions of the appropriate time frame, approval was executive management.
Competition & Markets Authority Order sought from the Committee Chairman and 2014 in respect of statutory audit services During the year the Committee approved subsequently ratified at the next meeting.
the annual internal audit plan and it All non-audit services provided by the monitored progress against the plan.
In the Companys 2016 corporate The annual audit plan is amended during external auditor are reported to the governance report, it was noted that Committee at its next scheduled meeting the year if needed to ensure it addresses the Committee had agreed to complete emerging key areas of control identified and a record is kept and reviewed by a formal tender of the external audit by the Committee on a cumulative basis so by management or by the Group Risk and no later than 2019, with the intention to Audit function and any material changes that the total aggregate costs regarding appoint a different external auditor.
Whilst non-audit work during a financial year is to the plan are reported to and discussed the decision to appoint a different external with the Committee.
Summaries of audit monitored carefully.
Audit and non-audit auditor is still unchanged, during 2017 the fees paid to the external auditor are set out reports are circulated to the Committee Committee reconsidered the optimal timing members after each audit and full reports in note 5 to the financial statements.
In particular, the decision are available upon request.
The Committee on the timing to change the auditor preDuring 2017 the Audit Committee monitored progress against actions dates the transformation programme.
approved the provision of certain nonidentified in those reports.
However, the success of the transformation audit assurance services by the Deloitte.
programme is critical to theCompany and The majority of the services, for which During the year and in particular regarding a tender could impact on the programme, the approval of the internal audit plan fees totalled 40,000, related to specific particularly as other potential candidate projects spanning IT consultancy in for the forthcoming year the Committee firms who may succeed Deloitte are enquired as to the adequacy of the Australia, reviews of the Horseracing undertaking work which would conflict and Greyhound Levy and reviews of resources of the Group Risk and Audit them were those projects to continue into function and received assurances that commission structures for an Australian 2019.
The Committee therefore concluded, National Rugby League agreement.
on balance, it was in order to re-consider Where necessary, the work required to be Other non-audit services provided by the its decision to change auditor in 2019 and external auditor during the year related undertaken by the Internal Audit function arecommendation was made to review is supported by external professionals to to non-audit assurance engagements thesituation following the completion required to be provided by our auditor, ensure that the planned work is completed.
andwere also approved by the Committee for fees totalling 35,000.
The Committee is satisfied in each case that the external auditor was best placed to undertake the relevant project, and no individual project was deemed sufficiently material to require detailed Committee review.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 The Committee endorsed Deloittes plan an annual assessment by the directors Disclosure of significant issues inrespect of 2017. that it is appropriate to prepare considered by the Committee the financial statements on a going The Committee pays particular attention An important part of the Committees concern basis: to the matters which it considers may responsibilities is to assess key issues in the steps taken by management to affect the integrity of the Groups respect of published financial statements.
ensure that the Annual Report was fair, financial statements, with a view to This process is primarily focused on the balanced and understandable: satisfying itself that each matter has key issues identified by management for beentreated appropriately.
the accounting basis applied to the consideration.
However, each Committee Groups pension schemes, in particular member as a member of the Board receives The Committee found that there was a in respect of the valuation of assets regular updates on the performance of good level of alignment between the key and liabilities: the business and in particular on material areas identified by management and the issues which may affect the finances of the accounting treatment and disclosures areas highlighted for review by Deloitte.
This gives the Committee in respect of the disposal of the Groups additional perspective to consider and to be The Committee assessed each matter, investment in NYX Gaming Group familiar with significant issues which need which included reviews of: Limited to Scientific Games Corporation: to be considered.
and the carrying value of goodwill and the effectiveness of key controls within In respect of the 2017 financial year, intangibles across the Group.
This review the business, which appears on page 64. theCommittee reviewed and discussed included an assessment of the goodwill with management the key issues which valuation of the Australian business, Part of the Committees role is to provide had been identified, both at the half year which necessitated an impairment constructive challenge to management results stage and again in respect of the charge agreed with the external auditor on the above issues and on other matters annual results.
through a process which commenced related to financial reporting.
This is in December: During the year, the Group was also particularly important where underlying items which had been categorised as assumptions need to be made by informed by the Financial Reporting Council exceptional items for 2017.
It was agreed FRC that certain disclosures within its management as part of their assessments.
with the Executive team that certain In respect of this, the Committee continued 2016 Annual Report and Accounts would items, including those related to the be included in a sample thematic review to question management as necessary transformation programme, should be on the treatment of the items and the of companies reporting Alternative treated as exceptional items and further Performance Measures APMs.
Committee received appropriate responses information is provided in note 3 to the from management.
The significant issues In October the Group responded to financial statements: were also the subject of review by the subsequent requests from the FRC to external auditor and the Committee noted matters relating to taxation.
In particular clarify specific aspects of those disclosures, the Committee assessed the recognition, that, where needed, the external auditor and the Groups use of APMs.
The FRC had confirmed managements treatment derecognition and valuation of tax confirmed in December that those provisions.
The Committee concluded was appropriate and that management clarifications meant their review had hadmade reasonable assumptions.
that appropriate treatments had been satisfactorily concluded, the Group having applied in each case: As noted above, the Committee was given certain limited undertakings regarding the Groups continuing compliance the consistency and linkage of related satisfied that the judgements made by with guidelines on the disclosure and management were reasonable and that disclosures in this years Annual Report.
explanation of APMs which appear in appropriate disclosures had been included The FRCs review was limited in scope the Annual Report, including a review of in the accounts.
The Committee also noted tothe specific disclosures relating to their the financial statements in line with the that Deloitte have issued an audit opinion, thematic review and the Committee is recent FRC thematic reviews: which can be found on pages 102 to 107 confident that the Group continues to meet of this Annual Report and Accounts, in a specific review of critical accounting good practice standards with regard to the respect of the annual financial statements.
judgements and key sources of reporting of APMs.
Further details in respect of accounting estimation uncertainty: treatments and assumptions are also In addition, each year the external auditor the existence and disclosure of actual provided as appropriate in the notes to prepares a comprehensive forward plan in and contingent liabilities.
Towards the end of was satisfied, following review of 2017, the Committee reviewed the plan and management disclosures, that such discussed it with Deloitte.
Other activities liabilities had been treated appropriately within the financial statements: Summaries of key agenda items can also The plan explained: be found in the calendar of Committee the disclosures and supporting analysis the scope and approach of the activities on page 68. in respect of the viability statement.
audit, including consideration of The Committee reaffirmed the David Lowden materiality thresholds: reasonableness of the assumptions and Chairman, Audit and Risk any key areas of change in the focus considered whether a viability period Management Committee ofthe audit: and of three financial years remained most appropriate, and unanimously confirmed areas of significant audit risk which would that it was as part of a recommendation be subject to particular audit focus and to the Board: the year-on-year movement in risk.
