HOW WE MANAGE Our Risks a treasury policy overseen by a Groups information security controls, THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Treasury Committee that manages the development of a programme to Ocados risk management process is designed to improve the Ocados cash and deposits, help meet the requirements of the new likelihood of delivering our business objectives, protect the interests of investments, foreign exchange General Data Protection Regulation, our key stakeholders, enhance the quality of our decision making, and and interest rates, so as to ensure and an independent review of Internal assist in the safeguarding of our assets, including people, finances, liquidity and minimise financial risk: Audit.
At the end of the period, the property and reputation.
Group established a new independent The Board is responsible for the identification of Ocados key strategic a food and product technology function called Governance, Risk and and emerging risks, and for the review and approval of the risk department, responsible for Compliance.
The new function has management framework.
The Audit Committee, delegated by the designing and monitoring assumed responsibility for supporting Board, is responsible for the independent review of the effectiveness compliance with Ocados processes the Groups risk management processes, of risk management, the system of internal control, and the for the procurement and handling such responsibility having been monitoring of the quality of financial statements and consideration of foods and other goods for resale: performed previously by Internal Audit of any findings reported by the auditors, Deloitte LLP, in relation to and previously called Internal Audit & Risk Ocados control environment and its financial reporting procedures.
other control measures outlined and to help enhance the Groups risk elsewhere in this Annual Report management framework.
The key features of our system of internal control and risk including legal and regulatory management, including those relating to the financial reporting The Audit Committee, on behalf of the compliance and health and safety.
process, are: Board, undertook an annual review of the effectiveness of risk management an organisational structure with clear segregation of duties, control KEY DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017 and the system of internal control, and authority, and a framework of policies covering all key areas: The process described on this page for covering all significant controls identifying, evaluating and managing a system of financial reporting, business planning and forecasting including financial, operational, the principal risks faced by the Group processes: compliance controls, and risk operated during the period and up to management systems.
a capital approval policy that controls Ocados capital expenditure the date of this Annual Report.
Such a and a post-completion review process for significant projects: system can only provide reasonable, For further information on the review of and not absolute, assurance, as it financial reporting, refer to page 65 of monitoring the progress of major projects by management, the is designed to manage rather than the Audit Committee report.
Executive Directors and the Board: eliminate the risk of failure to achieve a Risk Committee which monitors Ocados risk control processes: business objectives.
2018 PLAN AND BEYOND The new Governance, Risk and an Information Security Committee which monitors Ocados During 2017, Ocado continued Compliance function will carry on information security: to enhance its approach to risk existing risk management arrangements management.
This included an previously carried out by Internal Audit an Internal Audit function that provides independent assurance on externally facilitated review of the and will work closely with Internal Audit key programmes and controls: 1.
Our strategy informs the setting of objectives across the STRATEGY business and is widely communicated.
Executive Directors evaluate the most significant strategic risks for the Group.
In addition, each divisional Director prepares a risk register for their respective division, highlighting their significant risks.
The Risk Committee oversees risk control processes and risk analysis from each 4.
2. part of the business, and reviews these top down and bottom RISK REVIEW EVALUATE up representations to ensure that no significant risks have MANAGEMENT RISKS RISKS been omitted.
Divisional directors identify how they will manage or mitigate their significant risks.
These actions are then summarised into a description of the Group-wide mitigation process for each risk.
Group-wide risks and mitigation processes are regularly reviewed by the Risk Committee and by the Audit Committee.
IMPLEMENT MITIGATION Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 38 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Strategic Report to help provide assurance services to the Group intended to support To assist the Directors assessment, VIABILITY STATEMENT the operations of the business.
As well as supporting the Groups risk the financial projections in the longer In addition to the going concern management processes in 2018, Governance, Risk and Compliance term business model were subject to assessment, the Directors have will help develop the Groups new information security strategy and severe but plausible stress tests whereby considered the viability of the business.
work roadmap, and implement a new reporting system to support certain key assumptions were adjusted The Code requires that the Directors risk registers for the Group and for reporting of information security downwards, notably a material decline assess the prospects of the Group arrangements to Ocado Solutions clients.
The function will continue in the rate of revenue growth, lower gross over an appropriate period of time to input into key strategic decisions regarding major projects and margins, an increase in operating costs, selected by them.
The Directors have new Ocado Solutions clients and help monitor implementation of a reduction in fees from Ocado Solutions considered whether the Group will be key projects.
clients for lower service levels or delayed able to continue in operation and meet implementation, and some combinations its liabilities as they fall due over the ASSESSMENT OF THE GROUPS PROSPECTS thereof.
The tests were intended to three year period from approval of this The Directors have assessed the Groups prospects, both as a going show various outcomes including the Annual Report.
Although the Groups concern and its viability longer term.
This assessment informs the A impact on the Groups net debt and strategic plan forecasts beyond three following distinct statements: cash flow over the three years and an years, the Directors took into account assessment of the impact on the financial 1.
The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern the impact on forecast outcomes of covenants in the revolving credit facility, basis of accounting in the preparation of the Companys and the the rapid growth of the business and all of which are relevant to assessing the Groups financial statements.
its changing strategic opportunities, solvency and liquidity of the Group in this among other factors in concluding 2.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company context.
A decline in revenue growth or that three years was the most and the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its margins, an increase in operating costs appropriate period for assessing the liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
or reduction in Ocado Solutions fees Groups prospects.
can result from a range of principal risks Both assessments are closely linked to the Directors assessment in the business including failure by the The Directors rely on a number of of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would Group to maintain a competitive pricing existing processes to justify their viability threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, position, a decline in customer service assessment.
The annual budget, which which is outlined on pages 40 and 41. levels and a delay in implementing provides a greater level of certainty of GOING CONCERN STATEMENT capacity or a CFC for the retail business outcome than the longer-term plans, Accounting standards require that the directors satisfy themselves that it or a Ocado Solutions customer.
The is used to set targets for the Group for is reasonable for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare Directors consider that it is reasonable the upcoming financial year and is used financial statements on a going concern basis.
There has been no material to believe that the Groups 100 million by the Remuneration Committee to uncertainty identified which would cast significant doubt upon the revolving credit facility, which runs until set performance targets for the Annual Groups ability to continue using the going concern basis of accounting for mid 2022, and senior secured notes due Incentive Plan.
A longer term business the 12 months following the approval of this Annual Report.
2024, will be refinanced or extended, or model, which is refreshed by the Board that other financing will be available, to at least annually, provides less certainty In assessing going concern, the Directors take into account the Groups provide continuing finance to the Group.
of outcome, but provides a sensible cash flows, solvency and liquidity positions and borrowing facilities.
The Directors assessment also took into planning tool against which strategic At period end, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of 150.0 account the other principal risks and A decisions can be made.
This plan million 2016: 50.9 million, external gross debt excluding finance mitigating actions set out on pages 40 contemplates the impact of a number of leases payable to MHE JVCo of 283.9 million 2016: 107.1 million and 41. different strategic initiatives, including and net current assets of 2.9 million 2016: 141.2 million net current Ocado Solutions transactions, possible liabilities.
The Group has a mix of short and medium term finance The above considerations form the basis trials of and the pace of investment arrangements and has 250 million senior secured notes due 2024 of the Boards reasonable expectations in new technology, new CFCs which and a 100 million revolving credit facility which contains typical that the Group will be able to continue in typically take up to three years for financial covenants and runs until June 2022.
The Group forecasts its operation and meet its liabilities as they planning and construction, potential liquidity requirements, working capital position and the maintenance fall due over the three year period from increases in CFC capacity and changes of sufficient headroom against the financial covenants in its borrowing approval of this Annual Report.
in the rate of retail customer growth.
The forecasts involve the Directors making A The Board carried out its assessment of The plans make assumptions about the judgements about future revenue, EBITDA and capital expenditure principal risks and uncertainties during business including projected capital and the cost of future financing.
The financial position of the Group, the period.
Set out overleaf are details expenditure, financing requirements, including information on cash flow, can be found in Our Financials of the principal risks and uncertainties available finance and compliance with on pages 120 to 191.
In determining whether there are material for the Group and the key mitigating any financial covenants.
uncertainties, the Directors consider the Groups business activities, activities used to address them.
The together with factors that are likely to affect its future development risks have been listed against the most and position see pages 02 and 37, the Groups principal risks and the relevant Group strategic objectives, likely effectiveness of any mitigating actions and controls available to together with the operational risks, and the Directors see pages 40 and 41. are not set out in any order of priority or importance.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 196 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 39 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM HOW WE MANAGE Our Risks Strategic Objective Risks Mitigation Action Control Change During the Year Risk of decline in high service levels Weekly monitoring of the key indicators and the underlying drivers against published targets A number of planned initiatives are intended to improve operational performance Driving Growth Failure to develop retail proposition to Continuation of LPP basket matching price appeal to broader customer base and comparison and competitive pricing sustain growth rates Growth of the Ocado own-label range alongside continued provision of the Waitrose range Growth of branded ranges and expansion of supplier base Alternative sourcing scenarios considered in the event that the Waitrose sourcing relationship is not renewed when it expires in 2020 Continuation of investment and optimisation of the marketing channels to acquire new customers Continued improvement of webshop and apps Failure to develop sufficient Increasing hiring of technology staff, including management and technology senior positions capability or bandwidth to deliver on Regular review of IT prioritisation process all our strategic priorities Review of technology structures and processes to position the Group for delivering a larger number of complex projects Increased hiring of managers and subject matter experts in retail, operational and central support areas Risk of not signing multiple Ocado Investment in our platform which enables Ocado Solutions deals in the medium Solutions is also required for Ocados expanding A number of Ocado term and not being able to execute Retail business.
Initial deployment is in Andover and Solutions deals have been effectively Erith CFCs signed, leading to the Impact of not signing multiple Ocado Solutions challenge of implementing deals in the medium term is restricted to the lost multiple international opportunity to increase our earnings from our projects Solutions business The amount of capital invested in our platform is carefully controlled and we have the ability to reduce costs by scaling back the speed of the development Resources and capabilities will be scaled and reallocated to help meet Ocado Solutions project deadlines.
See above risk Risk of negative implications caused Regular monitoring of government reporting on by final Brexit terms such as increase Brexit negotiations to understand impact on the in import costs or difficulty in hiring business including our ability to hire employees from employees the EU, an assessment of trade tariffs on imported goods and impact of disharmonisation of UK and EU regulatory standards in a range of areas Collaborating with trade organisations to follow developments and express our concerns to government A risk of delays in the implementation Dedicating resources to the modularisation of of new capacity for both Ocado and technology and logistics systems to enable faster Morrisons replication New capacity in development at Andover CFC and Maximising Efficiency Erith CFC Regular Executive Board steering and full Board reporting of new technology projects KEY: Risk has increased Risk has decreased No change Not applicable Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 40 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Strategic Report Strategic Objective Risks Mitigation Action Control Change During the Year Technological innovation Engagement with a wide number of international supersedes our own and offers grocers to understand market needs improved methods of food Experienced teams in place who understand distribution to consumers the current solutions and are aware of global Utilising Proprietary alternatives used in other industries Knowledge Benefit to our UK business from examining the retail businesses of international grocers Protecting our IP Ongoing effort to identify patentable inventions and to apply for patents, with an increased number of patent applications Ongoing review of our patent portfolio and discussion of other IP issues by the Ocado Innovation Committee Where necessary we take steps to protect our IP from unauthorised use Infringing a third partys IP Conducting freedom to operate searches on selected technologies in selected jurisdictions Where appropriate, obtaining specialist or legal advice including to help ensure our ability to use our IP is not restricted by infringement claims A risk of a food safety or product safety Experienced legal, food and product technology incident professionals monitor compliance against policies and procedures Supplier approval and certification process Operational Food and product safety policies and quality management with appropriate operational procedures A risk of changes in regulations Regular monitoring of regulatory developments to impacting our retail business model or ensure that changes are identified the viability of Ocado Solutions deals Monitoring operational performance to minimise environmental impact Some due diligence carried out at appropriate stages in the Ocado Solutions process Risk of major cyber-attack or data loss IT systems are structured to operate reliably and securely The security of our IT systems is regularly tested by third parties: security monitoring capabilities have been expanded No customer payment card data is held in Ocados databases Access to customer personal data is restricted to those who need this information as part of their job GDPR compliance programme is being carried out Business interruption IT systems are structured to operate reliably and securely Dedicated engineering teams on site with daily maintenance programmes to support the continued operation of equipment Disaster recovery testing and business continuity plans continue to be progressed and updated High level of protection for CFCs and equipment, combined with business interruption insurance to transfer residual risks 1.
The risk described in the 2016 annual report as a Failure to maintain competitive pricing position has been deleted and included as a sub-set of the risk concerning Failure to develop retail proposition to appeal to broader customer base and sustain growth rates.
The risk described in the 2016 Annual Report as Risk of not signing multiple Ocado Solutions deals in the medium term has been expanded to include the risk of not being able to execute the deals effectively.
For further information on the financial risks, see pages 161 to 163 of the notes to the financial statements.
