Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Managing our risks As we drive towards the delivery of our strategy, incurring change and investing to support our growth, it is important we understand the risks we face and take proactive action tomanage our exposure to that risk.
Our targets cannot be met without Throughout 2017 we have undertaken Our approach takingan element of risk, but focusing detailed bottom-up risk assessments in The Board is responsible for oversight on the potential implications allows us to business units and support functions, and approval of appropriate responses to take action to mitigate where necessary, highlighting key risks, their current potentially significant risks in pursuit of the or potentially to knowingly take balanced mitigations and areas which require Groups strategic objectives.
During the risks to capitalise on opportunities.
This was presented to the year the Board re-affirmed the existing Theextent to which we seek to accept Group Executive to support a consolidated risk appetite as being appropriate.
The risk, after mitigations, must be balanced assessment and to prioritise areas for Board confirms that its assessment of the with safeguarding our operations and action and assurance.
This process is principal risks facing the Company, including stakeholder needs.
ongoing throughout the year and continues those that would threaten its business to evolve alongside our risk profile.
model, future performance, solvency Our Board are the ultimate owners of our or liquidity, and which are set out in this Risk Management process, with day-toSet out on the following pages is the Managing our risks section, was robust.
day management of risk delegated to the Boards view of key risks currently facing Group Executive, guided by an agreedthe Group, along with commentary on how Each defined business unit has fully upon risk appetite.
Regular operational this directly affects our strategic goals.
considered their own risk profile which has reporting from the Executive and Setting these risks out in priority order, been appraised, challenged and approved Internal Audit team to the Audit and Risk weprovide a view on the likelihood of these by the Executive, with a consolidated Management Committee ensure that the risks crystallising in the coming year and the view presented to the Board.
The Group Board is regularly apprised of how risks are potential impacts, along with an indicator Executive are charged with managing being managed.
Particular focus is given of the change in risk compared to the prior risk, and undertake these duties through to thoserisks which may threaten our year assessment.
specific review of the risk assessment in the strategic priorities or regulatory compliance.
Committee, as well as formally considering An explanation of how the Group manages risk as part of the investment appraisal its various financial risks is provided in note process, Group and regional capital 23 to the financial statements.
expenditure and project appraisals, review of key changes and through discussion with the Board as part of Group strategy days.
Key: High Medium Low Stable Increasing Decreasing New risk William Hill PLC 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Managing our risks continued Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk High High Stable Regulatory compliance and change Impact on strategy What are we doing to address the issue?
Our Compliance processes and WilliamHill remains committed to Given the breadth and scope of our controls across the Group are well upholding the standards required in all business, and the multiple territories established and the compliance of our licensed territories.
In our primary andregulated markets we operate within, functions operate independently of market, the UK, the impact of the Triennial itisan ongoing challenge to maintain a operational management to both support Review is still to be finalised, but our fully compliant position, but this remains managements compliance obligations continuing dialogue with the UK regulator a cornerstone of our strategy.
We support and to provide ongoing assurance over allows us to focus on the need to monitor sustained investment in our compliance the adherence to local requirements.
A and evolve our ways of working to ensure and other assurance functions to identify, bi-monthly Group Compliance Committee that we remain a business with compliance understand and address changing provides all compliance officers with direct embedded into its key operations.
regulatory requirements in an efficient and access to senior Group leadership including effective manner.
We actively engage with the Group CEO, and ensures compliance Holding licences in key markets is an the UK Government and significant other issues are shared across the Group to essential part of our growth strategy parties to discuss the measures by which allow for the identification of trends and and therefore a breach of local licensing we fulfil our obligations under the licensing common issues.
Further, the objectives in the UK.
complexities of regulation in multiple We also engage with governments and jurisdictions must be carefully managed.
We provide ongoing support and continued regulators on a pro-active basis when This multi-territory licensing drives a adherence to the voluntary ABB Code, and changes to regulation are proposed need to continually update processes and remain a committed member of the Senet and we actively contribute to public controls which seek to ensure compliance, Group, which aims to promote responsible consultations.
This is designed to promote and to review the ongoing changes to gambling standards and to hold its the consideration of the interests of the our business to assess the impact on our members to account.
Group and the industry before regulation licensing position.
Changes to regulations is finalised.
The Group Risk and Audit We maintain a dialogue with regulators in each of our licensed markets may have function also considers regulatory and other key stakeholders in our licensed anegative impact on Group results.
compliance as a core part of audit territories internationally, continually delivery, reporting directly to the Audit monitor the changing legal landscape and Risk Management Committee, as and adapt our strategy on a  third line of defence.
country basis to changes in regulation.
Ahigh proportion of Onlines revenues are The Board has considered the potential impact of an unfavourable ruling from derived from licensed territories, which mitigates risks associated with operating the Triennial Review of staking limits and gaming, is developing alternative on a non-locally licensed basis.
strategies depending on a range of We have well-resourced in-house outcomes and will continue to apply its compliance functions and have existing dividend policy of a payout ratio compliance officers in all of our strategic around 50% of adjusted earnings, which business units who are a core part of could lead to reductions in the dividend the local management teams, ensuring per share.
compliance has a voice at the top table ineach location.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk High High Increasing Cyber crime and IT security Impact on strategy Furthermore, this threat landscape has As well as working with a range of The ability to provide a leading offering evolved particularly rapidly over the specialist security firms to enhance, review to retain and attract customers, and course of the last year, as evidenced and test our defences against these the associated complex back-office by the volume of high-profile incidents threats, we continue to invest significantly functionality we require, is underpinned throughout 2017, and continues to do so.
We have by significant investment in proprietary The sports betting and online gaming also undertaken changes to our network technology and carefully selected thirdindustries, and the increasing digital structures, with further changes planned, party offerings.
In the course of operating footprint of our global operations, means to reduce our exposure to external threats.
these technologies and delivering services that this risk is a material threat facing Cyber threats have had consistently to customers, we also need to store and the Group.
high levels of air-time at Executive process a wide range of data, including What are we doing to address the issue?
meetings and Board or Committees customer and employee data.
Increasing As a large multi-national technologymeetings throughout the year.
The threats to these technologies, and the based business we remain a target for threat continues to change and it is clear privacy of associated data, from cyber attacks such as sustained DDoS activity that no company or sector is immune.
crime or malicious activities requires or account enumeration attacks.
We We believe our exposure is being well sophisticated protection techniques continue to work with leading prevention managed and continue to be vigilant and and growing investment to mitigate and mitigation partners globally to prevent not complacent.
and react to such attacks.
The level of threat activity continues to be high across the Group, but steps taken to prevent or to swiftly and successfully address rapidly emerging threats continue to support the value of investments made in this area.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Medium Medium Stable Programme optimisation Impact on strategy if not properly managed.
For this reason Where other significant programmes In the prior year we specifically noted we have widened the definition of the risk orbusiness needs are likely to clash with a risk in relation to our transformation to include the need to effectively direct the transformation roadmap, they are programme.
That programme has resources in order that programmes are discussed with the Group Executive and, progressed significantly and involves delivered in an optimal way.
if necessary, brought under the same aconsiderable number of initiatives which governance model to ensure that all What are we doing to address the issue?
have delivered, or are due to deliver, conflicting needs are understood and We continue to work with a leading global material change across the business.
consultancy firm who bring significant Themechanisms for managing this experience in delivering wide-reaching Each initiative is sponsored by a member changeand ensuring the cumulative effect programmes of this type, which is now of the Group Executive and led by a is well understood are now embedded aligned to their in-depth understanding member of the senior management team in our ways of working and will likely of WilliamHills ways of working.
The within the relevant business unit to ensure continue beyond the formal period of cadence of oversight and operational full visibility of the impacts of change.
However this level meetings across the transformation is of change is both time and resource heavy Programmes with significant business now embedded in our business and the and must be delivered alongside other impact are also prioritised under the information needs of each management day-to-day activity, business change Internal Audit plan with multiple reviews group is well understood.
A fully resourced and externally imposed compliance scheduled throughout 2018, as well programme office is in place to manage initiatives such as the GDPR programme.
as considering the need for external the delivery timelines, dependencies Delivering such widespread change has specialist support.
and resourcing requirements in order the potential to impact core business tominimise delivery risk and the impact processes, disrupt staffing models and onexisting plans.
adversely affect existing development roadmaps or business-as-usual activity William Hill PLC 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Managing our risks continued Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Medium High Increasing Competitive landscape Impact on strategy What are we doing to address the issue?
The industry experience of the Board The challenge to acquire, retain and service We continue to offer our customers an and key management positions aligned customers remains a significant challenge increasingly personalised experience, to operational excellence and insights across the industry.
Competitor mergers without resting on our laurels.
Investment brought in from other industries is driving have transitioned from proposed deals in product development is continuing a continuous improvement culture at into the process of merging and refining and our commitment to strengthening WilliamHill, and this leaves us well placed their offerings throughout a period of the Krakow Grand Parade development to continue to evolve in established transition.
Meanwhile, new opportunities capabilities is a clear indication of this.
Our long-term investments in continue to arise, such as the prospect continue to leverage the significant efforts the US, through our Nevada licence and of international growth should the US put in place to develop our UNO database contribution to the Delaware Sports Supreme Court opinion lead to the repeal and during the year introduced our Lottery leaves us in a position of strength of PASPA and open up new territories WilliamHill Plus Card as a demonstration to capitalise on in the US.
for licensed sports betting on a state-byof the strategic strength of aligning our state basis.
Failure to differentiate and meet the needs of our customers may lead to a race to the bottom on pricing, this being a natural outcome for those who serve commoditised offerings.
Meanwhile, selecting the right business model and maximising the opportunities, should states open up in the US, will go a long wayto determining success.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Medium High New risk International footprint Impact on strategy The nature of the Brexit arrangements Specifically we have assessed Brexit risk, Our Group operates across multiple are not yet known and may yet and at this stage there is no clear material locations, servicing customers in a large affect our ability to operate under impact on our ability to service customer number of markets across the globe, current arrangements.
needs, although this remains under review.
regulated in multiple markets and What are we doing to address the issue?
This global diversification also presents partnering with third parties worldwide.
Our governance model ensures that significant opportunities, such as the These operations bring with them local CEOs and functional leads have a potential repeal of PASPA in the US and significant opportunities for growth or clear voice in the Executive Management the opportunities which would be available efficient and effective ways of working, meetings to raise issues specific to a to us given our significant presence in however, as is well understood, globally location or region.
This model is supported Nevada already.
by clear reporting lines from local legal We also utilise the geographic spread of Although well established in key locations, and compliance teams which provide our business as an asset in our business the risk continually evolves.
For example a dual voice to local management continuity planning.
Local sites have the ongoing negotiations which will and Group functional leads.
Other specific business continuity plans to allow determine the UKs relationship with governance meetings such as the Group for impacts to a specific location, whilst on our European neighbours.
Key services Compliance meetings provide a platform a strategic level we consider the ability to throughout Europe, internally or with for consideration of the impact of local switch work across locations and countries key business partners, requires the changes on the Group with the direct should there be wider issues which prevent employment and movement of staff in involvement of the Group CEO.
us operating in any key locations.
EU locations: intellectual and physical properties are created and owned acrossthe EU.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Medium High Stable Delivery of IT strategy Impact on strategy What are we doing to address the issue?
To succeed we must develop our services We continue to evolve our technology from commodity-driven offerings.
infrastructure and throughout the year It will be vital to enhance customer have made significant investment in experience through our time to market, ensuring we are fit to meet our customer front-end flexibility, customer analytics needs.
Our support for the change in and personalisation.
ownership of NYX ensures we retain access to a critical supplier whilst also Our global technology footprint comprises delivering a sound financial result for the a sophisticated combination of core Group.
The prior year acquisition of Grand central services and capabilities and Parade continues to drive strong benefits more targeted, more localised and to our technology strategy, specifically to business-specific capabilities, delivered increasing our development capabilities.
from multiple locations, to meet specific The roll-out of our proprietary SSBTs local business needs.
The complexity across the Retail estate provides us with of this technology footprint and our a market differentiator on the UK high changing business needs means that street and has been supplemented by the the execution within IT is a key area of successful recent launch of our Plus card management focus.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Low High Stable IT disaster recovery Impact on strategy What are we doing to address the issue?
We continue to monitor the status of our As a global business sharing elements Minimising the impact of any platform IT Disaster Recovery capabilities across of our trading platforms across different or online service interruption to our the Group to ensure that our protective time zones, and with a global sporting customers, and the ability to serve their solutions are in line with business calendar generating round-the-clock needs is essential.
We therefore continue requirements, and that remedial action is activity, any disruption to core platforms to work on refreshing our IT Disaster taken where necessary.
The status of our or online services is likely to have a Recovery solution for the Online business, IT Disaster Recovery solutions have been significant impact on our ability to service as well as leveraging next-generation regularly monitored by the Group Audit customer needs regardless of its timing.
It technologies to continuously improve the and Risk Management Committee.
is therefore important that we establish underlying resilience of core services.
In robust disaster recovery mechanisms for addition, as we look to drive efficiencies such services, to ensure that any customer across the Group, we continue to consider visible downtime is minimised in the event whether our current data centre strategy of disruption.
is fully aligned to our needs, including whether opportunities exist to benefit our IT Disaster Recovery posture.
For our US and Australian businesses, separate local IT Disaster Recovery facilities, plans and processes are also in place.
William Hill PLC 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Managing our risks continued A number of reasonable assumptions Viability statement are included within these assessments, The following statement is made in including: accordance with Code provision C2.2.
that funding facilities willcontinue to After considering the current position of be available or renewed on the same the Company, the directors have assessed or similar basis throughout the period the prospects and viability of the Company under review: over a three-year period to December that, following a material risk event, 2020.
In making this statement, the Board the Group would adjust strategic has performed a robust assessment of capital management to preserve the principal risks facing the Company, cash, but would not curtail normal including those risks that would threaten capital investment or adjust dividend WilliamHills business model, future policies:and performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks facing WilliamHill and how that the Group will be able to effectively the Company addresses such risks are mitigate risks through enacted or described in this Strategic Report and the available actions, as described in this key risks are summarised in this section section Managing our risks.
The sensitivity analysis considers all of our principal risks, although our assumption Although longer-term forecasts are that we will be able to effectively mitigate prepared to support the strategic some of our risks leads to a greater planning process, the nature of the risks emphasis on those risks that are beyond and opportunities faced by the Group in our control such as regulatory changes.
particular, the possible impact of future fiscal and regulatory changes and the pace Through this analysis, the directors have of technological change limits the directors concluded that we do not face a risk to ability to reliably predict the longer term.
our viability except in the event of highly improbable combinations of material Accordingly, a three-year horizon is used events within the three-year window.
to allow for a greater degree of certainty inour assumptions.
Based on this conclusion, the directors have a reasonable expectation that The directors assessment includes a the Company will be able to continue in financial review, which is derived from the operation and meet its liabilities as they Groups annual medium-term strategic falldue over the period of the assessment.
forecasts and identifies the expected cash flows, net debt headroom and funding covenant compliance throughout the three years under review.
These forecasts also incorporate severe but plausible downside case scenarios, illustrating the potential impact upon viability of one or more of the Groups principal risks crystallising during the period, both individually and in combination.
These forecasts also incorporate severe but plausible downside case scenarios, modelling the potential impact on viability of one or more of the Groups principal risks crystallising during the period, both individually and in combination.
As a result a number of different scenarios were considered, including assessments of different outcomes of the DCMSs current Triennial Review.
The forecasts also specifically modelled the impact of a potential maximum stake on gaming machines of 2.
