RISK MANAGEMENT IDENTIFYING MANAGING RISK St. Modwen Properties PLC 50 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information During 2017 the Board assessed the adequacy and effectiveness Risk management and internal control of the Groups overarching risk management framework and As the UKs leading regeneration specialist, exposure to risk is processes.
This included the consideration of the Groups principal inherent in the delivery of St. Modwens strategy.
The Board risks and uncertainties to ensure they remain aligned with the continues to recognise that effective risk management and robust refreshed strategic objectives which are to deliver excellent internal control is critical in managing risk effectively and enabling returns through: the business to mitigate the potential downside whilst leveraging Accelerating commercial development activity: the potential opportunities that may arise in a considered and informed way.
The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining Growing our residential and housebuilding business: a sound system of risk management and internal control and for Cementing and growing our regeneration reputation: and determining the nature and extent of risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Portfolio focus and capital discipline.
Further detail with respect to the Groups strategy is detailed on pages 22 to 28.
Additionally, the Board, through the Audit Committee, has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing St. Modwen, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Its evaluation of these solvency risks is described further in the Going Concern and Viability statements on pages 113 and 61 respectively.
St Modwens Risk Management Framework Group objectives, values and culture Owned and set by the PLC Establishing the Risk management Risk monitoring Board with input from the risk management and mitigation and reporting Senior Leadership Executive framework Strategic Principal risks Responsibility of the Senior Risk culture and uncertainties Leadership Executive Financial Annual Report Risk appetite Sources of independent Operational Group Strategic assurance Key risk indicators Technological risk register Reviewed by the PLC Board Risk strategy and Project including joint Key risk indicator and Senior Leadership policy framework ventures performance Executive Operational risk registers Independent assurance Internal audit External audit SHE audits Environmental audits St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 51 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The identification, evaluation and management of risk incorporates Key features of St. Modwens risk management and internal both a top-down and bottom-up approach, to ensure there is a controls framework consistent understanding of those risks that the Group is exposed Clear organisational structure with delegations of authority and to and their potential impact on the achievement of the strategic responsibilities for the management of risk across the Group objectives.
Robust system of monthly reporting including financial budgeting, reporting and re-forecasting, and the monitoring Top-down risk management process of performance against financial and operational KPIs A top-down process driven by the Board, who have responsibility for establishing and maintaining robust systems Monthly operational reviews between executive management, of risk management and internal control.
Property Directors and functional heads The Board regularly considers and challenges the organisations Board and Audit Committee monitoring and review of business risk profile and the effectiveness of mitigation strategies in performance, risk and internal control order to ensure the risk exposure remains within the Boards Periodic assessment, reporting and monitoring of risk at a Group, risk appetite.
regional and departmental level The Board formally reviews the Groups strategic risks twice Risk profiles and risk registers maintained and regularly reviewed yearly and will consider the movements and trends of the for major projects and joint ventures existing risks, as well as the addition of new or emerging risks.
In evaluating the risk exposure, the Board considers the Group-wide policy framework in place which includes key policies interdependency between risks across all financial and nonin areas such as anti-bribery, whistleblowing and IT security financial categories.
The Boards consideration of risk is further Independent reports from internal audit on the effective design supported by the Audit Committee who also assess and and operation of controls within selected areas of risk challenge the robustness of the Groups risk management process twice per year.
Annual environmental audits undertaken at St. Modwen sites with actions monitored through to completion The Senior Leadership Executive maintains day to day responsibility for the management and monitoring of strategic Proactive management of health and safety across all sites risks in line with the delivery of the Groups strategy.
supported by independent audits and regular management reporting Bottom-up risk management process Risks are identified and escalated via the bottom-up process by individual regions, divisions and functional departments who maintain their own operational risk registers.
The respective Property Director or Head of Department is responsible for ensuring their risks are subject to regular review, mitigating controls remain effective and additional actions are completed within the agreed timescales.
The Risk Management function meets with the owners of the respective risk registers twice per year to facilitate the discussion of risk and to provide challenge to the status of risk.
A revised summary of the consolidated operational risk profile is presented to the Senior Leadership Executive twice per year.
Where the risk exposure of one or a number of operational risks may have a potentially significant impact on the Group, the Senior Leadership Executive will consider these for inclusion within the Group risk register.
Risk profiles exist at a project level for those major projects and or schemes with joint venture partners.
These risks are managed and monitored by the respective project teams.
The risks associated with these projects and schemes are also subject to regular review by the Senior Leadership Executive.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 52 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk appetite Our business model exposes us a variety of external and internal The UK Corporate Governance Code requires companies to risks.
At a macro level, there is continued uncertainty due to determine their risk appetite in terms of the level of risk that they political and economic factors outside of our control which could are willing to take in achieving their strategic objectives.
have a significant impact, both positively and negatively, on our business.
These include Government policy at both a national and As the UKs leading regeneration specialist there is an understanding local level, monetary policy, investor confidence and the availability that risk is inherent within St. Modwens development and asset and affordability of mortgages.
We believe that this macro level management activities.
The acceptance of this risk, however, is uncertainty will continue in the medium term, particularly as the taken on an informed and considered basis, with significant focus implications from the UK withdrawing from the EU are still to be on those activities required to manage and mitigate risk to an fully understood.
Whilst our ability to influence external factors acceptable level.
The tolerances applied vary depending on the remains limited, we continue to remain vigilant by proactively associated risk and the level of related controls in place.
monitoring the wider business environment, operating an agile To support the Groups overarching risk appetite statement, delivery model allowing us to respond quickly to changes in our a suite of risk appetite statements has been established for each risk profile and maintaining a strong financial position.
of St. Modwens key risk categories: economic environment and Following the Boards consideration of the Groups principal risks market, construction, development and asset management, against the revised strategic objectives, the financial collapse or regulatory and compliance, financial and organisational.
dispute with a key joint venture partner, included as a principal These risk appetite statements are supported by a suite of key risk risk within the 2016 Annual Report, is no longer considered to be indicators KRIs aligned to the Groups principal risks.
These KRIs a principal risk within the 2017 Annual Report.
This reflects the enable the Board and Senior Leadership Executive to measure and reduced risk as a consequence of the scaling down of the joint monitor the extent to which the Group is operating within its stated venture with Persimmon Homes and the sale of 10 acres at Nine risk appetite.
The risk exposure relating to the construction of the New Covent Garden Market, which is being delivered in partnership During 2017 the risk appetite statements and key risk indicators with VINCI, is reflected within the risk of us failing to manage were reviewed by the Board to ensure that they remained major projects.
appropriate and reflected changes in the Boards appetite for risk as a result of the revised strategic objectives and broader operating An additional risk has also been included within the 2017 principal environment.
Examples of the key risk indicators that will be risks and uncertainties, with respect to significant disruption to our monitored in the future are detailed for each principal risk.
This reflects the increased threat from terrorism, social disturbances and severe weather conditions as well as external cyber threats.
A summary of the principal risks which could prevent the achievement of our strategic objectives and may have a material impact on our business are set out on the following pages.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 53 O r g a n i s a t i o n a l t n e m e g a n a m t e s s a d n a t n e m p o l e v e d, n o i t c u r R t s e n g o u l C a t o r y a n RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Principal risks heat map Risk level L Low M Medium H High 2 Severe R epresenting residual risk after mitigation 5 4 1 3 9 6 10 7 8 St. Modwen Properties PLC 54 Annual report and financial statements 2017 d c o m p l i a n c e t e k r a m d n a t n e m n o r i v n e c i m o n o c E F i n a n c i a l Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Ref Strategic objective A Accelerate our commercial development B Grow our residential housebuilding business C Cement and grow our regeneration reputation D Portfolio focus and capital discipline Risk Strategic Risk Risk category Ref objective description level Trend Economic environment A, B, C Downturn in market and economic conditions 1 H and market Construction, development A, B, C Changes to the planning framework at a national and 2 L and asset management regional level A, B, C, D Failure to effectively manage major projects 3 H A, B, C Unforeseen exposures, costs and liabilities on projects 4 H A, B, C Absence of high quality contractors, consultants and 5 M third parties Financial A, B, C, D Reduced availability of funding and unforeseen changes 6 M to cash flow requirements Regulatory and A, B, C A major health and safety incident occurs or non- 7 M compliance compliance with SHE legislation A, B, C Failure to manage long-term environmental issues 8 L relating to brownfield and contaminated sites Organisational A, B, C, D Inability to recruit and retain staff with the right skills 9 M and expertise A, B, C Significant disruption to our assets or business operations 10 M St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 55
