PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT CONSTRUCTION DEVELOPMENT AND AND MARKET ASSET MANAGEMENT 1 2 Downturn in market and economic conditions Changes to the planning framework at a national and regional level Risk assessment Risk assessment H L Strategic objectives A, B, C Strategic objectives A, B, C Trend Trend Impact Impact Devaluation of assets Failure to obtain planning permissions Reduction in investor appetite Failure to maximise returns from developments Reduced occupier demand Loss of competitive advantage Example risk indicators Example risk indicators Weighted development pipeline Weighted development pipeline Residential reservation rate Proportion of land bank with outline planning permission Void rate Commentary Commentary During 2017 there has been continued uncertainty in the UK Recent policy announcements by the current UK Government property market and broader UK economy.
have indicated a willingness to re-evaluate the planning framework to support the continued demand for brownfield The refreshed strategic plan ensures that we continue to focus development activity, particularly with respect to residential on asset classes where there is continued, sustainable appetite development, creating potential opportunities.
and demand and in a variety of geographical regions.
This diversification ensures that we are not exposed to any one There is a continued focus on bringing forward land for sector or region.
This is complemented by a considered redevelopment and our strategic plan and portfolio will enable medium-term disposal programme of drier assets which will us to take advantage of this demand.
see proceeds realised in tranches and reinvested in targeted asset classes.
We are in continuous communication with occupiers of our commercial assets to minimise the risk of rent default and void periods and invest in our residential sales team and customer services process to maximise upsell opportunities.
Mitigation Mitigation Strategic focus on asset classes where there is the greatest Regular dialogue with central and local government demand and appetite Active involvement in public consultations Regional spread reduces risk exposure to any one area Use of high-quality professional advisors or location Constant monitoring of the planning framework by Active portfolio management of assets minimises revenue in-house experts loss and achieves better than market utilisation of assets Extensive land bank with a continuing stream of planning applications Regular monitoring of macro level indicators St. Modwen Properties PLC 56 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 3 4 Failure to effectively manage major projects Unforeseen exposures or rising costs and liabilities on projects Risk assessment Risk assessment H H Strategic objectives A, B, C, D Strategic objectives A, B, C Trend Trend Impact Impact Significant financial loss Inability to deliver development scheme Negative reputational impact Financial loss on major projects Example risk indicators Example risk indicators Speculative WIP exposure Speculative WIP exposure Commercial WIP exposure Future development profits secured Client claims Commentary Commentary We use our extensive knowledge and experience in remediation, All developments are subject to financial appraisal and are asset development and construction to manage our major approved in accordance with defined authority limits.
A number of our major projects are joint ventures contractor selection and management processes are rigorous which therefore shares the risk exposure whilst benefiting from and we continue to favour financially stable and robust the considerable expertise of both parties.
Subcontractor packages and direct material purchases are subject to our robust procurement processes Major projects are subject to regular review by the Chief and are competitively tendered to secure the best value.
Executive, Senior Leadership Executive and the Board to ensure that we continue to manage these risks effectively.
All developments and cost forecasts are subject to regular review and challenge at a regional level and by the Senior Leadership Executive.
Well-established processes also exist acting as early warning indicators for any potential claims or material increases in cost forecasts.
To date, labour and material costs have remained in line with expectations.
It is, however, acknowledged that fluctuations in the value of sterling and inflationary pressures may lead to an increase in the cost of both labour and materials in the medium term.
We continue to monitor this closely, with focus on the budgeting and forecasting process and continuing close working relationships with subcontractors.
Mitigation Mitigation Joint ventures on a number of major projects reduce the Use and close supervision of a preferred supply chain of overall risk exposure high-quality trusted suppliers and professionals Significant in-house development skills and expertise Robust procurement and purchasing processes in place Sites are often prime locations allowing flexibility over their Detailed budgets are established for each project which are use and increasing development options.
regularly monitored with significant variances investigated Regular performance review by Senior Leadership Executive Application of development skills and expertise and the Board Projects, acquisitions and disposals are reviewed and financially appraised in detail, with clearly defined authority limits Contractual liability clearly defined Standard build specification continually reviewed St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 57 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED CONSTRUCTION, DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 5 6 Absence of high-quality contractors, consultants and Reduced availability of funding and unforeseen changes third parties to cash flow requirements Risk assessment Risk assessment M M Strategic objectives A, B, C Strategic objectives A, B, C, D Trend Trend Impact Impact Adverse impact on the quality of work Lack of liquidity Reduced customer satisfaction impacting on St. Modwens Adverse impact on the saleability of assets reputation Limits the ability of the business to meet its ongoing Inability to meet demand and support the growth of the commitments business Restricts the ability of the business to grow Financial impact on the returns achieved on individual developments Example risk indicators Example risk indicators Quality satisfaction scores Minimum headroom Considerate contractor scores Future facilities Commentary Commentary The expansion of the business and increased volume of work, Our prudent approach to forward commitments, speculative particularly in residential housing, has resulted in the need for development and asset disposals has enabled us to optimise additional contractors and consultants to meet this demand.
operational cash flows and offset the impact of fluctuating Additionally, in the long term, any restriction on the movement market conditions.
of labour, as a result of negotiations with the EU, may result in Our banking relationships are strong, which enabled us, shortly the reduced availability of skills and expertise.
after the year-end, to achieve one of our long-term goals of We continue to use trusted contractors and consultants working transitioning our banking facilities to unsecured from secured.
We also seek to continually develop This extended the maturities of these facilities as well as our pool of third party expertise and ensure value for money providing us with greater operational flexibility and access to at both a national and regional level through regular market more diverse sources of funding in the future.
This ensures we do not become overly reliant on a The sale of land at Nine Elms Square, in addition to the sale of single supplier.
our residential assets at Swansea University subsequent to the year-end, considerably reduced our LTV whilst providing funds for additional development activity and over 80% of our borrowings were fixed or hedged at 30 November 2017.
At a regional level, we continue to focus on maximising income through rent reviews and lease renewals, and driving down operational cost.
Mitigation Mitigation Regular tendering is undertaken for new consultants and Recurring income from rent broadly covers the overhead contractors and interest cost base Reliance on a single consultant contractor minimised through Financial headroom is maintained to provide flexibility the use of pools of specialists Regular and detailed cash flow forecasts enable monitoring Close monitoring of contractor consultant performance and of performance and management of future cash flows financial viability Strong relationships with key banks: all corporate debt refinanced until at least 2019 St. Modwen Properties PLC 58 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information REGULATORY AND COMPLIANCE 7 8 A major health and safety incident occurs or nonFailure to manage long-term environmental issues relating compliance with SHE legislation to brownfield and contaminated sites Risk assessment Risk assessment M L Strategic objectives A, B, C Strategic objectives A, B, C Trend Trend Impact Impact Serious injury or death to an employee, client, contractor Major environmental issue or member of the public Financial and reputational damage Financial penalties Reputational damage Example risk indicators Example risk indicators Accident frequency rate Proportion of the land bank rated high for environmental risk factors Controllable reportable environmental incidents Commentary Commentary The nature of our operations means that ensuring effective In line with our risk appetite, we are willing to accept a degree of health and safety arrangements remains a priority as the Group environmental risk where opportunities for higher returns exist.
has no appetite for health and safety risk exposure.
Health and The inherent risks are minimised or passed on wherever possible safety is discussed at each meeting of the Senior Leadership and the residual risk remains acceptably low.
We continue to undertake annual environmental audits of our The SHE Committee has continued to meet during 2017 and portfolio to ensure we have visibility of, and can manage, is chaired by a member of the Senior Leadership Executive environmental issues effectively.
Actions arising from these supported by a dedicated Health and Safety team who support audits are monitored through to implementation.
in the development of policies and procedures, undertake health and safety audits and monitor health and safety incidents.
Furthermore, during the year a revised health and safety training programme was rolled out to all relevant staff.
Mitigation Mitigation SHE Committee chaired by the St. Modwen Homes Managing Use of high-quality external advisors Director Risk assessments conducted as part of due diligence process Regular reporting of performance against indicators to the Contamination remediated immediately following acquisition Senior Leadership Executive and the Board.
Cost plans allow for unforeseen remediation costs Dedicated in-house health and safety resource Annual independent audit of environment risk Annual cycle of SHE audits Full warranties for professional consultants and remediation Defined business processes in place to proactively manage contractors issues arising St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 59 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED ORGANISATIONAL 9 10 Inability to recruit and retain staff with the necessary skills Significant disruption to our assets or business operations and expertise Risk assessment Risk assessment M M Strategic objectives A, B, C, D Strategic objectives A, B, C Trend Trend Impact Impact Significant disruption to the business Loss or corruption of data Loss of intellectual property Inability to access St. Modwen assets Adversely affects the ability to grow the business Unavailability of IT systems Loss of revenue and potential financial penalties Example risk indicators Example risk indicators Voluntary employee turnover IT System availability Employee satisfaction Internal or external reportable data breaches Commentary Commentary An HR Director was appointed in March 2017 to support in Risk assessments are performed for those assets considered the delivery of the strategic plan through the organisational to be exposed to a higher risk of a significant event, such as structure and its people work stream.
This has included the terrorism, flood or fire occurring.
Specific terrorism insurance development of a detailed people plan which has been is also in place across our asset portfolio.
Our IT resilience has been further strengthened during the year During 2017 there have been changes in the Senior Leadership through incident penetration and information systems Executive, supported by senior and experienced staff within assessments.
A GDPR Steering Group has been established with each region.
This has further strengthened the resilience of executive sponsorship supported by dedicated project resource the business.
to support the business in meeting the requirements of GDPR by May 2018.
Mitigation Mitigation Succession planning monitored at Board level and below Asset risk assessments performed covering security, environmental and health and safety Leadership and management development plans in place Specific terrorism insurance in place over Group portfolio Regular review and benchmarking of remuneration packages Dedicated IT team to monitor IT security and performance Targeted recruitment with competitive, performance-driven of information systems remuneration packages to secure highly-skilled and motivated employees Penetration and information systems reviews performed by independent third party Key information is documented to safeguard knowledge Dedicated resource and project plan in place with defined activities for completion ahead of GDPR introduction in May 2018 St. Modwen Properties PLC 60 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and taking into account the Groups current position and its principal risks for a period longer than the 12 months required by the going concern statement, a business plan and downside case was prepared which was reviewed and considered by the Audit Committee and the Board.
In doing so, we reviewed the length of the viability in the context of the Groups principal income streams, which are: rental income from income-producing properties, which have an average lease length excluding Swansea of 5.3 years: residential development, for which we have plans reaching out to 2020: and commercial development, where we have plans reaching out to 2020.
We therefore used a three-year period for our business planning exercise, which reflects the length of the development cycle and that our development income streams are more forecastable and certain over the shorter term.
This period allows for relative certainty in the modelling of future capital expenditure, asset recycling and development programmes planned during the timeframe and also reflects cash flows generated by the projects currently under development.
The reduction in this period to three years from four years in comparison to the previous financial year reflects our new strategy and our development income streams increased importance to that strategy.
Reporting on the Companys viability requires the directors to consider those principal risks that could impair the solvency and liquidity of the Company.
In order to determine those risks, the directors robustly assessed the Group-wide principal risks.
Through this assessment, the directors identified low probability, high loss scenarios with the potential magnitude to severely impact the Groups solvency and or liquidity.
For the purpose of assessing the Groups viability, we identified that of the principal risks detailed on pages 56-60, the following are the most important to the Groups viability assessment and therefore performed scenario analysis on these as follows: Risk Scenario Cash mitigation further analysis Downturn in market A fall in occupancy across our income-producing As the construction lead-time for our industrial logistics pipeline is only 9-10 months, and economic portfolio, combined with increased operating costs we can reduce our capital commitments quickly if we see occupier demand slow.
conditions and an assumption that leases of prospective If we slow down our pipeline, our low LTV means we have enough financial flexibility to developments fall retain additional income by delaying the disposal of retail assets.
A fall in homes sales volumes and prices in 2020 in Given the relatively short construction time of less than 26 weeks, the impact on debt comparison to our forecasts levels would be relatively modest, as we would reduce new construction commitments and reduce WIP by selling down existing stock.
An adverse yield shift in expected rental values This is a non-cash impact in the short-term, the most significant impact being on our bank covenants.
However, our property portfolio could withstand a 40% fall in A fall in commercial expected rental values portfolio value before any of our covenants would be breached.
A fall in the valuation of our land bank In the event of our failure to sell properties in line with our strategy, we have identified A lag in the sale of planned retail and smaller asset contingency plans to overcome the reduced cash inflows, such as alternative asset disposals disposals and capital expenditure controls in order to maintain adequate headroom.
Reduced availability Further increases in the base rate and an increased With c. 200m of headroom we have enough financial flexibility to absorb an of funding and funding requirement in the event of an economic economic shock at a magnitude similar to that experienced in the global financial crisis unforeseen changes downturn of 2008-9.
With 82% of our debt fixed or hedged at the year-end, we are well to cash flow protected from interest rate rises.
requirements The scenarios used are hypothetical and extremely severe for the purpose of creating outcomes that have the ability to threaten the viability of the Group, however, multiple control measures are in place to prevent or mitigate any such occurrences from taking place.
Based on the results from this analysis, and having considered the established controls for the risks and the available mitigating actions, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their detailed assessment.
Our recent refinancing activity extends our banking facilities out to 2022, which provides further support to our viability assessment.
This longer-term assessment process supports the directors statements on both viability, as set out above, and going concern, set out on page 113.
Approval of Strategic report The Strategic report for the year ended 30 November 2017 has been approved by the Board and was signed on its behalf by: Mark Allan Chief Executive 5 February 2018 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 61
