Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The table below sets out the principal risks faced by the company, include trade tariffs and limits to the free movement of people the link to the companys strategy, movement in the risk score that could adversely impact Britvic or the companys suppliers.
and examples of relevant controls and mitigating factors.
We have created a working group to monitor the impact of The impact of the UKs exit from the EU has been considered Brexit and ensure that we take a proactive approach once and, whilst not seen as a separate risk, it has been reflected in the implications are better understood.
some of the other principal risk areas.
We have already been The risk score movement from the prior year for each affected by the depreciation of sterling, and other potential risks principal risk is presented as follows: NR No change Increased Decreased New risk Generate pro table growth Realise global opportunities in Continue to step-change Build trust and respect in our core markets kids, family and adult categories our business capability in our communities 1 CONSUMER PREFERENCE Principal risk Risk description Failure to deliver brand propositions which respond to changing Consumer preferences, tastes and behaviours evolve over time and diff er consumer preferences.
between the diff erent markets in which we operate.
Our ability to anticipate these trends and ensure the strength and relevance of our brands is critical to our competitiveness in the market place and performance.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments We have a broad portfolio of products operating across a number of Our mitigating approaches remain broadly unchanged and we continue sub-categories and markets to increase coverage of consumer trends.
to invest in innovation and our marketing programmes.
For example, we We carry out a continuous assessment of market trends to identify launched Robinsons Refreshd, a low-calorie, all natural juice drink in the UK.
consumer, customer and shopper insights in order to develop category We launched the premium brand Monte Rosso and expanded the and brand strategies.
London Essence brand to include a soda range for the adult on-trade Our innovation process is informed by category strategies and uses tools, consumption occasion.
processes and resources to develop new products and brand communication.
2 HEALTH AND OBESITY CONCERNS Principal risk Risk description Failure to address health concerns of government, consumers and other There are diff erent consumer preferences in the markets we operate stakeholders e. g. sugar and obesity.
in for sugar and sweeteners and other ingredients such as preservatives.
Additionally, there is a continued high level of media and government scrutiny on health and obesity in all of the markets we operate in with a new Soft Drinks Industry Levy SDIL due to be introduced on soft drinks manufacturers in April 2018 in the UK and Ireland.
It is important that we continue to take a leadership position on health issues.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments We have a wide range of soft drinks, many of which are low or no sugar.
In 72% of our GB portfolio by volume and 94% of GB own brands will be Ireland, Britvic leads the No added sugar NAS market and in GB Britvic has below or exempt from the SDIL by April 2018. a signi cantly higher market share in NAS than the total soft drinks market.
Over 20 billion calories have been removed from GB diets on an annualised Ongoing evaluation and development of the brand portfolio and innovation basis through reformulation since 2013. pipeline: our innovation pipeline is weighted towards lower-sugar or Subway switching to Britvic delivered a 3.8bn reduction in calories between nutritionally enhanced brands.
Reformulation of products where we can to help consumers make In the on-trade we have accelerated the availability of Pepsi Max on dispense.
Reformulation of products to be below the SDIL without compromising on We market our brands responsibly with no marketing to under 12s and taste.
For example, J2O and Britvic tonic have been reformulated and will a focus on low or no-sugar variants as well as encouraging consumers be below the SDIL.
68% of our global innovation was in no low-sugar products.
We work closely with non-government organisations and trade associations We continued to support Public Health Englands Change4Life campaign in our markets to fully participate in the debate and help shape solutions.
with Robinsons and Fruit Shoot.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED No change Increased Decreased NR New risk Generate pro table growth Realise global opportunities in Continue to step-change Build trust and respect in our core markets kids, family and adult categories our business capability in our communities 3 RETAILER LANDSCAPE AND CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Principal risk Risk description We may not be able to maintain strong relationships or respond to changes Maintaining strong relationships with customers is critical for our brands to be in the retailer landscape.
available and well presented to our consumers.
A failure to do this may impact our ability to obtain competitive pricing and trade terms and or the availability and presentation of our brands.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments We operate across many diff erent customer channels and markets.
The GB supply chain investment programme is enabling us to respond to Continuous monitoring of customer performance and trends.
customer and consumer needs through improved capability to produce We develop joint business plans with customers that include investment diff erent products and pack sizes.
This year we have retained major contracts with KFC and Mitchells & Butler.
Development of compelling off erings for our customers shoppers based on our understanding of their business and the soft drinks category.
4 THIRD PARTY RELATIONSHIPS Principal risk Risk description Partnerships may not be renewed or are renewed on less favourable terms.
We currently bottle and co-market a number of PepsiCo products in GB and Ireland, including 7UP and Pepsi.
Additionally, we have a relationship with a number of partners to grow our family, adult and kids brands outside of our core markets.
Our partnership with PepsiCo and distributors and franchisees is an important part of our business and delivery of our strategy going forward.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments Robust governance and management of relationship with PepsiCo The performance of the Pepsi brand continues to be strong: for example in GB and other partners.
our Pepsi market share increased by 40 bps in the year ended September 2017.
NR 5 SUSTAINABILITY AND ENVIRONMENT Principal risk Risk description Failure to adequately address the environmental impact of our business including In a world where demand on natural resources continues to grow, it is reducing natural resource consumption and the impact of end of life packaging.
important that we continually look to increase the sustainability of our resource consumption.
This includes looking at reducing the environmental impact of the companys packaging, particularly at the end of its life.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments We have externally certi ed management systems in place to monitor There is a high level of government and media scrutiny on single-use and reduce the environmental impact of our operations.
plastic containers and the impact that they have on the environment and We have continued commitment to environmental protection with 2020 the oceans.
The feasibility of a Deposit Return Scheme DRS system and goals within our sustainable business programme.
other actions to increase recycling are being evaluated for England, Wales, Environmental considerations are embedded within our innovation and Scotland and Ireland.
renovation pipeline and our Innovation and Technical teams work with In response to these developments we have established a packaging research and academic institutions to develop sustainable solutions.
steering and working group to formalise internal management of packaging We work closely with our suppliers to source sustainably and reduce related developments and work with the British Soft Drinks Association, the environmental impact of all our materials.
government, suppliers and other experts to determine the appropriate Through our brands and in partnership with our customers, we promote holistic solution.
The GB supply chain investment programme is further enabling us to We work closely with non-government organisations and trade access the latest in packaging technology, and will improve our effi ciency associations to develop solutions and respond to policy developments.
and reduce our energy and water consumption.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 6 INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION Principal risk Risk description Our plan to grow our international business is limited by lack of brand To achieve our strategy of growing internationally it is important that we have momentum, local geo-political or economic risks, the risks associated the appropriate governance, systems and processes in place and that our with start-up pro tability or substandard processes and systems.
brand propositions respond appropriately to local consumer preferences.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments Our geographic spread mitigates against localised geo-political or The Brazil economy aff ected FMCG category performance but action on economic risk.
controlling the cost base as well as increasing prices has protected margins.
We have a mix of asset light franchise and business acquisitions, which Brand portfolio and geographic footprint in Brazil were expanded following also reduces our exposure to this risk.
We carry out extensive due diligence prior to entering into a new market.
Successful launch of Fruit Shoot in So Paulo, now being rolled out to other cities.
We closely monitor current and forecast performance of our business Continued focus on quality of distribution and in-store presence to units and, where required, rebalance investment priorities.
increase rate of sale of Fruit Shoot in the United States.
Targeted marketing utilising digital platforms and sampling to increase awareness.
7 SUPPLY CHAIN Principal risk Risk description Supplier failure, market shortage or an adverse event in our supply chain Our business depends on purchasing a wide variety of materials and services impacts upon our ability to source materials and or that the cost of our from across the world.
There is a risk that our cost and availability of goods products is signi cantly aff ected by commodity price movements.
are impacted by commodity price movements, adverse weather and climate change and its eff ect upon availability, yields and subsequently prices as well as supplier failure.
In addition, our business success relies upon effi cient manufacturing and distribution processes.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments Monitoring of market conditions for commodities and, where appropriate, The GB supply chain investment programme will further improve the hedging our contractual positions.
exibility and therefore resilience of our GB supply chain.
Robust supplier strategy, selection, monitoring and management processes.
Evolution of management systems and assurance processes in light of We maintain multiple sources of supply for our products wherever possible.
the GB supply chain investment.
Externally certi ed management systems across the supply chain.
Brexit could result in higher cost of goods for Britvic, for example as a result Business continuity planning processes.
of trade tariff s. We have a working group in place to monitor the impact of Brexit and will take a proactive approach as more information is known.
8 SAFE AND HIGH-QUALITY PRODUCTS Principal risk Risk description A faulty or contaminated product, either through malicious contamination, The quality of our products is of the up-most importance to us and it is human error or equipment failure, is supplied to the market.
of paramount importance that we manage product quality and integrity.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments We have robust quality management standards applied and rigorously Continued focus on improving the management standards framework monitored across our supply chain.
and the monitoring and oversight processes used across the company.
Supplier assurance and management processes.
Dedicated central teams to oversee quality and supplier assurance, working closely with the business units.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED No change Increased Decreased NR New risk Generate pro table growth Realise global opportunities in Continue to step-change Build trust and respect in our core markets kids, family and adult categories our business capability in our communities 9 LEGAL AND REGULATORY Principal risk Risk description Non-compliance with local laws or regulations or breach of our internal Britvic is subject to a wide range of legislation, regulation, guidance and codes policies and standards.
of practice in areas such as composition, labelling, packaging, marketing claims, advertising, safety, environment, competition, tax and employee health and safety.
Failure to comply with such requirements could have a signi cant impact on our reputation and incur financial penalties.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments Britvic code of conduct and our key company policies embedded and rolled Continue to monitor changes in law and regulation and compliance with out to employees.
Monitoring processes to ensure compliance with our Group policies and all relevant legislation and regulations.
We work closely with our external advisors and the regulators, government bodies and trade associations regarding current and future legislation which would impact upon the business.
Whistle blowing processes in place.
10 TECHNOLOGY AND INFORMATION SECURITY Principal risk Risk description We experience a major failure of IT infrastructure or breach in system or We interact electronically with customers, suppliers and consumers and information security.
our supply chain operations are dependent on reliable IT systems and infrastructure.
Disruption to our IT systems could have a signi cant impact on our sales, cash ows and pro ts.
Additionally, and in common with many businesses, cyber security breaches could lead to unauthorised access to, or loss of, sensitive information.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments Disaster recovery plans tested every year.
In 2016 17 a number of major organisations were subject to ransom cyber Central governance and decision-making processes for system changes.
Britvic was unimpacted by these attacks.
Information and IT policies in place.
IT security standards are closely We have increased investment to improve information security processes monitored to protect systems and information.
Incident response plans in place, recognising that whilst this risk can be managed it cannot be eliminated.
11 TREASURY AND PENSION Principal risk Risk description Changes to exchange rates and interest rates can have an impact on pro ts Britvic is exposed to a variety of external financial risks relating to treasury and and cash ows.
Changes to exchange rates and interest rates can have an impact on business results and the cost of interest on our debt.
Additionally, the GB and Ireland businesses have fide ned bene t pension plans which, whilst closed to new employees and future accruals, are exposed to movements in interest rates, values of assets and increased life expectancy.
Controls and mitigating activities 2017 developments Robust monitoring of exchange rates and interest rates.
The recent depreciation of sterling has led to higher input costs across Active risk management and hedging strategies in place to manage a number of our key commodities.
However, we are taking action through exchange and interest uctuations.
procurement initiatives to reduce some of this impact.
Pricing strategy and execution processes.
The tri-annual valuation of the GB fide ned bene t pension scheme was Monitoring of investment and funding strategies for the pension fund.
