RISK MANAGEMENT Our approach Key areas of focus As with any business we face risks and uncertainties.
We We continue to challenge and improve the quality of risk believe that effective risk management supports the successful information generated across the business.
We complete delivery of our strategic objectives.
We have an established deep dives on targeted risks: these are selected where risk management framework to identify, evaluate, mitigate and there has been an increase in the risk score or because it monitor the risks we face as a business.
The risk management is an emerging risk area.
The objective of the deep dives framework incorporates both a top down approach to identify is to assess the strength of the controls in place and the the companys principal risks and a bottom up approach to effectiveness of the mitigating activities.
The Executive team performs a Risk appetite robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company The UK Corporate Governance Code requires companies annually, which is reviewed by the Board.
Similarly, all business to determine their risk appetite.
This is an expression of units and functions perform annual risk assessments that the amount and types of risk that the company is willing consider the companys principal risks and specific local risks to take to achieve its strategic and operational objectives.
relevant to the market in which they operate.
The Board, We have agreed a set of company appetite statements for Executive team and business units and functions monitor our principal risks.
We use the articulation of risk appetite and review their risk maps and information during the year in decision making across the company, and to define and with formal reviews occurring at least twice a year.
This validate the mitigating activities required to manage our risks.
review includes an assessment of the movement in the risks, the strength of the controls relied on and the status of the mitigation actions.
The viability statement on page 33 provides a broader assessment of the long-term liquidity and solvency of the company after consideration of the principal risks.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Board of Directors Assesses principal risks and sets risk appetite.
Overall responsibility for maintaining sound risk management and internal controls.
Identify Audit Committee Sets risk management framework.
Assesses the effectiveness of the Groups risk framework and internal control systems.
Monitoring RISK and Executive team Evaluate MANAGEMENT Reporting Identifies and monitors principal risks and undertakes reviews PROCESS of operational risks reported from business units.
Risk and Internal Audit Test internal controls and co-ordinate risk management activity, provide expertise and support to business risk owners and report risk information across the organisation.
Response Operational management Own and review operational risks, operate controls and implement mitigation actions.
