STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT EMBEDDING A CULTURE OFRISKMANAGEMENT OUR RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY TOP DOWN OVERSIGHT The Board is responsible for maintaining the Groups risk In 2017, we enhanced our approach to risk management by management and internal control systems, with a mandate that incorporating the top down risk review process into the agenda of includes defining risk appetite and monitoring risk exposures and the Executive Committee, which is chaired by the CEO.
The purpose mitigations to ensure that the nature and extent of risks taken of the top down risk review is to provide leadership, direction bythe Group are aligned with its strategic objectives.
and oversight with regard to the Groups overall risk framework, appetite, and relevant risk policies, processes and controls.
As part RISK APPETITE of the new process, key strategic risks from the Group Risk Dashboard are reviewed on a quarterly basis to ascertain whether The Board has undertaken a detailed exercise to consider the risk all risks are being mitigated appropriately and to take action where appetite in a number of key areas for the business.
The results of further mitigations are required.
The Group Risk Dashboard is then this review indicate the relative appetite of the Board across the risk presented and discussed at the Audit Committee, which ensures factors and behaviours.
It is evident that this represents a view at that the Audit Committee is provided with an enterprise-wide view a point in time: changes in the economic environment, strategy or of the Groups current risk exposure.
performance of the business will impact this evaluation.
The Board is aligned on the relative risks and has agreed the BOTTOM UP ASSESSMENTS appetite for risk taking for Strategic Initiatives, Digital Delivery, Each major business unit has a quarterly risk committee attended Product Portfolio, and Talent is entrepreneurial.
This position aligns by the risk owners representing all areas of the business, as with the strategic aims and targets set for the business.
The Board well as by the Group Risk Team.
The risk committees analyse key seeks to minimise exposure to all Health and Safety, Reputational business unit risks and ensure implementation of risk mitigation and Customer risks.
In all other aspects, the Board takes a balanced plans.
Where appropriate, significant risks identified at business unit view on risk taking.
level are escalated and discussed during the Executive Committee The Board will use the results of this review to influence setting of risk review.
Group strategy and support its ongoing decision-making process.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT The Audit Committee considers risk exposure against risk appetite Operating in a dynamic and continually volatile environment requires by profiling key risks in respect of their potential impact and a flexible and responsive risk management process that can match likelihood of occurrence, after consideration of mitigating actions the pace of change and provide Management with a concise view that are in place.
During the year, the Audit Committee has reviewed of the Groups risk profile at any point in time.
We continue to focus both top down and bottom up risk analyses and the Board has on embedding a culture of risk management that will contribute undertaken a detailed exercise to consider its risk appetite.
towards effective strategy execution, ensuring both risks and The results of these activities have informed the Annual Audit Plan, opportunities are identified and managed to deliver long-term which will enable a risk-based approach to the ongoing internal value creation.
The report of the Audit Committee can be found on page 74.
During 2017, we focused on maturing our risk management programme.
We strengthened our risk analysis and reporting through the incorporation of quantitative key risk indicators into the process.
We advised the business on how to assess the risks inherent within the Groups commercial partnership agreement with Expedia.
We delivered project risk management training to the IT project management community, which will help ensure risks are appropriately considered and addressed during the delivery ofstrategic projects.
54 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK TOP DOWN THE BOARD Oversight and assessment Overall responsibility for the Sets strategic objectives Receives and reviews ofrisk exposures at the risk management system anddefines risk appetite AuditCommittee reports corporate level onrisk governance AUDIT COMMITTEE Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure Monitors the risk management process againstrisk appetite EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Maintains executive oversight Provides oversight and challenge Considers emerging risks of the Groups key risks and for risk mitigation plans Sets the risk management mitigation process OPERATIONAL LEVEL BOTTOM UP Identification and assessment Group-wide risk identification, Risk awareness and culture Implementation of risk of risk exposures at segment assessment and monitoring embedded across the Group mitigation plans and controls and function level Maintenance of risk registers VIABILITY STATEMENT ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group The Groups risk management system works effectively in assessing in accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate the Groups risk appetite and has supported a robust assessment Governance Code.
by the Directors of the principal risks facing the Group.
The principal risks are reviewed throughout the year and discussed with the The Directors believe a five-year period is appropriate to consider Board quarterly.
This includes all relevant principal risks that could viability as this duration is in line with the Thomas Cook Group threaten Thomas Cooks business model, future performance, business plan the Business Plan and the maturity of the Groups solvency or liquidity.
In order to assess the viability of the Group, the Directors reviewed each of the principal risks and uncertainties, taking into account current operational and financial performance as well as the Business Plan.
The key assumptions which underpin the Business Plan include: revenue growth of 4% per annum: the benefits of the Groups strategic plans are delivered in full: and financing facilities in the form of debt or aircraft leases will continue to be available.
As part of the analysis, stress testing focusing on the following scenarios was performed: A major terrorist incident or natural disaster in one of the Groups larger destinations that leads to a significant decline incustomer demand The Group fails to fully deliver the efficiency targets or new business initiatives included in its business plan Based on the results, the Directors have a reasonable expectationthat the Group will be able to continue in operation andto meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period oftheir assessment.
"THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk Direction Our Strategic Priorities OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES after mitigation CARE Care The table below lists the principal risks and uncertainties as determined Contact CONT Increased risk by the Board that may affect the Group and highlights the mitigating, "" Holidays actions that are being taken."
The content of the table, however, is not Risk exposure unchanged 7 4A Services intended to be an exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties that.
4: Partnership Reduced risk may arise.
"EFF Efficiencies Principal risks Mitigation Trend vs Link to 2016 Strategy Strategic initiatives We continue to implement our Weekly Executive Committee meetings attended by senior management during CARE strategy for profitable growth, which which progress and issues arediscussed and addressed CONT involves significant changes to our Financial benefits and KPIs are incorporated in the business plan and delivery, "" businesses and operations, as well istracked as part of the business review process 7 4A as our underlying processes and Each project or programme has its own steering group which provides challenge."
Due to thecomplexity of totheproject, monitors progress and ensures that decisions aremade at the EFF these changes, there is a risk that we appropriate level will not deliver thetargeted benefits.
We have made significant progress within all elements of our strategy including the 24-Hour Hotel Satisfaction Promise and partnerships with LMEY Investments and Expedia.
Our strategic initiatives are key mitigation measures for our principal risks and are described in detail in the mitigation of each risk below Customer satisfaction Technological advances have had Our implementation of the Customer Experience Roadmap is progressing well and CARE a significant impact on consumer is on track to be fully embedded into the business by 2020.
"This has strengthened CONT behaviour by increasing price our focus on customer excellence and is improving our ability to respond to shifts in, "" transparency and availability consumer behaviours 7 4A of travel products as well as a We have refreshed our organisational values to ensure clear alignment with our."
4: proliferation of online reviews about Customer Promises of Quality, Service, and Reliability.
All employees received EFF travel experiences.
Consequently, training on our Customer Promises and the new organisational values, which helps competition for travel services is foster a culture of customer excellence increasing and Thomas Cook must The 24-Hour Hotel Satisfaction Promise has been extended to apply to mostofour differentiate itself by providing a differentiated properties and continues to receive positive customerfeedback high-quality holiday experience.
We regularly review our customer journey map to identify innovative holiday Inability to consistently meet features such as Choose Your Room customer expectations may have an We have a robust hotel quality review process adverseimpact on Thomas Cooks We proactively monitor our Net Promoter Score NPS to identify and address areas market share.
for improvement at each stage of the customer journey Quality of our products and services Our success and future growth We are continuing to invest into our own-branded hotel portfolio, which CARE depend upon the introduction and contributes to higher customer satisfaction and margin.
"This summer we opened CONT expansion of products and services 11 own-branded hotels across Bulgaria, Croatia, Italy, Turkey, Spain, Greece, Cyprus, "" that appeal to consumers."
In 2018 we are planning to launch a further 11 own-branded hotels 7 4A are unable to provide the right new Our aim is to reduce the number of hotels within our differentiated portfolio.. 4: products and services to rapidly This allows us to focus our resources into developing a better experience for EFF changing customer demands and ourcustomers preferences, it mayhave an adverse We have entered into a strategic partnership with LMEY Investments, a Swisseffect on ourbusiness.
based hotel property development company, to further develop and grow ThomasCooks own-brand hotel portfolio We have signed a multi-year agreement with Expedia which will provide our customers with over 60,000 more hotels in global city and European domestic locations than currently on offer We have launched the Choose Your Room service which allows customers to pick the hotel room of their choice.
It is initially available at 50 hotels and will be available in 300 by summer 2018.
The service raises the bar in terms of the quality and value we offer our customers.
Personalised add-ons and ancillaries are real drivers of profitable growth Principal risk with a direct link to viability statement.
"56 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks Mitigation Trend vs Link to 2016 Strategy Digital strategy Our distribution approach has to be We continue to improve our websites, which is leading to strong growth CARE aligned with customer demands and inwebbookings for our major markets CONT preferences and be able to adapt to Our OneWeb platform is now fully operational in the UK, Belgium and, "" rapid changes in technology."
Ifwe TheNetherlands 7 4A are not successful in adapting our The web platform used by our German market was recently ranked as.
4: approach it may have an adverse oneofGermanys best online portals EFF effect on our market share, We are currently upgrading the technology utilised on our Northern European profitability and future growth.
platform, which will make the website faster and more responsive In an effort to attract more customers to our websites, we have developed rich and inspirational content.
This year we have added 80,000 images and 130 hotel videos Our Companion App is available for our customers to support them during their entire journey Talent Failure to recruit or to retain the Our annual engagement survey allows us to assess employee commitment and CARE rightpeople at the right time identify actions we need to enable talent retention.
"We will therefore introduce CONT will leadto a lack of capability with effect from FY18, a new commitment index designed to focus leaders on, "" orcapacityto enable the delivery thoseareas which will drive commitment to the organisation to deliver the 7 4A ofour business strategy."
4: Our high potential talent have been identified by using a matrix of performance and EFF potential.
Those identified have targeted development plans based on their career aspiration Graduate programmes were introduced in 2016 in the UK and Group Airline businesses to further strengthen succession and were further expanded in 2017 Our Group Leadership Development programme for direct reports to Senior Leaders commenced in 2017, targeting those identified as having potential for senior leadership roles The recent appointment of the new CFO following the retirement of the current CFO was done through internal channels demonstrating effective succession planning IT infrastructure We are increasingly dependent on Our service delivery process ensures demands from the business are addressed CARE technology to reduce costs and to ina timely manner CONT enhance customer service.
"If our IT We have a robust governance framework that enables IT to align with andmeet, "" architecture is unable to support the theneeds of the business 7 4A needs of the business, our business We have commenced a major change programme which involves simplifyingand."
"harmonising our IT landscape and will lead to significant operational efficiencies EFF Cyber security Information security and cyber We are currently implementing a robust Cyber Security Strategy based on five CARE threats are currently a priority objectives: Protect, Detect, Deter, Respond, and Recover CONT acrossall industries and remain The Strategy is aligned with internationally recognised standards of Cyber security, "" a keyGovernment agenda item."
from the ISO 27001 series and is designed to be quickly adaptable to the changing 7 4A Werecognise that we have high cyber threat landscape.
Our Cyber Security Steering Group, which meets monthly, monitors progress of the EFF Cyber Security Strategy implementation and ensures appropriate mitigations are Our review of this area indicates that in place for all high risk areas.
The Audit Committee also receives regular updates the Group is particularly sensitive to regarding progress on cyber risk mitigation criminal activity against our brand, We are currently undertaking a project to achieve compliance with the General Data reputation and revenue as well as Protection Regulation by May 2018.
As part of this project we are enhancing our ransomware malware attacks.
information security measures to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of our processing systems.
This work complements our Cyber Security Strategy and servesasan additional mitigation of this risk Principal risk with a direct link to viability statement.
"THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Principal risks Mitigation Trend vs Link to 2016 Strategy Disruption to airline operations The success of our Group Airline We have commenced a programme that aims at achieving efficiencies in the CARE business depends on our ability maintenance, flight operations, ground operations, operation control and flight CONT to effectively manage our fleet by dispatch departments through the adoption of a more streamlined organisational, "" ensuring we maintain the right structure, which will have a positive effect on our ability to manage and prevent 7 4A number and types of aircrafts and by operational disruptions."
4: operating those aircrafts to deliver The Red3 programme was implemented with the aim of reducing the number of EFF a high-quality and cost-efficient three-hour delays through the adoption of mitigating measures such as the use service to ourcustomers.
ofcharters and aircrafts in reserves The fleet Management Team continuously assesses the status of our fleet: Inability to operate the required forecasting potential needs and managing dismissal and intake of aircraft.
number and types of aircraft in our Ourfleetstrategy also involves the structuring of our lease plans over a long fleet may lead to missed revenue periodof time.
This approach allows us to refinance the lease purchase of or reduced margins.
Inability to aircraftson a staggered schedule operate the fleet effectively may lead The acquisition of new aircraft is subject to a number of qualitative criteria that to customer dissatisfaction, cost guarantee consistency with our product offering increases and reduced profitability.
We have recently entered into a seven-year agreement with Transat A. T. inc. for This risk has always been monitored theexchange of aircraft on a seasonal basis, enabling us to manage and utilise by the Group at an operational level.
ourfleet more efficiently At the request of the Audit Committee this risk was added to the principal risks to ensure a more holistic disclosure of the Groups riskprofile.
Cash and working capital Our ability, over the longer term, We proactively monitor our short, medium and long-term cash requirements and CARE to generate sufficient cash flow liquidity headroom.
"Our new bank facility will further increase headroom CONT to make scheduled payments on Our cost-out and profit improvement initiatives are successfully contributing to, "" our debt will depend on our future cash availability 7 4A operational performance, which will We continue to monitor all opportunities to manage liquidity requirements and."
4: be affected by a range of economic, maintain an adequate level of contingency as well as seeking to lower the average EFF financial, regulatory, competitive and cost of debt over the medium-term business factors: many of which are outside of our control.
Health and safety Due to the nature of our industry, the The markets in which we operate each have their own health and safety regulations.
CARE Group will always be exposed to the We are currently focused on enhancing our policies and procedures by finding best CONT risk of a health and safety incident practice from each of the markets in order to define a common Group standard.
""" en route to a destination, in the Thepolicies address all major risk areas including swimming pools, balconies, 7 4A accommodation or during an excursion."
transport, excursions, fire and hygiene.
4: A health and safety incident could have Our Health and Safety Audit Programme, which is delivered by reputable external EFF a negative impacton our reputation.
specialists SGS and Cristal, verifies compliance with Federation of Tour Operators and industry standards and includes a robust follow-up process.
We continue to make improvements to our audit programme: most recently we engaged an external specialist to perform hygiene and security audits The Group Health, Safety, and Security Team regularly reviews and updates its safety and security training programmes to ensure they continue to reflect best practice All new hotels are inspected by the internal Quality Team and SGS before opening to ensure robust standards are in place We actively monitor the number of health and safety incidents and over the last few years we have seen a significant rise in fraudulent customer illness claims by UK tourists.
We have put in place prevention and detection measures e. g. fraud investigators in an effort to address this issue Principal risk with a direct link to viability statement.
58 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks Mitigation Trend vs Link to 2016 Strategy Geopolitical uncertainties A significant decline in customer Our flexible business model allows us to align our committed capacity to fluctuating CARE demand due to the growing threat demand.
"We continue to rebalance our destination mix and add new destinations to CONT ofterrorist attacks in our key tourist ourportfolio, thereby mitigating the impact of geopolitical events, "" destinations, specifically Turkey, We have developed a Hotel Security Framework, which defines a set of minimum 7 4A may lead to a decrease in revenue security standards that should be operational in our hotels."
4: from our branded, selected and the Framework will follow a risk-based approach, with risk destinations including EFF complementaryhotels.
"Tunisiaand Egypt as a priority We proactively monitor the geopolitical landscape by partnering with the Risk Advisory Group, a leading independent global risk management consultancy that provides intelligence, investigations and security services We continue to follow the guidance of the appropriate state departments relevant toour source market We have a robust crisis management framework which we activate in the event ofanincident Brexit Our risk assessment of the UKs exit The Corporate Affairs Team has been proactively meeting with Government officials CARE fromthe EU identified the following areas from both the UK and the EU to ensure our concerns are appropriately understood CONT that could have a major impact onthe The Brexit Working Group which includes representatives from Finance, Tax, HR, "" Groupsstrategy: Communications, Legal, Risk, the Group Airline and the Tour Operating Segments 7 4A was established in 2016 to ensure all risks and potential issues related to the UKs."
4: Loss of access to the European Single upcoming exit from the EU are being considered and addressed EFF Aviation Market could have a significant Management is putting in place contingency plans for every eventuality with a impact on the ability of our UK Airline particular focus on ensuring that our customers holiday experience isnot impacted tooperate in the EU and the US Loss of access to EU employment markets, including the ability for businesses to place temporary workers in EU Member States without additional barriers may cause a skill shortage inthe UK and in destination Compliance with regulatory and legislative requirements There is a risk that we do not comply We have a dedicated legal team, which works to ensure that we comply fully with CARE with regulatory, legislative and corporate regulatory requirements and which monitors all current and emerging regulatory CONT social responsibility requirements in developments in our source markets.
"The team receives regular training to provide, "" the legal jurisdictions where Thomas awareness of critical changes in relevant legislation or case law 7 4A Cookoperates."
Our Code of Conduct is backed by a comprehensive training programme to ensure.
4: thatit is fully embedded across the Group EFF In particular, in February 2017, Our Legal Risk Database enables communication and timely analysis of all risks the European Union Competition related to regulatory, legislative and corporate social responsibility requirements Commission launched an investigation In regards to the EU Competition Commission investigation, Thomas Cook is into the travel industry regarding committed to fair and open competition and will cooperate fully with the Commission hotel accommodation agreements through the process with a focus on the availability of hotel bookings and pricing between memberstates.
Principal risk with a direct link to the viability statement.
"Risk Direction Our Strategic Priorities after mitigation Care CARE CONT Contact Increased risk, "" Holidays Risk exposure unchanged 7 4A Services."
4: Partnership Reduced risk EFF Efficiencies THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59
