Strategic report Risk management A strong risk management framework To maintain our position as the UKs leading PRS landlord, we recognise we need aclear understanding of the risks we face.
Our systematic and rigorous approach aimsto monitor those risks continuously, review our systems of risk management andinternal control, and evolve our approach accordingly.
Risk management approach Mapping our key risks post mitigation Good risk management is fundamental to our ability to meet our Current principal risk areas operational and strategic objectives.
The competitive market we operate in requires effective decision making, ensuring we assess 1.
Market see page 38 the risks we take and achieve appropriate returns.
Regulatory see page 38 to be resilient to risks we have limited control over, by maintaining 4.
People see page 39 adequate disaster recovery and business continuity procedures.
Health and safety see page 39 7.
PRS strategy see page 39 During the year, we have tried to further establish our risk 8.
Development see page 40 management culture and three lines of defence model 9.
Cyber and information security see page 40 throughout our simplified business.
Customers see page 40 implementingour PRS strategy we reviewed our operating processes in detail, developing risk and control matrices for eachprocess that we considered.
Our overall risk management ambition remains to nurture a responsive, forward-looking, consistent and accountable culture of risk management.
Rigorous risk assessment We designed our systematic risk management approach to 3 1 identify risks to the business using both a bottom-up and a top-down approach.
8 9 Once we identify risks, we determine their impact and probability, and give them a Gross before mitigation and Net after mitigation score.
This allows us to identify which risks depend 2 4 6 7 heavily on internal mitigating controls.
We consider a range of risk categories, including strategic, market, financial, legal or 5 10 regulatory, operational, IT, project and people.
Low Medium High We use a risk-scoring matrix to ensure we take a consistent approach when assessing the overall impact to the Group.
Impact For risks arising in operational areas, we base their likelihood on Movement from 2016 how often they occur in a rolling 12-month period.
We record Decreased their impact and likelihood scores in departmental risk registers.
Increased Therelevant internal committee reviews these registers at leastquarterly.
We then collate a Group top risk report for theExecutive Committee and Audit Committee to consider.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 36 Likelihood Low Medium High Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information External Audit These management committees and the Executive Committee Risk control framework and appetite question and discuss the identified risks, reported controls, The Board has ultimate responsibility for Graingers risk mitigation and the principal risk report.
The Audit Committee management and internal control systems, and for determining supports the Board by monitoring and reviewing the control its risk appetite.
During 2017 a detailed assessment of risk processes and mitigation for the identified risks.
It also ensures appetite for our principal risks took place.
The Executive we continue to carry out the process for reconsidering the Committee made recommendations to the Board and Audit principal risks.
We monitor the internal control framework for Committee, which discussed them, then set the risk appetite.
these risks through the Internal Audit monitoring plan and the Thisprocess considered the level of risk appropriate for achieving resulting audit outcomes.
For more information on internal our strategic goals and the risk opportunity we may pursue.
controls, please refer to page 58.
TheBoards tolerance for risk is generally low, particularly for regulatory and reputational risks.
The Board is willing to take Assurance on risk controls is currently provided by internal anincreased level of risk in other matters where there is management information, internal audits, external audits appropriate reward, such as development project risk.
We also have an externally supported whistleblowing hotline that staff can use anonymously if The Board approves the risk management framework developed othermethods are not suitable.
We have adopted this framework following the implementation of our PRS-focused strategy, bringing it into line with the reshaped business.
The structure also complements our further evolution to a three lines of defence model, with clear divisions between each line.
This framework includes various management committees overseeing key investment, operational and corporate functions.
Risk control framework Board and Audit Committee Executive Committee 1st line 2nd line 3rd line of defence of defence of defence Risk management Management and Internal and compliance financial controls audit Policy and Risk-based Executive deep dives procedure review audit Understanding of Key performance risk management indicators Oversight by management committees Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
