STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Risk management framework easyJet is exposed to a variety of risks which are driven by both internal and external factors.
These risks have an effect on the performance and achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board is responsible for risk management and ensuring appropriate mitigating actions are being taken to manage risks effectively.
function on an ongoing basis with regular follow-up by RISK APPETITE the risk team.
The risk appetite is the level of risk considered appropriate to accept in achieving easyJets strategic objectives.
The The most significant risks from each function based appropriateness of the mitigating actions is determined in on materiality, cross functional impact and or those accordance with the Boards approved risk appetite for the which have common themes across the business are relevant area.
The risk appetite is reviewed and validated by reviewed and prioritised by the Risk Evaluation Group, the Board on an annual basis.
which consists of members of senior management from each function.
This groups role is to debate, agree and RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS prioritise the principal risks.
The risk management function is coordinated by the Risk These risks, which form the basis of the principal risks and Assurance Team which reports to the Chief Financial and uncertainties detailed in this section, are challenged Officer, as well as having a direct line to the Chair of the and validated by the Executive Management Team Audit Committee.
The key elements of the process are: and the Board.
Principal risks are being monitored The risk management process begins with the throughout the year, with material changes being identification of significant risks by each function.
presented to the Board as they arise, and updates Risks are assessed taking into account the potential presented at least quarterly.
impact and likelihood of the risks occurring and the key In addition to supporting the Board, the risk team mitigations identified.
The current level of risk is supports the business in its management of risks compared to the Boards risk appetite to determine relating to key projects and programmes, specific whether further mitigations are required.
Risks specific business risks, third parties, countries and bases.
to a functions activities are managed within the The diagram below sets out easyJets risk managementprocess.
Turn to page: 54 for further details on Risk Management and Internal Control.
Risk identification & assessment RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS OPERATIONAL RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS FEEDBACK FROM THE BOARD REPUTATIONAL Challenge & ownership RISKS SPONSORSHIP RISK AND RISK EVALUATION EXECUTIVE APPETITE GROUP SAFETY PLC MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT RISKS BOARD AGREES AND TEAM PRIORITISES PRINCIPAL RISKS PROJECT PROGRAMME RISKS FEEDBACK FROM THE BOARD Challenge & ownership COUNTRY BASE RISKS THIRD PARTY RISKS A separate management system monitors flight safety risks easyJets safety process is described in more detail on page 42.
com Risk continued Principal risks and uncertainties Link to strategy The risks and uncertainties described below are considered, Building and strengthening Continuing to 1 4 atthis point in time, to have the greatest effect on easyJets number 1 and number 2 leverage data and strategic objectives.
This categorised list is not intended to be network positions digital platforms exhaustive, and the ordering of the risks is not an indication of Maintaining a lean cost advantage 5 Grow revenue 2 exposure.
Whilst easyJet can monitor risks and prepare for Maintaining customer and 3 adverse scenarios, the ability to affect the core drivers of many 6 The best people operational excellence risks isnotwithin the Groups control, for example adverse Considered as part of the long-term viability assessment V weather, pandemics, acts of terrorism, changes in government turn to page 31 for further details regulation and macroeconomic issues.
SAFETY FIRST Risk description Mitigation easyJets number one priority is the safety and security of its customers and people.
MAJOR SAFETY INCIDENT A major safety incident such as a hull A Safety Committee a committee of the Board provides oversight of the loss could adversely affect easyJets management of easyJets safety processes and systems.
reputation and its operational and financial performance.
The impact of Turn to page: 57 for further details such an incident would be heightened if A Safety Review Board at Executive Management Team level is responsible for easyJet failed to react promptly and deal with it effectively.
directing overall safety policy and governance.
This is chaired by the Chief Executive.
Link to strategy: Safety Action Groups from across the airline are responsible for the identification, evaluation and control of safety-related risks.
1 5 easyJet operates a Safety Management System using a leading software system SafetyNet.
This is used to: 2 6 collect and analyse safety data enabling potential areas of risk to be V 3 projected : and enable learning from easyJet and industry events incidents to be captured and embedded into future risk mitigations.
A robust incident reporting process and Just Culture are in place.
easyJet has an emergency response process and performs regular crisis management exercises.
Hull all risks and liabilities insurance including spares is held.
easyJet has an industry-leading fatigue risk management system and has implemented the European Aviation Safety Agency EASA Flight Time Limitations regulations.
Turn to page: 42 for further details A Security Decision Group, comprising the Chairman of the plc Board, Chief SECURITY THREAT OR ATTACK Executive, appropriate members of the Executive Management Team and other Failure to identify or prevent a major senior management, determines whether easyJet should continue to operate in security-related threat or attack, or countries or areas affected by security-related incidents or conflict.
As part of that reactimmediately and effectively, process the easyJet security team works to provide the Security Decision Group with couldadversely affect easyJets the most timely, credible and reliable information upon which to base operational reputation and its operational and decisions.
easyJet adheres to all recommendations and guidelines provided by financial performance.
Such an incident has the potential The Director of Safety and Security and the Head of Security work with authorities toimpact upon easyJets business, and governments around easyJets network to assess whether security measures are regardless of the location or target.
effective and in compliance with regulatory requirements.
A significant amount of The threat of further security-related work is carried out with the aim of enhancing: attacks regardless of where they may early identification of developing and emerging security risks: occur may impact the future demand for air travel.
the active management of security risks: the methods for reducing the impact of any security-related incident: and Link to strategy: the Groups security culture and awareness.
1 5 2 6 3 34 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL Risk description Mitigation easyJet seeks to have a rapid response to any such activity that may impact COMPETITION, CAPACITY AND easyJets ability to grow the business.
INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION The aviation market is highly competitive Competitor and consolidation activity is monitored, enabling strategic decision and easyJet operates in competition making on key routes positions.
with both flag carriers and other The Network Development Forum, a cross-functional panel of senior executives, low-cost airlines.
approves new bases and the allocation of assets around the network.
Excess capacity in the market may arisedue to a decrease in demand for Fleet framework arrangements, together with the Groups leasing policy, provideeasyJet with significant flexibility in respect of scaling the fleet according airtravel and or additional capacity as a result of low fuel prices.
This could have tobusiness requirements.
Strong cost control is a key behaviour across the Company, with initiatives to drive easyJets key competitive advantages cost reduction and improve efficiency in targeted areas.
include its network, cost base, brand, easyJet is developing commercial and digital enhancements that will improve digital innovation and efficient and commercial options and enable more rapid changes, thereby conserving as well robust capital structure.
Failure to as increasing its commercial capabilities.
retainthese advantages or react quickly to competitor changes could have an Following the announcement in October that easyJet will purchase parts of adverse financial impact.
Air Berlin, subject to anti-trust and regulatory approvals, there is now an additional programme risk relating to the integration of Air Berlin operations.
Industry consolidation could also affect the competitive environment in a number of markets.
This could cause aloss of market position and erosion ofrevenue.
Link to strategy: 1 4 2 5 3 There are processes in place, and clear roles and responsibilities within teams across SIGNIFICANT NETWORK the business, to plan for and manage significant disruption.
DISRUPTION Widespread disruption to easyJets A business disruption team, which includes senior management from relevant network may be caused by a single business areas, determines and initiates required action.
event or factors which occur for a sustained period.
Examples include Board policy is to maintain a liquidity buffer which allows the Group to better manage the impact of downturns in business or temporary curtailment of activities.
forces of nature extreme weather, volcanic ash, etc.
terrorism, In addition, easyJet holds business disruption insurance which provides some cover air trafficmanagement issues, for some of these very significant shock events such as extreme weather, air traffic epidemics pandemics or the management issues and loss of access to key airports.
Significant disruption to the network could adversely affect easyJets reputation and its operational and financial performance including the payment of EU 261 claims.
com Risk continued COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED Risk description Mitigation Critical systems are hosted either across two data centres, or at third-party provider CONTINUITY OF SERVICES locations.
Recovery arrangements, including failover between the two data centres, easyJet is dependent on a number of are in place for all locations holding critical systems.
key IT systems and processes.
An IT incident management team is in place to respond rapidly to any unforeseen A loss of critical systems or access to incidents that may arise.
facilities, including the website, may lead to significant disruption to operations IT disaster recovery plans are tested regularly to identify opportunities for and could have an adverse reputational improvedresilience.
Business continuity plans ensure easyJet is prepared in the event of loss of facilities, Link to strategy: including alternative sites for the relocation of critical staff.
2 3 There is a defined procurement process, led by a centralised procurement team, THIRD PARTY SERVICE which ensures a competitive and robust selection of suppliers.
As part of the PROVIDERS process, alternative service providers are identified and assessed against a balanced easyJet has entered into agreements evaluation criteria within the major markets in which easyJet operates.
with third party service providers for services covering a significant proportion Any specific supplier risks are identified and assessed during the procurement of its operational and cost base.
process and controls and risk mitigations are included in the contracts entered into with the supplier.
Failure to adequately manage third party performance may adversely affect Contracts are managed according to easyJets supplier relationship management easyJets reputation and its operational framework, with key principles covering defined ownership and accountability, a and financial performance.
governance framework and effective communication.
Supplier performance is monitored through regular business reviews, including achievement of service level Link to strategy: agreements and key performance indicators.
2 5 Robust transition plans are agreed in the event of switching suppliers to enable 3 6 an acceptable level of service to be maintained.
4 As easyJet operates across Europe, its crew are members of 20 unions and INDUSTRIAL ACTION 11 representative bodies across eight countries.
easyJet seeks to maintain positive easyJet, and the aviation industry in working relationships with all trade unions and other representative bodies.
general, has a significant number of employees who are members of trade Each of the countries in which easyJet operates has localised employment terms unions.
Industrial action taken by easyJet and conditions.
This mitigates the risk of large-scale internal industrial action employees, or by the employees of key occurring at the same time.
third party service providers, could Processes are in place to adapt to disruptions as a result of industrial action.
impact on easyJets ability to maintain its flight schedules.
This could adversely affect easyJets reputation and its operational and financial performance.
Link to strategy: 2 3 6 36 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Link to strategy Building and strengthening number 1 and number 2 1 3 Maintaining customer and operational excellence 5 Grow revenue networkpositions 6 2 4 Continuing to leverage data and digital platforms The best people Maintaining a lean cost advantage V Considered as part of the long term viability assessment turn to page 31 for further details COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED Risk description Mitigation The Board considers that the efficiencies achieved by operating a single fleet type SINGLE FLEET RISK outweigh the risks associated with easyJets single fleet strategy.
easyJet is dependent on Airbus as its sole supplier for aircraft.
The Airbus A320 family which includes the A319 and A321 is one of the two primary fleets used for short-haul travel, the other being the Boeing B737 family.
There are There are significant cost and efficiency approximately 7,400 A320 family aircraft operating with a proven track record for advantages of a single fleet, however safety and reliability.
there are two main associated risks: The introduction of the A320neo during the year in part mitigates this risk as the technical or mechanical issues that aircraft is equipped with a different engine type.
could ground the full fleet, or part of the fleet, which could cause negative easyJet operates a rigorous established aircraft maintenance programme.
perception: and To mitigate the potential valuation risks, easyJet regularly reviews the second-hand valuation risks which crystallise market and has a number of different options when looking at fleet exit strategies.
when aircraft exit the fleet.
The Sale and leaseback facilitates the exit of A319 aircraft from the fleet by transferring main exposure at this time is with residual value risk, and also provides flexibility in managing the fleet size.
the ageing A319 fleet, where easyJet is reliant on the future demand for second-hand aircraft.
Link to strategy: 2 3 V FINANCIAL Risk description Mitigation The Finance Committee a committee of the Board oversees the Groups treasury FINANCIAL RISK and funding policies and activities.
easyJet is exposed to a variety of financial risks which could give rise to Turn to page: 63 for further details adverse pressure on the financial performance of the Group, e. g. This includes: costs, revenue and cash flow.
maintaining a treasury policy setting out Board approved strategies for foreign Market risks significant sudden exchange and fuel hedging, along with liquidity, interest rate management, increases in jet fuel prices, currency counterparties limits: and fluctuations or interest rates which reviewing and reporting on compliance with Board treasury policies.
have not been adequately protected through hedging.
The policy is to hedge revenue and costs within a percentage band for a rolling 24-month period.
Counterparty risk non-performance of counterparties used for depositing Board policy is to maintain a liquidity buffer including cash and a $500 million surplus funds e. g. money market revolving credit facility provided by a group of 12 relationship banks.
This allows funds, bank deposits and hedging.
the Group to better manage the impact of downturns in business or temporary curtailment of activities.
The basis for the liquidity policy was revised in 2016.
Liquidity risk misjudgment in the The policy is to maintain a minimum liquidity buffer at 2.6 million per 100 seats level of liquidity resulting in inability previously 4 million per aircraft.
tomeet contractual contingent financial obligations or the inability A strong balance sheet supports the business through fluctuations in economic tofund the business when needed.
conditions and the Group has access to diverse sources of funding to support liquidity requirements.
com Risk continued FINANCIAL CONTINUED Risk description Mitigation The easyJet Change Board meets monthly to review progress made on the portfolio DELIVERY OF PROJECTS of programmes and solve issues that require escalation.
SUPPORTING THE BUSINESS STRATEGY Key IT projects or programmes have additional oversight through the IT Governance The business is undertaking a number of and Oversight Committee a committee of the Board.
key projects and programmes to deliver key elements of the strategy.
Turn to page: 63 for further details Following the announcement in Each project or programme has its own steering group which provides challenge October that easyJet will purchase tothe project, monitors progress and ensures that decisions are made at the parts of Air Berlin, a large scale complex appropriate level.
programme is underway to implement A portfolio management office is in place to oversee delivery of projects and the Air Berlin operation.
programmes, and track budgets and realisation of benefits.
Failure to deliver the planned A project management framework, which sets out the governance requirements, businessbenefits and cost savings fromthese projects may result in under keyprocesses and controls, is followed by all projects and programmes.
Lessons learnt reviews are undertaken to ensure continuous improvement to this approach.
achievement of easyJets planned financial results.
Link to strategy: 1 4 2 5 3 6 PEOPLE Risk description Mitigation There is a recruitment strategy for pilots and cabin crew.
This includes pilot ATTRACTION AND RETENTION sponsorship and the Amy Johnston flying initiative to attract more female pilots.
In OF TALENT addition, easyJet has developed a coherent employment brand to attract and retain easyJets current and future success is top talent.
reliant on having the right people with the right capabilities.
easyJet also this year opened recruitment for 14 engineering apprentices and sought to encourage more women to apply for these roles.
Increased competition in the recruitment market may impact easyJets ability easyJets aim is to develop talent from within.
There are several talent development toattract and retain key talent.
This programmes in place for individuals who have been identified for fast-tracking into couldadversely affect the delivery of more senior roles as vacancies arise.
Alongside this, there is an annual succession planning process to ensure there are Link to strategy: clear successors for all key business roles.
6 38 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Link to strategy Building and strengthening number 1 and number 2 1 3 Maintaining customer and operational excellence 5 Grow revenue networkpositions 6 2 4 Continuing to leverage data and digital platforms The best people Maintaining a lean cost advantage V Considered as part of the long term viability assessment turn to page 31 for further details COMPLIANCE AND REGULATORY Risk description Mitigation easyJet has put in place in Austria a third AOC: easyJet Europe.
This will ensure IMPACT OF EU EXIT easyJet can retain its intra-EU flying rights.
We continue to actively engage with the The UK government is in the process European Commission, EU Member States and the UK government to ensure that ofnegotiating the UKs exit from the there is an EU UK agreement in place to maintain flying rights between the UK and European Union although details of the the EU.
future relationship still remain uncertain.
If easyJet is unable to continue to fly An internal working group has been established to manage all aspects of easyJets itsUK-EU network this would have operations and structure with relation to the EU exit and the implementation of the asignificant operational and third AOC.
Link to strategy: 1 4 V 2 5 3 6 easyJet has an in-house legal and compliance team to advise on legal issues and LEGISLATIVE AND developments, and to monitor compliance with formal regulatory requirements.
It REGULATORY RISKS also has a panel of external legal advisers, both in the UK and in key easyJet markets, The airline industry is heavily regulated who are briefed to keep easyJet informed of any changes or new legislation and to and there is a continual need to keep assist easyJet in developing appropriate responses to such legislation.
well informed and adapt to as required any legislative or regulatory changes The Regulatory Affairs Group co-ordinates easyJets role in influencing future and across the jurisdictions in which existing policy and regulations which affect the airline industry and will work with easyJetoperates.
industry bodies to assist in this, as appropriate.
Failure to comply with legislative Country Review Boards are established for easyJets main markets, raising awareness andregulatory requirements of in-country issues, and providing a forum in which to highlight any potential orinterpretations thereof, such as legislative changes and impacts in the different countries.
localconsumer laws, legal decisions or policy changes in relation to passenger compensation, environmental and airport regulation, in the jurisdictions in which easyJet operates, could have an adverse reputational and financial impact.
com Risk continued REPUTATIONAL Risk description Mitigation easyJet has an active shareholder engagement programme led by its investor MAJOR SHAREHOLDER AND relations team.
As part of that programme easyJet engages with easyGroup BRAND OWNER RELATIONSHIP Holdings Limited on a regular basis alongside its other major shareholders.
easyJet has two major shareholders easyGroup Holdings Limited and In addition, the Company has a relationship agreement with easyGroup and PolysHolding Limited which, as a Polys Holdings in line with the controlling shareholder regime as set out in the concert party, control approximately Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Representatives from the Board and senior management take collective Shareholder activism on their part responsibility for addressing issues arising from any activist approach adopted by the couldadversely impact the reputation major shareholder.
The objective is to address issues when they arise and anticipate ofeasyJet and cause a distraction and plan for potential future activism.
easyJet has a number of initiatives in place to ensure that its shares are held by Regulations surrounding easyJets share relevant shareholders in order to comply with European Union regulations.
easyJets ownership and control may be affected current ownership by EU-relevant, non-UK shareholders is close to 50%.
by the outcome of negotiations relating to Britains exit from the EU.
The brand licence agreement with easyGroup Ltd provides for the regular meeting of senior representatives from both sides, attended by the Chief Financial Officer easyJet does not own its company and General Counsel, to actively manage brand-related issues as they arise.
Such name or branding, which is licensed from meetings occur on a quarterly basis and have proven effective.
The licence includes monitors compliance with brand licence service levels and has a right to take steps certain minimum service levels that to remedy any instance of non-compliance.
easyJet must meet in order to retain the right to use the name and brand.
The easyJet brand could also be impacted through the actions of easyGroup orother easyGroup licensees.
Link to strategy: 2 5 An Information Security Steering Group, chaired by the General Counsel, oversees CYBER THREAT AND any developments in data threats and controls, and determines whether actions INFORMATION SECURITY taken in response are appropriate.
easyJet faces both external cyber threats and internal risks to its data There are dedicated information security teams that monitor threats and ensure that and systems.
the design, implementation and operation of easyJet systems are secure.
This is through the following: A security breach may have an adverse customer, operational or achieving secure by design through a dedicated security architecture capability: financial impact which adversely monitoring of secure systems for unauthorised access: affects easyJets reputation.
reviewing the security of external and internal systems, including easyJet.
com, Link to strategy: through periodic vulnerability scanning: 2 6 considering information security risks within procurement processes and the introduction of new systems and IT services: 3 ensuring payment card security with data encryption and a dedicated team tomonitor and control access: 4 reviewing and refreshing information acceptable use policies: and maintaining staff security awareness and education through a SecurityChampions network, on-line training materials and periodic awarenesscampaigns.
Given the nature of this risk, the appropriateness of mitigation activity is continuously reviewed under the governance of an information security programme.
This programme is subject to independent programme assurance on an at least annual basis.
40 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017
