Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Managing our principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have made a systematic assessment of the Groups principal risks.
They have considered these across four years, whichaligns with our viability statement on page 41.
During the year, the Board also considered closely the potential risks arising fromthe UK leaving the European Union EU, which we stated in our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts as a principal risk.
Itwas the Boards view that the level of risk to the Company has decreased over the period.
Brexit is still a risk to the business in the context of wider geo-political uncertainty.
However, we are of the view that Graingers exposure to this risk is no higher than similar UKfocused businesses.
We have therefore amalgamated the risk into the Regulatory risk, pending the changes in law that will arise inconnection with it.
Principal risks and uncertainties Category of risk Risk description Impact on strategy Key mitigants Risk change 1.
Market Weak macro-economic Economic uncertainty We are actively transitioning the business conditions leading to leading to a reduction in toreduce reliance on trading income and long-term flat or negative home ownership and less house price inflation.
demand for disposal of We have a high proportion of liquid and assets: pressure on diverse assets to enable sales where rental levels: falling asset necessary, as was shown clearly in the last values: subsequent economic downturn.
investment constraints We have a geographically diverse portfolio on further investment and exercise active asset management to into the PRS: covenant enhance returns, and have target towns compliance risk: less andcities for future investment.
Financial The inability to obtain Lack of availability from We monitor our banking covenants sufficient finance to fund credit markets and cash closely tomaintain sufficient capacity.
the delivery of the strategy resources: breach of loan We conduct our business within Boardand maintain a strong and bond covenants: approved capital operating guidelines capital structure.
adverse movement in andinterest rate hedging policy.
interest rates could have We have a diversity of financing sources.
an unacceptable impact Due to our close monitoring of the on the cost of new debt: transactional pipeline, we can control the inability to fund timing and number of new acquisitions, acquisitions at the toreduce cash outflows if needed.
Our strategic focus is to increase income credentials to provide greater interest cover.
Regulatory Failure to meet current Fines, penalties and We have an ongoing programme of or increased regulatory sanctions: damage to management and staff training.
obligations, or anticipate reputation: loss of We have invested in employing specialist and respond to changes operational efficiency legal, compliance and corporate affairs in regulation that create and competitiveness: teams which monitor and advise internally, increased and costly increased costs: review the regulatory horizon and have close obligations.
These include the reduction in market involvement with leading industry bodies.
introduction of rental controls opportunities: impact We have strict asset management controls or similar limitations, and the onability to finance and compliance processes which can also operating framework facing opportunities: reduced adapt to change.
See page 33 for details UK businesses following ability to generate rents: of our proactive management of the the decision to leave the EU.
inability to build forthcoming Minimum Energy Efficiency competitive PRS Standards, as an example.
Our position as the UKs leading PRS providerbrings a cultural ethos of seekingtoadopt best practice.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 38 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Impact on our business model Impact on our strategy Risk change Originate Grow rents Unchanged Increased Invest Simplify and focus New Decreased Operate Build on our experience Category of risk Risk description Impact on strategy Key mitigants Risk change 4.
People Failure to attract, retain Reduced ability to We have introduced a talent identification and develop our people achieve business plan process and have succession plans and toensure we have the right and strategy: reduced retention strategies for key staff.
skills in the right place at the control: inability to grow We have a programme of learning and right time forour strategy.
market share of the PRS: development for staff, which includes failure to innovate and management and leadership training.
evolve to maintain We carry out regular performance competitiveness in a reviewsand appraisals of staff.
We identify opportunities for staff todevelop, and we provide internal career progression.
Supplier A significant failure within, Increased costs: inability We have well-established internal controls or by, a key third-party to achieve performance and management systems regarding our supplier or contractor.
objectives: legal action contractors and suppliers which include and regulatory sanctions: counterparty reviews and covenant reputational damage: strengthassessments.
customer dissatisfaction: Experienced senior managers oversee a restriction on ability to relationships closely.
grow platform: negative We aim for a diversity of key suppliers impact on organisational andrelationships with potential suppliers, or portfolio growth plans.
soweare not over-reliant on any one.
Health A significant health and Harm to customers, We have specific internal control and and safety safety incident as aresult of tenants, employees, management systems to mitigate health and inadequate orinappropriately contractors or visitors: safety risk, including technological solutions implemented procedures.
possible legal action and a programme of audit and assurance.
orfine: subsequent We have taken steps to embed the three reputational damage.
lines of defence model to facilitate stronger monitoring and controls, and foster a cultureof health and safety awareness.
We employ a specialist Health and Safety Director and team who are responsible foroverseeing compliance.
The risk management framework we have adopted applies a system of close oversight and reporting of health and safety matters.
PRS Failure to implement strategy, Acquisition of Our business is based on taking considered strategy including failure to: transact unprofitable schemes risks for appropriate returns in acquiring and and acquire assets on will depress Group managing PRS assets.
We have introduced acceptable terms: integrate returns: lack of new technology to improve the efficiency PRS assets efficiently in the competitiveness in and have close controls of transactions management platform at acquiring schemes andscrutiny of investment models and the required scale: reduce leading to failure to business KPIs.
overheads: convert to rental achieve strategy: We have restructured the business to and income model: maintain reduction in scale and reduceoverheads.
We closely monitor our position as the UKs profitability of business: themand have sought to establish a leading landlord while inability to provide cultureof cost management.
shareholders with The new operating model has put the sustainable returns business in a position to support a more inthelong term.
scalable platform and a well-defined technology strategy.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Category of risk Risk description Impact on strategy Key mitigants Risk change 8.
Development We allocate a portion ofour Exposure to risk of We monitor the capital we deploy capital to activities which cost overrun or income todevelopment matters carefully, carry developmentrisk.
shortfall, affecting followingcapital allocation guidelines.
achievement of the We employ an experienced team with strategy and returns specialist development skills and have in developing rent established relationships with expert schemes.
We have an established governance structureto review and monitor our development schemes.
As part of our PRS strategy, the portfolio ofdevelopment schemes now focuses onbuild-to-rent assets and does not seekspeculative returns from investing indevelopment that is solely for sale.
Cyber and The breach of confidential Financial loss: fines: We employ an experienced IT team with information data or technology disruption, reputational damage: qualifications in cyber security matters security caused by an internal or operational and business and engaged external advisers to undertake external attack on our disruption: loss of a technology effectiveness review.
information systems and customers: share price Technology is a key part of our PRS strategy.
data or byinternal security devaluation: inability We are investing in new technology controlfailure.
to serve our customers, platforms and related processes that manage our properties havedata security by design.
and conduct our We engage external advisers to carry business.
outregular penetration testing to ensure thesystems are robust.
We are in the process of implementing ourrisk-based roadmap in respect of therequirements of the forthcoming GeneralData Protection Regulation.
Customers The failure to fulfil our Negative publicity: We have a leading operational platform customer proposition increased complaints: withsubstantial experience in managing consistently, and meet poor customer aportfolio of over 2bn of assets and ourhigh service standards experience: reputational ofmeeting the requirements of our for our diversified damage: loss of residential customers.
customers: lower Our new operating model is designed rentalreturn.
toprovide a platform for optimising a customer-focused strategy.
We carry out proactive asset management and have restructured to increase staff timein the field, to gain greater asset andcustomer knowledge.
We carry out customer service-focused reviews of our processes to improve efficiency and response times.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 40
