Risk report Risk report Effective management of risk is a key capability Risk strategy The Group has a clearly defined strategy in order to manage and for a successful financial services provider and is mitigate risk in the daily course of its business.
The strategy fundamental to the Groups strategy.
The Group consists of: has continued to advance and strengthen its risk ensuring all principal and emerging risks are identified capabilities, evolving in line with industry and assessed: developments and best practice.
ensuring risk appetite is clearly articulated and influences the Groups strategic plan: Risk principles a clearly defined risk culture which emphasises risk management The Groups approach to risk management is based on the throughout all areas of the business while maintaining principle that risk management capability must be embedded independent oversight: across all areas of the Group to be effective.
This overriding principle embodies the following concepts: ongoing analysis of the environment in which the Group operates to proactively address potential risk issues as they commercial decisions are made on the basis of proactive arise: and consideration of risk and the potential impact on customers: supporting commercial decisions and people with appropriate business managers use the RMF to support decision making risk processes, systems and controls.
involving risk and reward trade-offs: and colleagues are responsible for risk management in their day Risk appetite statement RAS to day activities.
Risk Appetite is defined as the level and types of risk the Group is willing to assume within the boundaries of its risk capacity to Risk culture achieve its strategic objectives.
The RAS articulates and supports Central to the Groups risk culture is the fair treatment of communication of the Groups appetite to stakeholders.
This is customers and meeting obligations to stakeholders, including important as it provides the definitive view of risk taking activity shareholders, regulators and colleagues.
The Board and senior the Board is comfortable that the Group undertakes and allows management are responsible for setting and clearly decision makers including those with delegated authority and also communicating a strong risk culture through their actions those providing oversight to exercise judgement with greater and words, and proactively addressing any identified areas confidence and speed.
The RAS aligns to the risks identified and defined in the RMF.
The Culture is shaped by many aspects including tangible components design and structure of the RAS has taken into consideration best such as: the Groups code of conduct: operating principles: policies: practice articulated by the European Central Bank which is aimed standards: the risk management operating model: and an approved at ensuring Boards should be strongly involved in the validation articulation of risk appetite that aligns to, and supports, the process and monitoring of the RAS.
strategic objectives of the Group.
The Group strives to instil a The Groups RAS is prepared by the Group CRO with culture that supports compliance with all relevant laws, codes and consideration of the strategic objectives and business model, as policies and builds constructive regulatory relationships.
well as the environment in which the Group operates.
Monthly Initiatives that support appropriate risk culture include: the reporting to Executive Committees and Board includes details of performance management framework: the formal whistleblowing performance against relevant RAS settings, breaches and trends.
framework that allows colleagues, in confidence and anonymously, to raise concerns about matters of conduct: and messaging from the CEO and members of the Executive Leadership Team emphasising the importance of risk identification, management and mitigation.
Underpinning the RMF and at the heart of the Groups risk culture, is the concept of personal accountability for risk management at source.
This is enabled through a risk management accountability model and a formal delegation framework through which colleagues are able to make risk based decisions.
128 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information been improved, to ensure that risk owners in the 1st Line of Risk policies and procedures Defence are monitoring, remediating and reporting their own risks The policy framework is a key component of the Groups RMF in line with the responsibilities defined within the Senior Managers providing structure and governance for the consistent, effective Regime.
Risk reporting has also incorporated an increasingly management of policies.
In developing the policy framework the forward looking perspective with a greater focus on not only Group sets the tone that demonstrates the risk culture expected principal risks but also on emerging risks through the across the organisation.
This aligns with the behavioural implementation of a Top & Emerging Risks dashboard.
expectations for all colleagues which form a core part of our performance management approach.
Policy statements and Risk appetite setting: supporting policy standards define the minimum control The approach to Risk Appetite setting was assessed during the requirements which must be observed across the Group year with a number of improvements now adopted within the to manage material sources of risk within risk appetite.
This includes: an increase in the number of measures: greater coverage of all risk categories, Achievements in 2017 particularly covering non-financial risks: and a tiered approach Progressing the IRB journey: to the monitoring of RAS limits to provide earlier warning of In April 2017 the Group submitted an application to the PRA for any potential breaches.
permission to adopt the IRB approach for the calculation of Credit Risk Weighted Assets RWAs.
The Group is now in active dialogue Priorities for 2018 with the PRA in relation to the application.
The IRB programme is IRB journey also supporting changes in the Collective Provision calculations The Group will continue to work towards achieving approval required by IFRS 9 which will be adopted on 1 October 2018: to adopt the IRB approach, alongside delivering IFRS 9 the programme is on track to commence parallel-run activities implementation.
For further information on IFRS 9, please Digitisation and raising cyber awareness refer to page 194.
As the industry and environment in which the Group operates Transitional Service Agreement TSA exits: evolves, the Groups digital operations continue to be developed Significant progress has been made with the build and through new systems, enhanced monitoring including threat implementation of a new Credit Risk Engine, to support the TSA monitoring for potential cyber attacks or increase in fraud related exit strategy and also to support the IRB programme.
The Group continues to streamline processes, whilst Credit Risk Engine is now well into parallel-run, with successful raising awareness of potential threats to the Group through delivery on schedule.
training and education, stress testing and ongoing assurance reviews of key controls, including the management of third party Investing in risk capabilities: suppliers.
Following the appointment of the Group Chief Risk Officer CRO in September 2016, the Risk Management function has Transitional Service Agreement TSA exits: restructured to enable a stronger and more granular focus Priorities for early FY2018 include actions to fully implement on specific categories of Risk.
In addition, several external the new Credit Risk Engine, cease the reliance on NAB in relation appointments have been made which have strengthened the to the calculation of RWAs and the delivery of the Treasury Risk teams capabilities, introduced a broader range of external Management System.
experience and a variety of succession options.
Regulatory change Supporting sustainable growth and operational resilience: The Group continues to embrace the changing regulatory Progressive change continues to be made to support sustainable environment and will remain fully compliant with all applicable growth.
This has included actions to influence safe lending growth: current and future regulations.
This includes specific requirements enhanced policies and controls around regulatory, prudential and such as the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR and the operational disciplines, including implementation of improvements Group has, for example, recently taken steps to enhance to the Groups resilience framework.
These enhancements have capabilities in this area by appointing a Group Data Protection enabled the Groups digital strategies as well as providing proactive Officer DPO as a direct report of the Group CRO.
support to achieve a number of the efficiencies and enhancements PSD2 changes start to come into effect in January 2018.
In to the customer journeys, ensuring the Group provides a addition to enhanced protection for consumers, PSD2 opens up continuity of service for critical processes.
the competitive landscape and in doing so introduces risk for Embedding the RMF: traditional financial services firms.
A specific material risk for the The Group rolled out a revised RMF at the start of FY2017.
Across Group is disintermediation by third parties.
PSD2 also introduces the year there has been a focus on embedding the RMF with more stringent regulatory requirements for complaint handling actions taken across all three Lines of Defence to align to and and customer authentication increasing the risk of failure to meet enhance practices to ensure the RMF has been progressively regulatory expectations.
The Group is well placed to meet the adopted into routine risk processes and practices.
Risk reporting, new requirements and is actively adapting its strategy in light of for example, to the Executive and Board Risk Committees, has also the increased competition and disintermediation risk.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 129 Risk report Risk report Through 2018 the Group will be taking steps to ensure closely with appetite adjusted where appropriate and risk sensitivity compliance with ring fencing legislation that will take effect analysis conducted on an ongoing basis.
The Group will achieve compliance with of strategic plans are undertaken to minimise and negate the legislation with no material changes to its business operations potential impacts.
or corporate structure, and with very little impact on the Groups customers.
The Group is aware of material changes that other firms The UK vote to leave the EU Brexit will need to make and will support our customers to understand the The Group continues to monitor developments regarding the impact that changes made by other firms may have on them.
UKs withdrawal from the European Union and the potential consequences for our customers, products and operating model.
Balance sheet risks As the period of economic uncertainty and market volatility The Group remains focussed on maintaining balance sheet persists, the Group will continue to monitor and assess the external strength with particular attention being paid to regulatory implications and re-evaluate our mitigating actions as appropriate.
developments including the Countercyclical Capital Buffer CCyB and MREL.
Underpinning this will be a focus on capital, including Consumer credit capital management and any efficiencies that can be applied.
The The Group maintains an awareness of the risk of significant Group will continue to manage its liquidity requirements and unforeseen credit losses occurring within a short time period funding profile in a prudent manner.
which has the potential to have a detrimental impact on earnings Risk Management Framework RMF and profitability, Credit risk strategies, appetite and tolerance levels While considerable progress has been made during FY2017, work are reviewed and approved by the Board and regular monitoring of will continue in this regard through FY2018.
There will be a the credit portfolio, including risk sensitivity analysis and reviews of continual review, with external support to incorporate industry asset quality metrics, is undertaken to ensure early identification benchmarking, with any required revisions to be made quickly, and mitigation of potential risk areas.
Early identification and reflecting the ongoing and fast pace of change as new risks mitigation of risks is an area of considerable regulatory focus and emerge and evolve.
one where the Group is particularly alert to the potential regulatory, economic and customer impacts.
Cyber and resilience In addition to the ongoing assessment of the RMF, specific Cyber security and IT consideration will be given to the oversight and monitoring of the The Group, in line with the industry, is subject to increasing levels of risks relative to both cyber security and cybercrime and, in turn, attempted cyber-attack, with criminal groups employing increasingly the resilience of the Groups systems and processes.
sophisticated knowledge of financial markets and internal activities Growth and efficiency processes, leading to potential reputational and financial detriment.
The Group continues to drive growth in the lending portfolios.
The Group continues to invest in and enhance its information Appetite settings will be monitored to ensure controlled growth, security capabilities, monitoring the external internal threat and regulatory guidance relative to areas such as consumer lending landscape and the changing risk profile of the business.
will be considered and addressed.
Equally, initiatives to deliver efficiencies and simplification across the Group will be subject to Financial crime including cybercrime continued risk assessment.
The Group is exposed to the risk of its products and services being used to facilitate crime against its customers, third parties or the Group itself.
The management of Financial Crime remains a key Principal risk categories area of regulatory focus and the Group continues to enhance See page 19 in the Strategic Report for details on the Groups its framework for monitoring, management and mitigation of principal risk categories.
Emerging risks Regulatory change The Group monitors the environment in which it operates to The Group, in common with the financial services industry as a identify emerging risks that may have an impact on its operations whole, continues to face a significant agenda of regulatory and and strategy.
The Group currently considers its top emerging risks legislative change, including those pertaining to taxes.
Compliance to be: with the developing regulation remains a key focus.
The Group continues to monitor the emerging requirements and ensure Macroeconomic environment it is well placed to respond with effective regulatory change With a customer base that remains predominantly UK based, management.
Specific forthcoming changes, such as Open the Group is exposed to inherent risks arising from increased Banking and PSD2, bring both risk and opportunity to the geopolitical uncertainty, which has the potential to impact the UK competitive environment in which the Group operates.
The banking sector may be placed under management is considering the strategic impacts of these increasing pressure as it is exposed to risks relative to credit changes for the Group for further detail on key regulatory conditions which may impact the financial performance of the changes impacting the Group please see page 17.
The Groups credit portfolios will continue to be monitored 130 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Risk reporting and escalation protocols Risk Management Framework RMF The Group identifies and manages risk using the RMF see diagram below, which is the totality of systems, structures, policies, processes and people that identify, measure, evaluate, control, mitigate, monitor and report all internal and external sources of material risk.
Monitor risks manage events Risk governance Roles and responsibilities: Three Lines of Defence Strategic planning including risk appetite setting Risk appetite framework Policy framework Frameworks, risk systems, policies and standards to manage sources of risk Strategic, business and financial performance risk Balance sheet and prudential regulation risk Credit risk Financial crime risk Operational risk Regulatory and compliance risk Conduct risk People risk Control effectiveness statement 2.
Report Risk management core components Risk management cycle Risk infrastructure Risk culture CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 131 Risk and event classification matrix Risk categorisation Risk report Risk report Risk governance and oversight The Groups risk governance structure strengthens risk During the year the Group commenced a review of the executive evaluation and management, while also positioning the Group governance committee layer in the risk governance structure to to manage the changing regulatory environment in an efficient ensure it balances regulatory, legal and compliance obligations and effective manner.
while making timely, customer focused decisions that drive the business forward with any changes expected to be made during The Groups risk management is governed via a series of 2018 to ensure the framework is both optimal and efficient.
committees, as represented within the diagram which follows.
Remuneration CYBG PLC BOARD Committee Clydesdale Bank PLC Board Risk Audit Governance Committee Committee and Chief Executive Officer Nomination Committee Executive Risk Committee Disclosure Committee Executive Leadership Team Pension Risk Operational Credit Risk Asset and Portfolio Cost Board Management Risk and Committee Liability Management Committee Compliance Committee Committee Committee Customer Model Structured Fairness Governance Funding Committee Committee Programmes Oversight Committee Board Governance Committees Executive Governance Committees Delegating authority, reporting and escalation Reporting and escalation 132 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information The following Executive level Committees have been established under the authority of the CEO: Committees Risk focus Executive Leadership Team The Executive Leadership Team supports the CEO to lead the Group to be a strong, customer-focused bank for its communities, by focusing on three business priorities: sustainable growth: efficiency: and capital optimisation Executive Risk Committee The Executive Risk Committee supports the CEO in respect of risk and control accountabilities and serves to provide leadership focus on key risk issues including: endorsing the RAS for approval by the Board: overseeing and challenging the enterprise wide risk performance and control environment of the Group and business units, including the effective use of policy, frameworks and tools: monitoring the status of regulatory relationships, the reputation of the Group in relation to its regulators and the changing state of the regulatory landscape including the impacts for and readiness of the Group: monitoring the strength of risk capability and capacity, including risk training and education plans to ensure an effective risk and control framework: and reviewing and endorsing risk policies, frameworks and tools for use across the Group.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring the Group complies with its continuous disclosure obligations for exchanges on which it has equity and debt securities listed.
The Executive Risk Committee is supported by the following committees: Pension Risk Management The Pension Risk Management Committee is responsible for overseeing pension risk Committee management and strategy.
This committee also oversees the interaction with the pension scheme trustees in relation to the risks within the Scheme.
Operational Risk and Compliance The Operational Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for ensuring that the RMF Committee and associated policies and standards are fit for purpose and implemented effectively.
Credit Risk Committee The Credit Risk Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Credit RMF and associated policies remain effective.
The committee has oversight of the quality, composition and concentrations of the credit risk portfolio and recommends strategies to adjust the portfolio to react to changes in market conditions.
Asset and Liability Committee ALCO ALCO is responsible for monitoring the performance of the Group against the Board approved capital and funding plans.
The committee focuses on the Groups non-traded market risks including capital, funding, liquidity and interest rate risk to ensure that the Groups activity complies with regulatory and corporate governance requirements and also delivers Group policy objectives.
The impact of pension risk on capital is also assessed by ALCO.
Structured Funding Programmes The Structured Funding Programmes Oversight Committee is responsible for supporting the Oversight Committee ALCO in relation to its risk monitoring and oversight responsibilities for all secured funding programmes and supporting the CFO and Treasurer in relation to the compliance of the Regulated Covered Bond RCB Programme with FCA regulations and the RCB Sourcebook.
Customer Fairness Committee The Customer Fairness Committee oversees the effective execution and ongoing development of the Conduct Framework and Customer Fairness Model.
It also ensures conduct issues and remediation activities are effectively managed at the appropriate level.
Model Governance Committee The Model Governance Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its governance responsibilities for material models and rating systems.
The Committee oversees the integration and ongoing use of models across the Group, specifically considering the fitness for purpose, usability and scalability of models.
The Executive Leadership Team is supported by the following committees: Portfolio Management Committee The Portfolio Management Committee is responsible for the oversight and management of capital allocation and funding decisions for the product portfolio, related to pricing and sustainable returns.
Cost Board The Cost Board is the primary forum for the management of costs across the Group.
Its primary responsibilities are to approve expenditure within agreed delegated authorities, to oversee business unit expenditure and expense performance and to support the development of a strong expense control culture within the Group.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 133 Risk report Risk report Three Lines of Defence Effective operation of a Three Lines of Defence model is integral to the Groups approach to risk management and is based on the overriding principle that risk capability must be embedded within the first line of defence teams to be effective.
This principle embodies the following concepts: commercial decisions are made on the basis of proactive consideration of risk and the impact on customers: risk management activities are focused on enhancing sustainable business performance: management must use the RMF to support decision making involving risk and reward trade-offs: regular assessments are undertaken to confirm the effectiveness of the risk and control frameworks in relation to both the current and emerging risk profile: and risk management responsibilities are clearly understood by all colleagues when carrying out their day to day activities.
Control is exercised through a clearly defined delegation of authority, with communication and escalation channels throughout the Group.
1st 2nd 3rd Business and enterprise assurance Risk Management Internal Audit Responsibility for risk management The risk management team under the Internal Audits role is to provide resides with the business unit director in Group CRO independently monitors independent assurance over the each area.
They are each responsible for and systematically assesses the Groups governance, risk management and ensuring that they have adequate risk risk profile against established risk control framework.
coverage and processes in place to appetite parameters.
Risk management ensure they are managing the risks they also develops and defines the Groups own within risk appetite and within the RMF.
They also assist the first line guidelines of the RMF.
A monthly report business units in the design and of key risks, issues and horizon risks is implementation of appropriate risk provided to the Executive Risk management policies and strategies and Committee.
The enterprise assurance work with the business units to promote function focuses on end-to-end awareness of the need to manage risk.
assurance of key processes as well as ensuring risks and controls are being managed appropriately.
Reporting is provided to each business unit director as appropriate and to the Executive Risk Committee.
134 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Stress testing within the Groups risk governance Stress testing and capital framework Stress testing is an important and recognised risk management Stress testing outputs are used to inform the strategic planning tool, used to assess the vulnerability of financial institutions process and the RAS.
The plan is subjected to sensitivity analysis, through the modelling of adverse scenarios.
The Group forming a key element of the planning process from an overall risk undertakes stress testing, following the Basel Committee assessment perspective, and provides the Board with further detail principles, and utilising, where appropriate, scenarios provided when looking to approve the plan.
by the PRA, aimed at understanding potential impacts arising from adverse conditions relevant to its business and to aid the Stress testing informs the assessment and quantification of risk development and understanding of potential management exposures in the course of calculating capital requirements actions and contingency plans.
The Group runs a number of adverse macroeconomic stresses in order to determine the impacts on Stress testing forms an integral part of the overall governance and the Groups financial and capital position, considering changes to risk management culture.
Involvement from the Board and senior impairments, margins, volumes and costs relative to the base case management in the stress-testing programme is essential for its plan and considers the actions which the Group may choose to effective operation.
deploy in response to such events materialising.
Methodology Stress testing is also a key feature of the ILAAP where stressStress testing within the Group complies with regulatory testing scenarios are modelled regularly to provide insight into requirements and is subject to a rigorous review and challenge potential vulnerabilities in the Groups funding and liquidity process.
The Groups approach ensures that a clear link exists strategies.
Stress-testing results of liquidity are also reported between the economic scenarios and stress-testing outputs, to ALCO on a monthly basis.
supported by a structured review and sign off process.
The Executive Leadership Team and Board engages at critical While the stress testing process is underpinned by models, it is also points of the stress-testing cycle to provide a robust challenge reliant on judgements made by senior management and key in relation to the selection and development of scenarios and, personnel across the Group who: thereafter, considers how the results are integrated into future strategic decision making, contingency planning, capital and manage the macroeconomic scenario process and prepare and business planning and risk appetite.
review stressed business plans: In advance of Board submission, ALCO reviews the scenarios, prepare and review credit stress outputs including impairment assumptions and results of liquidity and capital stress testing charges, RWAs and write offs: and provides an initial review and challenge of outputs.
provide funding and liquidity impacts and construct capital plans based on the outcomes of stress testing: and Risk management and internal controls guide on potential management actions in response to stress scenario mitigation.
Assessment of principal risks The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of Reverse stress testing the principal risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic Reverse stress testing requires a different approach.
an outcome of business failure and identifies instances where this In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code might occur.
Severe but plausible scenarios with an unacceptably requirements, the Directors have performed a robust assessment high risk are used to inform business planning to prevent or of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would mitigate specific business risks.
Reverse stress tests are also utilised threaten its business model and future performance, solvency as the start point for recovery and resolution planning scenarios.
The Group also monitors a range of early warning indicators to give management early visibility of potential risks that could give The principal risks the Group actively monitors and manages are rise to the need to invoke actions in recovery plans.
described on page 19 of the Strategic report.
Risk management and internal controls The Board actively monitors the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
A review of the effectiveness of those systems has been performed incorporating all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 135 136 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
