s t s e e h k e t n r f i a i w l s o m r u r o e b g f e g h e s r a r t o s S Principal risks and uncertainties Managing risk During FY17 we moved from the execution phase of our business transformation which brought together all parts of the business as a connected whole One Sage, into a business as usual operation.
Recognising the nature and pace of change in both our business and the marketplace in which we operate, and that our external risk landscape continues to evolve, we have continued to develop and enhance our risk management during FY17 to provide greater visibility and ownership of risk across the business and support this area of focus for the Board.
We continue to create appropriate and scalable processes and practices, enabling us to grow the business the right way, and apply appropriate risk mitigation strategies.
During the year, we have maintained our focus on driving risk consideration in decision making, working to reinforce and embed our three lines of defence model and, through the activities of the newly created Sage Compliance function, reinforce adherence to policy and process.
Principal risks Strategic pillar Principal risk Strategic pillar Our risk management process and associated reporting activities continue to evolve.
Licensing model transition The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company through a refresh exercise at the start of the year, including considering those that would threaten its business model, Market intelligence future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This assessment included consideration of any potential impact associated with the UKs decision to exercise their rights under Article 50 of the Competitive positioning Lisbon Treaty.
The Board monitors the risk environment, and and product development reviews the relevance and appropriateness of the principal risks.
These are formally reviewed at the beginning of each year in consultation with the Audit and Risk Committee, and Business model delivery continue to be proactively managed by executive sponsors and risk owners, supported by Sages Risk function.
On an ongoing basis, consideration is given to the local relevance of the Supporting control principal risks, and the identification and escalation of local environment risks as appropriate.
Principal risks are also formally reported to the Global Risk Information Committee on a quarterly basis, alongside escalated local risks.
management and protection We manage risk in line with our risk management policy and including cyber approach, as set out in Risk Management on page 59.
Currently there are ten principal risks which we monitor and report Regulatory and legal against.
These are aligned to successful delivery of our framework strategy and mapped against the strategic pillars to which they relate, as set out opposite.
The principal risks have remained broadly consistent both throughout the year and Brand with the prior year, reflecting the multi-year nature of our strategy and related risks.
During the year the risk appetite statements and associated Partners and alliances metrics evolved to betterreflect outputs from plans in place.
This enhanced the ongoing measurement of progress, and enabled objective review and assessment during the regular Third party reliance meetings with executive sponsors and risk owners.
As detailed in the following table, a range of measures are in place, being deployed or developed, to manage and mitigate our principal risks.
52 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 e f i n n i y e m o t n g i i o t c n O t u i a s l n p u o n a v C i C e W R Strategic report Governance Financial statements t e k e e r f f a i i l l m r r o o e f f h s s t r r Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Licensing model transition Sage does not successfully Sage is continuing its transition from a An approved licensing model transition strategy is in place manage its ongoing transition perpetual to a subscription-based licensing A series of approved subscription revenue targets are defined, which to subscription licensing model.
span multiple years and support successful and balanced delivery of against defined timelines and our strategy In addition to providing additional value for targets or appropriately adapt customers, this transition assists with cash flow: Ongoing monitoring and review of the approved targets takes place at its customer approach.
offers a platform for cross selling: and lowers country, regional and Group levels to proactively manage the licence attrition rates, which in turn aids revenue transition, and revenue targets Strategic alignment: forecasting.
New products are being offered on a subscription only basis Customer Business Centres CBCs are operating in North America It also provides regular customer engagement and Europe to integrate digital marketing, sales and service operations and enhanced opportunities to develop these for customers using  SaaS, and support relationships.
planned growth ambitions The speed of transition needs to be balanced against any reduction in short-term revenues.
Market intelligence Sage fails to understand and Sage continues to develop its market A Market and Competitive Intelligence team is established, which has anticipate changes in the intelligence capability in support of a Group responsibility for market intelligence external environment, consolidated understanding of market and Market intelligence surveys are undertaken, to identify market including customer needs, customer needs, and aligning this with opportunities emerging market trends, competitive positioning and product Brand health surveys are undertaken to understand customer competitor strategies and development activities.
perception of the Sage brand and its products regulatory legal requirements.
An approved internal communications plan is delivered, to share market intelligence and build brand awareness Strategic alignment: Market data is provided through a market data portal, allowing ease of access and improved analysis In progress: Regular, targeted internal market data communications, which build awareness of the market data portal Ongoing refinement and improvement of market data through feedback from the business Key Improving risk environment Static risk environment Worsening risk environment The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 53 e e n i m m g o o n t t i s s n u u n i C C W t e h h k t t r w w a o o m r r g g e h r r t o o Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Competitive positioning and product development Sage is unable to clearly The competitive environment in which Sage A Product Marketing team is in place to oversee competitive identify the approach to operates continues to see significant positioning and product development market, or deploy competitive developments.
A Product Delivery team is in place to develop and deliver products advantage, including product Sage must continually translate market Sage-wide templates are being used for Battlecards to ensure development.
intelligence into effective strategies targeting consistent information is provided attractive market segments with appropriate Battlecards are in place for key products in all countries, which set out Strategic alignment: products and continually work to reinforce the strengths and weaknesses of competitors and their products competitive superiority.
Defined Customer for Life roadmaps are in place, detailing how products fit together, and any interdependencies During the transition to One Sage products, we continue to manage the local product base and A BattleApp has been released which provides timely information to plan and evolve these in line with longer-term support the activities of sales channels aspirations.
Acquisitions of Fairsail now Sage People and Intacct to enhance Sages product portfolio, and cloud offering In progress: Prioritised product development based on Customer for Liferoadmaps Analysis of product investments is being enhanced to further consider anticipated return on investment Business model delivery Sage does not successfully Sage continues to embed its global operating The One Sage operating model has been in place from October 2016 deliver a global operating model which provides enhanced governance, A Business Operations Forum is operating, providing governance over model that supports its process harmonisation, efficiencies and project activity in order to support the effective operation and growthambitions.
enhancement of the operating model The effective interaction between all parts of A formal gating process operates through which all projects must Strategic alignment: the organisation is essential to allow Sage to pass, and ensures a clear purpose and success criteria are established grow at pace.
for each The Programme Management Office PMO provides oversight of and reports on project progress and potential conflicts Divestiture of Sage Payment Solutions in the US, and structure of an ongoing partnership agreement, consistent with our payments service strategy In progress: Ongoing monitoring and management of projects through the Business Operations Forum, including measuring of success factors Key Improving risk environment Static risk environment Worsening risk environment 54 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 f f n y y i t t g i i n c c i a a n p p n a a i C C W Strategic report Governance Financial statements h t w o e e r g g g a a r S S o Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Supporting control environment Sages control environment, Sages footprint has developed often Established Global and Regional Risk Committees drive accountability for risk, business processes and through acquisition.
Ongoing provide governance, and set the tone-from-the-top technology infrastructure alignment and rationalisation of these Shared Service Centres are established in Newcastle, Atlanta and donot support the efficient systems and processes, is required to Johannesburg enabling the creation of consistent and consolidated systems and effective operation of support the One Sage operating model.
Policy Approval Committee in place to supervise and approve policies within the Sage-wide policy suite Strategic alignment: Customer Business Centres CBCs are built around core systems to underpin operational consistency and expansion, including Salesforce CRM and Sages own X3 for General Ledger activity.
As volumes scale, all new customers for CBC supported products are being set-up in these systems A Governance, Risk and Compliance technology solution is in place In progress: Migration of country General Ledgers onto X3 continues for certain processes, in line with plans Continuation of the Excellence in Controls initiative to enhance the supporting control environment across key business processes Definition and deployment of control frameworks for Shared Service Centres and for Sales as output from the Excellence in Controls initiative Implementation of Sage People as a single application to store and manage colleague data Information management and protection including cyber Sage fails to adequately Sages footprint has developed through Accountability is established within both OneIT and Product Services for all understand, manage and a series of acquisitions, each arriving internal and external data being processed by Sage protect information.
with its own processes, technologies OneIT and Product Services report to the Chief Information Officer and Chief and activities appropriate to a smaller Product Delivery Officer respectively business.
Strategic alignment: A network of Information Security Officers supports the business Harmonising and rationalising these, as Formal certification schemes are maintained, across appropriate parts of the necessary, is required to support the business, and include internal and external validation of compliance One Sage operating model and to Secure coding standards are in place to design security into new products support a business view on all data A comprehensive information security policy suite is in place, defining the being held and processed, including framework within which Sage operates management and protection.
Awareness training for Information Management and protection has been rolled-out across the organisation A new Information Security Risk Management Methodology has been designed, and deployed across defined critical assets The Incident Management framework includes the rating of incidents and requirements for escalation has been embedded within all regions Structured IT internal audit activity is undertaken by Sage Assurance against an agreed plan, and supplemented by ad-hoc activity.
Findings are reported to management and the Audit and Risk Committee In progress: Information Security is being aligned with the existing Governance structures Global and Regional Risk Committees, to establish clear accountability Deployment of the Information Security Risk Management Methodology more widely across business critical assets The Data Governance Committee provides direction around data and Data Protection, and our response to GDPR The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 55 f e e y n n t i O O c a p a C e e g g a a S S Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Regulatory and legal framework Sage does not understand Sages services operate within a complex All legal resources across Sage report directly to the General Counsel andoperate within the regulatory and legal environment.
Monitoring and Company Secretary applicable regulatory and this evolving regulatory and legal environment Legal services use internal and external resources to monitor planned legalframework.
enables timely and appropriate steps to ensure and realised changes in legislation ongoing compliance.
All product contracts are reviewed and approved through Strategic alignment: LegalServices A suite of policies is in place which supports key legislation, including Data Protection and anti-bribery A Code of Conduct is in place across the business which provides clarity over how colleagues are expected to behave.
Completion of Code of Conduct training is mandatory for colleagues, and confirmation of understanding is recorded and monitored Sage Compliance function has been created to reinforce the drive towards a 100% compliance culture Whistleblowing and Incident Management Policies and procedures are in place, which ensure appropriate treatment of identified events, and management visibility In progress: Data Governance Committee providing direction around upcomingGDPR Sage brand Sage does not deliver clear Following several years of acquisition, work A Brand team is in place which has overall responsibility for developing andconsistent branding to continues to develop and harmonise the Sage the Sage Brand themarket.
Whilst it is well recognised and trusted by All countries must comply with Sages Brand Governance and Brand customers in many core markets, brand Guidelines, which are designed to execute the Sage Masterbrand Strategic alignment: awareness remains inconsistent.
The timeframes for compliance of all products are defined, and any exceptions must be approved through the Brand team A clear and consistent brand enables customers to understand Sage values.
A Digital Asset Management DAM tool is in place which workflows requests and approvals, and acts as a single information repository The Brand Library is used as a repository for branded assets, and any exceptions from brand guidelines are reported to the Chief Marketing Officer Ongoing reviews of customer experience are performed Net Promoter Scores, and output is reviewed across both countries and products to identify variance, and develop improvement plans Sage Summits were completed across eight cities during 2017 Paris, Berlin, Johannesburg, Melbourne, London, Madrid, Atlanta and Toronto A brand awareness campaign is in place to improve brand recognition The Sage Foundation is operating across Sage, aligned with our values and behaviours In progress: A Compliance Programme is being rolled out, to assess and educate on compliance with Brand Governance and Brand Guidelines Rebranding of products Key Improving risk environment Static risk environment Worsening risk environment 56 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 e e n n O O Strategic report Governance Financial statements s s s s e e n n i i s s u u b b e e Principal risk Risk background Management and mitigation Partners and alliances Sage fails to identify, build, There are instances where leveraging A Partner and Alliances team is established to oversee the selection enable and maintain partnerships and alliances can support the and management of Sages partners and alliances, including appropriate partnerships growth ambitions of Sage.
accountability for active management of relationships andalliances.
Definitions are in place to ensure clarity and consistency over partners The governance and control around and alliances, to enable appropriate and consistent management of engagement and use must be defined, as well Strategic alignment: these arrangements as management of the ecosystem.
All contracts for partners and alliances require approval through legalservices Defined legal provisions are required for inclusion in contracts.
Any variance in provisions must be recorded as part of the formal contract approval process In progress: Deployment of revised Sage Partner Programme in line with plan Third party reliance Sage does not understand Several Sage customer service offerings are A Procurement function ensures key controls are applied in the andmanage its third delivered or supported using third parties, whilst selection and on-boarding of third parties partyecosystem.
Sage remains accountable for quality of The Procurement function supports the business with the selection of performance.
third parties and negotiation of contracts Strategic alignment: The third party ecosystem must be understood Legal resources are used in contract negotiation and effectively managed, in order to limit Sages A Procurement Lifecycle Policy and Procedures are defined, exposure.
These contain clear roles and responsibilities for colleagues and align with existing processes, including investmentapproval In progress: All colleague training developed, to enhance colleague understanding and support process Automation of procurement requests is being developed in Service Now, to simplify colleague experience The principal risks are those which, it is assessed, most threaten successful delivery of Sages strategy.
They are therefore used as the basis for challenging, and establishing, our financial viability.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 57 s s i i n n o o i i t t u u l l o o v v e e R R Principal risks and uncertainties continued Viability statement The viability period the Groups strategic plan.
The plan makes certain assumptions about The Directors reviewed the period used for the assessment and the uptake of subscription services, the ability to refinance debt as it falls determined that a three-year period remained suitable.
This period aligns due and the acceptable performance of the core revenue streams and our viability statement with our planning time horizon for our three-year market segments.
strategic plan and is appropriate given the nature and investment cycle of The plan was stress tested using sensitivity analysis.
To achieve this, a technology business.
Cash flows over this period have a relatively high management reviewed the principal risks and considered which might degree of predictability, particularly as business moves to the threaten the Groups viability.
It was determined that none of the subscription model.
Projections beyond this period become less reliable individual risks would in isolation compromise the Groups viability, and so given the inherent uncertainty of technology and market developments.
a number of different severe but plausible scenarios were considered where principal risks arose in combination.
Assessing viability The strategy and associated principal risks, which the Board and the The scenarios identified and the combination of principal risks involved Audit and Risk Committee review at least annually, are a foundation for were as follows.
# Description of scenario Principal risks involved 1 An information security incident relating to Sage internal or colleague Sage brand information, leading to data: Third party reliance being lost or leaked outside the Group: and or Supporting control environment Information management and protection including cyber becoming corrupted or contaminated: and or becoming inaccessible.
Legal and regulatory framework 2 An information security incident relating to customers, leading to data: Sage brand Partners and alliances being lost or leaked outside the Group: and or Third party reliance becoming corrupted or contaminated: and or Information management and protection including cyber becoming inaccessible for the customers.
Legal and regulatory framework 3 Sage, or a third party acting on Sages behalf, fails to comply with legal Sage brand obligations, leading to: Partners and alliances allegations of bribery or corruption: and or Third party reliance allegations of modern slavery: and or Legal and regulatory framework breach of sanctions.
4 A Sage product or service does not comply with regulatory or legal Sage brand requirements, leading to: Partners and alliances Third party reliance action against and or direct costs for our customers: and or remediation requirements.
Legal and regulatory framework 5 A strategic or corporate alliance through which key customer Sage brand services are delivered is acquired by a competitor or is subject to a Partners and alliances catastrophic failure for example, for reasons including bankruptcy, Legal and regulatory framework fraud or legal action, leading to: migration of services: and or temporary non-availability of services: and or potential discontinuance of services.
The monetary impact of each scenario was estimated by a cross As set out in the Audit and Risk Committees report on page 76, the functional group of senior leaders, including representatives from Directors reviewed and discussed the process undertaken by Finance, Risk, IT, Product Marketing and Legal, who evaluated the management, and also reviewed the results of reverse stress testing possible consequences, primarily through reducing revenues and net performed to provide an illustration of the reduction in revenue that cash in-flows.
These impacts were based on similar events in the public would be required to break the Groups covenants or exhaust all domain and internal estimates.
The impacts were modelled for both year one and year three of the Confirmation of longer-term viability forecast period to ensure that expected changes in the Groups product Based on the assessment explained above, the Directors confirm that mix, through migration towards a greater proportion of cloud-based they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to products, did not adversely impact on the Groups viability.
operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years.
58 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of our risk management activities from a financial, operational and compliance perspective.
These activities are designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives or to successfully deliver the business strategy.
Our risk management strategy supports the successful running of the business by identifying and managing risks to an acceptable level and delivering Measure Assess assurance on these.
Risk How we identify risk management Our risk identification process follows a dual approach, seeking: process to identify risks using a top down approach.
These principal risks are those which threaten delivery of our strategy: and to identify risks using a bottom up approach at the country and regional level.
Such risks are those which threaten local business activity.
Mitigate Evaluate To provide visibility, the highest rated local risks are escalated in line with the Risk Management Policy to the Regional and Global Risk Committees.
Our risk appetite Our risk appetite reflects our preparedness to accept risk, as part of our include specific geographic scope, together with alignment to both business activities.
principal risks and Sage business functions.
These changes ensure that Sage Risk can continue to effectively support colleagues and functions All identified risks are measured on an inherent and residual risk basis within the business and in-country risk management.
To assist using a pre-determined scoring matrix as set out in our Risk colleagues in understanding how to identify and report risks, Management Policy.
compulsory risk management training for all colleagues was developed Each principal risk is monitored against defined appetite statements and released in April 2017, followed by training for incident management and supporting metrics, with these statements and metrics evaluated in May 2017.
Further, a Governance, Risk and Compliance tool has been across the year to ensure they remain aligned to our strategic objectives implemented which workflows colleague reporting and management of and within acceptable tolerance for the Group.
How we manage risk Our Three Lines of Defence Our risk management framework enables us to identify, evaluate, Sages Three Lines of Defence approach ensures accountability and analyse, manage and mitigate those risks which threaten the successful transparency by setting out the roles and responsibilities of all achievement of our business strategy and objectives, within acceptable colleagues.
Risks are owned and managed within the business, and formally reviewed on a quarterly basis through the Global and Regional The model and its effective operation support a strong control Risk Committees, which are described on pages 60 and 61.
Sage Risk environment with best in class Governance, Risk and Control continues to review and develop its approach to guide, support and procedures embedded across Sage.
challenge the business in managing risk, in order to enable successful delivery of our strategy.
3 Lines of Defence To supplement business as usual risk management activities, Sage Risk undertakes a number of targeted in-focus reviews against identified All Colleagues Identify, 1 risks each year.
In 2017 these were conducted against one principal risk, Own, Operate.
namely Information Management and Protection including cyber, and a further six reviews across specific areas, specifically Business Continuity, Payroll Outsource, Data Repair Services, General Data All Colleagues Protection Regulations, Quotas and Commissions and Sales Data in Sage Risk and Sage North America.
In each case Sage Risk worked to critically review 2 Compliance Guide, activities and collaboratively improve practices and processes, for which Support, Challenge.
ownership remains within the business.
Following each review, Sage Risk has remained engaged with the business to provide ongoing guidance, support and challenge.
The results of these reviews feed into Risk and Compliance Sage Assurance the quarterly risk reporting cycle to the Global Risk Committee.
3 Independent and During 2017, Sage Risk reviewed and revised its organisational structure.
The geographic footprint of the team has been enhanced with dedicated resources being onboarded in Africa, Asia, North America and Sage Assurance Latin America.
The responsibilities of each Risk colleague continue to The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 59 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Underpinning this, Sage has continued to develop its three lines of Values and behaviours defence model to ensure accountability and transparency by setting out The Board is aware that the effectiveness of risk management and the roles and responsibilities of each Sage colleague.
The model and its definition and operation of an effective control environment is effective operation is intended to support a strong control environment dependent on values and behaviours.
with appropriate governance, risk and control procedures embedded The Sage Values and Behaviours set out how Sages strategy should be across Sage.
Our Code of Conduct supports and reinforces the required To promote this model the Sage Compliance function has grown and values and behaviours expected across Sage, including compliance with embedded its activities, to support the business in continuing to ethical standards.
Behaviour forms a significant part of our colleague develop the internal control framework, assist our aim of a 100% performance management process.
compliance culture and ensure that we continue to embrace our values In addition, as previously stated, our three lines of defence model and behaviours in the Sage Way.
determines clear roles and responsibilities for colleagues, and establishes accountability and how appropriate challenge, assurance and oversight is provided over business activities.
To facilitate colleague understanding of the requirements of the Sage policy framework, during 2017 we have created and rolled-out a number of training courses to all colleagues, with tests of competency and understanding.
Risk governance We operate a formal governance structure to manage risk.
Board Audit and Risk Executive Committee Committee Global Risk Committee Vice President, Risk and Assurance Regional Risk Sage Risk Committees Board Executive Committee The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and The Executive Committee is responsible for the stewardship of the risk establishing the Groups risk appetite.
It monitors the risk environment, management approach.
It develops the strategy and oversees delivery and reviews the relevance and appropriateness of the principal risks to of related operational plans, whilst managing risk.
For each principal risk, the business.
sponsorship is assigned to a member of the Executive Committee.
Audit and Risk Committee Global Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee supports the Board in setting the The Global Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, and Groups risk appetite and ensuring that processes are in place to identify, has responsibility for providing direction and support to Sage Risk in manage and mitigate the Groups principal risks.
At each meeting, the transforming and embedding risk across One Sage.
It meets quarterly committee reviews the principal risks, associated appetite statements and seeks to: and metrics, to assess whether they continue to be relevant and aligned Oversee cultural change: to the achievement of Sages strategic objectives and within an Establish clear governance and accountability for risk, and any acceptable tolerance for the Group.
The committee also monitors the associated remediation activities: adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment through the review of Internal Audit reports from Sage Assurance and consideration of Provide direction to regions and countries, including creation and relevant reporting from management, Sage Risk and the external auditor.
deployment of common methodologies and practices: Further information on the committees activity in 2017 is set out in the Provide a point of escalation: Audit and Risk Committee section on pages 76 to 81.
Consideration of risk in decision making: 60 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Drive the inclusion of risk management into performance Sage Risk management: Sage Risk supports the effective operation of the Risk Committees and provides guidance, support and challenge to the business in embedding Enable the Company to effectively operate as One Sage: appropriate risk management processes.
Led by the Risk Director, it Review and approve defined policies: and continues to develop its capability to ensure it fully supports business Provide the Board and Audit and Risk Committee with sufficient activities and assists in delivering scalable and consistent solutions to effective information to enable them to discharge their risk reporting support growth, and allowing Sage to operate within risk appetite.
Its membership includes representatives from across the business and Sage Compliance all key support functions.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Sage Compliance provides guidance, support and challenge to the Committee may attend any meeting as desired, and joined the April 2017 business to drive excellence in governance and control, and design and meeting.
embed control frameworks which reinforce behaviours set out in the Sage Way, supporting our ambition of a 100% compliance culture.
Led by Regional Risk Committees the Compliance Director, it continues to develop its capability to ensure Four Regional Risk Committees were operational through 2017, in it is fully aligned with business activities.
Europe, Africa Asia, North America and South America.
Each Committee met four times during 2017.
In October 2017 the Africa Asia Sage Assurance committee was split in two to create five Regional Risk Committees.
Sage Assurance is led by the Assurance Director, and its purpose and Africa Middle East and Asia Australia committees were formed, to allow activities are set out in Internal Audit section of the Audit and Risk greater risk focus in these territories.
The Regional Risk Committees meet in advance of the Global Risk Committee, supporting its operation and the management of principal and local risks within each region.
In addition to managing identified local risks, they also monitor the deployment of risk management activities throughout the countries within their regions, monitor the realisation of risks through reported incidents within their regions, and provide associated escalation and reporting.
Vice President VP Risk and Assurance The VP Risk and Assurance is responsible for the second and third line of defence functions, namely Sage Risk, Sage Compliance and Sage Assurance.
The VP Risk and Assurance is responsible for the facilitation and implementation of the risk management approach across Sage, including the consolidation of risk reports from the Regional Risk Committees, and the provision of appropriate risk reporting from Sage Risk for the Global Risk Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee, and the Executive Committee.
The VP Risk and Assurance attends the quarterly Audit and Risk Committee meetings and regularly meets with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee outside of these meetings.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 61 Directors approval of Strategic Report Our 2017 Strategic report, from page 1 to page 61, has been reviewed andapproved by the Board of Directors on21 November 2017.
Steve Hare Chief Financial Officer 62 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017
