Risk reporting and escalation protocols Strategic report Risk overview management function driven by the Groups expected Effective management of risk is a behavioural standards and values.
key capability for a successful financial A strong risk culture is founded on a risk management services provider and is fundamental accountability model and formal delegation to the Groups strategy.
The Group has framework where personal accountability empowers continued to advance and strengthen colleagues to take ownership.
It is a consideration its risk management capabilities, in all people management practices, particularly performance management.
It is supported by a formal evolving in line with industry whistleblowing framework that allows colleagues, in developments and best practice.
confidence and anonymously, to raise concerns about matters of conduct, including inappropriate behaviour The Groups approach to risk and breaches of the Groups Code of Conduct.
Risk exists in every aspect of the Groups business, is an integral part of the operating environment, and is a Risk Management Framework RMF core consideration inherent within the Strategic Plan.
The Group identifies and manages risk using the RMF see diagram below, which is the totality of The Groups approach to risk management is based systems, structures, policies, processes and people on the principle that risk management capability that identify, measure, evaluate, control, mitigate, must be embedded across all areas of the Group monitor and report all internal and external sources to be effective.
The Groups Policy Framework is The Group has a clearly defined strategy in place to a key component of the RMF providing structure monitor, manage and mitigate risk and that strategy and governance for the consistent, effective is defined with the Groups Risk Management management of Policies.
This aligns with the Framework RMF.
behavioural expectations for all colleagues which form a core part of our performance management The risk strategy includes: ensuring all principal and approach.
Policy statements and supporting policy emerging risks are identified and assessed: that risk standards define the minimum control requirements appetite is clearly articulated and influences the which must be observed across the Group to Groups strategic plan: the maintenance of a clearly manage material sources of risk within risk appetite.
defined risk culture which emphasises risk management while maintaining independent 3.
Monitor risks oversight: the need for ongoing analysis of the management decision manage events environment in which the Group operates to Risk governance proactively address potential risk issues as they arise: and a requirement to ensure that appropriate risk Roles and responsibilities: processes, systems and controls exist to support all Three Lines of Defence colleagues in their decision making.
Integral to the RMF is the Groups process for setting Strategic planning including risk appetite setting its Risk Appetite.
The Risk Appetite Statement RAS defines the level and types of risk the Group is willing Risk appetite framework to assume within the boundaries of its risk capacity, to achieve its strategic objectives.
Ultimately, the RAS Policy framework provides the definitive view on the broad direction of risk taking activity the Board is comfortable that the Frameworks, risk systems, policies and Group undertakes and allows decision makers to standards to manage sources of risk: exercise judgement with greater confidence and speed.
Control effectiveness statement Risk culture The consistent fair treatment of customers is 2.
Report fundamental to the success of the Groups business model and strategy and is underpinned by a risk The Group manages risk using a Three Lines culture which shapes behaviours and decision making of Defence model.
The Three Lines of Defence at all levels of the Group.
The interests of customers, are the operational Business Units, the Risk colleagues, shareholders and the communities within Management function and Internal Audit.
Control Risk management which the Group operates are all aligned to deliver core components is exercised through a clearly defined delegation the Groups strategic aim of sustainable customer Risk management cycle of authority, with communication and escalation growth.
This is supported by the RMF, underpinned Risk infrastructure Risk culture channels throughout the Group.
by a robust risk framework and independent risk 18 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk categorisation Risk and event classification matrix Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Conduct risk is the risk of undertaking business in a way which is Principal risks are overseen by the dedicated contrary to the interests of our customers, resulting in the delivery second line risk management function of inappropriate customer outcomes, customer detriment, Credit risk is the risk of loss of principal or interest stemming from regulatory censure, redress costs and or reputational damage.
a borrowers failure to meet contracted obligations to the Group in accordance with the terms agreed.
Credit risk is evident at both How this risk is managed a portfolio and transactional level.
The Group has a Conduct Framework, with supporting target outcomes and operating principles.
Governance oversight and How this risk is managed reporting are in place to ensure those objectives are met.
Significant credit risk strategies, credit risk appetite and Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate tolerances for credit risk are approved and reviewed by or failed internal processes and systems or from external events.
the Board and Boards Risk Committee.
It includes legal risk, and operational risks associated with the The credit portfolio is closely monitored with actions initiated execution of the strategy.
How this risk is managed Balance sheet and prudential regulation risk covers a number The Group has an established Operational Risk Framework to of categories of risk, which affect the manner in which the Group enable identification, management and mitigation of operational can support its customers in a safe and sound manner.
Risk categories are used to categorise and facilitate the include the need to withstand times of stress for the loss of consistent identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and funding liquidity, the impact of restricted access to future sources reporting of risks and events.
of deposits funding, the impact of providing a defined benefit scheme to colleagues pension and the need to withstand severe Financial crime risk is the risk that the Groups products and unexpected losses capital.
services will be used to facilitate financial crime against the Group, its customers or third parties.
How this risk is managed Liquidity is managed in accordance with standards that are How this risk is managed approved by the Board and supported by annual Funding and The Group has an established Financial Crime Framework Contingency Funding Plans.
The Group also completes a formal supporting ongoing management, monitoring and mitigation annual assessment of liquidity adequacy which is shared with of financial crime risk.
The Group operates zero tolerance for the PRA.
financial crime risk and has a control framework in place to mitigate this risk.
The Group completes a formal annual assessment of its capital requirements which is shared with the PRA.
Strategic, business and financial performance risk is the risk of significant loss, loss of earnings and or damage arising The Groups Pension Risk Management Committee has from business decisions that impact the long-term interests implemented a range of reforms to benefits to reduce the of stakeholders or from an inability to adapt to external Groups exposure to Pension Risk.
Regulatory and compliance risk is the risk of failing to identify, understand, monitor and comply with relevant laws, regulations, How this risk is managed licence conditions, supervisory requirements, self-regulatory The Board approves and oversees the execution of the industry codes of conduct and voluntary initiatives.
In doing so, Strategic Plan and associated strategic risk following the the Group risks damaging its relationship with its regulator.
It is also recommendations of the CEO and Executive Leadership Team.
the failure of not keeping regulators informed of relevant issues The Groups risk appetite statement RAS sets out the risks it is and not responding effectively to information requests and able and willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
People risk is the risk of not having sufficiently skilled and motivated colleagues who are clear on their responsibilities and How this risk is managed accountabilities and who behave in an ethical way.
Continued and significant Board and senior management focus is directed towards maintaining regulatory compliance.
The Board How this risk is managed or Executive Risk Committee approves all material changes to Roles, responsibilities and performance expectations are regulatory policy and protocols.
defined in role profiles and expanded through objective setting and ongoing performance management.
The quality and continuity of our leadership is reviewed and assessed through succession planning and talent management activity.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 Strategic report Highlights of the year October November December January February March April May June July August September STUDIO B OPENS We opened our innovation lab in London during April.
Studio B is a physical manifestation of our digital ambitions and gives us the opportunity to lead the way on innovation and shape the future of our industry.
It allows us to collaborate directly with customers and third parties, including Fintechs, to solve the banking problems of tomorrow, offering insight into the sort of technologies and services that could be available in the future.
We are able to rapidly develop new concepts with consumers in a test and learn environment, with the best being deployed across our channels and customers.
20 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information APRIL October November December January February March April May June July August September CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21
