Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Strategic, business and financial performance risk Mitigation measures Robust strategy development CYBG was divested from NAB and listed in February 2016, but strategic changes necessary for success when independent were and monitoring assessed over a prolonged prior period.
Moreover, CYBG has a long history as a full service UK bank and benefits from an Strategy is delivered within a well-defined risk experienced Board and Executive Leadership Team, such that the appetite and RMF with continual monitoring overall strategy has evolved through a mature and robust process.
The Groups risk appetite represents a risk envelope against which chosen strategies and financial plans are assessed and within which Strategic, business and financial performance risk is the risk of chosen strategies must operate.
The RAS, and associated risk significant loss, loss of earnings or damage arising from business appetite framework, is therefore a key means of controlling decisions that impact the long-term interests of the Groups strategic risk.
The risk appetite framework comprises an extensive stakeholders or from an inability to adapt to external system of measures, thresholds and other controls, which together developments.
ensure that the Group operates within the Boards approved appetite for strategic risk.
Risk appetite The Group intends to grow and increase share in target markets, Monitoring and has clear strategies for its business model and for target A range of financial and non-financial metrics, including RoTE, customers and products, but it has no appetite to achieve its lending growth, customer acquisition, NIM and others, are key targets in an unsustainable fashion, or one which may result performance indicators used to monitor performance relative to in damaging outcomes for the Group, its customers or other strategic objectives.
They are monitored against the Financial Plan stakeholders.
by the Groups Board and Executive Leadership Team, who react to deviations from targets and modify strategy accordingly.
Exposures The Group operates amid intense, increasing competition.
Peer and challenger banks, some with innovative business models and low cost bases, such as fast-growing peer-to-peer lenders and crowd funders, allied with rapid technological change, notably in payments and mobile banking, present a fast-evolving, challenging environment.
These trends and new regulations also necessitate a large change agenda, which diverts management attention, imposes costs and which may not deliver expected benefits.
At the same time, the low interest rate environment constrains income, reduces margins and, by inhibiting capital generation, reduces strategic room for manoeuvre.
As such, income growth and margin expectations over the Groups planning horizon are balanced, highlighting that this environment contributes to significant business risk, the risk that Group net income fails to grow as targeted, or falls.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 175 176 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St Str ra at te eg giic c r rep epor ort t F Fiin nanc anciial al re res sul ult ts s G Go ov ver ern na an nc ce e R Riis sk k r rep epor ort t Fi Fin na an nc ciia all s st ta at tem emen ent ts s A Ad dd diit tiion ona all i in nf for orma mat tiion on FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of CYBG PLC 178 Consolidated financial statements 186 Company financial statements 241 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 177
