Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Our principal risks, as shown on the chart below, are assessed in terms of impact and likelihood.
The assessment takes into account controls operated by management to reduce the risk.
Risks are not static: an arrow indicates if there is currently any pressure on a particular risk to change.
Higher priority risks are those which currently present more of a challenge for the business to mitigate.
Risk likelihood and impact A reminder of our six strategic pillars: High impact Market Operating a high quality pub estate 1 operational Health and safety Targeting pub growth 2 Financial IT Continuity Increased investment in rooms Our people Regulation 3 Offering the best consumer experience: 4 Low quality, service, value and innovation impact Low likelihood High likelihood Leadership in the UK beer market 5 Key Priority Higher priority Ensuring people are at the heart 6 of our business The following risks are, in the opinion of the Board, the principal risks which affect Marstons.
It is not intended to be a complete analysis of all risks and may change over time.
Market Operational Marstons turnover is dependent upon being able to offer, The risk Potential impact Mitigation and attract, our customers to an enjoyable experience of That our pubs, brands Reduction in sales Customer satisfaction high quality at the right price.
It is reliant upon attracting or services fail to or heavy discounting surveys, market and back existing customers and winning new customers.
attract customers, do in order to attract consumer insight data.
Continual analysis of Key strategic customer preferences, 4 5 sales performance data of pillars affected: or offer poor service or individual sites and by pub quality.
Movement: The UK market faces increased uncertainty a risk that our prices which is making consumers nervous.
The economic Pricing strategy and cost become uncompetitive.
drivers for our customers in the near future could be control.
employment uncertainty, depreciation in the value of sterling Investment, location and and infation.
This creates a risk for our Group in attracting design of our pubs.
customers and setting prices at an appropriate level.
However, Structure of our teams is these conditions also present an opportunity to gain market aligned with our pub formats.
share from other operators who cannot manage the risk as effectively.
Further mitigating actions are set out in Our Marketplace on pages 8 to 9 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 25 Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Business continuity Marstons operations depend upon supplies of goods and The risk Potential impact Mitigation services often from single sources.
Disruption to key Disruption to trade Continual assessment of suppliers, particularly impacting upon proft.
suppliers resilience and those closely capacity.
Key strategic involved with our Site visits to our suppliers to 1 4 5 pillars affected: day-to-day activities assess crisis planning.
logistics, food, Contingencyplanning Movement: Marstons recognises the disruptive effect of drink, or shortage of identifying how products or events outside of the Groups control, that impact upon commodities could services can be substituted.
our ability to manage operations.
In 2018 we will perform detailed audits of resilience at a selection of our major suppliers sites.
This work will be followed by a wider programme of visits to be conducted by our Group Risk team.
Regulatory Marstons activities are predominantly within heavily The risk Potential impact Mitigation regulated areas: alcohol licensing, food hygiene, alcohol Changes in regulation Increased regulation Maintain excellent levels of production, transport and property.
impacting upon the directly affecting compliance through policies, cost of business or Marstons, or our training and monitoring.
suppliers, could Robust health and safety 2 3 5 6 pillars affected: increase the cost of management systems.
Active consultation with Movement: The Pubs Code introduced in 2016 increased Government, trade bodies the legislative requirements for Marstons across a range and the BBPA.
of areas when dealing with retailers, tenants and lessees.
Tracking legislative changes Any future increases in the National Minimum Wage or National and adapting operations.
Living Wage above infation could impact the Group.
In 2018 we will complete our preparations for GDPR to ensure all personal data is being held and processed in a manner compliant with new legislation.
The Risk & Compliance Committee will continue to track and report to the PLC Exec the Groups ongoing compliance and preparations for any legislation, regulation and reporting requirements.
Health, safety and food hygiene Key strategic The risk Potential impact Mitigation 2 4 5 6 pillars affected: Breaches of health and Signifcant damage to Health, safety and hygiene safety or food hygiene reputation.
management systems Movement: The number of personal accidents reduced regulations now attract embedded.
this year in our operating divisions, continuing the trend of increased media Dedicatedhealth and a reduction in personal accidents over recent years.
Our busy attention and higher safety managers seeking and evolving working environment continues to be a challenge.
For 2018 we have taken steps to invest in more resource for Documented, regular health and safety and repositioned its management within inspections.
the Group in order to accommodate the need for greater specialisation.
Escalation of potential At Marstons food hygiene has been consistently and rigorously controlled.
safety threats to senior management.
26 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Information technology Our business activity is very reliant upon the Groups IT The risk Potential impact Mitigation network to communicate, operate effectively, serve our Threats to IT are both Reduction in the Anti-virus and frewall customers, process transactions and report on results.
external and internal effectiveness of protection.
and could result in a operations, business Access control, password Key strategic network outage, loss, interruption and loss of protection and IT policy 4 5 6 pillars affected: theft or corruption proft.
of data or denial of as a result of the loss Network controls and Movement: Global cyber risk has evolved and the theft of service.
personal data is becoming more common, ransomware Penetration testing and attacks are now more widespread and sophisticated.
Marstons has conducted penetration testing on its network for Backup procedures.
Specifc cyber risk reviews have been conducted in recent years on IT security by independent teams.
We have Data recovery plans and invested in additional network and device monitoring functionality.
In 2018 we plan to enhance central control over remote devices and to engage more with our people to encourage greater awareness of cyber threats and their role in protecting ourITnetwork and data.
Our people Marstons operates in a very competitive environment: The risk Potential impact Mitigation as a result the achievement of its strategic objectives Failure to attract or Financial targets and Trainingand induction relies heavily upon the quality of its people.
Further development of Key strategic Marstons Ways of Working.
Movement: The sustained growth in our business has Employeeengagement and enablement survey.
allowed for improvements in training programmes and given more opportunity for our people to progress.
Our Performance, Career and Development Review PCDR cycle has brought a common approach across the Group enhancing the dialogue regarding expectation, achievement, development and career ambition.
In 2018 PCDR will be embedded further.
Financial covenants, pension fund deficit and accounting controls The Groups fnancial system handles a large number The risk Potential impact Mitigation of transactions accurately and securely.
Accurate Breach of the Loss of investor Detailedmanagement reporting is key to running the business effectively and covenants with our confdence and accounts, budgets and in compliance with our fnancial covenants.
funding of the pension Potential loss as Constant monitoring of Key strategic scheme.
pillars affected: reporting of fnancial Breach of covenants Audit and authority levels.
Unauthorised resulting in additional Movement: There are strong controls mitigating this risk Segregationof duties and transactions.
fnancial and operating to a low level.
There has been no change in the risk since access controls.
Monitoringpension investment yields and contribution levels.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 27
