STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Risk management The Boards attitude to risk management is consistent with its low overall appetite for risk.
This report should be read in conjunction with the viability statement on page 64.
Overview Management structure The Board structures the Groups operations to minimise exposure to As a foundation to effective day-to-day risk management, we have a culture investment, operational and financial risks, and to ensure that there is a which encourages open dialogue within the management team and with the rigorous, regular review of risks and mitigation across its activities.
wide range of external advisors we employ in running the business.
Our team, based in one office, within fifteen minutes walk of all our holdings, Important factors contributing to the relatively low risk of our business comprises four executive directors and 25 staff.
The executive management include: team, with an average tenure of over 16 years, has an in-depth knowledge of The Group invests only in Londons West End, where there is a long history our business and the West End property market.
of resilience, stability and sustained occupier demand for restaurant, The Boards attitude to risk is embedded in the business, with executive leisure and retail space, which are the principal sources of our rental directors closely involved in all aspects of operations and significant income and portfolio value decisions.
Non-executive directors approve capital, debt and non-routine With a diverse tenant base, there is limited exposure to any single tenant transactions over a specified level.
The nature of our portfolio does not expose us to risks inherent in Senior management, below Board level, is incentivised in the same way material speculative development schemes as executive directors to achieve the Groups strategic goals of delivering We have an established and experienced management team, based in one long-term growth in rental income, capital values and shareholder returns.
location, close to all our holdings Decisions are made for long-term benefit, rather than short-term gain.
We manage our balance sheet on a conservative basis with moderate Succession planning across the management team is continually monitored leverage, long-term finance, a spread of loan maturities, good interest by the Board.
cover and with the majority of interest costs fixed.
Responsibilities EXECUTIVE AUDIT COMMITTEE BOARD MANAGEMENT Day-to-day management Assurance over the internal Overall responsibility for risk of risk.
controls and risk management management.
risks and uncertainties regularly, Design and implementation along with actions taken, where of appropriate and effective practical, to mitigate them.
59 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Risk management and internal control Risk assessment The Board reviews the nature and extent of the Groups principal risks and Operational and financial risks facing the Group are monitored through uncertainties, and monitors the risk management framework and internal a process of regular assessment by the executive team.
The aim of this control systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, assessment is to: the risks faced by the business and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, Provide reasonable assurance that material risks are identified.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Their adequacy and Ensure appropriate mitigation action is taken at an early stage.
effectiveness are monitored through the risk management and audit processes which include financial and property management audits.
Risks are considered in terms of their impact and likelihood from operational, financial and reputational perspectives.
Risks, and the controls in place to The Group has established processes and procedures to identify, assess, mitigate them, are formally reported, discussed and challenged, at meetings and manage the principal risks and uncertainties we face.
These processes of the Audit Committee and the Board.
To the extent that significant risks, and procedures were in place throughout the year and remained in place failings or control weaknesses arise during the year, these are reported to up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and accord with the the Board and appropriate action is taken to rectify the issue and implement Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal controls to mitigate further occurrences.
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 2014.
The Audit Committee has monitored the Groups risk management and The key elements of the Groups procedures and internal financial control internal control system, and having reviewed the effectiveness of material framework are: controls, has not identified any significant failings or weaknesses in the Close involvement of the executive directors in all aspects of day-to-day Groups controls during the year.
operations, including regular meetings with employees to review risks and controls.
Principal risks and uncertainties Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and Defined schedule of matters for decision by the Board including significant uncertainties which might prevent the Group achieving its goal of long-term acquisitions, disposals, major contracts, material refurbishment development growth in rental income, capital values and shareholder returns.
These risks proposals and any other transaction outside the normal course of business.
and uncertainties are consistent with those reported in 2016.
A comprehensive system of financial reporting and forecasting, which The performance of the UK economy has been relatively resilient since the includes forecast liquidity requirements and loan covenant compliance.
Whilst national consumer spending trends are The day-to-day management of the Groups portfolio is outsourced to unclear, trading in our locations continues to be buoyant, benefiting from two managing agents.
The Group monitors the performance of each increasing numbers of international visitors, whose spending power has managing agent and has established extensive financial and operational been enhanced by the strength of their local currencies against Sterling controls to ensure that each maintains an acceptable level of service and since the referendum.
provides reliable financial and operational information.
The managing Looking ahead, the UK faces a period of uncertainty as it negotiates its exit agents share with the Group their internal control assessments.
The Group from the EU, which brings a risk of lower business and consumer confidence.
periodically uses the services of an external consultant to review the Whilst it is not possible to conclude as to any long-term impact this may managing agents operational processes and controls.
have on our business, we expect the West End, underpinned by its wide appeal and dynamic economy, will maintain its long record of resilience.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties, mitigation and evolution of risk during the year are set out on pages 61 to 63.
60 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION RISK HOW RISK HAS RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION COMMENTARY EVOLVED Events which discourage visitors Reduced visitor numbers, Inherent risk given the London has a growing to the West End e. g. spending and occupier geographic concentration population, is the most visited demand of our investments in a high city destination for international Threats to security or public profile location tourists in the western world, safety due to terrorism Reduced rental income and current forecasts are for and or capital values Insurance cover maintained Health concerns further growth in visitor for terrorism and loss-of-rent e. g. pandemics Potential increased vacancy numbers.
Across the West End, and declining profitability Close liaison with statutory spending and occupier demand 1 authorities to maximise Damage to property continue to be healthy safety of visitors The UKs terrorism threat level D etailed emergency currently is severe after response plans briefly being raised to critical earlier this year Competing destinations lead to Reduced visitor numbers Ensure our villages maintain Footfall and occupier demand long-term decline in footfall in and occupier demand a distinct identity across our villages remains our villages good.
We continue to see Reduced rental income Management strategies to rental growth and low and or capital values create prosperous underlying vacancy 1 3 destinations within which Potential increased vacancy tenants can operate and declining profitability Se ek out new concepts, brands and ideas to keep our villages vibrant and appealing Consistent strategy on tenant mix, which evolves over time Marketing and promotion of our villages KPI to deliver sustainable rental growth Regular board monitoring of performance and prospects REGULATORY RISK All our properties are in the Limit our ability to optimise Ensure our properties are There are no current boroughs of Westminster and revenues operated in compliance with indications that the evolution Camden.
Changes to national local regulations of planning and licensing Reduced profitability or local policies, particularly frameworks, either as a result Make representations on Reduced capital values planning and licensing, could of national or local legislation, proposed policy changes, have a significant impact on our will have a material impact on to ensure our views and ability to maximise the longthe Groups business for the experience are considered term potential of our assets foreseeable future Mix of uses in our portfolio means we are not reliant on 1 2 income from one particular use Risk increased Link to business model: 1 Exceptional portfolio in the heart of Londons West End Risk unchanged 2 Risk decreased Focus on restaurants, leisure and retail 3 Creating distinctive, lively and interesting destinations 61 62 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 ECONOMIC RISK HOW RISK HAS RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION COMMENTARY EVOLVED Economic uncertainty and Pressure on rents Focus on assets, locations Restaurant, leisure and retail lower confidence could reduce and uses which have tenants provide 70% of our Declining profitability consumer spending.
Together historically proved to be annualised current income Reduced capital values with upward cost pressures, economically resilient In our areas, trading, footfall this could reduce tenant Tourism and retail leisure and spending have been profitability and occupier spending in the West End are resilient since the EU demand not reliant on the wider-UK referendum and we continue economy to benefit from healthy 1 2 3 demand and rental growth.
Promoting our areas However, uncertainty will Diverse tenant base with remain until the UK's future limited exposure to any one arrangements with tenant the EU are negotiated Tenant deposits held against unpaid rent obligations at 30 September 2017: 18.5m Decline in the UK real estate Reduced capital values Focus on assets, locations Interest rates have continued market due to macroand uses where: at historically low levels Decrease in NAV, amplified economic factors e. g. global - t here is a structural by gearing Present market sentiment is political landscape, currency imbalance between that increases will be moderate Loan covenant defaults expectations, bond yields, availability of space and and gradual, although the interest rate expectations, demand current political and economic availability and cost of finance, backdrop increases uncertainty - which have historically relative attractiveness of proved to be economically property compared with other resilient and have asset classes demonstrated much lower valuation volatility than the 2 4 wider market Regular review of investment market conditions including bi-annual external valuations Conservative levels of leverage, with the majority at fixed rates Spread of sources of finance and loan maturities Quarterly forecasts including covenant headroom review Pool of uncharged assets available to top up security held by lenders Link to business model: 1 Exceptional portfolio in the heart of Londons West End Risk increased 2 Focus on restaurants, leisure and retail Risk unchanged 3 Creating distinctive, lively and interesting destinations Risk decreased 4 Prudent financial management 63
