Risk ma Risk management nagement 36 OPTIMISING OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Countryside has policies and procedures in place for the timely identification, assessment and prioritisation of the Groups material risks and uncertainties.
Thissection describes how these risks are identified, managed and mitigated appropriately in order to deliver the Groups strategic objectives.
How we manage risk Our approach to risk Risk identification and management is built into every aspect of Countrysides daily operations, ranging from the appraisal of new sites, assessment of the prospects of planning success, building The Board safely and selling effectively to achieve long-term success through the property market cycle.
Role and responsibilities Riskmanagement is built into standardised Sets the Group strategy processes for each part of the business at every stage of the housebuilding process.
Financial Determines the Groups risk policy, and the procedures that are put in place to mitigate exposure risk is managed centrally through maintenance torisk of a strong balance sheet, forward selling new Regularly monitors Group risks homes and the careful allocation of funds to Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control procedures the right projects, at the right time and in the right locations.
Risk management also includes the internal controls described within the Corporate Governance Report on Audit Committee pages46to51.
Role and responsibilities The Risk Management Committee normally meets every quarter to review the Groups risk register.
Has delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk management and internal controls Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reporting process The Groups risk register is maintained to record all principal risks and uncertainties identified in Monitors the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and the independence of the external audit each part of the business.
A member of the Executive Committee is allocated, as appropriate, as the risk owner for each risk.
The risk owners call upon the appropriate expertise to conduct Risk Management an analysis of each risk, according to a defined Internal Audit Committee set of assessment criteria which includes: How does the risk relate to the Groups Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities business model and or strategy?
Determines the appropriate controls for the Undertakes independent reviews of timely identification and management of risk What is the likelihood of the risk occurring?
effectiveness of internal control procedures Manages the Groups risk register Reports on effectiveness of management actions What is the potential impact were the risk to occur?
Monitors the effective implementation of Provides assurance to the Audit Committee action plans Would the consequences be short, medium Reviews reports from the Internal Audit function or long-term?
What mitigating actions are available and which are cost effective?
What is the degree of residual risk and is it within the Groups risk appetite parameters?
Executive Committee Has the risk assessment changed and what is expected to change going forward?
Role and responsibilities Responsible for identification of operational and strategic risks The Risk Management Committee reviews the assessments made, compares it to the Groups Responsible for ownership and control of specific risks appetite for each risk, reviews the current level Responsible for establishing and managing the implementation of appropriate action plans of preparedness and determines whether further actions or resource are required.
In reviewing and agreeing the mitigating actions, the Risk Management Committee considers the impact of risks individually and in combination, in both the short and the longer-term.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 37 Key areas of focus during 2017 Viability Statement The following statement is made in accordance the assumption that counterparties including Data protection with the UK Corporate Governance Code local authorities and housing associations Given that the EUs General Data Protection April 2016 provision C. 2.2.
After considering honoured the phased viability terms and Regulation GDPR takes effect from 25May 2018, the current position of the Company, the conditions contained in a number of the the business-wide objective of ensuring all business Directors have assessed the prospects and Groups Partnerships contracts: and divisions are in compliance in advance of the viability of theCompany over a three-year deadline has been overseen by the Risk the a ssumption that the Group will be able period to September 2020.
In making this Management Committee during 2017.
The to effectively mitigate risks through enacted statement, theBoard has performed a robust process commenced with an internal audit or available actions, as described in the assessment of the principal risks facing the ofthe Groups state of readiness, followed Principal risks and uncertainties section Company, including those risks that would bythedevelopment and implementation of an ofthis report.
threaten Countrysides business model, future operational road map, using the findings of the performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal The sensitivity analysis is performed based on audit, to embrace GDPR and develop sustainable risks facing Countryside and how the Company assumptions modelled on the 2007 to 2009 privacy with respect to Countrysides employees, addresses such risks are described in this Strategic period, adjusted for changes in Countrysides customers and suppliers.
Report and are summarised in the Principal business divisions, during which the Housebuilding Cyber risks and uncertainties section of this report.
sector saw significant reductions in sales ratesand average selling prices and illiquidity in theland Recognising that cyber risk continues to grow Although longer-term forecasts are prepared market during a prolonged economic recession.
as a leading issue for all organisations, there has to support the strategic planning process, the These assumptions include, inter alia, a 20 per cent been a significant focus during 2017 on reviewing nature of the risks and opportunities faced by fall in house prices and an up to 50 per cent the Groups material IT controls, policies and the Group limits the Directors ability to reduction in sales rates, offset by a 10 per cent procedures to ensure their resilience to support reliably predict the longer term.
The Board received a three-year horizon is used to allow for a greater presentation on the mitigating actions being degree of certainty in our assumptions.
It considers all of our principal risks, although undertaken and an assessment of the Groups our assumption that we will be able to effectively The Directors assessment includes a financial state of preparedness on 27 July 2017.
A case mitigate some of our risks leads to a greater review, which is derived from the Groups strategic studyof the work undertaken to address cyber emphasis on those risks that are beyond our forecasts and identifies divisional business risk is set out on page 54. control such as external macroeconomic factors.
performance, expected cash flows, net debt Market headroom and funding covenant compliance Having had due regard to the sensitivity analysis, The Board, Executive Committee and throughout the three years under review.
the Directors have concluded that we do not RiskManagement Committee have spent These forecasts also incorporate severe but face a risk to our viability except in the event considerable time during 2017 to ensure that plausible downside case scenarios, illustrating ofhighly improbable combinations of material the Groups mixed-tenure approach and the potential impact upon viability of one or more events within the three-year window.
product mix are best suited to ensure we of the Groups principal risks crystallising during Based on this conclusion, the Directors have a maintain affordability and serve the areas of the period, both individually and in combination.
reasonable expectation that the Company will strongest demand.
In order to better monitor A number of reasonable assumptions are be able to continue in operation and meet its potential changes in market risk, management has included within these assessments, including: liabilities as they fall due over the period of expanded the range of third party data it theassessment.
reviews such as the monthly Barclays UK the assumption that the Groups debt facility, spend trend and increased the use of third which expires in 2022, will continue to be party market assessments in advance of all available on the same or similar basis Ian Sutcliffe major new projects.
throughout the period under review: Group Chief Executive 21 November 2017 the assumption that, following a material event, the Group would adjust its strategy accordingly to preserve cash.
This would include, inter alia, suspending the purchase ofland, changing the build profile of existing developments or adjusting Group dividendpolicy: Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Risk management continued 38 Current assessment of principal risks Board, Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee responsibility 1 1 The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups risk register and the assessment 5 5 2 of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties prepared by the Risk Management Committee at its meetings in July and October 2017.
The 3 4 Audit Committee also considered the effectiveness ofthe Groups systems, 7 6 and has taken this into account in preparing theViability Statement on the previouspage.
3 The Audit Committee reported on its findings at the Boards July and October 2 meetings, in order to support it in making its confirmation that it had 7 carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks.
4 6 Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups principal risks are monitored by the Risk Management Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The table below setsout the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and mitigation.
Unlikely Occasional Likely Likelihood Post-mitigation Pre-mitigation Our strategic priorities Key 1 Growth 2 Returns 3 Resilience No change Increase Decrease CHANGE RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION DURING YEAR LINK TO STRATEGY Funds are allocated between the Housebuilding Adverse macroeconomic 1 2 3 1 and Partnerships businesses.
In Housebuilding, conditions land is purchased based on planning prospects, A decline in macroeconomic conditions, or forecast demand and market resilience.
In conditions in the UK residential property market, Partnerships, contracts are phased and, where can reduce the propensity to buy homes.
Higher possible, subject to viability testing.
In all cases, unemployment, interest rates and inflation can forward sales, cash flow and work in progress affect consumer confidence and reduce demand are carefully monitored to give the Group time for new homes.
Constraints on mortgage availability, to react to changing market conditions.
or higher costs of mortgage funding, may make it more difficult to sell homes.
The potential impact of changes in Government Adverse changes to Government 1 2 2 policy and new laws and regulations are monitored policy andregulation and communicated throughout the business.
Adverse changes to Government policy in areas Detailed policies and procedures are in place to such as tax, housing, the environment and address the prevailing regulations.
building regulations may result in increased costs and or delays.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose the Group to penalties and reputational damage.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Impact Low Moderate Significant Strategic report Governance Financial statements 39 CHANGE RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION DURING YEAR LINK TO STRATEGY Optimise use of standard house types and Constraints on 1 2 3 design to maximise buying power.
Use of  strategic suppliers to leverage volume price Costs may increase beyond budget due to the reductions and minimise unforeseen disruption.
reduced availability of skilled labour, or shortages Robust contract terms to control costs.
of sub-contractors or building materials at competitive prices to support the Groups growth ambitions.
The Groups strategic geographic expansion may be at risk if newsupply chains cannot be established.
The budgeted programme for each site is Programme delay 4 1 2 approved by the Divisional Board before  acquisition.
Sites are managed as a portfolio Failure to secure timely planning permission tocontrol overall Group delivery risk.
Weekly oneconomically viable terms or poor project monitoring at both divisional and Group level.
forecasting, unforeseen operational delays due to technical issues, disputes with third party contractors or suppliers, bad weather or changes in purchaser requirements may cause delay or potentially termination of project.
A robust land appraisal process ensures each Inability to source and 1 2 5 project is financially viable and consistent with developsuitableland the Groups strategy.
Competition or poor planning may result in a failure to procure land in the right location, at the right price and at the right time.
Remuneration packages are regularly Inability to attract and retain 1 2 3 6 benchmarked against industry standards to talentedemployees ensure competitiveness.
Succession plans are Inability to attract and retain highly skilled, inplace for all key roles within the Group.
competent people at all levels could adversely Exitinterviews are used to identify any areas affect the Groups results, prospects and for improvement.
Procedures, training and reporting are all carefully Inadequate health, safety 2 7 monitored to ensure that high standards are andenvironmental procedures maintained.
An environmental risk assessment A deterioration in the Groups health, safety and is carried out prior to any land acquisition.
environmental standards could put the Groups Appropriate insurance is in place to cover employees, contractors or the general public at therisks associated with housebuilding.
risk of injury or death and could lead to litigation or penalties or damage the Groups reputation.
Brexit Note: The Risk Management Committees review of risk, including the principal risks, takes into account the known and forecast developments flowing from plans being made for the UKs planned exit from membership of the European Union by March 2019 Brexit.
Brexitaffects many of the principal risks, but particularly those marked with an asterisk.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
