T H G I S R E V Y O Y T T I T : I L I E I S D L B I I U E B E S I A N E S O T N L P T D O S A T T E P N R I I S R R T E M M N R E E A M T E M E M N E O T I G O T A C O I N M Our Risks and Risk Management OUR APPROACH TO RISKS Key actions in 2017: Future steps for 2018: Managing risks effectively is essential Appointment of a new Head of Continuing preparations for the for business growth and adding value to our Group.
Risks represent both threats Internal Audit to direct more focus on start of the General Data Protection and opportunities.
The threats can be auditing and greater independence.
Regulation GDPR on 25 May 2018. external to the Group, often demanding The Internal Audit function has been Additional network resilience new ways of conducting business, for broadened to cover a wider remit, between our sites.
instance legislative changes or cyber attack.
consolidating corporate auditing, Internally generated risks also occur, Further development of crisis plans pub fnancial auditing and pub necessitating a strong environment of to refect internal site changes and compliance testing.
internal controls in order to identify changes, external threats.
assess their impact and, if required, Cyber protection has been More effcient use of our internal respond rapidly.
auditors, by training and expanding We recognise that opportunities created by Storage of personal data has been their scope.
risks within our market sector are constantly mapped and processes have been More detailed cross referencing occurring.
In order to respond to these established to continually monitor between internal audits and the opportunities our business takes advantage and record where it is stored.
key risks within the Corporate of its existing strengths to continually Risk Register.
improve upon its operations to meet changes in consumer preferences, high levels of Compliance testing to have a customer service, and excellence in people greater focus upon processes which development.
We constantly survey how have changed.
the business can utilise technological improvements, and identify how future economic factors and changes in legislation impact us.
LEVELS OF GOVERNANCE OVER RISK 22 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 M B A P R C M M E U O : C L T O D E O T I R C R N T N N D E G N A O M U C D E R A S G U N S A A E S N A N S. I A S A E 5 M U.
I 1 T U C E X E. 4 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 Business controls Management committee Assurance: ERM Internal Audit The Group Risk team comprises of the Corporate  responsibility Risk Director and the Internal Audit Function.
Our managers across the business Both the PLC Exec and the Marstons Beer are responsible for identifying risks, Company MBC Board meet regularly to The Corporate Risk Director has a reporting line communicating risks and developing consider how to implement the actions to the Group Secretary who sits on the PLC Exec.
responses which mitigate these risks to a required for Marstons to achieve its In addition the Corporate Risk Director and Head level which is acceptable for the business.
business objectives, our Ways of Working, of Internal Audit have access to all the PLC Exec and manage its risks and opportunities.
members and meet with the Audit Committee Senior management are responsible Chairman independently on a regular basis.
for monitoring and reporting upon the Our Operational Directors within the PLC effectiveness of the controls.
The managers Exec and the MBC Board take ownership of Enterprise Risk Management ERM assessment of the effectiveness of the key the business strategy, direct the business The Corporate Risk Director operates an business controls is facilitated by Internal to meet operational and fnancial targets, enterprise wide risk management process Audit and reported to the Board on an and design internal controls to reduce risks.
in order to identify, monitor and report annual basis.
To achieve this they must fundamentally those risks which are key to achieving the understand the risks which impact the Groups strategic objectives.
The key risks The key features of the internal control business.
Information on risks is collected and controls, and their ownership, are system are: through internal processes and external continually monitored and, more formally sources, and directs how management A clearly defined management structure.
assessed during bi-annual meetings with our respond to changing conditions impacting The Group operates within a clear set of managers across the business.
Both management policies previously agreed with the Board committees consider, communicate and and the PLC Executive Committee PLC The risks are documented in a corporate risk implement the strategic directions and Exec.
Such policies ultimately manage the register, access to which is appropriately shared decisions on risk management made by criteria within which the business accepts with the managers who own those risks.
Authority is delegated through the common risk management tools and language business to ensure that management is to engender cross-functional consistency and empowered to operate effectively within measurement across the Group.
a system of governance approved by the The effectiveness of the controls at reducing Board.
Changes to policies occur, normally risk to an acceptable level is considered by and at the instigation of management, in reported to the Audit Committee.
response to either new threats, legislation or new opportunities: Levels of insurance cover are managed by the Corporate Risk Director with the Embedding risk management into day-toauthority of the Board and in consultation with day activities and our Ways of Working: external advisers.
Ensuring that our operations abide by all Internal Audit applicable laws and regulations: The Internal Audit function is managed by Systems that support continual the Head of Internal Audit, reporting to the improvement by reporting on Corporate Risk Director, and is independent effectiveness, recognising weaknesses, from the operations of the Group.
The internal and by encouraging, and rewarding, audit strategy is risk based, and focuses its achievement: attention upon the greatest risks to the Group.
The strategy has been approved by the Audit A detailed formal budgeting process for Committee and aims to provide a suffcient all Group activities, with the annual Group level of assurance regarding the strength of budget and projections for future years the control environment as well as supporting being formally approved by the Board: continual improvement in risk management.
Established procedures for planning, The internal audit plan is prepared by the approving and monitoring capital Head of Internal Audit.
The plan takes expenditure and major projects which into consideration the key risks within the have risk management embedded business, areas of increased risk and the within them: regularity of the areas tested.
The Head of Internal Audit consults with the PLC Exec Board approval is needed for all major and the Risk & Compliance Committee investment, divestment and strategic regarding areas of concern which require plans and programmes: additional assurance.
Resource and expertise At each meeting the Board reviews is sought from an audit co-source for financial and non-financial progress individual projects.
The budget for internal towards the Groups goals.
audit is submitted by the Head of Internal Audit for approval by the PLC Exec and the Control systems are designed to manage Audit Committee.
By their nature, such systems provide only a reasonable and The internal audit projects are planned with not absolute defence against material errors, the assistance of senior management and losses, fraud or breaches of the law.
the results are reported back to the business, the Risk & Compliance Committee and the Audit Committee.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 23 Our Risks and Risk Management continued LEVEL 4 LEVEL 5 Viability Statement Executive and Group committees: Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight The Directors regularly undertake understanding the effectiveness of the Marstons operates a number of committees an assessment of the prospects of internal controls over risk.
The Committee in order to focus Senior Management the Group by reference to its current reviews the work of the Group Risk team attention upon particular areas of risk: and historical fnancial performance, and the levels of assurance gained regarding the current fnancial position, and PLC Executive Committee PLC Exec the strength of the controls.
Assurance is the principal risks described on chaired by the Chief Executive Officer gained from internal audit projects, external The members of the PLC Exec are the following pages.
In addition, the auditors and other independent sources responsible for the implementation of Board annually reviews the Group where appropriate.
The Committee approve strategy, carrying out actions directed by strategy, which incorporates fve the internal audit strategy and the internal the Board, monitoring performance and year fnancial projections of trading audit plan.
overseeing risk management and internal performance, cash fows and fnancing Board controls.
Actions required are communicated requirements.
In recent years the The Board is ultimately responsible for the to the senior managers within the divisions Group has performed strongly, Groups framework of governance, internal of the Group.
delivering growth whilst transforming control and risk management.
The mitigation both the pub and beer divisions into Risk & Compliance Committee of risk is delegated to the Executive Directors businesses well placed to meet future chaired by the Group Secretary and other senior management.
The Board is market challenges.
The Committee tracks the emergence responsible for ensuring that management of new legislation, potential impact on During the period the Group entered review and communicate the effectiveness the business and Marstons response into a new 320 million bank facility to of the internal controls.
The Board is also to compliance.
responsible for understanding the principal the fnancial period 2021 22 providing risks faced by the Group, its risk appetite and our unsecured fnancing requirements Reviews and challenges the identification the Viability Statement.
In addition a of the principal risks.
further 61 million of property lease Management reporting to the Board must Considers the alignment of audit and fnancing has been secured during the be in suffcient detail for the Board to compliance testing with the risks.
period demonstrating the attractiveness assess their risk appetite in the context of of the Groups pub estate expansion Conducts a focused examination of areas the risks and opportunities, and to make plans to debt providers and a further where risks are significantly changing.
informed decisions in order for Marstons tranche of property lease fnancing has toaccomplish its strategic objectives.
Data Security Committee been forward committed for January chaired by the Group Secretary The Board has performed a robust 2018.
The Group continues to have The protection of personal and commercial assessment of the principal risks faced by strong headroom against the fnancial data is considered.
Network protection is the Group, taking into account the ability of covenants underpinning the fnancing reported.
Policies are reviewed to maximise the Group to achieve its strategic objectives.
structure, with maintained fxed best practice by staff.
Preparations for GDPR charge cover.
The Board has assessed the viability Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Group over a fve-year period, chaired by the Corporate which is consistent with their strategy Risk Director review process.
Whilst acknowledging The ethical approach by the Group is that the principal risks all have the considered in all respects.
The Committee potential to affect future performance, defnes the ethical priorities for the Group, with the mitigation plans in place, and oversees the actions and targets none of them are considered likely to associated with them.
The Committee threaten the viability of the business considers the reputation, risks and over the fve-year period.
Based on this opportunities arising from adopting review, the Directors confrm that they such priorities.
believe that the Group will continue to Business Continuity Steering be operationally and fnancially viable Committee over the fve-year period.
chaired by the Corporate Risk Director The resilience of the Group to events outside of its control are considered, as well as lessons learned from actual incidents or scenario tests.
The Committee considers the threats to operations and the dependency risk the Group may have in connection with partnership processes, resources, sites and suppliers.
24 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
