RISK MANAGEMENT Identifying and managing risk The Board continues to take a proactive approach to recognising, assessing and mitigating risk with the aim of protecting its employees and consumers and safeguarding the interests of the Company and its shareholders in the constantly changing environment in which it operates.
As set out in the Corporate Governance section within the Annual The Group has significant operations and a substantial employee Report, the Group has policies and procedures in place to ensure base in the USA where the new administration has signalled broad that risks are properly identified, evaluated and managed at the policy changes.
Some of these potential changes in policy are in appropriate level within the business.
respect of trade and tax, none of which are clear at this stage.
We are closely monitoring developments from the new administration The identification of risks and opportunities, the development of and will continue to assess the impact of any changes and the action plans to manage the risks and maximise the opportunities, extent to which they will be enacted.
and the continual monitoring of progress against agreed key performance indicators KPIs are integral parts of the business In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance process and core activities throughout the Group.
Code, the Board has taken into consideration the principal risks inthe context of determining whether to adopt the going concern The table on pages 35 and 36 sets out the principal risks and basis of accounting and when assessing the prospects of the uncertainties facing the business at the date of this Report.
These Company for the purpose of preparing the Viability Statement.
have been subject to robust assessment and review.
They do not TheGoing Concern and Viability Statement can be found on comprise all of the risks that the Group may face and are not listed page33 of the Strategic Report.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or deemed to be less material at The Group faces a number of operational risks on an ongoing basis the date of this Report, may also have an adverse effect on the such as litigation and financial including liquidity and credit risk Group.
These include risks resulting from the UKs decision to leave and some wider risks, for example, environmental and reputational.
the EU and the potential for US political reform which could Additionally, there are risks such as those relating to the eurozone adversely affect the risks noted under the economic and political economy, pensions, and acquisitions and investments which vary environment section of the table on the following pages as well as in importance depending on changing conditions.
All risks disclosed affecting financial risks such as liquidity and credit.
The Board views in previous years can be found in the annual reports available on our the potential impact of Brexit as an integral part of its principal risks website at www.
We recognise that these risks rather than a stand-alone risk.
However, there is still significant remain important to the business and they are kept under review.
uncertainty about the withdrawal process, its timeframe, and the However, we have focused the disclosures on pages 35 and 36 on outcome of negotiations about future arrangements between the UK those risks that are currently considered to be more significant to and the EU, and the period for which existing EU laws for member theGroup.
states will continue to apply to the UK.
Therefore, although the risks related to Brexit have been discussed by the Board, it remains too early to properly understand the impact on the business whilst negotiations continue to take place.
The Board will continue to assess the risk to the business as the Brexit process evolves.
Risk Management should be read in conjunction with the Strategy and KPIsections.
See pages 14 to 17 and 26 and 27 respectively 34 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS CHANGE IN RISK Increased risk Consistent risk RISKS DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety Health and safety is our number one operational All management meetings throughout the Group 2017 priority.
We are focused on protecting peoples feature a health and safety update as their first 2016 wellbeing, as well as avoiding serious business substantive agenda item.
interruption and potential damage to our reputation.
Health and safety improvement KPIs are included Compass feeds millions of consumers and employs inthe annual bonus plans for each of the business thousands of people around the world every day.
Therefore, setting the highest standards for food hygiene and safety is paramount.
The Group has policies, procedures and standards in place to ensure compliance with legal obligations and industry standards.
The safety and quality of our global supply chain are assured through compliance against a robust set of standards which are regularly reviewed, audited and upgraded as necessary to improve supply chain visibility and product integrity.
CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS Client and consumer sales Our business relies on securing and retaining a We have strategies which strengthen our long term and retention diverse range ofclients.
relationships with our clients and consumers 2017 based on quality, value and innovation.
2016 Our business model is structured so that we are not reliant on one particular sector, geography or group of clients.
Bidding Each year, the Group could bid for a large number A rigorous tender review process is in place, which 2017 of opportunities.
includes a critical assessment of contracts to 2016 identify potential risks including social and ethical risks and rewards, prior to approval at an appropriate level in the organisation.
Service delivery and The Groups operating companies contract with a Processes are in place to ensure that the services contractual compliance large number of clients.
Failure to comply with the delivered to clients are of an appropriate standard 2017 terms of these contracts, including proper delivery and comply with the required contract terms and 2016 of services, could lead to loss of business.
Competition We operate in a highly competitive marketplace.
We aim to minimise this by continuing to promote 2017 The levels of concentration and outsource our differentiated propositions and by focusing on 2016 penetration vary by country and by sector.
Some our points of strength, such as flexibility in our cost markets are relatively concentrated with two or three base, quality and value of service and innovation.
Others are highly fragmented and offer significant opportunities for consolidation and penetration of the self-operated market.
Aggressive pricing from our competitors could cause a reduction in our revenues and margins.
PEOPLE Recruitment Failure to attract and recruit people with the right The Group aims to mitigate this risk by 2017 skills at all levels could limit the success of the efficient, time critical resource management, 2016 Group.
The Group faces resourcing challenges in mobilisation of existing, experienced employees some of its businesses due to a lack of industry within the organisation, improved use of experience amongst candidates and appropriately technology and through offering training qualified people, and the seasonal nature of some and development programmes.
Retention and motivation Retaining and motivating the best people with the The Group has established training, development, 2017 right skills, at all levels of the organisation, is key to performance management and reward 2016 the long term success of the Group.
programmes to retain, develop and motivate our best people.
The Group has a well established employee engagement initiative, Your Voice, which helps us to monitor, understand and respond to our employees needs.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 35 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED CHANGE IN RISK Increased risk Consistent risk RISKS DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT Economy Some sectors of our business could be susceptible With the variable and flexible nature of our cost 2017 to adverse changes in economic conditions and base, it is generally possible to contain the impact 2016 employment levels.
Cost inflation Our objective is always to deliver the right level of As part of our MAP framework, we seek to 2017 service in the most efficient way.
An increase in manage inflation by continuing to drive greater 2016 the cost of labour, for example, minimum wages in efficiencies through menu management, supplier the USA and UK, or food, especially in countries rationalisation, labour scheduling and productivity.
such as Brazil, could constitute a risk to our ability Cost indexation in our contracts also gives us the to do this.
contractual right to review pricing with our clients.
Political stability We are a global business operating in countries The Group remains vigilant to future changes 2017 andregions with diverse economic and political presented by emerging markets or fledgling 2016 conditions.
Our operations and earnings may be administrations and we try to anticipate and adversely affected by political or economic instability contribute to important changes in public policy.
caused, for example, by the UKs decision to leave the EU.
COMPLIANCE AND FRAUD Compliance and fraud Ineffective compliance management with The Groups zero tolerance based Codes of 2017 increasingly complex laws and regulations, or Business Conduct and Ethics continue to govern 2016 evidence of fraud, could have an adverse effect all aspects of our relationships with our on the Groups reputation and could result in an stakeholders.
All alleged breaches of the Codes, adverse impact on the Groups performance if including any allegations of fraud, are investigated.
significant financial penalties are levied or a The Groups procedures include regular operating criminal action is brought against the Company reviews, underpinned by a continual focus on or its directors.
ensuring the effectiveness of internal controls.
Regulation and compliance risk is also considered as part of our annual business planning process.
Tax compliance As a Group, we seek to plan and manage our tax We manage and control these risks in a proactive 2017 affairs efficiently in the jurisdictions in which we manner and in doing so exercise our judgement 2016 operate.
In doing so, we act in compliance with and seek appropriate advice from reputable the relevant laws and disclosure requirements.
Tax risks are assessed as part However, in an increasingly complex international of the Groups formal governance process and are corporate tax environment, a degree of uncertainty reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee is inevitable and we note in particular the policy on a regular basis.
efforts being led by the EU and the OECD which may have a material impact on the taxation of all international businesses.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY Information systems and The digital world creates many risks for a global We seek to assess and manage the maturity of technology business including technology failures, loss of our enterprise risk and security infrastructure 2017 confidential data and damage to brand reputation, and our ability to effectively defend against current 2016 through, for example, the use of social media.
and future cyber risks by using analysis tools and experienced professionals to evaluate and mitigate potential impacts.
The Group relies on a variety of IT systems in order to manage and deliver services and communicate with our clients, consumers, suppliers and employees.
We are focused on the need to maximise the effectiveness of our information systems and technology as a business enabler and to reduce both cost and exposure as a result.
36 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017
