PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK IDENTIFICATION Whilst the Board is ultimately accountable for risk management, it is the responsibility of all our people to manage the risks BREXIT to which the Group is exposed.
A key element of the risk There continue to be a number of uncertainties management approach across our business is for our operational in connection with the future of the UK and its teams to identify risks that could impact them both locally relationship with the EU.
This operational awareness facilitates Whilst we remain of the view that it does not the timely identification of emerging risks, and ensures appropriate focus and action on known risks.
currently present any new material risks to the business, we are aware of the impacts it could have, The ongoing identification of risks is supported by a formalised notably in relation to the risks and opportunities risk assessment process, completed across the business.
arising from exchange rate, financing, and supply The results of these assessments are reviewed by senior chain factors, and continue to monitor and consider management to ensure an effective top-down input from the the potential consequences of Brexit.
It is a potential OPEX and the Board, enabling both operational and strategic additional cause of changing environmental risks, perspectives to be considered in the risk assessment approach.
and by aligning the management of the possible outcomes to existing risk responsibilities we are able ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION OF RISKS to establish a more effective, and operationally The results of the formal risk assessments completed during the focused, mitigation of these impacts on an ongoing annual business planning process have not highlighted any and timely basis.
significant changes in the operational nature or profile of the risks faced by the Group from the previous year.
The strategic risks and their relative probability and impact have also remained materially consistent, with the key change being a reduction in the potential impact of cost optimisation and strategic change management programmes.
All principal risks identified through the risk assessment process CYBER SECURITY could compromise the achievement of strategic objectives in the Cyber security risk is an ever-growing risk for all next 12 months.
In line with the viability statement and our business.
Malicious and intentional attacks from business plan, we further consider their impact over a longer internal or external sources could impact the Groups three-year horizon.
ability to achieve continuity of supply, impacting The mitigation and management of these risks is therefore vital market share and profitability.
to the success of the Group.
The Groups risk management and In response to cyber risks, the Group has developed internal control framework and related reporting is further appropriate standards, policies and related training discussed in the Audit Committee Report on pages 39-44. in order to ensure awareness within the business.
RISK LANDSCAPE Experts are employed to assess and mitigate the As is common with most large organisations, the Group is risks, with changes being actioned as part of our subject to general commercial risks, such as socio-economic ongoing IS strategy.
changes, failure of our IT infrastructure, liabilities arising from defined benefit pension schemes, the impact of change programmes, the cost of our raw materials, the impact of competition, and the loss or failure of key routes to market.
As a multi-national organisation a large amount of the Groups revenue in the year was generated in markets outside the UK and the Group is also exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates due to its foreign subsidiaries, its commercial trading transactions denominated in foreign currencies and foreign currency cash deposits, borrowings and derivatives.
Additionally, we constantly assess and evaluate the risks posed by the changing environments in which we operate, whether geo-political, socio-economic or technological.
By appropriately considering the potential impacts, and the most likely source of crystallisation, we can ensure a measured and appropriate response.
24 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 24 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS In the following section we highlight the principal risks we face and identify the mitigations that we have in place to manage the crystallisation of such risks.
Not all of these principal risks are within our direct control, and the list cannot be considered to be exhaustive, as other risks and uncertainties may emerge in a changing business environment.
REDUCTION IN THE SIZE OF THE LEGITIMATE TOBACCO MARKET Risk and potential impact Mitigation Product regulatory change Regulatory changes are proactively managed to ensure that the business is commercially positioned to positively manage the risks Legislation designed to fide-normalise the consumption of tobacco and opportunities that such change creates.
or to make its consumption more difficult.
The Groups expertise and resources are prioritised according to Changes in legislation can have a negative effect on consumer the relevant key regulatory issues.
Cross-market liaison is choice, reducing consumption levels, and revenues, and could promoted within the Group to ensure best practice and result in increased costs of compliance.
opportunities from markets already impacted are identified, understood and applied across all product categories.
Change in excise duty We engage with authorities to provide informed input to the unintended consequences of disproportionate changes in excise.
Adverse changes in the level or structure of excise duties as governments seek to raise public funds and use affordability as a The Group employs subject matter experts to monitor and manage means of tobacco control.
the potential impact of excise changes, ensuring appropriate consumer focused choices exist at a market level.
Increased cost to the consumer could potentially reduce purchase volumes or an inability to pass on an increase in excise could result in lower product margins.
Counterfeit and illicit non-duty paid product in market Specialist teams are employed to support the business, governments, and law enforcement agencies with targeted The consequence of excise and regulatory regimes is a widening solutions to illicit trade.
gap between the price of legitimate and illegitimate product.
As a result the legitimate tobacco industry continues to be subject to We maintain strong standards and controls for our business and the significant impact of illicit trade.
our first-line customers to prevent diversion of our products.
Counterfeit and illicit trade reduces the size of the legitimate We work alongside the European Commissions Anti-Fraud Office market.
The sales of counterfeit product and smuggled illicit OLAF and partner with governments and law enforcement whites in our markets act as a direct competitor to legitimate agencies around the world on anti-illicit trade initiatives.
domestic duty paid, travel retail and duty free products, eroding our volumes, market shares, and providing access to product of inferior quality that could result in damage to our brands.
Macro-economic conditions in key markets We continually monitor and analyse economic indicators and consumption patterns to ensure that our current and future The Group has a significant market presence in mature European portfolio provides the consumer with a range of products across markets and the US.
An increase in economic uncertainty, or related government This analysis is completed at both a local and Group level and austerity measures, could influence consumer behaviour.
These provides a key input to our product development, business factors could impact affordability and result in a shift to value planning and pricing strategies.
driven propositions, or a potential reduction in the size of the legitimate tobacco market from lower consumer expenditure or The Groups international footprint and comprehensive portfolio an increased propensity to purchase cheaper non-duty paid provide an increasing balance in our exposure to both EU and product from illicit channels.
A material change in the economic circumstances of, and or our related performance in, our key markets may affect our future profit development and have an adverse impact on the Groups revenue or profits.
com 25 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued OPTIMISING MARKET SHARE Risk and potential impact Mitigation Changes in consumer trends The Group continually monitors consumer activity at both a local and Group level.
This enables an effective means of profiling and The Group can be affected by changes in consumer choices.
predicting changes in order to best adapt the Groups product Affordability is a key driver of consumer preference, along with portfolio.
the availability of alternative product formats, and developments in Next Generation Products.
The Group continues to develop its own portfolio of NGP products, along with strategic acquisitions in the sector, to provide Failure to identify threats and opportunities arising from these consumers with appropriate choices in a dynamic market place.
changes in consumer preferences could materially impact the Group.
Brand equity Our MRM approach ensures a consistent strategic sales and marketing approach across markets, supported by monitoring of Failure to maintain and grow brand equity or an inability to our brand equity.
utilise that brand equity as a result of disproportionate product regulatory changes such as plain packaging.
Brand migrations support the strategy to simplify the portfolio, reducing complexity in the supply chain and providing cost A reduction in customer brand loyalty could result in an adverse savings that can in turn be reinvested in the brand propositions.
impact upon planned sales volumes and revenues.
Market trends and competitor innovations are monitored in order to ensure we maintain the strength and relevance of our brand offerings.
We employ experts to ensure that the intellectual property of our brands is appropriately protected.
Product quality Quality control testing and monitoring is a core part of our manufacturing and supply chain processes, with robust regulatory Product fails to meet regulatory or consumer requirements.
compliance completed on a continual basis.
Brand and reputational damage resulting in reduced sales Customer complaints monitoring and escalation processes exist volumes.
across our markets, ensuring that customer feedback is acted Potential financial penalty and regulatory censure resulting from upon and any quality issues are managed in an effective and failure to maintain appropriate product standards.
In the event of the requirement to recall product, effective processes exist to mitigate the risks to our supply chain.
Speed of response Product innovation and customer propositions are monitored across our markets.
Customer trends and choices are analysed at The Group fails to respond to market dynamics in a timely both a local and Group level, with effective processes in place to manner.
Failure to maximise opportunities in markets results in a reduction in sales volume or revenues resulting from failure to maintain portfolio in line with changing consumer demands.
COST OPTIMISATION Risk and potential impact Mitigation Cost optimisation The Group has a continued focus upon cost and cash embedded within the business planning and operational processes.
The Failure to appropriately align the Groups cost base in line with the achievement of cost efficiencies is supported by performance operating environment and expected levels could result in monitoring, subject matter expert oversight, and a robust and reduced profit and cash available for reinvestment in the effective investment appraisal process.
business, and reduced stakeholder confidence.
26 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 26 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Risk and potential impact Mitigation Failure to comply with legislation The Groups policies and standards provide employees with the Groups approach to managing risks, and mandate that all Failure to comply with local and international laws including employees must comply with legislation relevant to a UK listed sanctions may result in investigations and the enforcement of company and in the countries in which they operate.
These financial or regulatory censure.
policies include our Code of Conduct which is based on our This may cause damage to our reputation and has the potential company values and articulates the behaviours we expect from all for financial and criminal penalties for both the Group and our people.
To support understanding across the organisation and to better The cost of responding to any investigations can be substantial ensure accountability to the Groups governance framework, and require significant resource and management focus.
training and support is provided by our 2nd line centres of expertise to ensure effective understanding of key regulatory and compliance requirements.
Senior management certify the compliance of their area of the business with the Code of Conduct as part of an annual certification process.
Exceptions are reported and mitigating actions taken.
We closely monitor developments in international sanctions and actively seek external advice to ensure that we remain compliant with them.
Centres of expertise and steering groups exist for key areas of legal compliance to provide expert advice in the development of policy, process, training and monitoring of compliance.
Tobacco litigation To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the Group has been successful and or resulted in the recovery of damages.
Tobacco litigation claims are pending against the Group.
We employ internal and external lawyers specialising in the More claims may be brought in the future, including claims for defence of product liability litigation to provide advice and personal injury and the recovery of medical costs allegedly guidance on defence strategies and to direct and manage litigation incurred in treating smokers.
The US, the jurisdiction with the risk and monitor potential claims around the Group.
greatest prevalence of smoking and health-related litigation, is also now a key market for the Group.
The US cigarette brands have been acquired without historic product liabilities and with an indemnity from Reynolds in respect If any claim was to be successful, it might result in a significant of any liabilities relating to the period prior to acquisition.
liability for damages and might lead to further claims against us.
Regardless of the outcome, the costs of defending such claims can be substantial and may not be fully recoverable.
Significant market positions The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with competition laws in Our market position in certain countries could result in the countries in which we operate.
investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant competition authorities.
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees detailing the obligations and requirements of competition laws.
Any allegation of inappropriate market behaviour creates the risk of financial penalty, and or regulatory censure, and negative We employ experienced internal and external lawyers specialising publicity.
in competition laws to provide advice and guidance regarding interpretation and compliance with competition laws.
In the event of any investigation which may or may not result in actions being brought against us, we cooperate fully with the relevant authority making the investigation and will continue to do so.
com 27 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued ACCESS TO FUNDING Risk and potential impact Mitigation Financial market risk We have a strong focus on cash generation and the reduction in our debt over time.
This focus is supported by Group-wide We have a significant level of committed debt, financed in guidance and governance processes that ensure appropriate the debt capital and bank loan markets, and expect any future authority and accountability for investments and spend, and the required refinancing of this debt prior to maturity to be obtained achievement of required return criteria.
from these markets and for us to be able to rely on funds being available from our bank counterparties when requested to Our Treasury Committee TC oversees the operation of the be drawn.
treasury function in accordance with the terms of reference set out by the Board.
The TC sets out a framework for the treasury Approximately 75 per cent of the Groups net debt is currently at function to operate within, including, amongst other things, fixed levels of interest, and therefore the Group is exposed to financing, liquidity and risk management, which includes interest movements in interest rates which could result in higher funding rate, foreign exchange and counterparty risk.
costs and cash outflows on the remainder.
Cash flows, financing requirements and key rating agency metrics A fall in certain of our credit ratings would raise the cost of our are regularly forecast and updated in line with business existing committed funding and is likely to raise the cost of future performance.
This information is considered alongside conditions funding and affect our ability to raise debt from the current in the debt capital and bank loan markets to ensure we are well breadth of funders.
placed to meet the future financing needs of the Group and We also place cash deposits and enter into derivative financial optimise its cost and availability.
transactions with a diversified group of financial institutions and For significant acquisitions of overseas companies, borrowings are we would be affected if those counterparties did not honour their raised in the appropriate currency or are swapped via derivatives commitments.
into the appropriate currency to minimise the balance sheet foreign exchange translation risk.
VIABILITY STATEMENT The Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required by the going concern requirements of the Code.
This longer-term assessment process supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, and going concern, made on page 23.
The Groups annual corporate planning processes include completion of a strategic review, preparation of a three-year business plan and a rolling re-forecast of current year business performance and prospects.
The plans and projections prepared as part of these corporate planning processes consider the Groups cash flows, committed funding and liquidity positions, forecast future funding requirements, banking covenants, and other key financial ratios, including those relevant to maintaining our investment grade ratings.
Where appropriate, sensitivity analysis is undertaken to stress-test the resilience of the Group and its business model to the potential impact of the Groups principal risks, or a combination of those risks.
This stress-testing takes account of the availability and effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
In considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk management and internal control systems, as described on page 42, is taken into account.
Whilst the Board has no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, the period over which the Board considers it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability, based on the risk and sensitivity analysis undertaken, is the three-year period to September 2020.
This reflects the period used for the Groups business plans and has been selected because, together with the planning process set out above, it gives management and the Board sufficient, realistic visibility on the future in the context of the industry environment.
The Board has considered whether it is aware of any specific relevant factors beyond the three-year horizon and confirmed that there are none.
The Board confirms that its assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and or liquidity, and which are set out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 24 to 28 was robust.
On the basis of this robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, and on the assumption that they are managed or mitigated in the ways disclosed, the Boards review of the business plan and other matters considered and reviewed during the year, and the results of the sensitivity analysis undertaken and described above, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to September 2020.
28 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 28 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017
