Risk management and key risks ZPG has a well-developed approach to risk management Risk management is critical to the successful delivery of our strategic objectives and to the delivery of long-term growth for the business.
The Companys approach to risk management Risk management strategy andriskappetite Risk at ZPG is managed functionally and at a consolidated Company During the course of the year, the risk management framework level.
This structure enables the Company to ensure that risks are was reviewed to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate identified across its range of operations, including recent acquisitions.
in light of business development, including recent acquisitions.
The risks are then escalated in a manner which is consistent and aligned As a result of this exercise, a Risk Management Strategy has been with the strategic goals.
established for FY18 which aligns with the Companys strategic goals.
The Risk Management Strategy was approved by the Board In addition to this section on risk management, further detail on the at its meeting in September 2017.
Companys internal control framework has been included on page 31.
In developing the Risk Management Strategy, the Board has considered its risk appetite and has established risk appetite statements for the ZPG risk management process following risk categories used by the Company: strategic: reputational: financial: Monitoring Setting governance: and reassessing the strategy information technology: people: and Design and operational.
Identifying implementation the risks of mitigations Each risk category is rated using a low, moderate or high scale.
There are currently no risk categories where the Board has determined the Company to have a high level of risk appetite.
We deliberately Risk assessment and escalation seek to manage, rather than eliminate, risk, so as to provide reasonable, not absolute, mitigation against material misstatement or loss within the business.
Risk management framework The Company operates three Functional Risk Committees which are Governance of the risk managementframework responsible for formally identifying and assessing operational risk.
The Board recognises that exposure to risk is an inherent part The Executive Management Team is responsible for identifying of running a business and that rigorous safeguards and a sound risk and assessing the Companys strategic and emerging risks.
management process are required to mitigate these risks to allow the business to deliver successfully against its strategic goals.
The Board Audit Committee The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and, as such, is accountable for: Executive Management Team determining the Companys appetite for risk: continually reviewing the overall process for identifying Product and Commercial and Finance, HR andLegal and assessing business risks: and Technology Risk Marketing Risk Risk Committee Committee Committee ensuring a robust assessment of all the risks, both financial and non-financial, facing the Company.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, keeps the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems and processes under constant review.
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit Committee considers and updates its risk management procedures at each Audit Committee meeting throughout the year.
It receives and analyses regular assurance reports from Management on matters related to risk and control and reviews the timeliness and effectiveness of corrective action taken by Management.
30 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Operational risk Risk assessment Operational risks are identified, assessed and managed by the Each of the risks identified is recorded on the relevant Committees Risk Companys three Functional Risk Committees: Register and is then assessed by the Committee to establish potential causes, likelihood of occurring and the potential impact on the Company.
Commercial and Marketing: All of the risks identified by the Functional Risk Committees are then Finance, HR and Legal Shared Services : and considered by the Executive Management Team and other key team Product and Technology.
members at the Companys strategic risk workshop.
The Companys most recent strategic risk workshop was held in September 2017.
These Committees are formed of senior members of Management and relevant staff responsible for the oversight of key functions The likelihood and impact of each risk are both scored and combined throughout the Company.
to provide an overall risk score.
Each risk within the CSRR is scored twice: firstly, excluding the existence of mitigating controls the inherent Risk workshops are conducted at least once a year for each of the risk score and then again once mitigating controls have been taken Functional Risk Committees, with the key risks being recorded within into account the residual risk score.
The difference between these the respective Committees Functional Risk Register FRR.
scores allows Management, the Audit Committee and the Board to FRRs are reviewed by the Executive Management Team on a regular gain an understanding of the level of control the Company has over basis so that any emerging risks, originating at an operational level, each risk.
can be escalated where necessary.
The principal risks arising from the September 2017 workshop are provided on pages 32 to 35.
Strategic risk The Executive Management Team meets formally at least once a year Risk management and internal control for a Company-wide strategic risk workshop.
Each of the key strategic The Companys internal control framework is aligned to the three risks identified during the workshop is owned by a member of the lines of defence model.
Operational Management are the first line Executive Management Team and is recorded within the Companys and they are primarily responsible for the direct management of risk, Strategic Risk Register CSRR.
The risk owner is responsible for ensuring that appropriate mitigating controls are in place and that they developing and maintaining internal controls to mitigate against the are operating effectively.
The second line is formed of the Companys Companys risk exposure.
This process is supported by the Companys internal governance functions such as compliance, commercial finance, Finance, Compliance and Legal teams, the recommendations of the legal and risk.
The third line includes internal audit, external audit external auditor and the Companys own internal audit reviews.
and other third party auditors and any other independent consultants The CSRR is shared with the Audit Committee and the Board for reporting to the Audit Committee.
review and challenge, before being approved.
Further detail on the Companys internal control arrangements, the The strategic risks are reviewed regularly throughout the year, with internal audit function and the associated activities which have been changes reflected within the CSRR.
The Audit Committee is also conducted over the year are included within the Audit Committee provided with a risk management update at each Audit Committee report on pages 59 and 60. meeting, along with the CSRR, for discussion, review and challenge.
First line Second line Third line Internal audit Compliance and External audit Internal controls oversight functions Independent assurance www.
co. uk 31 Risk management and key risks continued Risk position Risk position New risk Principal risks A A A this year last year this year The principal risks to the Company, as identified during the Companys September 2017 strategic risk workshop, are outlined on the following pages along with details of the potential impact faced, the ways in which we manage J and mitigate them and any movement in their severity since reported in 2016.
C The risk factors described are not an exhaustive list or an explanation of all risks.
E Additional risks and uncertainties relating to the Company, including those that E I G are not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems A G immaterial, may individually or cumulatively also have a material adverse effect D on the Companys business operations, results and or financial condition.
H The Directors have considered the principal risks and uncertainties faced in F assessing the long-term viability of the Company.
The inclusion of a viability B B statement in the Annual Report is a requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and is designed to encourage the Board to focus on the long term.
The statement can be found on page 35.
A Changing market environment F Macroeconomic conditions B Integration of acquisitions G Competitive environment C IT systems and cyber security H Data governance new D Retention and recruitment I Reputational and brand damage Likelihood E Regulatory environment J Debt covenants and funding KEY RISK DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION The way in which consumers interact with u Increasing user engagement levels by Changing market 1 businesses is evolving rapidly.
continuing a consumer-centric approach environment to product development.
The Company participates The Companys partners are constantly in fast-moving marketplaces u Regular open dialogue with our partners developing their business models and the way which are subject to rapid to ensure that we continually develop our in which they interact with consumers directly.
technological developments products to meet their needs.
Failure of the Company to adapt to meet the and changes in consumer trends needs of its partners could lead to a fall in the u Continual optimisation of all our websites which may impact the Companys number of partners and revenues.
and products across all platforms and devices.
ability to offer the best products u Maintaining organisational flexibility, allowing fast The Company is also subject to changes and services to its partners responses to new business opportunities or threats.
in policies set by search engine providers.
Failure to keep pace with these changes may u Monitoring and regular review of search engine Risk unchanged lead to the Companys websites receiving less optimisation and digital marketing spend.
exposure to consumers and result in a fall in u Regular monitoring of changes in market visitor numbers.
The challenges surrounding integrating u Oversight of the enlarged Company, by an Integration of acquisitions different cultures, working practices and Executive Management Team experienced in The Company is highly acquisitive, locations could impact team retention dealing with acquistions, to ensure harmonisation which presents inherent operational, and performance.
of strategy and objectives across the Company.
u Clear communication of the Company vision The inability to successfully integrate our Risk increased and strategy to align the team.
acquisitions may adversely affect consumer The addition of four acquisitions and or partner experience with a resulting u Centralised shared service functions across during the year, and more recently impact on strategic cross-sell opportunites finance, HR and legal.
Money, increases the likelihood of this and the Companys future revenues.
u Hometrack now based out of The Cooperage risk materialising.
In addition, there is the possibility that the financial and operational control environments u Communicating the benefits of acquisitions of acquired entities are not as established as to both partners and consumers.
those of the Company or those required when u Forming functional teams across the Company operating in a listed environment.
1 Previously referred to as Changing online landscape and consumer trends.
32 ZPG PlcAnnual Report 2017 Impact Strategic report KEY RISK DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION Any failure of the Companys IT infrastructure u Regularly testing the security of the IT systems IT systems and cyber security through error or attack could impair the and platforms, including penetration testing and A number of the Companys operation of the Companys websites and testing of Distributed Denial of Service DDoS IT systems are interdependent services, the processing and storage of data attack procedures.
and a failure in one system or and the day-to-day management of the a security breach may disrupt u Maintaining separate platforms for our portals, Companys business.
the efficiency and functioning websites, software and data services.
In addition, any theft or misuse of data held u Restricting access to data, systems and code and The Company is also exposed within the Companys databases could have ensuring all systems are secure and up to date.
to the increasing risk associated both reputational and financial implications u Providing training for staff on information with cyber-attacks.
security, data protection and compliance and operating a Company-wide data policy.
The Company holds consumer and partner data which could be susceptible to loss or theft.
Risk unchanged Competition for qualified talent is intense and u Building a strong employee brand in the Retention and recruitment an inability to attract highly skilled employees recruitment market and building strong Success depends on the continued could adversely impact the Companys talent pipelines.
retention and performance of the operations, financial condition or prospects.
u Operating a structured approach to recruitment Skilled development, technical, using specialist teams to ensure timely Similarly, an inability to motivate, develop and operating, sales and marketing recruitment of high quality employees.
retain key team members could adversely personnel are essential for the impact the Companys operations, financial u Investing in succession planning and improving business to meet its strategic condition and prospects.
learning and development, giving opportunities goals and the Company operates for employees to upgrade skills.
in markets with a high demand The Company has a track record of growth u Investment in our offices and team environments.
through acquisition an inability to retain key team members from these businesses could u Providing competitive reward and compensation Risk unchanged increase business risk in the event of reliance packages to all staff, comprising a blend of short on their business-critical knowledge.
and long-term incentives for managers.
u Instilling the culture of the Company to build and maintain staff loyalty.
There is a risk that changes to the regulatory u Maintaining regular open and constructive Regulatory environment environment could require the Company to dialogue with all significant regulatory bodies.
The Company operates in a revise its strategy, operations or business model.
u Implementing processes to ensure compliance Certain revenue streams within the with all mandatory reporting obligations including Changes in regulation may also impact Comparison division are regulated a dedicated Regulation and Compliance team.
the Companys profitability via increased by the FCA.
The Comparison compliance costs or a fall in revenues as a u Regular monitoring of regulatory risks by the division also voluntarily complies result of subsequent changes in consumer Board, the Audit Committee, the legal function with the Ofgem Confidence or partner behaviour.
and internal audit and throughout the business.
Code is involved in regular Non-compliance with regulations set communication with Ofcom.
by a regulatory body may also have both Risk increased reputational and financial implications.
Increased levels of Government policy review and proposals within markets we operate in have impacted our exposure to this risk.
Link to strategy key Consumer experience Partner value Shareholder value ZPG team www.
co. uk 33 Risk management and key risks continued KEY RISK DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION Brexit-specific considerations have been u Regularly reviewing market conditions and indicators.
Macroeconomic conditions outlined on page 35.
The Company derives a u Building consumer and partner brand loyalty.
material share of its revenues Changes in the UK, European and Australian u Maintaining a flexible cost base that can respond from the UK and also now economies have the potential to adversely to changing conditions.
internationally, with operations impact the demand for our products and u Diversifying risk by maintaining a balance between in Australia.
The Company is services in the markets we operate in.
Such different revenue streams, including diversification therefore largely dependent on changes could affect the average property through the acquisitions of Hometrack and Money the macroeconomic conditions prices, the number of mortgage approvals 1 October 2017, in order to provide protection in the UK as well as being exposed and the volume of transactions in the UK against volatility within our markets.
to changes in macroeconomic housing market.
u Developing revenue streams in other related Subsequently, the marketing, data adjacent markets.
Risk unchanged and software purchasing budgets of u Promoting the benefit and potential savings the Companys partners could decrease, for consumers of home and now financial which could reduce demand for the services switching.
If competitors can provide, or are perceived u Ensuring partners understand the unique Competitive environment to provide, an enhanced partner or consumer value proposition that can be provided through The Company operates in service then there is a risk to the Companys our websites, products and services.
marketplaces which are highly forecasted revenue and other KPIs.
The actions of the u Offering attractive and competitive pricing Companys competitors, and or packages to partners.
The Company invests significantly in marketing our own inaction, can have a to build brand awareness and drive traffic to u Continuing to develop and extend the Companys significant and adverse impact its websites.
Increased digital marketing innovative product offering and improve the on the Company.
expenditure by competitors, or general price value provided for partners.
increases, may cause the Company to incur Risk decreased u Developing and maintaining a number of strong additional marketing spend to ensure that it consumer brands through marketing.
Our increasingly diversified position, can continue to compete effectively.
including the addition of Hometrack u Diversifying risk through multiple revenue streams.
and Money, has reduced our There is a risk that competitors entering or exposure to volatility in individual targeting the Companys primary revenue competitive markets.
markets may reduce the Companys relative market share in one or more of the markets we operate in.
Data governance The acquisition of additional brands allows us u Established Data & Analytics function with newly Previously considered within to control and process increasing levels of data appointed Data Director as of October 2017. regulatory environment.
which can be used to target product offerings, u Legal function with specialist data governance deliver synergies and, ultimately, provide the expertise and Data Protection Manager.
The Companys operations rely best consumer experience and partner value.
on the effective governance and u Established ZPG Company-wide Data Working Should we be unable to therefore maximise on appropriate use of data we control Group, which includes relevant individuals this opportunity we will be unable to maximise and process for the benefit of throughout all levels of the business.
u Annual information security and data protection In addition, insufficient understanding training compulsory for all staff.
of what data we hold and how we can u Operational plan in place to ensure compliance appropriately use it can have a significant with upcoming implementation of the General effect on our reputation as well as the Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
Damage to any of the Companys brands could u Embedding a culture of transparency, social Reputational lead to a fall in consumer confidence, reducing awareness and ethical behaviour throughout andbranddamage traffic and leads for the Companys partners the Company.
The Company operates a number and in turn impacting the Companys revenue.
of identifiable and respected u Regularly reviewing the Companys risks brands which could be damaged and reviewing and developing internal controls There is also a risk that the Companys by factors such as unethical or to mitigate the risk of error or fraud.
partners may choose to terminate their unlawful activity, poor customer existing relationship with the Company as u Executing the Companys strategy, which has service or negative press.
a result of any reputational damage, which both consumers and the Companys partners would directly impact the Companys revenues.
Risk unchanged u Established dedicated public relations team.
u Continually investing in the Companys brands.
34 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report KEY RISK DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION Debt covenants and funding Failure of the Company to comply with u Negotiating sufficient headroom within The Company holds external its existing debt covenants may lead to a the Companys existing facility, including debt and therefore must ensure default on the Companys borrowings and a renegotiation on the acquisition of Money.
compliance with its covenant requirement for the Company to repay any u Consideration of current debt covenants embedded ratios.
The Company also needs amounts outstanding or to renegotiate the into budgeting and forecasting processes.
to ensure that it has the funding terms of its facility.
u Regularly monitoring compliance with current required to deliver on its strategy The level of debt within the business and debt covenants and available headroom.
and future growth plans and that the covenants in place may also restrict the u Proactive cash management.
it manages its debt and cash amount of funds available for future growth, balances effectively.
u Consideration of additional or alternative including future M&A activity.
funding should significant opportunities Risk unchanged for growth be identified.
We have increased our leverage as a result of recent acquisitions but consider there to be no material change in our ability to meet our debt covenants.
Link to strategy key Consumer experience Partner value Shareholder value ZPG team the Company has engaged in a high number of significant acquisitions, The EU referendum which are constantly evolving the business and changing future The result of the UKs EU referendum in 2016 increased the level cash flows.
of macroeconomic uncertainty, increasing the likelihood of the impacts In arriving at their conclusion, the Directors considered the Companys outlined under macroeconomic conditions above.
In light of the continued macroeconomic uncertainty, and the mitigating factors set forecast financial performance and cash flows over the three year viability period.
The forecast has then been subject to sensitivity out below, there has been no material change to the severity of this risk for the Company throughout the year.
analysis, both based on across-the-board changes to revenue and expenditure, as well as scenario analysis to reflect the estimated During the year, the Company has continued to consider the impact impact of the principal risks identified above.
The following list of this result on the business and its potential implications.
The Directors provides examples of the sensitivities performed: believe that the Companys multi-channel, multi-brand strategy creates a diverse revenue base which means it is well placed to minimise any periodic increases to LIBOR, impacting the Companys finance costs: negative impacts.
In particular: weaker UK GDP growth over the next three years than forecast by the OECD: the increasingly diversified market position resulting from the changes in market conditions requiring responsive increases in costs: Companys most recent acquisitions: loss of certain material revenue contracts across each of the the Property division is largely subscription based and is therefore Companys revenue streams: less susceptible to short-term shocks or variations in the property market or wider economy: underachievement of the Companys cross-sell strategy: a large proportion of our Property partners are engaged in both sales changes in regulation set by regulators, such as Ofgem and Ofcom, and lettings, which reduces the risk of any downturn in the property leading to a reduction in consumer switching: market on their businesses: financial penalties, as well as a reduction in revenue resulting from an economic downturn increases the propensity for consumers to reputational damage, due to non-compliance with GDPR: and search our Comparison platforms for the best deals to save money increase in IT security costs in response to external attack data hack, on their household expenses: and as well as a reduction in revenue resulting from reputational damage.
a weaker Pound may lead to higher price inflation in areas such Mitigations to address the materialisation of any significant challenge as energy bills, which may benefit our Comparison division.
to forecasted cash flows include actions such as a reduction in brand marketing, a freeze in staff headcount and or a reduction Viability statement in dividend pay-out.
As detailed above, the Directors have conducted a robust assessment The Directors note that the Companys current debt facility requires of the principal risks facing the Company and believe that the Company renewal in April 2020, which is within the final year of the viability is well placed to successfully manage these risks.
For this reason, it is not appropriate to consider a longer with the 2014 revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the viability period.
The Directors are comfortable that the Company Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the has sufficient assets and future cash flows to successfully renegotiate Company will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall or extend its current facility and therefore the assumption made by due for the next three years.
The Directors continue to believe that a Management that the facility continues to be in place until at least three year viability period is appropriate to ensure that forecasting is November 2020 is considered reasonable.
reasonable and that the Company can conduct a reasonable identification and assessment of its foreseeable principal risks.
The following factors, The analysis considered the Companys ability to meet its operational which were identified in the prior year, continue to be relevant: and financial obligations throughout the Period, including compliance with the Companys existing debt covenants.
Based on the analysis the Company operates in markets which are subject to rapid performed, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation technological, consumer and regulatory changes: that the Company will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as the Company operates a three year planning cycle: and they fall due for the next three years.
