Principal Risks and Uncertainties Managing our risks Effective risk management is key to the success of delivering our strategic objectives.
Our risk culture continues to strengthen: it ensures identification, assessment, and management of the principal risks to our business.
The overall level of risk we face continues to increase as a result The key parties involved in the risk management process of external market conditions: high volumes of regulatory within the Group and their respective responsibilities, change: an increasingly uncertain global political environment and an explanation of how risk management is structured and associated market volatility: and increasing cyber criminality.
within the Group, is set out opposite.
Our approach is to maintain a strong control framework to The Board promotes a strong risk culture throughout the identify, monitor and manage the principal risks we face, business by promoting and encouraging: adequately quantify them and ensure we retain sufficient capital A distinct and consistent tone from the top in the business to support our strategy for further growth.
Clear accountabilities for those managing risk We assess our principal risks regularly to ensure that our risk Prompt sharing and reporting of risk information profile is within our risk appetite which is set by the Board.
A commitment to ethical principles We categorise risks into risk groups covering potential impacts Appropriate levels of conduct and considered risk to clients, revenue, capital and reputation.
The three risk taking behaviour groups are: Recognition of the importance of knowledge, skill and Business Risk experience in risk management Financial Risk Members of staff at all levels to make suggestions for Operational Risk improving processes and controls An acceptance of the importance of continuous management We identify and assess specific risks within these risk groups, of risk, including clear accountability for and ownership of mitigate and manage these risks, and monitor and report specific risks.
against these risks, which provides the foundation to enable us to deliver against our strategic objectives.
Every employee within the Group is expected to adhere to the high standards established by the Board.
The benefits of Risk Management Objectives establishing a strong risk culture is evident: with our employees The primary objectives of risk management at Brewin Dolphin self-identifying and escalating risk events and potential issues to are to ensure that there is: mitigate the probability of risks crystallising.
a strong risk culture so that employees are able to identify, The Board reviews the effectiveness of this Risk Management assess, manage and report against the risks the business is Framework periodically, receiving reports on internal control faced with: from the Audit and Risk Committees and debating key risks for the Group following more detailed work by the Risk Committee.
an appropriate balance between risk and the cost of control: a defined risk appetite within which risks are managed: and a swift and effective response to incidents in order to minimise impact.
Risk Management Framework The Board has established a Risk Management Framework to ensure there is effective risk governance.
We follow industry practice for risk management through the three lines of defence model.
The first line is the business that owns and manages the risk, the second line is the control functions, and the third line is independent assurance provided by audit.
Brewin Dolphin 26 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk Management Framework Risk Identification and Assessment Top Down Risk Management Business Risks Risk and Control Self Assessments to identify These are the risks that we Board the key risks for each department and for do not set the right strategy, business change activities.
Responsible for ensuring there is an adequate a material business decision and appropriate risk management framework Assessment of inherent pre-control and fails or external market and culture in place.
factors impact the viability of Sets risk appetite and is responsible for the business.
ensuring alignment with the Groups business strategy.
Risk Mitigation and Management Management of events that had a potential or Risk Committee actual financial, regulatory, operational or Financial Risks Oversees the Risk Management Framework.
These are the risks facing Assists the Board in its responsibilities for the Agreeing action plans to mitigate risk issues.
integrity of internal control and risk our business in terms of management systems.
inadequate or failed management of finances and the risk introduced by Risk Monitoring and Reporting Audit Committee external factors that could The business community is primarily responsible have a detrimental impact Assists the Board in gaining assurance as to for monitoring risks.
the integrity of the financial statements and the on our cash flow, capital Risk trends are monitored and analysed.
effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Key risk indicators are reviewed monthly.
Monitors the effectiveness and objectivity of internal and external auditors.
Operational Risks Risk Assurance This is the risk of loss Risk Management Committee resulting from inadequate or Annual audit plan to evaluate the adequacy of processes and systems, and test the operating failed internal processes, Executive level day to day oversight and effectiveness of key controls.
monitoring of the adequacy and effectiveness people and systems, or of the Risk Management Framework.
Monitors current and emerging risks and themes.
Oversees the Groups Policy Framework.
Bottom Up Risk Management In 2017 we have focused on reviewing variances in the risks 2017 Developments and controls across our offices.
This process has identified Considerable uncertainty in the external environment has opportunities to strengthen controls and improve operational continued in 2017 both in the UK and globally, including ongoing efficiency, which will be implemented over the course of 2018.
Brexit negotiations and international political events.
Whilst the Group is predominantly a UK domiciled business with a UK centric A risk workshop was conducted during the period to review the client base, this uncertainty and resulting increased levels of market risks facing the Group.
For each risk, an assessment was volatility may have an impact on some of our principal risks.
We are undertaken of the relative willingness to take that risk to achieve closely following the Brexit negotiations and will assess the the Groups strategic objectives.
Key Risk Indicators used to ongoing impact of these on our principal risks over time.
monitor the profile of each risk against the risk appetite have been refreshed.
See page 37 for our Viability Statement, which relies on the evaluation of principal risks Brewin Dolphin 27 www.
co. uk Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Principal Risks The tables below detail the principal risks and uncertainties we have identified.
We have a process to regularly report key risk indicators and identify changes in the profile of these principal risks.
We also consider emerging risks as part of this process.
Business risks These are the risks that we do not set the right strategy, a material business decision fails, or external market factors impact the viability of the business.
This could include an inability to introduce or enter into new business lines effectively, to expand organically or through merger acquisition, or to enhance the effectiveness of our operational infrastructure.
Direction of change: Business risks have increased over the past year as heightened levels of uncertainty in the external environment persist.
Additional risk was taken on during the integration of DLAM to support the Groups growth objectives.
Principal Risk Nature of the Risk Key mitigants This is the risk that we fail to deliver A strategic plan approved by the Board.
Business against the strategic objectives.
Strategy A risk appetite that is set against our strategic objectives, and monitored on a regular basis by our formal governance committees.
A robust governance structure that includes challenge from our independent Non-Executive Directors.
Branch and functional plans are set to achieve strategic priorities, which are subject to thorough challenge and review by the Board.
The external environment continues We are focused on delivering long-term value to clients, Geopolitical to be marked by considerable positioning portfolios appropriately based on our clients risk uncertainty globally, as we are in a profiles and in line with our macroeconomic views.
period of significant political change.
Financial markets can be sensitive to geopolitical factors and market volatility can heighten in uncertain environments, impacting performance leading to the Group generating variable returns.
Geopolitical uncertainties and external market factors are inherent risks to the financial services industry.
Financial risks These are the risks facing our business in terms of inadequate or failed management of finances and the risk introduced by external factors that could have a detrimental impact on our cash flow, capital and liquidity.
Direction of change: Financial risks remain at a similar level to last year and are impacted by the continued uncertainty in the external environment.
Economic uncertainty has the potential to impact profitability of our counterparties and their credit ratings.
Principal Risk Nature of the Risk Key mitigants Counterparty Default by our banking or trading A Financial Risk Management Framework is in place which counterparties could put our own includes managing the Groups exposure to counterparty or our clients cash deposits or credit risk and setting and monitoring counterparty limits.
Diversity across our trading and banking counterparties.
Due diligence is undertaken for all banking and trading counterparties.
A Financial Risk Committee provides oversight of the Financial Risk Management Framework.
Brewin Dolphin 28 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Operational risks This is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
Direction of change: The volume of regulatory change and increasing occurrences of cyber attacks across industries has increased the inherent risk of change management and criminality.
We focus on continually strengthening our monitoring and oversight of these risks.
Principal Risk Nature of the Risk Key mitigants This is the risk that we are not Compliance and Legal functions monitor and oversee fulfilment Regulatory compliant with all existing applicable of our regulatory and legislative requirements and interactions & Legal regulation and legislation.
Compliance We are active in various industry and trade associations to help influence regulation and legislation.
The risk that business and regulatory A Strategic Projects Committee is responsible for prioritising Change changes are not delivered which projects and reviewing their status and progress.
Management impact the Groups performance A Regulatory Change function within Compliance review new and ability to deliver strategic regulation as it is drafted to ensure we are in compliance objectives.
Conduct This is the risk of not delivering fair Tone from the top sets a culture which puts delivering outcomes for clients.
fair outcomes for clients at the core of the Groups activities ethos.
A conduct risk framework sets our approach to conduct risk governance, and the ongoing assessment and monitoring against key metrics and reporting of conduct risk.
A risk based client on-boarding process which ensures that we understand our clients needs and attitudes to risk.
A quality assurance process to identify and address any instances where the best outcomes for clients are not achieved.
Robust investment governance supported by: an Investment Governance Committee: a dedicated research department to set the Groups asset allocation framework: and a restricted assets policy to prevent investment in unsuitable assets.
Criminality The increasing external risk Financial Crime, Information Security and Data Protection of criminality and the difficulty functions ensure we have robust preventative and detective of complete prevention is measures to reduce this risk.
recognised, as the volume Dedicated Information Security and Data Protection team and sophistication of information report directly to the Group Risk & Compliance Director.
security threats cyber risk Regular testing of our business continuity, disaster recovery and fraud attempts across and crisis management plans.
