Risks and uncertainties K EEPING RISK I N CONTROL This section highlights the top ten principal risks and uncertainties that affect the Company, together with the key mitigating activities in place to manage those risks.
This does not represent a comprehensive list of all of the risks that the Company faces, but focuses on those that are currently considered to be most relevant.
36 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 Overview Our three lines of defence Risk management is critical to our corporate responsibilities and to the delivery of shareholder value.
Risk is at the heart of everything we do as an organisation.
Therefore, the process for identifying and assessing risks and opportunities is an integral and inseparable part of the 1ST 2ND 3RD management skills and processes which are the core of our business.
Executive Financial Group Assurance There is an established Risk Committee in place which continues Committee authority limits Operational to meet on a quarterly basis to review the key risks facing the business.
Leadership group Risk Management Practices Team Key risks identified are reviewed and assessed by the Risk Committee management processes in terms of their likelihood and impact, within the Groups Key Risk Heat Internal controls Audit Committee Map, in conjunction with associated risk mitigation plans.
The processes and processes that are used to identify and manage risks are described in the Internal Risk Committee Control and Risk Management statement on pages 60 and 61.
Internal policies Health and and procedures Safety Team Management support, involvement and enforcement is fundamental Training to the success of our risk management framework and each member Technology of the Executive Committee takes responsibility for the management specialists of the specific risks associated with their function.
Our Group risk Legal support register clearly outlines the alignment of each key risk to an Executive Committee member and an action owner, to ensure responsibilities are formally aligned.
Therefore, there is a robust and transparent process in place to provide an appropriate level of direction and support in the identification, assessment and management of those aspects of the business which have the potential to damage seriously our financial position, shareholder value, our responsibilities to our staff and customers, our reputation and our relationship with key stakeholders.
1 MARKET RISKS Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement Declining sales performance Right team and structure in place.
Brand alignment ensures the right No movement research gets done and is acted on.
This risk falls into three main categories: Daily, weekly and periodic sales reporting, monitoring and scrutiny Sales: There is a risk that declining sales, activity is in place.
concerns around consumer confidence, increased personal debt levels, squeezes Our Eat Drink Share panel provides robust, quick and cost effective on disposable income and rising inflation research.
This is our own panel of 27,000 M&B guests whom we together may adversely affect our market can use for research purposes for quick and cost effective insights.
share and profitability, reducing headroom Primary research in partnership with brand category teams.
Working with suppliers to tap into their research.
Consumer and market insight: If M&B fails to manage and develop its existing Each brand has its own pricing strategy.
and new brands in line with consumer Price promotions are in line with the agreed strategy.
needs and market trends due to failure to obtain or use sufficient insight in a Sales training for Management.
timely manner, this may lead to a decline Consumer insight led innovation process and development in revenues and profits.
Pricing and market changes: If price Reduce customer complaints by improving the local management changes are not intelligently applied of social media responses e. g. TripAdvisor.
due to a lack of appreciation of market sensitivities and elasticities, this may Increased digital marketing activity.
result in decreased revenue and profit.
Online guest satisfaction survey to collect guest feedback.
This feedback together with the results of research studies is monitored and evaluated by a dedicated guest insight team to ensure that the relevance to guests of the Companys brands is maintained.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 37 Risks and uncertainties continued 1 MARKET RISKS CONTINUED Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement Cost of goods price increases Overall, price increases are mitigated as Mitchells & Butlers leverages its Risk increasing scale to drive competitive cost advantage and collaborates with suppliers Food: The price of goods increases due to increase efficiencies in the supply chain.
The fragmented nature of the to increases in demand and uncertainty food supply industry on the world commodity markets gives the Company of supply, leading to decreased profits.
the opportunity to source products from a number of alternative suppliers Drinks: The price of drinks goods in order to drive down cost.
Key mitigating activities for food and drink are increases due to changes in demand, detailed below: legislation, exchange rates and production Food: costs, leading to decreased profits.
A Food Procurement Strategy is in place.
Goods not for resale: Increases in the price of goods not for resale and utilities Full reviews have been carried out on key categories to ensure optimum costs as a result of increases in global value is achieved in each category.
demand and uncertainty of supply in A full range review was completed in 2017 ensuring the correct number producing nations can have a significant of products suppliers.
impact on the cost base, consequently impacting margins.
Regular reporting of current and projected inflation.
Good relationships with key suppliers.
Drinks: Each drinks category has a clearly defined strategic sourcing plan to ensure Company scale is leveraged, supply base is rationalised and consumer needs are met.
Supplier collaboration programmes are in place.
Plans in development to mitigate Sugar Tax.
Risk is increasing mainly due to the devaluation of the pound following Brexit, changes in Government policy raising risk of punitive duty changes and the introduction of the Sugar Tax in 2018.
38 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 2 OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement People planning and development The Company makes significant investment in training to ensure that Risk decreasing its people have the right skills to perform their jobs successfully.
Mitchells & Butlers has a strong guest focus, and as such it is important that Furthermore, an employee survey is conducted annually to establish it is able to attract, retain, develop and employee satisfaction and engagement and this is compared with other motivate the best people with the right companies, as well as previous surveys.
Where appropriate, changes in capabilities throughout the organisation.
working practices are made in response to the findings of these surveys.
There is a risk that without the right Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that they remain people our customer service levels competitive and a talent review process is used to provide structured would be affected.
Business continuity and crisis The Company has in place crisis and continuity plans that are tested No movement management and refreshed regularly.
The Companys third-party back-up facility, for Retail Support Centre employees, has been successfully tested Mitchells & Butlers relies on its food and to ensure critical business systems are able to function in the event drink supply chain and the key IT systems of a disaster.
underlying the business to serve its guests efficiently and effectively.
Supply chain In addition, during FY 2017, departmental Business Continuity Plans interruption, IT system failure or crises have been revised, updated and reviewed by the Risk Committee.
such as terrorist activity or the threat of disease pandemic might restrict sales or reduce operational effectiveness.
Information security and In FY 2017 a further review of information security, disaster recovery No movement disaster recovery and IT resilience was performed in order to highlight any gaps and address any challenges that had been presented in exploring the There is a risk that inadequate disaster viability of a disaster recovery test for our business critical applications.
recovery plans and information security During the year a number of improvements have been made, including: processes are in place to mitigate against a system outage, or failure to ensure Further development of the information security steering group.
appropriate back-up facilities covering Group Assurance follow-up review of information security controls.
key business systems and the recovery Review and implementation of appropriate cyber security of critical data and loss of sensitive data.
Ongoing security awareness initiatives have been and continue to be undertaken.
Wage cost inflation A detailed review of the risks associated with successfully implementing No movement the National Living Wage has been completed.
This review has been There is a risk that increased costs undertaken at a strategic level and seeks to ensure that appropriate associated with the introduction of the mitigating actions are in place, some of which are in relation to how the National Living Wage may adversely Group carefully manages productivity and efficiency across the estate.
impact upon overall operational costs.
Implementation of the National Living Wage will continue to remain an area of focus in FY 2018.
We have successfully implemented a new Time and Attendance system to improve the management controls and reporting of staff hours.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 39 Risks and uncertainties continued 2 OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement Borrowing covenants The Company maintains headroom against these risks.
The finance No movement team conducts daily cash forecasting with periodic reviews at the There are risks that borrowing covenants Treasury Committee, the roles of which include ensuring that the Board are breached because of circumstances Treasury Policy is adhered to, monitoring its operation and agreeing such as: appropriate strategies for recommendation to the Board.
A change in the economic climate In addition, regular forecasting and testing of covenant compliance leading to reduced cash inflows: or is performed and frequent communication is maintained with the ii.
A material change in the valuation Securitisation Trustee.
Pension fund deficit The Company has made significant additional contributions to reduce No movement the funding deficit.
In July 2017, the Company reached agreement on the The material value of the pension fund triennial valuation of the Group pension schemes as at 31 March 2016, deficit remains a risk.
with a funding shortfall of 451m March 2013 valuation 572m shortfall.
The Company will continue to pay cash contributions of 46m p. a. indexed to 2023, with an additional payment of 13m into escrow in 2024 should such further funding be required at that time.
Failure to operate safely and Mitchells & Butlers maintains a robust programme of health and No movement legally safety checks both within its restaurants and pubs and throughout the supply chain.
A major health and safety failure could lead to illness, injury or loss of life or The dedicated Safety Assurance team uses a number of technical significant damage to the Companys partners including food technologists, microbiologists and allergen or a brands reputation.
specialists to ensure that our food procedures are safe.
Regular independent audits of trading sites are performed to ensure that procedures are followed and that appropriate standards are maintained.
Food suppliers are required to meet the British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety and are subject to regular safety and quality audits.
Comprehensive health and safety training programmes are in place.
Food supply chain safety M&B has a Safety Assurance team and uses a number of technical No movement partners including food technologists, food safety experts, a Malicious or accidental contamination microbiologist, allergy consultants, trading standards specialists, in the supply chain could lead to food nutritionists etc.
goods for resale being unfit for human consumption or being dangerous to M&B uses a robust system of detailed product specifications.
This could lead to restrictions All food products are risk rated using standard industry definitions in supply which in turn causes an increase and assessment of the way the products are used in M&B kitchens.
in cost of goods and reduced sales due Suppliers are then risk rated according to their products.
to consumer fears and physical harm to customers employees.
Each food supplier is audited at least once per annum in respect of safety and additionally in response to a serious food safety complaint or incident.
Long-term viability statement In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have undertaken an assessment, including sensitivity analyses, of the prospects of the Group, for a period of three years to September 2020.
This assessment has been made taking account of the current financial position, compliance with covenants, Company strategy, budget planning process and the key risks and uncertainties, as detailed within the Annual Report.
The Groups strategy provides a long-term direction and is reviewed on at least an annual basis, including three year forecasts, detailing the expected financial impact.
The Directors have therefore concluded, based upon the extent of the financial planning assessment, sensitivity analysis and current financial position that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources and will be able to continue in operation and meet all its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of assessment.
40 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017
