B6 RISK MANAGEMENT B6.1 Risk and Compliance Committ ee Chairmans Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to write to you as Chairman of the Risk and Compliance Committee with our report as to Finlay F Williamson how we have discharged our responsibilities in the last year.
In doing so, I would firstly wish to express my Chairman of the sincere thanks to Fiona Clutterbuck, who held the position of Chairman for most of the year prior to the Risk and Compliance Groups reorganisation in September 2017.
She remains a member of the Committee and we will continue Committee to benefit from her knowledge and experience.
As part of the reorganisation, the opportunity was taken to combine the meetings of the previously separate Bank and Group Risk and Compliance Committees.
I am confident that the creation of a single, integrated committee meeting is a positive development which will help to simplify and enhance the Groups governance arrangements.
As a Committee, our primary responsibility remains the maintenance of oversight of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and of the Groups systems and controls for compliance with its statutory and regulatory obligations.
The Committee also oversees the risk culture within the Group to ensure that this is adequately embedded and is supportive of the overall risk appetite set by the Board.
Over the last year, the Committee has continued to monitor the further development of the operational risk management framework and its embedding within all business areas across the Group.
The Committee is particularly pleased with the level of progress in this area over the last twelve months.
The Committee has again sought to ensure that its agenda is dynamic, balancing regular standing agenda items with reviews of new risks that have emerged during the year and of areas considered worthy of particular focus.
Standing items covered in each meeting have included: Consideration and challenge of managements rating of the various risk categories to which the Group is exposed Reviews of the principal risks facing the Group Consideration of the potential impact of key regulatory developments Consideration of the root causes and impact of material risk events and the adequacy of actions undertaken by management to address them Horizon scanning for emerging risks Additional areas of focus have included reviews of the Groups management of risks relating to its corporate reorganisation, changes to the regulatory regime for buy-to-let lending, cyber security and incident planning and developments in the property and rental market in the UK.
PAGE 104 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts In addition, during the year, the Committee: Undertook a full review of the Groups qualitative and quantitative risk appetite prior to referral to the Board for approval Reviewed the Groups operational risk management scenarios Reviewed the Groups ICAAP report prior to submission to the PRA Received a presentation on the ILAAP report for the Bank Reviewed risks arising from the acquisition of businesses and portfolios Reviewed risks arising from new business activities before and following launch Reviewed and approved a number of revised Group policies, including those covering conduct risk and data protection Reviewed the annual Money Laundering Reporting Officers report in relation to the adequacy of the Groups financial crime prevention arrangements Reviewed the Groups Compliance Monitoring Plan The Committee has also continued to monitor the development of the Groups risk management framework, including enhancements to its independent Risk and Compliance function, in order to ensure this remains appropriate for the scale and complexity of the business.
The Group has made further progress in this area and has integrated the formerly separate Bank and Group Risk and Compliance functions from the end of the year.
During the coming year, the Committees priorities will include: Reviewing the Groups risk appetite to ensure it remains consistent with delivery of the Groups strategic objectives and proposing any required changes in risk appetites to the Board Reviewing the management of any residual transition risk following the Groups corporate reorganisation Monitoring developments in the buy-to-let market in light of the implementation of regulatory changes in 2017 Reviewing the potential impacts on the Group of the UKs decision to withdraw from the EU as the likely future relationship becomes clearer Monitoring progress in the development of policies and procedures to enable the Group to comply with the forthcoming General Data Protection Regulation Monitoring progress with regard to the Groups strategic decision to seek regulatory approval to implement an IRB approach for credit risk Monitoring the Groups adherence to the FCA and PRA requirements in relation to the Senior Managers and Certification Regimes as they are expanded across the financial services sector Undertaking deep dives in relation to specific risk categories and business areas, including conduct risk, market risk, liquidity and capital risk and outsourced supplier arrangements Overall, I am pleased to confirm that, in the last year, the Committee has again met its key objectives and carried out its role effectively.
It is clear that the economic, political and regulatory environment within which the Group operates is likely to continue to be challenging.
The basis of the UKs future relationship with the EU is still unclear, regulatory impacts on the Groups main business lines, especially buy-to-let, are ever growing and the political outlook in the UK is uncertain.
However, I remain confident that the Group maintains the necessary skills and experience to manage the risks it is likely to encounter in the year ahead in line with its strategic objectives and the Boards stated risk appetite.
Finlay F Williamson Chairman of the Risk and Compliance Committee 23 November 2017 PAGE 105 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts B6.2 Risk governance The Risk and Compliance Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities for risk management and comprises the independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company.
Its terms of reference, which were reviewed and approved by the Board in September 2017, include all matters indicated by the Code.
The Committees responsibilities include reviewing: The effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and the extent to which risks inherent in the Groups business activities are controlled within the risk appetite established by the Board The effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls for compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations, as well as its obligations under significant contracts The oversight of the timely completion of any remedial actions found to be necessary The appropriateness of the Groups risk culture, to ensure it supports the Groups stated risk appetite The effectiveness of the Group in addressing issues requiring remedial attention to ensure actions are completed in a timely manner and minimise the potential for risk appetite thresholds to be exceeded The Risk and Compliance Committee provides oversight and challenge to the Groups enterprise-wide risk management arrangements.
The Committee is supported by an executive level Operational Risk and Compliance Committee, Credit Committee, Asset and Liability Committee and Model Risk Committee.
In the new financial year, it is intended that a further executive committee, the Customer and Conduct Committee, be set up to address these particular risk areas.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and normally invites the executive directors, Chief Risk Officer CRO, Chief Operating Officer and Director of Internal Audit to attend its meetings.
However, it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw or to request the attendance of any other Group employee.
The Committee meets with the CRO at least once a year, without the presence of executive management, to discuss his remit and any issues arising from it.
The Committee also has the opportunity to meet with the Director of Internal Audit and or the external auditor without the presence of executive management to discuss any matters that any of these parties believe should be discussed privately.
Agenda items for regular meetings of the Committee include: Reviewing the Groups register of principal risks Receiving and considering reports relating to the Groups consolidated risk profile, its performance against risk appetite and the progress of any resulting management actions and key risks Reviewing any proposed material changes to the Groups risk appetite prior to approval by the Board Reviewing and approving the Groups Compliance Monitoring Plan and the proposed management actions to address any adverse reports Receiving reports relating to key regulatory developments affecting the Group Reviewing the Groups conduct strategy and receiving reports from management on conduct risk Receiving reports from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer on compliance with Anti Money Laundering requirements Reviewing material operational risk events to assess the effectiveness of the Group risk and control assessment framework Reviewing the timeliness, effectiveness and progress of any executive management actions required to remediate issues identified Reviewing the Groups capital and liquidity adequacy assessments and stress testing analysis Considering the minutes of its executive sub-committees The structure of the executive committees reporting to the Committee and their reporting lines is illustrated below: Risk and Compliance Committee Asset and Operational Risk Liability Credit Model Risk and Compliance Committee Committee Committee Committee PAGE 106 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Each of the executive committees operates within terms of reference formally approved by the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The primary functions of each of these committees are described below.
Asset and Liability Committee ALCO ALCO comprises heads of relevant functions and is chaired by the CFO.
The principal purpose of ALCO is to monitor and review the financial risk management of the Groups balance sheet.
As such, it is responsible for overseeing all aspects of market risk, liquidity risk and capital management as well as the treasury control framework.
ALCO operates within clear delegated authorities, monitoring exposures and providing recommendations on actions required.
It also monitors performance against appetite on an on-going basis and makes recommendations for revisions to risk appetites to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
Credit Committee The Credit Committee comprises senior managers from the risk, finance and collections functions and is chaired by the CRO.
The Credit Committee approves credit risk policies and defines risk grading and underwriting criteria for the Group.
It also provides guidance and makes recommendations in order to implement the Groups strategic plans for credit.
The committee oversees the management of the credit portfolios, the post origination risk management processes and the management of past due or impaired credit accounts.
It also monitors performance against appetite on an on-going basis and makes recommendations for revisions to the credit risk appetites to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
Model Risk Committee MRC The MRC comprises senior managers from risk, finance and the main business areas and is chaired by the CRO.
The role of the MRC is to review and make recommendations on all material aspects of the rating and estimation processes in relation to credit and finance models.
Operational Risk and Compliance Committee ORCC The ORCC comprises heads of relevant functions and is chaired by the CRO.
The ORCC is responsible for overseeing the Groups operational risk, conduct risk and business risk management and compliance arrangements.
The Committee considers key operational risk information such as loss events, emerging risks and control failures.
It also monitors performance against appetite on an on-going basis and makes recommendations for revisions to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
With respect to compliance, the ORCC is responsible for overseeing the maintenance of effective systems and controls to meet conduct related regulatory obligations, including countering the risk that the Group might be used to further financial crime.
It is also responsible for reviewing the quality, adequacy, resources, scope and nature of the work of the Compliance function, including the annual Compliance Monitoring Plan.
B6.3 Risk management culture The Board is committed to maintaining an effective risk management framework that is consistent and commensurate with the nature, complexity and risk profile of the business and is responsive to both internal and external events.
The Groups inherently risk-averse approach to its business is expressed through the culture promoted by the Board and senior management.
This has resulted in historically low levels of credit and operational losses and the absence of any material conduct issues affecting customers.
The Group aims to help its customers by offering financial options which meet individual needs and achieve fair customer outcomes in a well-controlled environment.
The following risk principles are designed to support and protect the Groups strategic goals: Risk management is used to protect the Groups customers, shareholders, creditors and its reputation The fair treatment of customers and the delivery of fair outcomes, particularly for those customers considered to be vulnerable, is central to the Groups risk management approach The Group encourages a risk culture that has robust risk management at the heart of all decision-making within an open and transparent environment The Group only carries out business where the potential risk to itself and its customers has been considered together with the potential reward and where the residual risk exposure is within its defined risk appetite The Group utilises appropriate risk management processes to ensure that risks are identified, assessed, prioritised and managed in a consistent way PAGE 107 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Appropriate, timely and accurate risk management information is maintained and developed to support business decisions and to ensure the Group operates within its agreed risk appetite An independent Risk and Compliance function provides an effective second line oversight capability together with a source of specialist support and advice for business areas in relation to the management of risk B6.4 Risk management framework Introduction The Groups risk management framework is designed to enable management to identify and focus attention on the risks most significant to its objectives and to provide an early warning of events that put those objectives at risk.
The framework includes: The Risk and Compliance Committee and its sub-committees as described in B6.2 Dedicated teams within the Risk and Compliance function covering particular risk areas, described below A suite of risk policies, which include policies addressing: - Conduct risk - Complaint handling - Forbearance - Vulnerable customers - Operational risk - Credit risk - Treasury operations - Financial crime A Compliance Handbook to advise business areas on regulatory matters supported by a proactive Advisory team Risk Champions appointed within all business areas to support the embedding of an effective risk culture across the Group A well-established and experienced Internal Audit function, supported by ongoing co-source arrangements with external providers when specific specialist skills are required Three lines of defence model The committee structures outlined above form the cornerstone for the governance of risk in a management framework organised within a Three Lines of Defence model as follows: The first line of defence, comprising executive directors, managers and employees, holds primary responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring risk management and control processes The second line of defence is provided by the Risk and Compliance function together with oversight provided by the Risk and Compliance Committee and its supporting executive committees and is responsible for providing risk oversight and guidance to the first line The third line of defence is provided by the Internal Audit function and the Audit Committee which are responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the first and second lines of defence In addition, there are further external levels of control that complement the three internal layers, provided by the external audit process and the monitoring activities of regulatory bodies.
PAGE 108 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The way in which the three lines of defence model aligns with the wider governance framework is illustrated below: Board Risk and Compliance Committee Executive Customer and Audit Asset and Liability Credit Management Conduct Committee Committee Committee Committee Q4 2017 Operational Risk Model Risk and Compliance Committee Committee st nd rd 1 Line 2 Line 3 Line Business Risk Management Risk Function Oversight Internal Audit Independent Assurance The risk management framework is intended to provide a structured and disciplined approach to the management of risk within agreed appetites thereby supporting the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The key objectives of the risk management framework are to: Establish standards for the consistent identification, measurement, monitoring, management and reporting of risk exposure and loss experience Outline the approach that will be taken in respect of setting and defining risk appetite and risk tolerances Promote risk management and the proactive reduction of the frequency and severity of risk events Facilitate adherence to regulatory requirements, including threshold conditions, capital standards and to support the regulatory requirements associated with the ICAAP Provide senior management and relevant committees with risk reporting that will be relevant and appropriate, enabling timely action to be taken in response to the information included within these reports Promote an appropriate risk culture across the Group The Group publishes further information on its risk management system and risk profile in its Pillar III report, which can be found on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
Risk management function The Groups Risk and Compliance function is headed by the CRO, who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
The key responsibilities of the CRO are to: Develop and maintain the risk management framework covering all areas of the Group Develop and maintain risk policies within that framework, ensuring these are consistent with the Boards risk appetite Ensure that risks generated by the business are measured, monitored, controlled and reported on a timely basis Ensure compliance with all new and existing regulatory requirements Maintain open and constructive engagement with the regulatory authorities The CRO is also responsible for the effective day-to-day running of the Risk and Compliance function and its relationship with the Board, its committees and senior management as well as for championing the Groups risk culture, providing support and advice to employees in the discharge of their risk responsibilities.
Integral to the Groups risk management framework are the following dedicated second line functions which report to the CRO: Credit Risk Compliance and Conduct Risk Operational Risk Property Risk Financial Crime Risk IRB Development Liquidity and Market Risk PAGE 109 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts B6.5 Principal risks and mitigation The Group is exposed to a number of principal risks and uncertainties that arise from the operation of its business model and strategy.
A summary of those risks and uncertainties which could prevent the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives, how the Group seeks to mitigate those risks and the change in the perceived level of each risk in the last financial year are described below.
These risks are discussed in more granular detail in the Groups Pillar III report, published on the Group website.
This analysis represents the Groups gross risk position as presented to, and discussed by, the Risk and Compliance Committee as part of their ongoing monitoring of the Groups risk profile.
This summary should not be regarded as a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties faced by the Group but rather those which the Group believes have the potential to have a significant impact on its financial performance and future prospects.
To identify and control the risks to which it is exposed, the Group employs a risk management framework.
As part of this framework, principal risks are identified and assessed within the key categories of Business Risk, Credit Risk, Conduct Risk, Operational Risk, Liquidity and Capital Risk, Market Risk, and Pension Obligation Risk.
The changes in the perceived level of each risk in the last financial year are indicated using the symbols shown below: Risk Increasing Risk Decreasing Risk Stable BUSINESS RISK Economic Risk Description Mitigation The Group could be materially affected by a The Group closely monitors economic developments in the UK and overseas, with severe downturn in the UK economy given its support from leading independent macro-economic advisors.
This information income is wholly derived from activities within the supports the senior managements annual review of strategic objectives and UK.
This is more difficult to forecast given current business plans for each of the Groups principal trading operations.
uncertainties on the terms on which the UK will As a lender and acquirer of credit portfolios the Group is inevitably exposed to any leave the EU in March 2019. material deterioration in economic conditions.
The Boards defined strategy is to This could reduce demand for the Groups loan limit this risk by operating as a specialist lender in carefully chosen markets where its products, increase the number of customers that employees have significant levels of experience and expertise.
default on their loans and cause security asset A robust stress testing framework is maintained which provides the Board with values to fall.
an informed understanding and appreciation of the Groups capacity to withstand shocks of varying severities.
Change Whilst UK economic performance has remained broadly stable in the last financial year, given the heightened level of economic and political uncertainty, the overall risk assessment is considered to have increased in the last year.
PAGE 110 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS RISK Concentration Risk Description Mitigation Lending to customers investing in the UK private The Group has a very deep understanding of the private rented sector built up over rented sector forms a substantial part of the many years of successful operations in the buy-to-let market.
This includes a long Groups advances and assets.
history of performance data through the economic cycle.
It is therefore exposed to any deterioration It seeks to use this expertise constructively by playing an active role through several in performance of the sector, which will be routes, in shaping the development of policy for the private rented sector.
influenced by factors such as house prices, Given its specialist knowledge of the sector and its historically prudent approach to supply of rental property, fiscal and regulatory underwriting, the Group has been well placed to respond promptly and effectively to intervention and demographic changes.
recent regulatory changes relating to buy-to-let lending.
The Group also continues to exploit opportunities to diversify the range of its activities and income streams, consistent with its strategic objective of operating as a prudent, risk-focussed specialist lender.
This has been illustrated in recent years through acquisitions and diversification into new product areas.
Change The Group continues to have significant exposure to buy-to-let lending but is confident in its ability to operate successfully in this evolving environment.
It has therefore assessed the overall risk resulting from its reliance on the buy-to-let exposure in the last 12 months as stable.
Transition Risk Description Mitigation Failure to effectively manage the transition and The corporate reorganisation has been managed through a formal project implementation risks resulting from the recent governance programme involving key executives chaired by the CFO reporting to the major internal reorganisation and from the Board.
acquisitions of two asset finance businesses Extensive proactive engagement has been undertaken with relevant regulatory could impact adversely on the Groups financial bodies and detailed advice provided by leading legal and accountancy firms.
In relation to the Boards M&A strategy, the Group will only consider acquisitions in areas of business that it understands and which are complementary to its existing activities.
Formal governance arrangements are applied to any proposed acquisition and to subsequent integration projects, with regular progress reporting to the executive team and the Board.
Change The recent corporate reorganisation and the continuing integration activity relating to prior year acquisitions has inevitably led to a potential for exposure to greater risk in this area during the reporting period.
PAGE 111 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts CREDIT RISK Customer Risk Description Mitigation As a lender, failure to target products and The Group has comprehensive policies in place that set out detailed criteria which underwrite credit decisions effectively could must be met before loans are approved.
result in customers becoming less able to service Credit policies incorporate limits for concentration risks arising from factors such as debt, exposing the Group to unexpected material large exposures to counterparties, geographical areas or types of lending.
The Group uses a range of sources to inform expectations of key external factors Recoverable amounts on loans may also be such as interest rate movements and house price inflation which are in turn used to affected by adverse movements in security values guide policy and underwriting.
such as house and commercial asset prices.
The Groups approach to the management of credit risk and the systems in place to mitigate that risk on both originated and purchased assets are further described in note 9 to the accounts.
Change The Groups impairment rate has remained very low, reflecting the maintenance of robust, proven credit disciplines, generally stable economic conditions and the credit quality of its borrowers.
Counterparty Risk Description Mitigation Failure of an institution holding the Groups cash The Group has a strictly controlled number of approved treasury counterparties.
To deposits or providing hedging facilities for risk be approved, counterparties must meet specific credit rating criteria.
mitigation could expose the Group to loss or Exposure to approved counterparties is monitored intra-day by senior management liquidity issues.
within the Treasury function with all trading performed within approved limits.
The credit quality of all treasury counterparties and the Groups exposure to them is reported monthly to ALCO.
Treasury counterparties are typically highly rated banks and, for all cash deposits and derivative positions held within the Groups securitisation structures, they must comply with criteria set out in the financing arrangements, which are monitored externally.
Change The credit quality of the treasury counterparties, with whom the Group transacts has been maintained during the year and this risk is therefore considered to be stable.
PAGE 112 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts CONDUCT RISK Customer Fair Outcomes Description Mitigation The Group provides a broad range of financial The Groups Conduct Risk Policy sets out the conduct risk framework requirements services products across a number of brands to within which business areas are required to develop systems and processes to consumers and small business customers.
identify, measure, manage, monitor and report risks in accordance with stated risk appetites.
As a result, the Group is exposed to potential conduct risk should it fail to deliver fair outcomes Underpinning this Policy are additional policies and standards to ensure the fair for its customers.
treatment of customers such as: complaint handling, responsible lending, sales and distribution practices, forbearance, and vulnerable customer treatment.
Systemic poor customer treatment may lead to regulatory censure and or reputational damage.
Business areas dealing with consumers have dedicated Quality and Control teams which validate process adherence and the delivery of fair treatment for customers.
The Groups Compliance function provides oversight by way of their monitoring plan which is focused on conduct risk and the fair treatment of customers.
All employees are required to undertake conduct risk related training and, where appropriate, staff receive additional focused training on a variety of customer centric topics.
Change The increasingly regulated nature of the Groups operations and continuing changes to the regulatory conduct landscape heightens the potential risk.
OPERATIONAL RISK People Risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that it is unable The Group manages and controls its key person dependency risk through effective to recruit and retain skilled senior management succession planning, recruitment, development and retention strategies.
and key personnel at all levels.
External remuneration and reward structures are monitored to ensure it remains Failure to maintain the necessary skill base within competitive and is able to recruit and retain key personnel.
its workforce could have a material impact on A range of employee benefits are offered in addition to base salaries including a the Groups ability to deliver its business plan and defined contribution pension scheme, Sharesave Plan and an annual profit related strategic objectives.
performance scheme for most employees.
This is a particular risk in respect of key specialist Manager and team leader academies are run to develop pools of strong, capable and executive positions, where the institutional individuals with the potential to fill future managerial and specialist roles within the knowledge of the incumbents would be hard to business.
replicate in the short term.
The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People scheme since 1997 and retains the Champion status which it achieved in 2014.
Change During the last year, a strong employment market and buoyant demand for skilled financial services staff has led to greater competition.
Despite this, the Group remains confident in its ability to manage this risk.
PAGE 113 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONAL RISK Systems Risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that its IT During the course of the year, the Group has further strengthened its capabilities in infrastructure and systems are unable to support relation to its IT infrastructure management and security.
its operational needs and fail to offer adequate The Group has a formally agreed IT strategy which ensures that priority is given protection against the threat of cyber-crime.
to those areas which are most critical to the delivery of the Groups strategy and This risk also includes the potential that the business plan.
Groups key outsourcing arrangements with The Group maintains an ongoing programme of investment in IT infrastructure and third parties could expose it to material loss or systems.
This includes investment in security solutions to counteract cyber security reputational damage.
A formal Cyber Incident Response Plan has been developed and reviewed to ensure that the Group is well placed to deal with any such issues or events.
The Group continues to be certified to ISO 27001 Information Security Management and ISO 22301 Business Continuity.
Change Whilst the Group continues to maintain a robust and secure IT infrastructure that supports its operational needs, the level and sophistication of cyber-crime continues to increase, heightening the risk of an impact on its business model and strategic objectives.
Regulatory Risk Description Mitigation Given the highly-regulated sectors in which the The Group has Risk and Compliance and Legal teams who review key regulatory Group operates, compliance failures or failures and legal developments to assess the impact on the Groups operations.
These to respond effectively to new and emerging teams then work with business areas to provide advice on the implementation of regulatory and legal developments could result in appropriate measures to meet identified requirements.
Expert external advice is also reputational damage and financial loss.
Major regulatory or legal change initiatives are subject to formal change governance with progress reporting to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
All employees are required to undertake regulatory training and testing to ensure appropriate levels of competence are maintained.
Those in relevant specialist roles are also required to adhere to formal regulatory training and competence regimes.
The Compliance function has developed a formal monitoring plan which is reviewed by the ORCC and the Risk and Compliance Committee to ensure that regulatory requirements have been satisfactorily embedded.
Change Whilst the Group considers that it continues to have robust arrangements in place, the increasingly regulated nature of its operations heightens the potential risk arising from any failure to comply effectively with regulations.
PAGE 114 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RISK Funding Risk Description Mitigation The Group relies on access to various sources The Group maintains a diversified range of both retail and wholesale medium and of funding to finance its operations.
If access to long term funding sources to cover future business requirements and liquidity to funding became restricted, either through market cover shorter term funding needs.
The Group remains well funded with sufficient movements or regulatory intervention, this might liquidity to meet all its financial obligations as they fall due.
result in the scaling back or cessation of some The Group, through Paragon Bank, is authorised to accept retail deposits.
As such, it business lines.
is subject to regulation by the PRA, which aims to ensure that sufficient liquid assets Retail deposit taking is central to the Groups are held, at all times, to mitigate the liquidity risk inherent in deposit taking.
funding plans and therefore changes in market The Bank has also been able to make drawings under the Bank of Englands TFS to conditions could impact the ability of the business support its ongoing lending activities.
to maintain the level of liquidity required to sustain normal business activity.
Internally, comprehensive treasury policies are in place to ensure sufficient liquid assets are maintained and that all financial obligations can be met as they fall due.
Change Following its recent corporate reorganisation, the Group is now better placed to access funding from a wide range of sources to meet its future funding requirements.
Strong competition for retail deposits amongst challenger banks during the year means the overall risk is considered to have remained stable.
Capital Risk Description Mitigation The major part of the Groups lending portfolio In order to further enhance its existing robust credit management capabilities and is secured on residential property.
Proposals to mitigate the risks of the proposed BCBS changes, the Group took a strategic made by the BCBS regarding potential changes decision in 2016 to seek the necessary regulatory approval to implement an IRB from 2021 to the minimum capital requirements approach for credit risk.
for lending secured on such assets could have a A formal IRB project has been initiated with support from respected external material impact on the Group.
specialist advisors to enable the Group to submit an application to the relevant regulatory authorities as soon as possible.
In June 2017, the PRA published an updated approach to IRB applications.
The process is now modular, with each element covering a different aspect of a firms plan for IRB implementation.
This new application process is now embedded in the Groups IRB project plan.
Change Whilst the Group has made good progress in relation to its IRB project, further clarity on the BCBS proposals is still awaited, particularly those relating to new capital floors.
As a result, this risk is considered to have remained stable during the year.
Further information on the Groups management of capital and liquidity risk is given in notes 7 and 10 to the accounts.
PAGE 115 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that changes This risk is managed through Board approved risk appetite limits with comprehensive in interest rates may adversely affect its net treasury polices in place to ensure that the risk posed by changes and mismatches in income and profitability.
In particular, the Groups interest rates are effectively managed.
profitability is determined by the difference The Boards risk management framework for Interest Rate Risk in the Banking between the interest rates at which it lends and Book IRRBB has been enhanced over the last year to reflect the updated BCBS those at which it borrows.
Changes in market principles and methods expected to be used by banks for controlling such risks.
interest rates could therefore materially impact the Groups profits as a result of significant Day-to-day management of interest rate risk is the responsibility of Treasury with mismatches between its assets and liabilities.
control and oversight provided by ALCO.
The Group seeks to match the structure of assets and liabilities by using appropriate financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps or cap agreements and fixed rate retail liabilities.
Change The Groups interest risk exposure profile, relative to its balance sheet has remained broadly similar and therefore associated risk levels remain generally stable compared to previous periods.
Further information regarding the Groups management of interest rate risk is given in note 11 to the accounts.
PENSION OBLIGATION RISK Pension Obligation Risk Description Mitigation The Group operates both a defined benefit and The Groups defined benefit scheme the Plan was closed to new members with defined contribution pension scheme in the UK.
There is a risk that the Groups commitments To mitigate the risks inherent in its exposure to the Plan, the Group conducts regular under its defined benefit scheme expose it to asset-liability reviews in conjunction with the Trustee.
the risk that the assets of the scheme may be These reviews are used to assist the Trustee and the Group to determine the optimal insufficient to meet its liabilities.
long-term asset allocation with regard to the structure of liabilities within the Plan and help in managing the volatility in the underlying investment performance.
The Plan is subject to triennial formal valuation by the Plan actuary.
The most recent valuation, as at 31 March 2016, was agreed by the Trustee during the year and a recovery plan was put in place which aims to clear the deficit of the Plan by January 2023.
Change During the last year, changes in bond yields, equity prices, interest rates, mortality assumptions and inflation rates have all impacted favourably.
The triennial valuation and agreed recovery plan have also helped to reduce the risk in the Plan as have some significant transfers out.
Further details of the Groups exposure to the Plan are given in note 54 to the accounts.
PAGE 116 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts
