Strategic report Principal risks Principal risks The Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if certain risks are taken and managed effectively.
We have listed below the most significant risks that may affect our business, although there are other risks that may occur and impact the Groups performance.
Safety, health and Core business growth Recruitment and retention Foreign currency risk Business continuity Network and IT systems environment ofthe right people ofsupplychain andsecurity Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Delivery of our strategy is dependent on us Whilst we continue to drive growth in our Our success depends on recruiting and The Group exports the majority of its product It is essential to ensure continuity of supply A significant failure or interruption in conducting our business safely.
Given the core business, the environment in which retaining the right people in all areas of out of the UK, but has a significant Sterling and service to our customers and that we can ourIT networks and systems could have natureof our various manufacturing facilities, we operate is associated with a number our business.
Victrex relies heavily on the cost base.
Fluctuations in exchange rates operate even if a significant event did occur.
adetrimental impact on our business.
asignificant operational disruption could ofcompetitive risks.
skills, experience and competence of our between Sterling and US Dollar, and Euro Failure to maintain a secure supply of high Cyber attacks are becoming more frequent adversely affect the safety of people on or people to comply with internal procedures andYen could cause profit and balance One of these competitive risks arises from quality products to our customers by, for and could result in denial of service or data close to our sites.
Disruption could also impact and external regulations, to drive business sheetvolatility.
pricing pressure and the second from the example, an unexpected upsurge in demand theft.
Data security is very important to us, our ability to make and supply products.
in existing andnew markets, to deliver our introduction of new competitor capacity or delays in the implementation of major as failure to appropriately process, store or strategy, tooperate our manufacturing The environment in which Victrex operates and or new competing materials.
capital expenditure programmes could share information could result in the loss of IP assets safely andwith a strong regard to the is subject to numerous legislative and lead to a capacity shortage or insufficient or the loss of data, whether it be our data, or Failure to address these risks could environment, and to successfully execute our regulatory requirements.
A failure to comply inventory and loss of earnings.
that of our employees or customers.
significantly impact our ability to achieve downstreamstrategy.
could adversely impact the local environment, growth in our core business.
our employees, our manufacturing capability, or the attractiveness of our business or products to various stakeholders.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation We employ a dedicated Safety, Health and We aim to address price pressure by being We have strategies in place collectively The Group adopts a hedging policy It is our policy to keep capacity ahead We continue to review and invest where Environment SHE department to assist line focused on cost efficiency and continuous ourPeople Strategy to attract andretain to mitigate short-term currency risk.
of demand by continual investment in appropriate in the development and management and to provide expert guidance.
improvement in our operations, by having the best talent, provide opportunities for Currencymovement can have either a our supply chain so that our customers maintenance of our IT infrastructure, systems an appropriate pricing policy and by offering personal development, encourage diversity positive or a negative impact on the Group.
can be confident that we can meet their and processes and information security.
We have policies and procedures to a strong value proposition as a solutions and recognise and reward excellence.
The requirements today and in the future.
efficiently, safely and compliantly manage The currency policy is managed by a Implementation of our new ERP system company unique chemistry, specification People Strategy is discussed at Board, ELT all our operations: protect the safety and dedicated Currency Committee.
The Our sales and operations planning process, commenced during FY 2016 and completed of products with end users, quality and andfunctional levels.
Our employees have clear health of our employees, contractors and Committee regularly assesses whether together with our stocks of finished goods, its roll-out in FY 2017. technical service, the performance benefits objectives and development plans, aligned visitors: and both manage our environmental the impact of major events, like the UKs which are held in a number of locations We operate a firewall, antivirus software and ofour products and the ability to develop to our strategy, and participate informal and responsibility and continually improve our referendum on EU membership, requires worldwide, is intended to enable us to third-party penetration testing and monitor new applications.
informal training programmes and reviews to resource efficiency.
maintain supplies to our customers during any attempted breaches and take action assess their performance and effectiveness.
We seek to address new industry capacity in any short-term disruption.
Additionally we As our manufacturing facilities are regulated, where necessary to ensure our infrastructure polymers by differentiating our business, with We have succession plans in place for key work with our key suppliers to maintain we are subject to close review, for example remains robust and appropriate.
our offering now comprising semi-finished roles and develop our future leaders so that appropriate stocks of key raw materials.
by the Environment Agency and the Health We have in place recovery plans and business and finished products.
These downstream we are able to promote internally as well as and Safety Executive.
We have business continuity plans in place continuity plans, which are regularly reviewed products offer future growth potential to bringing in new talent from the outside.
that are regularly reviewed toensure their Further detail is contained in the and tested.
help offset competitive pressure in core Where necessary, we will supplement the continued effectiveness.
Sustainability report on pages 28 to 39. polymer material sales.
skills of our own employees with those We keep abreast of technological changes to of third parties in order to deliver our materials and potential threats to PEEK and downstream strategy.
PAEK polymers by developing new grades We operate an equal opportunities policy with differing properties, as well as creating and regard this as a commitment tomake new markets for PEEK PAEK polymers.
fulluse of the talents and resources of all ouremployees.
Change Change Change Change Change Change Risk redefined No change Risk decreased Risk decreased Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Risk considered Risk considered Risk considered Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis 24 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report KEY TO STRATEGY Drive Differentiate Create & deliver Underpin Safety, health and Core business growth Recruitment and retention Foreign currency risk Business continuity Network and IT systems environment ofthe right people ofsupplychain andsecurity Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description Delivery of our strategy is dependent on us Whilst we continue to drive growth in our Our success depends on recruiting and The Group exports the majority of its product It is essential to ensure continuity of supply A significant failure or interruption in conducting our business safely.
Change Change Change Change Change Change Risk decreased No change No change Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Risk considered Risk considered Risk considered Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 25 Strategic report Principal risks continued KEY TO STRATEGY Drive Differentiate Create & deliver Underpin Product liability Ethics and Future business growth regulatorycompliance Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Primary link to strategy Risk area and description Risk area and description Risk area and description We sell into highly demanding end-use Changes in regulatory requirements Exposure to changes and events, such as applications and regulated markets.
Any can provide an opportunity for further increased competition and competitor capacity, failure to supply our products in accordance differentiation.
Any failure to comply with external global economic conditions, or with the specification could lead to loss of ethical and regulatory standards has the political environment, may impact the business which would impact revenue and potential to significantly affect our ability Groups performance and its ability to give rise to a potential product liability claim.
Continued innovation, beyond polymer manufacturing, will help us move downstream, further differentiating our business but with the potential to increase risk.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Victrex PEEK polymer is manufactured within We continue to invest where appropriate in Whilst we continue to monitor and review a quality management systemapproved to our Legal and Compliance teams, including competitive intelligence, our focus remains ISO9001:2015. the Quality teams and the Safety, Health and on further differentiating our business by Environment team, supplemented by external developing new growth platforms and Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA polymer is additionally resources as necessary, to ensure that we continuing to move downstream beyond manufactured within a quality management have access to the right resources.
polymer manufacturing into semi-finished system approved to ISO 13485:2016, a system products and components and leveraging of good manufacturing practice often used by The new Medical Devices Regulations provide ourknow-how and protectable IP.
the pharmaceutical industry and bymedical an opportunity for further differentiation device manufacturers.
which we will be looking tooptimise in the Delivery of our mega-programmes is coming financial year.
influenced by a number of external factors: Victrex pipes for the Aerospace market are however, our portfolio and product manufactured within aqualitymanagement Our Code of Conduct policies are reviewed management processes are designed system approved to AS9100 Rev C. regularly and compliance against them is to identify, quantify and when possible monitored and reported to the Audit Committee.
We have also attained ISO 17025:2005 General mitigatethese uncertainties.
Training is provided to support the policies.
Requirements for Competence of Testing and Through our portfolio steering committee Calibration Laboratories certification.
Commercial contracts and our pricing we regularly review and monitor the projects strategy are reviewed by our Legal and All of our products are supplied to an that will enable us to move downstream Product Management teams.
toensure that any increased risks are The UK vote to leave the EU Brexit has not Supply contracts are used to mitigate the beingaddressed.
had a direct material impact on the Groups riskwhere practicable and in addition Whilst growth is impacted by a number performance in the current reporting period.
the Group maintains appropriate levels of factors outside the Groups control, the Our central team is in place to review and ofproduct liability insurance.
diverse nature of its markets, its customers assess the impact as more information and the territories in which it operates, becomes available and we are engaged together with appropriate contingency withtrade associations which are in contact planning, helps to mitigate the impact on with government.
thebusiness of such changes and events.
Change Change Change Risk redefined Risk redefined No change No change No change Viability statement links Viability statement links Viability statement links Risk considered Risk considered Risk considered Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis Risk focused on in sensitivity analysis 26 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017
