STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS The Board identifies that effective risk management is key to support the Groups strategic objectives.
The management of risks isdelegated through the business with a variety of committees responsible for reviewing and managing the procedures.
We recognise that the procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They canonly provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law and regulations.
The Groups risk management framework Board Internal Audit Top down Oversight and Carries out assurance The Board has overall responsibility for our system of internal controls and risk leadership of risk activities to help inform management policies and is also responsible for reviewing their effectiveness through management approach the Board and committees regular risk updates and reports.
of potential risk areas and mitigating controls Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviews procedures that relate to risk management processes and financial controls.
The assessment of controls and risk management processes provide a reasonable basis for the Board to make proper judgements on an ongoing basis as to the financial position and prospects of the Group.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters that have arisen from the Audit Committees review of the way risk management and internal control processes have been applied.
This includes insights from its review of the reports of the internal and external auditors.
Supports the Board by reviewing risk Receives and reviews detailed management processes and financial riskregisters and Control Self controls Assessment CSA results Risk Committee The Risk Committee meets quarterly and operates under the management of the AuditCommittee.
It is not a Board committee.
It is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and comprises the Group General Counsel, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Head of Financial Reporting, the Director of Business Controls, senior representatives from Deloitte, which acts as internal auditor to the Group, and other key colleagues where necessary.
Reviews risk registers Reviews operational risks, controls and KPIs on an ongoing basis Identifies new risks for inclusion in theregisters Reviews results of CSA process Takes action, as agreed and documented in the registers Business Controls Team Coordinates the risk management process Holds meetings with risk owners across the business Coordinates and consolidates local risk registers Updates Group risk register, assesses risk ratings and documents mitigating controls Coordinates, consolidates and summarises themes from the CSA process Regional and country management Bottom up Considers, updates and maintains local risk registers and risk maps Identification, assessment, Completes annual CSA process and proposes and follows up on action points to mitigation andescalation address any control gaps of risk 16 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Internal controls framework the Board considers social, environmental, governance and ethical Regional and country management are responsible for implementing matters in relation to the Groups business and assesses these internal control and risk management practices within their own when reviewing the risks faced by the Group: further information businesses and for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies regarding environmental and ethical matters is available on pages and procedures.
23 to 25: During 2017, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups the Group has established and rolled out a Code of Conduct, a system of controls, risk management and high-level internal control Whistleblowing Policy and an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption processes.
These reviews included an assessment of internal Policy and training, all of which are refreshed on an ongoing controls, in particular operational and compliance controls and their basis.
Training has been provided to the Board and to the senior effectiveness, supported by reports from the internal auditor, as management covering the obligations and behaviours of the UK well as the external auditor on matters identified in the course of its listed company, including those on compliance, insider dealing and statutory audit work.
market abuse: and The Audit Committee supports the Board by regularly reviewing the the Group has implemented a review of policies and procedures effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
to ensure the risk of facilitating tax evasion by associates is minimised.
There were no changes to the Groups internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September 2017 Risk management framework that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially The Groups risk management framework is designed to ensure that affect, the Groups reported financial position.
material business risks throughout the business are identified and effectively managed on an ongoing basis.
The key elements of the internal control environment in relation to the financial reporting process are as follows: The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
review of the Groups strategic plans and objectives by the Board on an annual basis: This process was in place throughout 2017 and up to the date of approval of this annual report and meets the requirements of the a detailed budget is produced annually in accordance with the guidance produced by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Audit Groups financial processes and is reviewed and approved by Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of the system the Board: of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
operational reports are provided to Executive Directors on a The key features of the risk management process are as follows: weekly and monthly basis and performance against the budget is kept under regular review in accordance with the Groups financial the Group conducts an annual risk assessment and local procedures manual.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to the management maintain country and regional risk registers.
Board on performance and key issues as they arise: The regional country registers, covering the assessment of risk including social, environmental, governance and ethical matters the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its as well as current and future mitigation activities, are discussed duties regarding the Groups financial statements, accounting by the Executive Committee.
The Group maintains a top down policies and maintenance of proper internal business, operational consolidated risk register covering risks to the overall Group.
The Audit Committee provides a direct link Risks are evaluated in respect of their potential impact and between the Board and the internal and external auditors through likelihood.
Key risks are presented to the Risk Committee and regular meetings: the Audit Committee: the Board has formal procedures in place for approval of the Board discusses and agrees the principal risks that are included client contracts, capital investment and acquisition projects, in the annual report: with clearly designated levels of authority, supported by post investment review processes for selected acquisitions and a risk management action plan is put in place to further enhance capital expenditure: the Groups risk management capability: and each country is required to submit a Controls Self-Assessment the management of risk and compliance with associated CSA confirmation each year to verify its compliance with the polices is considered as part of the Groups performance controls set over core processes.
This must be signed off by senior management systems.
management before being submitted to Group: 17 STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED The following table summarises the principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed, and the actions taken to mitigate those risks and uncertainties.
Risks are identified as principal based on the likelihood of occurrence and the potential impact on the Group and are listed in order of priority.
Two new risks have been added to the principal risks since the prior year, indicated as such in the table below.
Risk increasing Risk decreasing No risk movement Risk Risk Priority Risk Description Mitigating Factors 1 The Group operates in the travel environment where The Group monitors the performance of individual business Business external factors such as the general economic and units and markets regularly.
The Executive Directors review environment geopolitical climate, levels of disposable income, weather, detailed weekly and monthly information covering a range of changing demographics and travel patterns could all impact KPIs, and monitors progress on key strategic projects with local both passenger numbers and consumer spending.
Specific short and medium-term actions risk that the Group is unable to, or poorly placed to, respond are taken to address any trading performance issues which are to these external events.
monitored on an ongoing basis.
The travel environment is vulnerable to acts of terrorism The Group also conducts extensive research to understand or war, an outbreak of pandemic disease, or a major and current levels of customer satisfaction and gathers feedback extreme weather event or natural disaster which could on changing requirements.
reduce the number of passengers in travel locations.
The Group has business continuity plans in place including liaison with authorities and clients in key locations to ensure that contingency plans are comprehensive and complete.
2 The Groups operations are dependent on the terms of The Groups local management structures in all its major Retention of airport and railway station concession agreements.
Growth geographies allow it to maintain strong relationships with its existing client is dependent on the Groups ability to retain existing clients and monitor performance in close partnership with its relationships concession contracts and win new contracts from either new clients management teams.
The Groups clients may turn to alternative The Group has an established contact strategy with key clients operators, cease operations, terminate contracts with the to establish and or maintain ongoing relationships.
Group or increase cost pressure on the Group.
The Group also has an annual online and interview-based client survey to ensure any concerns are being addressed.
Furthermore, the Group proactively seeks to invest in, extend and enhance its offers in key locations, working in conjunction with clients.
3 There is a risk that the Group may not be successful in The Group, regional and country senior management teams Poor execution and mobilising new contracts and operating them successfully.
review mobilisation plans to ensure that new openings are mobilisation of new delivered on time and in line with the specific agreement or contracts contract.
The Group has strengthened the management teams in the high-growth regions of Asia Pacific, and India, especially in finance and operations.
4 Approximately 46% of the Groups employees are subject The Group works proactively with all of its unions to ensure that Labour laws the various collective bargaining agreements are appropriate to collective bargaining agreements.
These are principally in andunions France, Germany, Spain, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden for the Group and minimise commercial risks.
The Group is reviewing the impact of changes in remuneration The Group is also subject to minimum wage requirements structures, including the introduction of the National Living and mandatory healthcare subsidisation in some of the Wage and Apprenticeship Levy in the United Kingdom and the jurisdictions in which it operates, notably North America, healthcare bill in the United States and developing mitigating the United Kingdom and China.
5 The Group is continuously seeking new programmes to The Group has completed detailed evaluation, planning and Implementation improve efficiency.
These change programmes could fail partial implementation of its major change programmes, of efficiency to deliver the desired benefits e. g. labour efficiency and adapting and responding to feedback on an ongoing basis.
programmes improvements in waste and loss.
Where required to aid these programmes, the Group continues to utilise specialist expertise in the business, both at a Group and a country level.
The Group provides central support with regional CEOs and CFOs to facilitate appropriate country actions based on key performance indicators linked to margin management.
Group IT also provides support for project management and implementation using agreed standard business processes and controls.
18 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Risk Priority Risk Description Mitigating Factors 6 Changing client requirements, such as splitting tenders The Group has in place a clear SSP Value Proposition that it Changing client across two or more providers, partnering with operators in presents to the client to address this risk.
behaviours joint ventures, developing third party purchasing models and The Group Director of Strategic Partnerships and the favouring local brand operators or partnering directly with Group Chief Commercial Officer work closely with country brand owners, may adversely affect the Groups business.
management teams to enhance and clarify the Groups proposition to its clients.
The Groups contact strategy with key stakeholders and clients helps to mitigate this risk.
This is informed by its annual client survey, which is carried out by an independent party.
7 The Groups strategy involves expanding its business in The Group has strengthened the management team in Asia Expansion into developing markets, including Asia Pacific, India, Eastern Pacific, and India, especially in finance and operations where new markets Europe and the Middle East.
this risk is high and the Group is growing.
Political, economic and legal systems and conditions in these In addition, the Group adopts a joint venture model in countries are generally less predictable than in countries certain new territories to provide access to existing local with more developed institutional structures, subjecting infrastructure and expertise as well as to help mitigate the risk the Group to additional commercial, reputational, legal and inherent on entering new territories.
The Group has clearly defined authorisation procedures for all contract investment to ensure that it is consistent with the objectives set by the Board, and fully considers and evaluates the risks inherent in expansion into new locations and territories.
The Group works with in-house and external advisors to ensure the risks of doing business in developing markets are identified and, where possible, mitigated before entering those markets.
This includes appropriate due diligence of potential joint venture and other local partners.
The Group legal team works closely with country legal and operational teams to support business development activities and ensure compliance with local requirements.
The risk of working in developing markets is also monitored by the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
8 The performance of the Group depends on its ability to The Group continues to review key roles and succession plans Senior management attract, motivate and retain key employees.
The skills in country and at a Group level.
Senior resources have been capability and developed in our business are highly attractive to other strengthened in a number of strategically important and retention companies, which regularly target our staff for recruitment.
The Group may not have sufficient management capability The Remuneration Committee monitors the levels of at a senior level, such as country leadership, to execute the remuneration for senior management and seeks to ensure planned operational efficiency programmes and support the that they are designed to attract, retain and motivate the key growth and development of the business.
personnel required to run the Group effectively.
The Group may not have sufficient resources such as in legal, The Group carries out an annual talent mapping exercise to finance and IT, to meet the changing and complex needs of an identify candidates for future roles and continues to invest in international and growing business.
additional resource to support change initiatives and business development programmes.
19 STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk Risk Priority Risk Description Mitigating Factors 9 Competition intensifies as the Groups competitors become The Group has developed high-quality business-to-business Intensified more sophisticated and direct more resources to the marketing collateral to clearly lay out the benefits of working competition preparation of tenders and take a more aggressive position with SSP, which it shares with the clients to help them better on commercial terms when tendering for contracts.
This understand the Groups proposition from both quantitative and could put pressure on the Groups profitability and reduce qualitative aspects.
the availability and attractiveness of contracts.
The Groups strengthened business development team utilises the feedback from regular client satisfaction surveys when developing new tenders to ensure they remain competitive to clients.
The Group has clear internal benchmarking and investment appraisal processes to evaluate tender proposals and to ensure that the Group is able to make a competitive offer, as well as meet its investment criteria.
The Group continues to extend its brand portfolio, including via partnerships with celebrity chefs, to provide breadth and depth as part of a tender process.
10 There may be a potential impact from Brexit on consumer The Group carefully monitors the ongoing negotiations of Impact of Brexit spending, cost inflation and the mobility of EU labour the UKs exit from the EU and as further impacts of Brexit in the UK.
develop and crystallise, the Executive Directors and senior NEW RISK management will consider and implement additional mitigating actions.
The Group maintains a global portfolio and regularly monitors the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on its cash flows, mitigating the impact from exchange risk.
The Groups pricing and range initiatives are driven by continuous monitoring of consumer spend benchmarks.
Various gross margin initiatives including recipe re-engineering and procurement rationalisation continue to be pursued, in order to mitigate the impact of cost inflation.
The Group continues to develop its UK recruitment strategy to ensure SSP is positioned as an attractive employer in the UK.
11 The Group may not be successful in winning new contracts on The Group prioritises its investment in new contracts as part of Insufficient commercially acceptable terms.
the ongoing review of its global pipeline, and the prioritisation business of its capital investment and resources.
The Group may not have the capability to enter new markets development and capitalise on the business development opportunities The Group has strengthened the management team in Asia capability and these provide.
Pacific and India, especially in finance and operations.
investment 20 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Risk Priority Risk Description Mitigating Factors 12 The laws and regulations governing the Groups industry The Group has processes in place to ensure compliance with Compliance Risk have become increasingly complex across a number of local laws and regulations.
The Group may obtain external jurisdictions and a wide variety of areas, including, among advice to supplement the in-house legal and compliance team.
NEW RISK others, food safety, labour, employment, immigration, The Group has a Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery and security and safety, health and safety, competition and Anti-Corruption Policy and training has been rolled out antitrust, consumer protection including data protection, internationally.
environment, licensing requirements and related The Groups procedures under the policy include regular compliance.
reporting by the businesses into the Risk Committee.
With a UK parent company, the Group is required to comply Compliance is monitored by Internal Audit and the Risk with the provisions of the UK Bribery Act and the new Committee on an ongoing basis and all alleged breaches legislation aimed at preventing the facilitation of tax evasion, of the Code of Conduct and policy are investigated.
as well as the local equivalent laws in the territories in which The Group has conducted a risk assessment regarding the new the Group operates.
UK tax legislation and is reviewing its policies and procedures The Group is required to comply with current data privacy in this regard.
laws, in many of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
In the The Group has established a GDPR working group with EU, the Company will be subject to the new General Data representatives from each key division to assess and ensure Protection Regulation GDPR from May 2018.
This requires the Group is able to manage GDPR compliance risk.
Local the adoption of stricter data management processes in champions have been identified and the Group is making order to address greater rights for individuals, mandatory progress to ensure it is compliant with the new rules.
breach reporting and more rigorous compliance obligations.
The Group has food safety controls and procedures in place There is a risk that the Group fails to comply with the new that are embedded in the Groups operations.
These are rules or to implement adequate processes to safeguard monitored by country management teams on a regular basis personal data.
This could give rise to larger fines, penalties and appropriate action is taken if any issues are identified.
and civil action from individuals.
Training sessions are also held in country to ensure compliance The preparation of food and maintenance of the Groups with these procedures.
supply chain require a base level of hygiene, temperature maintenance and traceability, and expose the Group to possible food safety liability claims and issues.
13 The Group fails to execute outsourcing projects effectively The Group continues to utilise specialist resources in the Execution of resulting in the business as usual being disrupted and the business to manage implementation and transition projects outsourcing introduction of new third party risks.
and to use external advisors to provide input into the programmes management of risks on such projects.
Performance feedback is reported to the Executive Committee on a regular basis and the Risk Committee periodically.
The Group has included the outsourcing centres in its Internal Audit review scope.
The outsourcing partners are highly reputable and were selected after a rigorous tender process and extensive due diligence.
14 The Groups success is largely dependent upon its ability to The Group carries out extensive customer research into Maintenance maintain its portfolio of proprietary brands as well as the passengers needs and continually analyses market trends in development of brands of its franchisors, and the appeal of those brands for order to enhance its brand and concept portfolio on an ongoing brand portfolio clients and customers.
The loss of any significant partner basis.
brands, the inability to obtain rights to new brands over The Group continues to strengthen its dedicated brands team time or the diminution in the appeal of partner brands or the to work closely with its partner brands and to enable greater Groups proprietary brands could impair the Groups ability capacity to attract and manage a broader portfolio of external to compete effectively in tender processes and ultimately brands.
have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
15 The Group becomes exposed to information security and The Group continually reviews its business continuity plans for Cyber threats cyber threats e. g. Payment Card Industry Data Security its supply chain, IT disaster recovery, and information security Standards PCIDSS.
policies and practices to ensure that these meet the changing landscape.
The Groups segmental business model and IT systems structure help to ensure that potential cyber attacks are likely to remain isolated locally rather than impacting the whole Group.
16 Risk that reputation is damaged if customers, clients and or The Group has a tax management policy which is based on Tax strategy suppliers believe that the Group is engaged in aggressive or Board guidance to adopt a low risk tax strategy.
21 STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Viability statement As detailed on page 8, the Groups strategy is focused on creating long-term sustainable value for its shareholders.
Taking this into account and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the Group for a period longer than the 12 months required by the going concern statement.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment with reference to the Groups current position and performance, the Boards risk appetite, the Groups principal risks and impact on the current business model, future prospects, and solvency and liquidity.
The viability period has been considered by the Directors and it was concluded that a three-year period remains appropriate.
This is consistent with the period covered by the Medium Term Plan which is approved by the Board annually, most recently in July 2017.
The Board consider the Group strategy and principal risks of each business unit when approving the plan.
It is underpinned by a detailed financial model which is based on a variety of assumptions about the key drivers of revenue, profit, capital expenditure and cash flow.
The Medium Term Plan review is supported by regular Board briefings provided by the regional and country management, which considers both the market opportunity and the associated risks and mitigating factors.
These risks are also reviewed as part of the Boards annual risk assessment process.
As set out on pages 18 to 21, the Board has identified the Groups principal risks to delivering the Groups strategy.
Using these risks, a range of reasonable but severe scenarios which could impact the future prospects and performance of the Group were applied to the plan.
This includes: one that uses as its reference point the 2008 09 financial crisis, when global economic conditions adversely impacted both passenger volumes and the spending habits of customers, leading to a rapid and unprecedented drop in like-for-like sales: one that envisages an external event that has a significant impact on the travel sector for a number of months: and one that considers the impact of a combined short-term decrease in sales and longer-term sustained decline in like-for-like sales.
Based on the assessment and considering the mitigating controls the Group has in place in case these extreme scenarios occur, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period to September 2020.
Going concern In addition, based on the detailed cash flow projections discussed above, as well as the stress-tested scenarios considered, the Directors are confident that the Group will be able to operate within its banking covenants and has sufficient liquidity levels for the next 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, the Directors believe it is appropriate to prepare the Annual Report and Accounts on a going concern basis.
See page 55 for further details.
