44 RETAIL These areas are dedicated to calling We continue to explore out our strongest fashion pieces opportunities to bring our every six weeks and highlighting the regularly changing items available unique offer of Amazing across our range.
Fashion, Amazing Prices to Our Italian store designs reflect the new markets across Europe concept introduced in the US market: a stripped back industrial look with Launching in the Italian market in 2016, design details concrete floors, pared we were confident our brand would back fittings and high-impact visual make an impact in a country famous merchandising displays.
Both Brescia for its fashion credentials.
We felt, Elns Shopping and Florence Il Gigli despite being a relatively unknown have generous space at the front of retailer in Italy, that we still had an the store that brings our brand promise advantage over our competitors.
Amazing Fashion, Amazing Prices to life and provides a welcoming entrance.
Our first store was in the Il Centro Shoppers are greeted by mannequins shopping centre in Arese, about 12km positioned on plinths creating a fashion from fashion capital Milan.
A former catwalk showcasing our latest looks Alfa Romeo factory which has been and emphasising the great value that transformed into the largest shopping Primark offers.
All four Italian stores centre in the country, Arese has over give our customers the excitement 200 shops and a projected footfall of shopping in a contemporary, of 13 million people each year.
At the Arese store opening, the first Brand building remains a focus, customer in the queue enthusiastically particularly as we enter new markets.
commented: I couldnt sleep last night Ahead of our entry into Italy, fashion because I was so excited: Im a huge influencers and press were introduced Primark fan!
I cannot wait to see what to Primark with a spring summer press the store looks like inside but Im sure event in Milan.
itll be great because the windows look fantastic.
The opening was supported The space was transformed into with a live stream on Facebook that gave a welcoming home featuring our an exclusive first look at the new store.
womenswear, menswear, kidswear, The post reached 3.3 million people with beauty and homeware collections.
1.1 million views on the platform.
Since Consumer media were invited to attend then we have had three more, highly during the day with the real house party successful, Italian store openings in happening in the evening with the Brescia, Florence and Verona.
arrival of over 180 digital influencers.
We are trading above expectations in The Primark branded logo wall this new market with both our mens encouraged guests to pose and post and womens clothing departments pictures using the hashtag #CiaoPrimark.
demonstrating higher sales mix than Both hashtags #CiaoPrimark and other European markets.
Licensed #CasaPrimark received significant merchandise is performing particularly engagement across social media well as consumers have responded platforms, trending on Twitter and positively to the broad selection of Instagram in Italy.
products available at a lower price point There were more than 30 fashion events than our competitors.
For example, happening in Milan on the same day yet during the last autumn winter season, our event still received an overwhelming the Arese store experienced the turnout from the traditional press, and strongest sales of the Harry Potter range the blogger party was oversubscribed.
when compared with the rest of the business.
An important part of engaging Opening in one of the worlds most our customers is the provision of an renowned fashion capitals was an outstanding, cutting-edge, shopping exciting proposition, and we are very experience.
We have made significant proud of our success to date as Italy advances in window presentation, visual further cements our fashion credibility.
merchandising, digital communication and the look and feel of each department, most notably with the introduction of trend rooms.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategy report operating review 45 CIAO ITALIA!
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 46 RETAIL INSTA-GLAM The power of social media storytelling continues to grow in popularity.
Primark boasts an incredibly engaged community across all social channels with beauty posts on Instagram regularly achieving in excess of 60,000 likes and Snapchats can get over 1.5 million views.
Female beauty bloggers attract consumers who are increasingly disillusioned with traditional brand advertising.
We regularly partner with leading beauty bloggers to co-create exclusive content for our digital channels, such as how-to YouTube tutorials for key product ranges around events such as music festivals.
POSITIONING EXCITING BEAUTY In a global beauty industry worth over FOR SUCCESS $382 billion, Primarks PS Beauty range has become a trusted brand in With a constant stream of beauty just three years.
looks, techniques and trends being communicated online, beauty has Our range includes more than 1,000 become an obsession for many.
items across make-up, accessories, fragrance and skincare and is one When it comes to beauty products, of our fastest growing categories, customers want value but not at the offering shoppers a comprehensive expense of quality.
The PS Beauty choice of cosmetics.
Products range range is within everyones reach, with from the functional brushes, blenders products that provide the innovation and cleansers to the fabulous lipsticks, and performance they expect, but contour and highlighter palettes, false without the big price tag.
Primark eyelashes and nail varnishes, and has established itself as a respected have mass appeal.
In a crowded health and beauty retailer endorsed and competitive market, our varied by beauty industry leaders.
offering at consistently low prices has established Primark as a leader.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report operating review 47 KEEPING IT ON TREND Sales continue to grow within product categories that are driven by cosmetic trends.
We constantly look to innovate and introduce new products and have expanded our range of colour foundations catering for all skin tones.
Other new categories include lip kits, pigment pots, and customisable eyeshadow palettes.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 48 FINANCIAL REVIEW in our net cash position, as a result of the groups longer-term financing, through our US private placement, and some local currency debt maintained as a hedge against assets in high inflation economies.
Profit before tax increased from 1,042m to 1,576m with the benefit of substantial profits on the sale of businesses.
On our adjusted basis, which excludes these items, profit before tax rose by 22% to 1,310m.
Acquisitions and disposals The disposal of our cane sugar business in south China was completed on 22 December 2016 for total proceeds, including debt assumed, of 297m.
The sale of ACHs herbs and spices business in the US completed on 21 November 2016 for a gross cash consideration of 294m and the assumption by the purchaser of net pension liabilities of 14m.
The profit arising on these disposals amounted to 293m on which tax of 87m was payable.
In October 2016 Stratas Foods, our commodity oils joint venture, completed the purchase of Supreme Oil, based in THIS WAS A YEAR OF VERY New Jersey, thereby strengthening its market capability in the northeast of the US.
In January 2017 AB Mauri acquired STRONG CASH GENERATION Specialty Blending, a bakery ingredients business located in Iowa.
We also acquired two small sports FOR THE GROUP nutrition businesses in the UK.
HIGH5 is a hydration and energy brand popular with endurance athletes and Reflex JOHN BASON, FINANCE DIRECTOR Nutrition provides a range of premium protein-based recovery products.
Sports nutrition is a high-growth market Group performance groups operating profit earned outside segment and we plan to develop these Group revenue increased by 15% the UK, this devaluation resulted in a brands and broaden their distribution.
to 15.4bn and adjusted operating translation benefit of 85m this financial profit was 22% higher at 1,363m.
year, most of which arose in the first Since the year end we have completed In calculating adjusted operating profit, three quarters.
Sterling weakness the acquisition of Acetum S. p. A. the the amortisation charge on non-operating against the US dollar had an adverse leading Italian producer of Balsamic intangibles, transaction costs, and profits transactional effect on Primarks largely Vinegar of Modena for 317m including or losses on disposal of non-current dollar denominated purchases this year, debt assumed.
In the year ended assets are excluded.
On an unadjusted whilst the euros strength in the second 31 December 2016, the company basis, operating profit was 21% higher half had a beneficial effect on British generated net sales of 102m.
Taxation revenue and operating profit both Next year we expect no material We recognise the importance of benefited to a small extent from a 53rd translation benefit at current exchange complying fully with all applicable tax weeks trading activity in some of our rates.
Sterling weakness against the US laws as well as paying and collecting the businesses, but this was offset by the dollar will continue to have an adverse right amount of tax in every country in consolidation of only 11 months results transactional effect on Primarks margin which the group operates.
Our boardfor Illovo last year as a consequence of in the first half although a benefit from adopted tax strategy is based on seven the alignment of its year end with the the euros strength is expected in the tax principles that are embedded in the rest of the group.
At current exchange rates, financial and non-financial processes and The result of the UK referendum on we also expect the euros strength to controls of the group.
Our tax strategy EU membership saw sterling weaken benefit British Sugars margin next year.
is available on the groups website at substantially in June 2016 against all www.
co. uk documents pdfs policies Net financing costs remained at a similar major currencies.
With over 60% of the abf tax strategy.
level to last year, despite the improvement Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
