y M f i i t t i n g e a d t I e 20 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 P Pr ri in nc ci ip pal al r ri is sk ks s an and d u un nc ce er rt tai aint nti ie es s All principal business functions compile risk registers and RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK summary risk maps to identify key risks, assess them in Our risk management framework is designed so that material terms of their likelihood and potential impact, and determine business risks throughout the Group can be identified, assessed appropriate control strategies to mitigate the impact of these and effectively managed.
This framework incorporates the risks taking account of risk appetite.
The ongoing monitoring following core elements: of this framework is overseen by the respective Business Risk Committees and the Group Audit Committee.
During the year, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal controls systems.
This review included the discussion and review of the risk registers and the internal controls across all business functions, as part of an annual exercise facilitated by the Internal Audit team.
During the year, the Board also received presentations from management on specific risk areas such as cyber risk, international expansion, and the ongoing risk monitoring processes and appropriate mitigating controls.
BOARD REVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Those principal risks are described on the following pages, along with explanations of how they are managed and mitigated.
The Group recognises that the profile of risks constantly changes and additional risks not presently known, or that may be currently deemed immaterial, may also impact the Groups business objectives and performance.
Our risk Identify Risk registers compiled by each business function management framework is therefore designed to manage rather Risk mapping to identify emerging issues than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and, as such, can only provide reasonable and not absolute Assess Determining the likelihood of risk occurrence assurance against these principal uncertainties impacting on Evaluating the potential impact business performance.
Mitigate Agreeing actions to manage the identified risks CHANGES IN PRINCIPAL RISKS COMPARED Ensuring control measures are in place TO LAST YEAR Monitor Reviewing the effectiveness of controls The table on the following page summarises the principal risks and uncertainties agreed by the Board.
The table incorporates Maintaining continued oversight and tracking further information relating to the movement in the level of these risk exposures during the year, to highlight whether, in our view, exposure to each of the principal risks is increasing, decreasing or remains broadly the same.
r A o s t i s n e o s M s Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 21 Key: Change in risk level higher no change lower Risk description Mitigation Change in risk level ECONOMIC, POLITICAL, COMPETITIVE AND MARKET RISKS The Group operates in highly competitive markets The Groups performance is dependent upon effectively and in the event of failing to compete effectively predicting and quickly responding to changing consumer with travel, convenience and other similar product demands.
The Group conducts customer research to category retailers, this may affect revenues obtained understand current demands and preferences in order to There are a number of through our stores.
Failure to keep abreast of market help translate market trends into saleable merchandise.
increasing uncertainties developments, including the use of new technology, relating to the nature The Group continues to monitor the implications arising could threaten our competitive position.
and resulting impact of from the process of exiting the European Union and is a the ongoing negotiations Factors such as the economic climate, levels of member of a number of key industry bodies which provide regarding the UKs exit household disposable income, seasonality of sales, insight and updates on this process.
from the European changing demographics and customer shopping Union.
These are further patterns, and raw material costs could also impact on described in the note on profit performance.
The Group may also be impacted by political developments such as exiting the European Union, regulatory and tax changes, increasing scrutiny by competition authorities and other changes in the general condition of the retail and travel markets.
BRAND AND REPUTATION The WHSmith brand is an important asset and The Group monitors the Companys reputation, brand failure to protect it from unfavourable publicity standards and key service and compliance measures could materially damage its standing and the to ensure the maintenance of operating standards and wider reputation of the business, adversely regulatory compliance across all of our operations.
We undertake regular customer engagement to understand and adapt our product, offer and store environment.
As the Group continues to expand its convenience food offer in travel locations, associated risks include We operate a framework for monitoring compliance with compliance with food hygiene and health and safety all regulatory, hygiene and safety standards, encompassing supplier and store audits and clearly defined sourcing procedures, product and service quality, environmental or ethical sourcing, and associated legislative and policies and procedures.
Our corporate responsibility programme monitors our performance in respect of our key regulatory requirements.
themes of the Marketplace, Workplace, Environment and Impact on the Community.
KEY SUPPLIERS AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT The Group has agreements with key suppliers in the The Group conducts risk assessments of all its key UK, Europe, the Far East and other countries in which suppliers to identify alternatives and develop contingency it operates.
The interruption or loss of supply of core plans in the event that any of these key suppliers fail.
category products from these suppliers to our stores Suppliers are required to comply with the conditions laid may affect our ability to trade.
Quality of supply issues out in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which covers areas may also impact the Groups reputation and impact such as production methods, employee working conditions our ability to trade.
The Group has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of these arrangements alone are individually considered to be essential to the business of the Group.
22 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk description Mitigation Change in risk level STORE PORTFOLIO The Group undertakes research of key markets and The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio are key contributors to the Groups strategy.
demographics to ensure that we continue to occupy prime sites and identify appropriate locations to acquire new space.
Retailing from a portfolio of good quality real estate in prime retail areas and key travel hubs at commercially We maintain regular dialogue and good relationships with reasonable rates remains critical to the performance our landlords.
The Group also conducts extensive customer of the Group.
research and analysis to gather feedback on changing All of High Streets stores are held under operating consumer requirements which is shared with landlords as leases, and consequently the Group is exposed to the part of this ongoing relationship management programme.
extent that any store becomes unviable as a result of rental costs.
Most Travel stores are held under concession agreements on average for five to ten years, although there is no guarantee that concessions will be renewed or that Travel will be able to bid successfully for new contracts.
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION An act of terrorism or war, or an outbreak of a The Group has a framework of operational procedures pandemic disease, could reduce the number of and business continuity plans that are regularly reviewed, customers visiting WHSmith outlets, causing a decline updated and tested.
The Group also has a comprehensive in revenue and profit.
In the past, our Travel business insurance programme covering our global assets, providing has been particularly impacted by geopolitical events cover ranging from property damage and product and public such as major terrorist attacks, which have led to liability, to business interruption and terrorism.
Back-up reductions in customer traffic.
Closure of travel facilities and contingency plans are in place and are reviewed routes both planned and unplanned, such as the and tested regularly to ensure that business interruptions disruption caused by natural disasters or weatherare minimised.
related events, may also have a material effect on The Groups IT systems receive ongoing investment to business.
The Group operates from three distribution ensure that they are able to respond to the needs of the centres and the closure of any one of them may cause business.
Back-up facilities and contingency plans are in disruption to the business.
place and are reviewed and tested regularly to ensure that In common with most retail businesses, the Group data is protected from corruption or unauthorised use.
also relies on a number of important IT systems, where any system performance problems, cyber risks or other breaches in data security could affect our ability to trade.
RELIANCE ON KEY PERSONNEL The performance of the Group depends on its ability to The Group reviews key roles and succession plans.
continue to attract, motivate and retain key head office The Remuneration Committee monitors the levels and store staff.
The retail sector is very competitive and and structure of remuneration for directors and senior the Groups personnel are frequently targeted by other management and seeks to ensure that they are designed companies for recruitment.
to attract, retain and motivate the key personnel to run the Group successfully.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 23 Risk description Mitigation Change in risk level INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION The Group continues to expand internationally.
In each The Group utilises three business models to manage country in which the Group operates, the Group may risk in our overseas locations: directly run, joint venture and franchise.
be impacted by political or regulatory developments, or changes in the economic climate or the general This is an area of The Group uses external consultants to advise on condition of the travel market.
increasing risk, reflecting compliance with international legislative and regulatory the growth of our requirements, to monitor developments that may impact International business.
on our operations in overseas territories and to conduct reputational due diligence on potential new business partners.
Our geographical spread of activity mitigates against the material concentration of risk in any one area.
TREASURY, FINANCIAL AND CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups exposure to and management of capital, The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce exposures liquidity, credit, interest rate and foreign currency to interest rates, foreign exchange and other financial risks, risk are analysed further in Note 23 on page 90 of the to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable financial statements.
The Group also has credit risk needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
in relation to its trade, other receivables and sale or The Group does not engage in speculative trading in financial return contracts with suppliers.
instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The value of any deposit that can be placed with any approved counterparty is based on shortterm and long-term credit ratings.
The Groups Treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and are subject to Group Internal Audit review.
The Group has a committed facility with a number of financial institutions which is available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
This facility matures in December 2021.
CYBER RISK AND DATA SECURITY The Group is subject to the risk of systems breach The Group employs a framework of IT controls to protect or data loss from various sources including external against unauthorised access to our systems and data, hackers or the infiltration of computer viruses.
including monitoring developments in cyber security.
Theft or loss of Company or customer data or potential This control framework encompasses the maintenance of While the external threat damage to any systems from viruses, ransomware or firewalls and intruder detection, encryption of data, regular level is ever changing, other malware could result in fines and reputational penetration testing conducted by our appointed external there has been a damage to the business that could negatively impact quality assurance providers and engagement with third party general increase in the our sales.
number of externally We have a Steering Group overseeing our approach and reported cyber attacks response to Cyber risk, and monitoring our programme of affecting businesses.
ongoing compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard and the EU GDPR.
