Strategic Report Risk Management We have a well-established and ensure risk management roles ensure the approach to risk effective framework in place for and responsibilities are defined, management meets the needs of the managing risks.
That said, due to communicated and understood.
business, senior management and all continuing changes both inside and key stakeholders.
improve the balance of risk and outside of our business, we have return through developing and reviewed and updated our framework Risk management roles and maintaining a proactive, risk as deemed appropriate during the aware culture.
The introduction of an in-house Within any business, the management risk and internal audit function now ensure there is a consistent approach of risk is the responsibility of every adds further strength to our risk for the identification, assessment, employee.
In undertaking individual management framework.
control, monitoring, follow up and roles and responsibilities, employees reporting of risks.
It is the responsibility of management to are assisting in identifying, assessing implement the Boards policies on risk develop and implement action and managing risks.
Specific roles management and internal control.
plans to ensure that risks are and responsibilities as set out in our mitigated where required, are within risk management framework and Our risk management objectives are to: our agreed risk appetite and that corresponding policy are: assess risks against an agreed improvements are made to our appetite for risk, which is control environment.
The Audit Board Committee Overall responsibility for Oversee risk management risk management.
Review, challenge and approve Review routine risk reports and utilise the risk management framework risk information to review and approve and corresponding policy, processes assurance plans and priorities.
Provide assurance over risk Review and agree risk appetite.
Review and challenge Monitor the progress of risk risk reports.
Executive Head Management of Risk Review, challenge and approve the Design and implement the risk risk management framework and management framework and corresponding policy and processes.
Review and challenge risk information Facilitate and implement the risk against stated business objectives.
management framework, policy and processes.
Approve risk treatments and actions.
Undertake risk management Approve risk reports for the Board.
activities and produce reports in accordance with risk Review and agree management policy.
Key Reports to Direct and monitor 16 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Risk management process A detailed risk register is maintained of all of our potential risks, including Identify strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks.
The risk management all business areas processes are set up to ensure all aspects of the business are considered, from strategy through to business execution.
Specialist areas are also incorporated into the risk processes, for example, corporate responsibility and joint ventures.
The risk register is reviewed on Evaluate a regular basis as part of the severity management reporting process of risks resulting in the regular assessment of each risk, its severity and any required mitigating actions.
The severity of risk is determined based on a defined scoring system assessing risk impact and likelihood.
Derived from the detailed risk register, a summary of principal risks is reported Treat to management, the Audit Committee to bring within and the Board.
This summary is mainly, risk appetite but not exclusively, comprised of risks scoring above our risk appetite after mitigation.
This summary is reviewed throughout the year, with the Board systematically considering the risks taking into account any changes which may have occurred.
Once a year, via the Audit Committee, the Board Action determines whether the system of risk management is appropriately designed mitigate risks and operating effectively.
where needed More information on risk management and internal controls is included within the Audit Committee Report on pages 46 to 50.
Report monitor risks and report progress of mitigation 17 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Risk Management continued Principal risks Through our regular risk management programme of activities, we have identified the following principal risks to our business: Risk and Strategic KPIs Mitigation Change description relevance in year Land Inability to source - Insufficient land would - Land bank with DPP.
- Budgeting and forecasting of suitable land at affect our volume growth growth targets to ensure land bank - Number of homes sold.
- Failure to buy land at the - Thorough pre-purchase due No change.
right margin would have diligence and viabilities on a detrimental effect on - EPS.
These are kept under regular review to ensure capital is invested appropriately.
- Authorisation of all land purchases in accordance with Group procedures at Head Office.
Planning Delays and complexity - Failure to obtain planning - EPS.
- Centralised and divisional planning in the planning process.
within appropriate, prespecialists provide advice and - RoCE.
planned timescales would support to the divisions to assist - Number of plots have a detrimental impact with securing planning permissions.
acquired directly in on our growth prospects - Management of immediate, land bank with an and have an adverse medium-term and strategic land to implementable DPP.
maintain an appropriate balance - Number of plots of land in terms of quantity and converted from location.
medium-term pipeline to land with DPP.
- Number of plots in our pipeline land bank.
- Number of plots identified in our strategic land bank with a positive planning status.
Construction resources Shortage of - Failure to secure required - Number of homes sold.
- Systems are in place to select, appropriately skilled resources causes delays appoint, monitor, manage and - Customer care sub-contractors in construction, impacting build long-term relationships with satisfaction.
and shortages of the ability to deliver our sub-contractors.
building materials at volume growth targets.
- Competitive rates and prompt competitive prices.
- Pricing pressure would payment for our sub-contractors.
- Group purchasing arrangements are in place.
- Continued review and monitoring of supplier performance.
Health and safety There are significant - In addition to the moral - Number of RIDDOR - The Board considers health and health and safety obligation and the seven-day lost time safety issues at every meeting.
risks inherent in the requirement to act in accidents.
- Regular visits to sites by senior construction process.
a responsible manner, - NHBC Health and Safety management independent of our This risk has increased injuries to any individual Awards.
divisions and external consultants slightly during the while at one of our to monitor health and safety year as a result of - NHBC health and safety business locations could standards and performance against increased complexity benchmark.
delay construction the health and safety policies and in regulations and and result in criminal procedures.
prosecution, civil litigation and reputational damage.
18 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Risk and Strategic KPIs Mitigation Change description relevance in year Sales and external factors There are a number - The ultimate impact of - Number of homes sold.
- Ongoing monitoring of key of external factors that these external factors business metrics and development - Forward order book.
could affect our ability to would be on the ability of action plans as necessary.
generate sales, including to sell houses and - Product range and pricing strategy No change.
but not limited to: apartments and on - Customer care determined based on regional returns.
- Use of sales incentives, such as inflation and interest - RoCE.
part-exchange, to encourage the rates.
- Use of government-backed - government housing schemes to encourage home policy.
Human resources Inability to - Failure to attract and - Employee turnover.
- Continued development of the attract and retain retain people with Group Human Resources function - Number of graduates appropriate people.
appropriate skills will and implementation of our people and apprentices.
affect our ability to strategy.
- Number of people who perform and deliver our - Competitive salary and benefits have worked for the volume growth target.
packages which are regularly Group for ten years or reviewed.
- Succession plans in place and key person dependencies identified and mitigated.
- Graduate and apprentice training programmes in place.
IT and security Failure to have suitable - Poor performance of our - EPS.
- Group-wide systems are in systems in place and systems would affect operation which are centrally appropriate back up, operational efficiency, controlled with an outsourced contingency plans and profitability and our support function in place.
This risk has increased security policies.
due to growing complexity of our - Regular review and testing of our business, together security measures, contingency with continued plans and IT security policies.
external exposure to ever-changing security threats.
Legal and regulatory compliance Failure to comply - Lack of appropriate - Volume growth.
- Central Secretariat, Legal, Health with legislation and procedures and and Safety and Technical functions - EPS.
compliance would advise and support divisions on result in delays in land compliance and regulatory matters.
development and - Group-wide policies, procedures construction, have a and training for key regulatory detrimental impact on matters.
profitability and reputation and potentially lead to financial penalties and other regulatory consequences.
The previously reported principal risk relating to the environment remains under constant review, but mitigating actions during the year and our current control environment have reduced potential exposure from this risk and it has thus been removed from our principal risks.
19 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Risk Management continued In managing risk, the Group assesses Interest rate risk Financial risk management the credit risk of its counterparties Interest rate risk reflects the Groups The Groups financial instruments before entering into a transaction.
exposure to fluctuations in interest comprise cash, bank loans and As part of the disposal of the Groups rates.
The risk arises because the overdrafts and various items such interest in Barking Riverside Limited, Groups overdraft and floating rate bank as trade receivables and trade as set out in note 5 to the accounts, loans bear interest based on LIBOR.
payables that arise directly from its the Group has a receivable with a operations.
The main objective of The Groups attitude to interest rate fair value of 11.984 million due from the Groups policy towards financial risk and forecast debt is influenced by L&Q New Homes Limited.
The credit instruments is to maximise returns the existing and forecast conditions risk associated with this receivable on the Groups cash balances, prevailing at the time that each new is considered to be low as it is a manage the Groups working capital interest-bearing instrument is entered reputable counterparty.
requirements and finance the Groups into.
This will determine, amongst other ongoing operations.
No credit limits were exceeded during things, the term and whether a fixed or the reporting period or subsequently floating interest rate is obtained.
and the Group does not anticipate Capital management During the year ended 31 July 2017, it any losses from non-performance by The Boards policy is to maintain a is estimated that an increase of 1% in these counterparties.
strong capital base to underpin the interest rates applying to the full year future development of the business in The Board considers the Groups would have decreased the Groups order to deliver value to shareholders.
exposure to credit risk to be acceptable profit before taxation by 1.708 million The Group finances its operations and normal for an entity of its size, in 2016 0.986 million.
through re-invested profits, bank the industry in which it operates.
borrowings, cash in hand and the Housing market risk management of working capital.
Liquidity risk The Group is affected by movements The Group finances its operations The Board expects to maintain a in UK house prices.
These in turn through a mixture of equity comprising dividend cover of around three are affected by factors such as credit share capital, reserves and re-invested times earnings.
availability, employment levels, interest profit and debt comprising bank rates, consumer confidence and supply overdraft facilities and borrowings.
Management of financial risk of land with planning.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by The main risks associated with the While it is not possible for the Group monitoring existing facilities and cash Groups financial instruments held to fully mitigate housing market flows against forecast requirements during the year have been identified as risk on a national macroeconomic based on a three-year rolling credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk basis, the Group does continually cash forecast.
The Board is monitor its geographical spread responsible for managing these risks The Groups Treasury Policy has, as its within the UK, seeking to balance principal objective, the maintenance of and the policies adopted, which have investment in areas offering the best remained unchanged during the year flexible bank facilities in order to meet immediate returns with a long-term anticipated borrowing requirements.
spread of its operations throughout The Groups banking arrangements the UK to minimise the effect of local outlined in note 17 to the accounts Credit risk microeconomic fluctuations.
are considered to be adequate in The Groups exposure to credit risk is terms of flexibility and liquidity for largely mitigated as the vast majority its medium-term cash flow needs.
of the Groups sales are made on Relationships with banks and overall completion of a legal contract, at which cash management are co-ordinated point monies are received in exchange centrally.
The Group is operating well for transfer of legal title.
within its financial covenants and There is no specific concentration of available bank facilities.
credit risk in respect of home sales as Short-term cash surpluses are placed the exposure is spread over a number on deposit at competitive rates with of customers.
In respect of trade high quality counterparties.
Other than receivables, the amounts presented those disclosed, there are no financial in the balance sheet are stated after instruments or derivative contracts.
adjusting for any doubtful receivables, The Board therefore considers the based on the judgement of the Groups Groups liquidity risk to be mitigated.
management through using both previous experience and knowledge of In relation to land payables, certain the current position note 14. payables are secured on the respective land asset held note 16.
No other security is held against any other financial assets of the Group.
20 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
