Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 16 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Management Further details on our approach to risk groups activities, business model and The group faces a number of risks in the management are set out on pages 59 strategy are unchanged as set out on the normal course of business providing and 60.
Risk management is overseen previous pages.
As a result the principal lending, deposit taking, wealth by the Board Risk Committee and its key risks and uncertainties the group faces management services and securities areas of focus over the last year are set and our approach to mitigating them trading.
We believe the remain broadly unchanged.
The key risks facing the group now are how consistency of both our business model As set out in the strategy section on the current economic uncertainty, including and risk management approach has previous pages, the protection of our that arising from the departure of the UK underpinned the groups track record of established business model is a key from the EU, will impact our customers trading successfully and supporting our strategic objective.
As a result the and in particular their ability to repay clients in all market conditions.
management of the risks we face is loans, the regulatory landscape and how central to everything we do.
The key it may impact some or all of our The summary below should not be elements to the way we manage risk businesses, the competitive environment regarded as a complete and are as follows: and maintaining operational resilience comprehensive statement of all potential Adhering to our established and particularly given growing cyber threats.
risks and uncertainties faced by the group proven business model outlined on but rather those which the group currently pages 10 to 13: Risks and uncertainties believes may have a significant impact on Implementing an integrated risk The following pages set out the principal its performance and future prospects.
management approach based on risks and uncertainties which may the concept of three lines of impact the groups ability to deliver its defence: and strategy, how we seek to mitigate these Setting and operating within clearly risks and the change in the perceived defined risk appetites monitored with level of risk over the year.
While we defined metrics and set limits.
constantly monitor emerging risks, the Key: No change Risk decreased Risk increased Risk uncertainty Mitigation Change We seek to minimise our exposure to Credit losses credit losses from our lending by: As a lender to small businesses and Applying strict lending criteria when individuals, the group is exposed to testing the credit quality and covenant Bad debts have remained low credit losses if customers are unable to of the borrower: during the year to 31 July 2017 and repay loans and outstanding interest and Maintaining consistent and our other counterparty exposures fees.
At 31 July 2017 the group had conservative loan to value ratios with are broadly unchanged with the loans and advances to customers low average loan size and shortmajority of our liquidity requirements amounting to 6.9 billion.
termtenors: and surplus funding placed with the Lending on a predominantly secured Bank of England.
The group also has exposure to basis against identifiable and counterparties with which it places accessible assets: However, we are monitoring the deposits or trades, and also has a Maintaining rigorous and timely uncertainty over Brexit combined smallnumber of derivative contracts collections and arrears management with rising consumer debt levels tohedge interest rate and foreign processes: and and potential increases in interest exchange exposures.
Operating strong control and rates closely.
This uncertainty, governance both within our lending combined with the low level of businesses and with oversight by a current credit losses, increases the central credit risk team.
risk of higher credit losses.
Our exposures to counterparties are Further commentary on the credit mitigated by: quality of our loan book is outlined Conservative management of our on pages 26 to 31.
Further details liquidity requirements and surplus on loans and advances to funding with 0.8 billion placed with customers and debt securities held the Bank of England: are in notes 10 and 11 on pages Continuous monitoring of the credit 120 and 121 of the Financial quality of our counterparties within Statements.
approved set limits: and Winterfloods trading relating to Our approach to credit risk exchange traded cash securities and management and monitoring is being settled on a delivery versus outlined in more detail in note 27 payment basis.
Counterparty exposure onpage 142. and settlement failure monitoring controls are also in place.
Strategic Report Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 17 Risk uncertainty Mitigation Change The groups business model aims to Economic environment ensure that we are able to trade Any downturn in economic conditions successfully and support our clients in all may impact the groups performance economic conditions.
By maintaining a Economic uncertainty remains through: strong financial position we aim to be elevated in our view.
While the Lower demand for the groups able to absorb short-term economic performance of the UK economy products and services: downturns, continuing to lend when has been resilient following the 2016 Lower investor risk appetite as a result others pull back and hence build referendum, the current period of of financial markets instability: long-term relationships by supporting uncertainty is likely to continue Higher credit losses as a result of ourclients when it really matters.
reflecting both the outcome of customers inability to service debt and Brexit negotiations and wider lower asset values on which loans are We test the robustness of our financial globalevents.
secured: and position by carrying out regular stress Increased volatility in funding markets.
testing on our performance and financial Further commentary on the position in the event of adverse attributes and resilience of the economic conditions.
groups business model is shown on pages 10 to 13.
The group seeks to manage these Legal and regulatory risks by: Changes to the existing legal, regulatory Providing straightforward and and tax environments and failure to transparent products and services Financial services businesses comply with existing requirements may toour clients: remain the subject of significant materially impact the group.
Governance and control processes regulatory scrutiny.
Minimum capital to review and approve new products requirements are increasing as Failing to treat customers fairly, to and services: regulatory buffers are phased in safeguard client assets or to provide Maintaining a prudent capital position while global consultations over advice and products which are in clients with headroom to minimum capital capital levels continue.
There has best interests has the potential to requirements: also been growing regulatory focus damage our reputation and may lead to Investing in training for all staff on consumer borrowing, particularly legal or regulatory sanctions including including anti-money laundering, around motor finance, and also on litigation and customer redress.
This bribery and corruption, conduct risk, the Asset Management industry.
applies to current, past and future data protection and information For further details on this and our business.
Additional tailored training for response please see page 22. relevant employees is provided in key Similarly changes to regulation and areas such as complaint handling: Further information on our taxation can impact our financial Continuous monitoring of key legal, approach to conduct risk can be performance, capital and liquidity and regulatory and tax developments to found in the Sustainability Report the markets in which we operate.
anticipate their potential impact: and on page 39.
Maintaining constructive and positive relationships and dialogue with regulatory bodies and tax authorities.
The group has a long track record of Competition trading successfully in all types of The group operates in highly competitive competitive environment.
markets and we expect to see continued We continue to experience high high levels of competition particularly We value our clients and build long-term levels of competition across each of within our asset and motor finance relationships offering a differentiated our businesses, particularly in businesses in the Banking division.
proposition based on: certain areas of the Banking Speed and flexibility of service: division.
Our approach remains Elevated levels of competition may Local presence: unchanged as we focus on impact demand for the groups products Experienced and expert people: and supporting our clients, maintaining and services.
Tailored, client driven product underwriting standards and offerings.
This differentiated proposition combined Further commentary on the market with the consistent application of our environment of the Banking division business model helps build long-term is outlined on page 26.
Our relationships and generate high levels of business model is set out on pages repeat business.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk uncertainty Mitigation Change The group continues to invest in its IT Technology and operational services.
Currently there are major resilience investment projects across a number of our businesses to enhance our customer Providing robust, contemporary and Operational resilience remains a key offering.
Asset Management has recently secure IT services is fundamental to area of focus for the group, successfully completed the conversion enabling the group to: particularly as the rate of of our clients on to a single technology Provide a high quality customer technology-driven disruption, platform to enhance the customer experience across our businesses: including the impact and severity of experience and increase operating Respond to new technology: cyber attacks, within the financial efficiency.
The group has strong Protect client and company data: and services industry continues to governance in place to oversee its Counter the evolving cyber threat.
We continue to invest and major projects.
upgrade our IT infrastructure to Failure to keep up with changing improve our customer proposition, We also continue to invest in customer expectations or provide simplify our technology architecture strengthening our cyber capabilities reliable, secure IT services has the and enhance resilience to cyber including the appointment of a new potential to impact group performance.
We conducted a test scenario with the For further information on our senior executive team during the year.
response to cyber threats see page 63 of the Risk Committee Report.
We have in place, and regularly test, operational resilience capabilities, including crisis management, business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
The group seeks to attract, retain and Employees develop staff by: The quality and expertise of our Operating remuneration structures employees is critical to the success of which are competitive and recognise Our highly skilled people are likely to the group.
The loss of key individuals or and reward performance: be targeted but we are confident teams may have an adverse impact on Implementing succession planning we are able to retain key the groups operations and ability to for key roles: employees.
Improving our talent pipeline via our graduate and school leavers Further detail on the employee programmes, and training academy survey and our investment in our inasset finance: people is outlined in the Investing in training and development Sustainability Report on pages for all staff: and 36to39.
Delivering leadership development programmes to develop current and future leaders for the group.
Strategic Report Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 19 Risk uncertainty Mitigation Change Our funding approach is conservative Funding and liquidity based on the principle of borrow long, The Banking divisions access to funding lend short.
The average maturity of remains key to support our lending funding allocated to the loan book was While economic uncertainty has activities and the liquidity requirements 21 months at 31 July 2017.
This the potential to impact funding ofthe group.
compares to our weighted average loan markets, overall the group remains maturity of 14 months.
well funded and continues to have good access to a wide range of Our funding is well diversified both by funding sources.
source and channel, and by type and tenor.
Liquidity in our Banking division is We have further diversified our assessed on a daily basis to ensure funding during the year.
The diversity adequate liquidity is held and remains of funding combined with relatively readily accessible in stressed conditions.
long tenor when compared to the average duration of our lending At 31 July 2017 the groups funding means we are well placed.
position was strong with total available funding equal to 127% of the loan book.
Further commentary on funding This provides a prudent level of liquidity and liquidity is provided on pages to support our lending activities.
Further financial analysis of our funding is shown in note 18 on page 127 of the Financial Statements.
Our policy is to minimise interest rate risk Market risk by matching fixed and variable interest Market volatility impacting equity and rate assets and liabilities using swaps fixed income exposures, and or changes where appropriate.
The groups capital The groups approach and the in interest and exchange rates have the and reserves are not hedged.
potential to impact the groups Further detail on the groups performance.
Similarly foreign exchange exposures are exposure to market risk is outlined generally hedged using foreign exchange in note 27 on pages 145 to 147 of forwards or currency swaps with the Financial Statements.
exposures monitored daily against approved limits.
The sensitivity analysis on interest rate exposures shown in note 27 on Winterflood is a market maker providing page 145 demonstrates the limited liquidity to its clients.
Our trading is level of exposure to interest rate and predominantly short-term with most foreign exchange movements.
transactions settling within three days.
Trading positions are monitored on a real time basis and both individual and trading book limits are set to control exposure.
Trading exposures on foreign securities are also hedged and monitored against limits.
