Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk management Board Overall responsibility for corporate strategy, governance, performance, internal controls andrisk management Effective risk management is defines the Groups appetite for risk and monitors risks to ensure they are effectively managed, fundamental to the achievement of our including agreeing actions where necessary strategic objectives.
Risk management controls are integrated into all levels Remuneration of our business and across all of our Audit Committee Nomination Safety, Health Disclosure Committee Committee and Environment Committee Reviewing the operations.
We continually monitor and Committee effectiveness of Ensuring an Assessing the Responsible for internal controls, appropriate balance appropriate Responsibility for ensuring that the manage our exposure to risk and seek including systems to ofskills, knowledge incentivisation of the the stewardship Company remains identify, assess and andexperience on Executive Directors and of safety, health compliant with toensure that risks are appropriately monitor risks the Board Senior Management and environmental the requirements mitigated in order to deliver our strategy.
performance of the Market Abuse Regulation Executive Committee Roles and responsibilities Monitoring business and operational performance and changes in key risks facing the business and providing regular reports to the Board The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship of our Responsible for ensuring that the risk management policy is implemented and system of risk management and internal control.
It has embedded within the business and appropriate actions are taken to manage risks undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks in our business and has established the appropriate level of risk that is acceptable in the pursuit of our strategic objectives and has Operations Risk Committee Treasury Operating Land Committee Health and Safety set appropriate policies to govern this.
The Board, as part of its Committee Committee Operating Consideration of Reviewing and regular risk assessment procedures also takes into account the Committee Reviewing regional identied risks and Management of liquidity authorising all significance of environmental, social and governance matters to operating performance their mitigation and counterparty risk proposed land Reviewing the the business of the Company.
Based on the regular and adequate and ensuring that acquisitions to manage effectiveness of health Identication of new treasury policies are land acquisition risk and safety policies and information provided to the Board on such matters, it identified and emerging risks implemented and establishing controls and assessed the significant risks to the Companys short and and procedures to embedded within long term value as well as potential opportunities to enhance the business manage these risks value that may arise from an appropriate response to matters.
It has also set delegated authority levels to provide the executive framework for assessing risks and ensuring that they are Regional and Divisional Management escalated to the appropriate levels of management, including up Responsible for risk identication, management and control within their region or division to the Board where appropriate, for consideration and approval.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its committees and Site Management all levels of management from a risk management perspective are summarised on this page: Maintaining an effective system of risk management and internal control at their site including construction risks, sub-contractor risks and health and safety 40 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2017 2016 Why and how our risks change The principal risks identified either separately Low Medium High Low Medium High or in combination could have a material adverse effect on the implementation of the Group strategy, our business, financial Economic environment, including housing A performance, shareholder value and returns demand and mortgage availability and reputation.
Reputational risk could potentially arise from a number of sources including external and internal influences relating to the B Land purchasing housebuilding sector which when combined or over a period of time could create a new principal risk.
The Group actively manages the impact of reputational risk by carefully Liquidity C assessing the potential impact of all the principal risks and implementing mitigation actions to minimise those risks.
The Group is committed to safeguarding the Attracting and retaining D environment in which it operates and assesses high-calibre employees climate change risks as set out in our Climate Change Policy online and our annual submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Availability of raw materials, E sub-contractors and suppliers Principal risks probability assessment Whilst the principal risks for the Group related to the execution of its business strategy have not fundamentally changed, the likelihood of Government regulation F and planning policy the risk factors occurring can change.
The diagram on this page shows the estimated likelihood of each principal risk following our risk mitigation review and strategies G Construction and new technologies implemented in both 2016 and 2017.
The principal risks the Group has identified are not listed by order of importance and the illustration on the probability does not H Joint ventures and consortia consider the relative size of any associated financial or reputational impact of each item.
Safety, health and environmental I J IT Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 41 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk management continued Principal risks A B C D E Risk Economic environment, Land purchasing Liquidity Attracting and retaining Availability of raw materials, including housing demand high-calibre employees sub-contractors and suppliers and mortgage availability Potential Changes in the UK and European The ability to secure sufficient consented Unavailability of sufficient borrowing The ability to recruit and or retain Shortages or increased costs of impact macroeconomic environments, including land and strategic land options at an facilities to enable the servicing of employees with the appropriate skills materials and skilled labour, the but not limited to, flat or negative appropriate cost and quality to provide liabilities including pension funding and orsufficient numbers of such employees.
failure of a key supplier or the inability economic growth, inflation, interest profitable growth.
the inability to refinance facilities as they to secure supplies upon appropriate rates, buyer confidence, mortgage fall due, obtain surety bonds, or comply credit terms could increase costs and availability, Government backed with borrowing covenants.
schemes, competitor pricing, falls in there are risks from management of house prices or land values, may lead to working capital such as conditional a falling demand or lower price achieved contracts, build costs, joint ventures for houses, which in turn could result in andthe cash flows related to them.
impairments of the Groups inventories, goodwill and intangible assets.
Mitigation Board, Executive Committee, regional All potential land acquisitions are Committed bank facilities and private Comprehensive Human Resources Centralised team procures the majority and divisional management reviews subject to formal appraisal and placement notes of around 900m with programme including apprenticeship of the Groups materials from within the approval by the Land Committee maturity on the RCF in 2021 and the schemes, a graduate development UK including sub-contractor materials, Quarterly site valuations private placement notes in 2027 programme, succession planning ensuring consistent quality and costs Group, regional and divisional review Comprehensive sales policies and training academies tailored ofland currently owned, committed Regular forecasts of working capital Seek to establish and maintain long andregular review of pricing, local toeach discipline andidentified against requirements and cash requirements and compliance term supplier and sub-contractor markets and developing good working with banking covenants Ongoing monitoring of employee partnerships with all of our significant relationships with mortgage lenders turnover and absence statistics supply agreements fixed in advance, Policy requiring minimum headroom andfeedback from exit interviews usually for 12 months of 150m of drawings against committed facilities Annual employee engagement survey Establishing a key supplier audit to measure employee satisfaction programme to assess risks to the reliability of supply continuity Remuneration benchmarking against industry competitors Group policies include tendering, the requirement for multiple suppliers for both labour contracts and material supplies and establish contingency plans should any key supplier fail The The majority of our customers Securing more sites that at least meet Availability of sufficient committed and Development of skilled employees is Maintaining sufficient material and opportunity require mortgages to purchase their our hurdle rates of a minimum 20% gross surety facilities ensures that the Group critical to deliver the Groups strategy skilled sub-contractor availability will new home.
Buyer confidence, the margin and 25% site ROCE will enable can manage changes in the economic of disciplined growth, improving key enable disciplined volume growth.
availability of mortgages and mortgage disciplined volume growth.
environment and take advantage of financial metrics through a focus on interest rates are affected by the appropriate land buying and operational efficiency and the continued delivery economic environment.
opportunities to help deliver sustainable ofattractive cash returns.
Business 1 3 4 1 3 1 1 2 3 4 5 3 5 model link 42 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Principal risks F G H I J Risk Government regulation and planning policy Construction and new technologies Joint ventures and consortia Safety, health and environmental IT Potential Inability to adhere to the increasingly Failure to identify and achieve key Large development projects, some of Health and safety or environmental Failure of any of the Groups IT systems impact stringent and complex regulatory construction milestones, due to factors which involve joint ventures or consortia breaches can result in injuries to in particular those relating to surveying environment, including planning and including the impact of adverse weather arrangements and or commercial employees, sub-contractors and site and valuation, could adversely impact the technical requirements and time taken conditions, identify cost overruns developments, are complex and capital visitors, causing potential reputational performance of the Group.
to obtain planning approval affects promptly, design and construction intensive and changes may negatively damage, criminal prosecution and the housing market and generally defects, and exposure to environmental impact upon cash flows or returns.
civil litigation, delays in construction theregulatory requirements.
liabilities, which could delay construction, orincreased costs.
increase costs, reduce selling prices and result in litigation and uninsured losses.
There are also risks associated with climate change and the use of new technology in the build process e. g. materials related to carbon reduction.
Mitigation Considerable in-house technical Executive Committee, regional All potential joint ventures are subject Internally resourced health Centrally maintained IT systems and planning expertise focused anddivisional reviews and quarterly to formal appraisal and approval by the andsafety team Fully-tested disaster on complying with regulations and site valuations Groups Land Committee and the Board Regular health and safety monitoring recovery programme achieving implementable planning Continuous review of MMC and the Once operational, the performance of by our in-house team, internal and Regular reviews to seek to reduce consents that meet local requirements quality of materials which are evaluated joint ventures and consortia are subject external audits of all operational units therisk of successful cyber-attacks Robust and rigorous design standards by external and internal technical to regular review and regular Senior Management Working with external specialists for the homes and places we develop experts, including the NHBC, to ensure reviews of developments and consultants on a detailed GDPR compliance with all building and Policies and technical guidance Continual reinforcement of Group compliance programme other regulations manuals for employees on regulatory health and safety and environmental compliance and the standards of Monitoring and improving policies and procedures business conduct expected environmental and sustainability Dedicated SHE Board and impact of construction methods Consultation with Government Operations Committees which andmaterials used agencies, membership of industry review key performance indicators, groups to help understand and monitor Maintenance of appropriate improvement plans and reinforce proposed regulation change insurance cover the importance of health, safety andenvironmental compliance The Securing sufficient, appropriate planning Assessing of MMC and implementing Securing more joint venture sites Continue to prioritise and focus upon Improve integration of IT systems opportunity permissions upon new sites will where appropriate to reduce the risks that at least meet our hurdle rates health and safety to seek to reduce injury to enhance business control and enable the Group to deliver disciplined inherent in the construction process and enables disciplined volume growth rates and manage the risks inherent in drive efficiency.
to help address the shortage of skilled and engaging with joint ventures to the construction process.
assist in reducing and sharing risks oncomplex, capital intensive, bespoke and commercial developments.
Business 1 2 2 3 1 3 2 3 1 2 3 4 5 model link 1 Targeted land buying and effective planning.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 43 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk management continued New risks Managing risk availability of raw materials, sub-contractors and suppliers No new principal risks have emerged during the financial year Increased risk profile Why?
Housebuilding is a long term business and the have been built up over a long period of working together as partners.
Through our long term development of sustained business partnerships None n a with suppliers and sub-contractors, is critical to relationships, we aim to establish ourselves Decreased risk profile Why?
as the preferred customer with our suppliers.
The failure of a key supplier in our supply chain or the inability to secure supplies This constant focus on long term relationships Liquidity The Groups average level of debt has continued to decrease during the financial C means that we are able to benefit in periods when they are required, could increase costs year, and in December 2016 the Group extended its 700.0m revolving credit and delay construction.
The risk to our supply of short term market supply shortage.
The Group entered into a new fixed rate 200.0m US private We continually evaluate all of our supply markets chain is categorised into three principal areas: placement on 22 August 2017. commercial risk, continuity of supply risk and in order to develop appropriate sourcing strategies for each of our supply inputs, be that single or reputational risk.
multi supplier sourcing, to ensure we have the The commercial risk relates to the risk of Viability Statement ability to meet construction demand across our increasing cost inflation in our supply base.
business when required for each product or subThe Group manage this risk by implementing contractor skilled trade.
Group-wide supply arrangements for key raw The Group considers it is subject to a number of In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK materials required in the construction process.
During the year, the Group introduced a Corporate Governance Code 2016, the Directors principal risks as set out in more detail in pages 42 Such arrangements allow us to ensure the new, supplier evaluation and development to 43, and its Viability Statement review considers have assessed the prospects and financial viability continuity of our supplies as well as maximising programme, which we believe is the first of its of the Group, taking into account both its current the impact that these risks particularly those the leverage of our market position.
The Group type in the industry.
This programme is used to related to the economic environment and liquidity position and circumstances, and the potential have long term trading relationships with our assess the capability of our suppliers so that we impact of its principal risks.
The Directors might have on its ability to meet its targets.
This is suppliers, and with a centralised procurement can ensure continuity of supply over the medium undertaken through the performance of sensitivity consider that a three year period is appropriate team invest in those relationships through term.
This programme will be rolled out across forthis assessment.
testing, using appropriately challenging scenarios constant engagement.
This promotes stability our most important suppliers during the rest which reflect severe but plausible impacts The Groups objective is for a shorter than in our supplier base and a degree of certainty of of 2017. based on current market conditions and applying sector average land bank reflecting its focus on the supply of raw materials as well as ensuring The failure of a key supplier, sub-contractor or estimates for the impact of these risks to ensure return oncapital and a fast build and sell model.
the costs of supplies remain competitive.
the inability to source raw materials in our supply that the quantified mitigation actions available to it Our target is a regionally balanced land portfolio The Group perform benchmarking on market chain could impact the quality and or timing of are sufficient.
This process involves consideration with a supply of owned land of c. 3.5 years and a prices to identify and continually strive on areas construction, which in turn could impact on our of the impact of our chosen scenarios on key further 1.0 years of controlled land.
Accordingly, for improvement in our supply chain.
We are customers experience of our product offering.
business drivers, including the volume of legal we consider it appropriate that our viability review developing market intelligence on commodity We put customer satisfaction at the heart of completions achieved, average selling prices and period is broadly aligned with the expected prices to ensure we continue to plan and react our construction processes with a focus upon build costs.
Several scenarios are modelled to longevity of ourowned land supply.
appropriately to potential future cost increases in getting it right first time and have continued to ensure that the Board can carefully evaluate the our raw materials in the short to medium term.
By using a three year timeframe, the Viability be recognised as a 5 Star homebuilder by the range of plausible outcomes being assessed and Statement review period is also aligned with HBF for eight consecutive years.
We require all Continuity of supply relates to risk of the mitigation factors are based on those identified the Groups bottom up three year planning and availability of raw materials, suppliers and of our Group suppliers to be members of the and successfully deployed during the previous forecasting cycle, during which a wide range Supply Chain Sustainability School developing sub-contractors when the business requires downturn in 2007-2008 following the credit crisis.
of information relating to present and future them.
We recognise that our suppliers and sustainability knowledge and practices within Based on this review, the Directors confirm that business conditions is considered, including those our supplier base.
The School provides a tailored sub-contractors are critical to the delivery of they have a reasonable expectation that the Group impacting on expected profitability, cash flows, and our strategic objectives.
The Group works with self-assessment and action planning tool which will be able to continue in operation and meet funding requirements.
identifies which sustainability issues suppliers suppliers to ensure that we are sourcing the most its liabilities as they fall due over this threesustainable products and services, in order to should prioritise and supports suppliers in year period.
Our supply chain is maintain the high quality build standards required for the longer term.
an extremely important part of our business and we recognise any failures in this area could We are the industry leader in sharing information The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 44 was approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: present a reputational risk to the business which on our production programme with our supply the Group needs to constantly stay alert to and chain.
This enables suppliers to plan accordingly, manage accordingly.
well in advance, to meet our demand and their David Thomas capacity.
These relationships with suppliers Chief Executive 5 September 2017 44 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Executive Committee Regional Managing Directors The Executive Committee consists of: The Group operates through six geographic housebuilding regions and a commercial division, each of which has a Managing Director as follows: and previously held senior HR roles Career and experience Career and experience 1 David Thomas 7 Doug McLeod 9 Bernard Rooney at Celesio AG and Wickes.
Rob is Gary joined the Group in 1995.
Richard joined the Group in Chief Executive Officer Regional Managing Director, Regional Managing Director, also a member of the CITB Council.
Formerly Managing Director 2007 following the acquisition of Scotland Central See page 46. ofBarratt North London he was Wilson Bowden plc, where he was 5 Jeremy Hipkiss Doug is responsible for the Groups Bernard is responsible for the appointed Regional Managing Operations Director and previously 2 Steven Boyes operations in the Scotland Region Groups operations in the Central Director Southern in January 2006 Finance Director for David Wilson Group Sales and which consists of three divisions.
Region which consists of five and his current role in October 2016.
He was appointed Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Marketing Director divisions.
In addition, he heads to his current position in July 2008.
Career and experience Operating Officer Jeremy is responsible for the 13 Nick Richardson up Barratt Partnerships which Doug joined the Group in January See page 46.
Groups overall sales, marketing is responsible for identifying 11 Chris Burton 1974.
Formerly Regional Director Managing Director, Wilson and customer experience strategy and securing public land and 3 Jessica White of Barratt Scotland and Managing and delivery.
In addition to these Regional Managing Director, West Bowden Developments partnering opportunities.
Director of Barratt North Scotland, responsibilities Jeremy has Chris is responsible for the Groups Nick is responsible for the Chief Financial Officer Career and experience he was appointed to his current role executive responsibility for IT operations in the West region which commercial business, Wilson See page 46. in January 2017.
Bernard joined the Group in 1981. and our business improvement consists of four divisions.
Formerly Managing Director programme, Building Excellence.
4 Rob Tansey Career and experience Career and experience 8 Mike Roberts of Barratt Newcastle, he was Career and experience Chris joined the Group in 1985.
Nick joined Wilson Bowden plc appointed to his current position Group HR Director Regional Managing Director, Jeremy joined the Group in 2008 Formerly Managing Director of in 1991 and was appointed to his inJuly 2010.
Rob has responsibility for the Northern and has wide experience in Barratt Yorkshire West, he was current role in 1999.
Nick joined Groups human resources marketing and retail operations.
Mike is responsible for the Groups 10 Richard Brooke appointed to his current role in the Group in 2007 following the strategy including recruitment, Jeremy held a similar role at the operations in the Northern Region July 2012. acquisition of Wilson Bowden plc.
remuneration and benefits, Regional Managing Director, East Spirit Group.
Prior to that, Jeremy which consists of four divisions.
talent and performance worked for Allied Domecq PLC and Richard is responsible for the 12 Gary Ennis He is also responsible for the management and training and Marstons PLC having graduated in Groups operations in the East Groups commercial function.
Regional Managing Director, development programmes.
Region which consists of five Career and experience London & Southern divisions.
He is also responsible for Career and experience Mike joined the Group in June 6 Tina Bains the Groups procurement function.
Gary is responsible for the Groups Rob joined the Group on 1 August 2004.
Formerly Managing Director operations in the London and 2012 from Dairy Crest Plc where he Company Secretary of Barratt North East, he was Southern region which consists was Group HR Director for six years.
See page 47. appointed to his current role in ofsix divisions.
Before joining Dairy Crest, Rob was January 2017.
HR Director at Travis Perkins Plc 12 6 9 1 13 11 7 4 8 2 10 5 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 45
