18 Galliford Try plc Principal risks Identifying, evaluating and managing our risks The way in which we manage our principal risks and uncertainties is integral to the way we do business and to achieving our strategy of sustainable growth.
The Groups approach to risk management has been enhanced during the year.
Risk management, risk reporting, Approach to risk management Operational responsibilities internal controls and internal audit Risk is inherent in our operations and The Board has delegated implementation The material components of the Groups the decisions that we make in pursuit of risk management and internal control, established framework of risk of our strategy.
The Board has overall together with their day-to-day operation, management and internal controls responsibility for determining both the to the Groups executive management.
The comprise the following: nature and extent of the principal risks that process is overseen by the Executive Risk the Group is willing to take and the Groups Committee, which has been chaired by the 5 organisational structure: each business systems of risk management and internal General Counsel and Company Secretary has its own management board and control.
In addition to the ongoing since May 2017, and is managed on each business unit is led by a managing monitoring processes that the Board has a day-to-day basis by the Director of director and management team: in place, it has undertaken a formal and Risk and Internal Audit.
During the year 5 contractual review and commitments: robust review of the Groups risk the Executive Risk Committee was the Group has clearly defined policies management and internal control systems restructured and refreshed with additional and procedures for entering into during the year.
The Board has also carried processes introduced to monitor and contractual commitments which apply out a robust assessment of the principal manage the Groups risks.
across its business units and operations risks facing the Group, including those Risk identification, assessment and are enforced through the Groups that would threaten its business model, andmitigation legal authorities matrix: future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We develop and maintain risk registers at Our consideration of the key risks and 5 investment in land and development: business unit, divisional and Group level, uncertainties relating to the Groups land expenditure approval is subject to which identify key operational, financial operations, along with their potential clearly defined policies and procedures, and strategic risks applicable to that level impact and the mitigations in place, is set with significant investments approved within the organisation, and which are out on pages 20 and 21.
There may be at Executive Board and Board levels assessed and consolidated into a other risks and uncertainties besides those under Group policies and procedures: Group-wide register using a standardised listed which may also adversely affect the methodology.
The methodology requires 5 operational activity: there are Group and its performance.
More detail each identified risk to be assessed and established frameworks to manage can be found in the Audit Committee measured using a risk matrix which and control all site operations including Report on pages 53 and 54. quantifies the likelihood and impact of health, safety and environmental The Audit Committee is responsible for each risk the inherent risk, the effect of procedures, regular performance keeping under review the adequacy and the mitigating actions to determine the monitoring, quality and external effectiveness of the Groups internal residual risk and the desirable risk profile accountability to stakeholders: controls systems and for reviewing and the target risk, as aligned to the Groups 5 financial planning framework: the approving statements included in the risk appetite.
The methodology evaluates Group reviews and refines its business Annual Report concerning internal the impact of each risk on the Groups plan on an annual basis, following controls, risk management and the profitability and reputation.
specific Board meetings held to consider viability statement.
The Boards Risk appetite strategy.
A detailed annual budget is assessment of the viability of the Group Our risk management processes evaluate prepared for each financial year which is set out on page 19 opposite.
risk and initiate actions, where necessary, is approved by the Board: Although they are not absolute assurance to bring identified risks down to an 5 operational and financial reporting: against the risk of material misstatement acceptable level.
Our risk appetite is we continue to improve the Groups or loss, the Groups systems of risk described as the total residual risk reporting and financial systems as we management and internal control are defined on the Group risk register.
optimise both of the Oracle and designed to identify, manage, mitigate, Hyperion systems.
An exacting profit monitor and report on risks to which and cash reporting and forecasting the Group is exposed.
regime is in place across the Group.
As well as the emphasis placed on cash flow, income and balance sheet reporting, health, safety and environmental matters are prioritised within monthly operational reports: Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 19 Financial Statements 2017 Risk heat map Risk management governance structure Effects of mitigation on inherent risks Responsibility, policy, oversight Plc Board Audit Committee and review D F H A B E E J K F G H D I J K G Executive Board Identification, Risk and management, Internal Audit monitoring function C C I and reporting Executive Risk Group Services Committee B Divisional Boards Linden Partnerships & Construction Homes Regeneration Rare Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Likelihood The Groups risk management governance structure, as set out Inherent risk Residual risk above, highlights the way in which risks are identified, reported E and managed within the framework set by the Board.
The Risk The heat map shows the movement of the principal risks after and Internal Audit function plays an integral role in identifying, mitigating actions, illustrating the effects of the Groups risk reporting and managing risk throughout the governance structure.
A Economic G People B Government H Supply chain C Health and Safety I Business continuity D Commercial J Ambitious growth targets E Legal and regulatory compliance K Forecasting F Customer satisfaction and quality control 5 Code of Conduct: the Group requires The Groups high-level governance its employees to operate ethically and reporting structure shown on page 49 Viability statement with demonstrable integrity.
Group clarifies the effective Board structures In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the standards are set out in a Code of upon which the delegated authorities UK Corporate Governance Code, the Conduct issued to all employees, matrices and corporate and finance Board has assessed the prospects of the and supported by specific training manuals are overlaid.
Group over a period of three years in line modules in key areas: The Executive Risk Committee, Executive with its typical business planning and risk 5 pension plan administration: the Board and plc Board regularly review the management review period.
administration of the Groups fully risk registers and associated mitigating The Groups business plan includes closed final salary and ongoing defined actions.
During the last year the ongoing information in relation to the Groups contribution pension plans is outsourced review included the impact of the EU revenues, profits, cash flows, dividends, to professional service providers.
referendum, the general election result net debt and other key financial and Each of the final salary schemes has an and major contract pricing.
The plan considers independent scheme secretary and to this process we undertake an annual the potential impact of the principal risks a proportion of independent trustees review of our risk management processes to the business as described overleaf, to provide additional layers of external in the context of market developments, and the cyclical nature of the markets scrutiny: and projects secured and Group strategy to in which the Group operates, and ensure that they remain up-to-date and 5 assurance provided by non-audit incorporates an appropriate level of relevant.
This also encompasses a review functions: a number of other Group flexibility to mitigate against these risks.
of the internal controls framework, functions provide assurance in areas This is achieved through the preparation together with the findings of the internal including, but not limited to, health, of sensitivity analyses on a range of audit function over the past year, which safety and environment: legal scenarios including variations in revenue, may indicate weaknesses that have had, contract review and compliance: and house prices, sales rates, build costs, cash could have had, or may have in the future, construction industry regulation.
generation and access to financing.
a material impact on results, and any remedial actions taken.
Based on these Based on the results of this analysis, the assessments, the Board is satisfied with Board has a reasonable expectation that the effectiveness of the Groups systems of the Group will be able to continue in risk management and internal control.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of its assessment.
Impact Insignificant Medium High Severe Low 20 Galliford Try plc Our strategy Principal risks continued 1.
Drive operating efficiencies Maintain capital discipline Operate sustainably so we increase margins, so we appropriately invest in so we create longer-term respond faster to changing growth opportunities, maintain value by balancing financial market conditions and a robust balance sheet and performance with our have strong foundations continue to pay strong obligations to all our for delivering further dividends.
Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators Economic The biggest risk is the macro-economic We manage the impact of macro-economic risks, Consumer spending Movement in the year environment and the possibility of an economic for example by building a strong order book and decreases downturn.
The ongoing uncertainty following maintaining an appropriately-sized landbank.
Interest rates increase Link to strategy last years EU referendum and this years general We have been doing that successfully and had election has the potential to distort some of our order books in Construction and Partnerships Actions in 2016 17 1 2 3 markets.
The Construction and Partnerships & & Regeneration of 3.6 billion and 1.0 million We monitored the likelihood Regeneration businesses are well placed to deal respectively at the year end.
The sales carried of interest rate rises, sales with any uncertainty due to the nature of their forward position in Linden Homes at the year rates and visitor levels businesses.
Linden Homes, while more exposed end was 373million.
We monitor closely We purchased land at higher to a potential slowdown and changes in political and economic developments: we hurdle rates in prime areas, consumer confidence, has a great brand and is have modelled a range of macro-economic using joint ventures as solidly positioned, with an appropriate landbank, scenarios and planned measures which can necessary to reduce risk good locations and well-designed homes.
be implemented should the macro-economic environment improve or deteriorate as against our internal models.
Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators Government A reduction in government spending on The Group regularly engages with government A slowdown in public Movement in the year infrastructure projects or affordable housing and the Homes and Communities Agency sector tenders development, including schemes such as Help HCA, both directly and via our membership Link to strategy Removal of the Help to to Buy, would directly affect our business.
Prudent pricing models, Buy scheme Other initiatives relating to project bank increased hurdle rates and other contingencies 1 3 accounts or payment terms may impact are built into our land appraisal process, Actions in 2016 17 the cost of doing business.
including removal of any government support.
Participated in meetings Support for Help to Buy appears to be in place with government post the until 2021.
EU referendum Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators Health and Safety A failure of routine H&S processes leading to We have operational controls in place, Increase in near misses, H&S a catastrophic incident with fatalities and or including an H&S site risk assessment for every injuries and or fatalities significant injuries can, in addition to its impact site.
We have processes in place which allow Movement in the year on victims and corporate reputation, lead to us to respond promptly and appropriately to Actions in 2016 17 fines or prosecutions for individual members incidents.
Both the Golden Rules and H&S Link to strategy H&S formed a key theme of staff or directors.
A high cumulative level database implemented in 2015 16 and the across employee of H&S prosecutions would reduce our ability award-winning Challenging Beliefs, Affecting 3 communications, including to win work.
Behaviour safety programme help to reduce our directors conference, risk in this area.
Chief Executives Roadshow and quarterly messages from the Chief Executive The Executive Board undertook a review of H&S performance in the year Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators Commercial A failure to agree appropriate commercial We are carefully managing our existing Lower profits being recorded Movement in the year terms or to manage fixed-price contracts fixed-price contracts and closely review bids correctly can result in reduced profits or, for contracts of this kind.
We enhanced our Actions in 2016 17 Link to strategy in some cases, losses on projects.
risk management procedures, bringing greater Existing fixed price longrigour around contract selection.
term contracts are being 1 3 carefully managed through to completion We no longer take on similar-type large infrastructure projects on fixed-price contracts Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators Legal and regulatory Legal and regulatory failure, for example The Group has comprehensive policies and Legal regulatory failures compliance involvement in bribery or other fraudulent guidance in place at every level, including the and or fines activity, or non-compliance with law including Groups Code of Conduct, mandatory e-learning Movement in the year for example the Bribery Act, Fraud Act, for all employees, regular legal updates and Actions in 2016 17 Competition Act, Money Laundering briefings, six-monthly compliance declarations Link to strategy Continued embedding Regulations and Proceeds of Crime Act and conflicts of interest registers and of the Groups Code of could lead to disbarment from bidding for authorisations.
In addition, an anonymous 3 Conduct, including certain public or regulated sector work, and independent whistleblowing helpline is quarterly messages from fines, jail and reputational damage.
the Chief Executive Conflicts of interest guidance refreshed in the year Ethics Committee met regularly during the year Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 21 Financial Statements 2017 Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators Customer Poor customer satisfaction may have a negative There are rigorous quality control procedures Customer satisfaction satisfaction and impact on reputation affecting revenue and in place in all three of our businesses, including scores decline quality control profit through sales rates and increased costs.
The Linden Way, which defines our approach Failure to hit key milestones at each stage of the housebuilding process.
Link to strategy in project plan Actions in 2016 17 1 2 3 Quarterly messages reminding staff of the importance of customer service Review of business management systems in the year Customer satisfaction was included as an agenda item at all divisional and business unit board meetings Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators People The ability to attract, develop, retain and build The Group has an established HR strategy based Staff churn rates increase Movement in the year relationships with diverse and high-quality on best practice, Investors in People principles employees and members of the supply chain and relevant legislation which, among other Actions in 2016 17 Link to strategy impacts every level of the Group, from things, includes the regular review of Succession planning developing and building our products to remuneration and benefits packages to ensure has continued 3 succession planning for the Board and is we remain competitive.
Our succession planning Commenced work on a new particularly important during a period of growth.
and talent management processes enable Inclusion & Diversity policy continuity and identify future leaders.
Staff engagement survey Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators Supply chain A shortage of trades people can create The Group aims to develop long-term Shortage of trades people Movement in the year resourcing issues and increase the cost of relationships with subcontractors to ensure the supply chain.
we are a preferred customer in the supply Actions in 2016 17 Link to strategy of resources and skills, as well as materials.
Increased the number The Advantage through Alignment initiative of apprenticeships in 1 3 in our Construction business is working well.
the business Continued to embed Advantage through Alignment Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators Business continuity Loss of our Shared Service Centre or IT Disaster recovery plans have remained in An increase in systems Movement in the year infrastructure, especially our financial system, place throughout the year, and are tested on failures and or attacks including a natural disaster or malicious a regular basis, including penetration tests in on our networks Link to strategy attack, may affect our ability to carry on respect of cybercrime.
Actions in 2016 17 1 2 3 Operational reviews of business continuity plans were commenced in the year Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators NEW Ambitious Ambitious growth of a business in terms of Strong management teams are in place within Failure to meet growth growth targets revenue and footprint may increase the risk each business to ensure that growth plans are targets of its existing business suffering from quality well managed.
In addition, the Executive Board Poor customer Link to strategy issues, failure to achieve budgeted growth and plc Board regularly monitor the financial satisfaction scores and failure of new offices, all impacting performance of each business.
Description of inherent risks Mitigation Key risk indicators Forecasting Given the nature of the three businesses, Each business unit reviews its cash forecast Monthly weekly cash Link to strategy cash forecasting is the result of subjective monthly and the Group prepares a detailed forecasting proves to estimates which carry an intrinsic risk of error.
daily cash book for the following eight-week be inaccurate 1 2 3 Poor cash forecasting can impact business period, to highlight any risk of intra-month planning, investments and reporting of fluctuations.
These forecasts are reviewed Actions in 2016 17 financial information.
at business unit, division and Group.
The Groups annual business plan and budgeting exercises included detailed reviews of the Groups cash forecast for 2017 18.
