Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk governance identifying, evaluating MANAGING RISKS SO WE ACHIEVE and managing risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups OUR STRATEGIC GROWTH TARGETS internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
This has been designed to assist the Board in making better, more risk-informed, strategic decisions We focus on key risks whichcould impact on the with a view to creating and protecting shareholder value.
Inpractice, the Board delegates the task of implementing achievement of our strategic goals and therefore its policies onrisk and control to management and needs on the performance of our business.
to assure itself on an ongoing basis that management is responding appropriately to these risks and controls.
The Board delegates to management ownership Our risk appetite andresponsibility foroperating risk management and Hays has a proactive approach to measuring controls, and management need to provide leadership performance and considers risk as an integral part and direction to the employees to ensure the ofdecision-making, both about current and future organisations overall risk-taking activity is managed performance throughout the global businesses.
With inrelation to theagreed level of risk appetite.
theBoard being responsible for the level of risk that the To manage the effectiveness of this the Board and Group iswilling to accept, the Board manages this by management needto rely on adequate line functions, linking risk appetite to its strategic objectives, being including monitoring and assurance functions, within mapped against defined impact and likelihood scales, theorganisation.
As such the organisation operates the inorder to define where the level of risk sits.
Three Lines of Defence model as a way ofexplaining the The principal risks have all been mapped through the risk relationship between these functions and demonstrating appetite process in order to identify both position and how responsibilities are allocated: tolerance levels and to assess the mitigating actions.
The first line of defence responsibility to own Hays operates a measured risk appetite position due andmanage risk: tothe nature of the recruitment market, being a cyclical The second line of defence responsibility to monitor business and highly sensitive to macroeconomic and oversee risk: conditions, which results in a lack of forward visibility The third line of defence functions that provide offees and increases the overall risk environment.
Risk attributes The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Group When considering the risk appetite the Board considers FinanceDirector and comprising senior operational, IT, this in terms of the following attributes: legal and finance representatives, assists in the strategic management of risk in the Group.
Experienced and stable management team globally: Strong balance sheet, including the level of operationalgearing: Clear and open communication channels.
How we monitor our progress three lines of defence Chief Executive Management Board First line of defence: Second line of defence: Third line of defence: Management Controls Financial Control Internal Audit Policies and Procedures Security External Advisers Internal Control Risk Management KPIs Compliance Group Risk Committee Ownership & Management Monitor & Oversight Independent Assurance 36 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk identification and impact Hays principal The sensitivity analysis included loss of business arising risksare analysed on a gross pre-mitigation and from a prolonged global downturn, material movements net post-mitigation basis in foreign exchange rates, and a detailed assessment of The Management Board oversees an enterprise risk arange of possible outcomes arising from the UKs vote management framework, which allows for a holistic, to leave the European Union.
top-down and bottom-up view of key risks facing the Set against these downside risks the Board considered business.
These are recorded in a Group risk register, key mitigating factors including the geographic diversity which is reviewed at least annually by the Management of the Group, its balanced business model across Board and submitted to the Board thereafter to enable it Temporary, Permanent and Contract recruitment to carry out its risk oversight responsibility.
This exercise services, and the significant working capital inflows which involves a current and forward look at various risks arise in periods of severe downturn, particularly in the affecting the business and prioritising them according Temporary recruitment business, thus protecting liquidity torisk magnitude and likelihood.
Risks covered include as was the case during the global financial crisis of operational, financial and reputational risks, as well as 200809. compliance and people-related risks.
Each risk is assigned an owner with current and future risk mitigation In addition, the Groups history of strong cash generation, procedures detailed, with the continuing monitoring of tight cost control and flexible workforce management these undertaken on an ongoing basis.
The Group also has in place a210 million revolving credit facility with a suite of banks Viability statement until 2020, and the latest actuarial valuation of its defined In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate benefit pension scheme maintains cash outflows broadly Governance Code 2016, the directors have assessed the at their existing level.
prospects of the Group over a period longer than the 12months from the approval of the financial statements.
Confirmation of longer-term viability Based on the above assessment the directors confirm The directors believe that a three-year period ending that they have a reasonable expectation that the 30 June 2020 is the most relevant time period over which Company will be able to continue in operation and meet to provide the viability statement, being supported by its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period theappraisal of the principal risks and mitigating internal to30 June 2020. controls.
This allows the directors to assess and conclude that the Group will be able to operate within its existing Going concern bank covenants and maintain appropriate bank facilities The Groups business activities, together with the factors to meet its funding requirements over a three-year likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial period, being backed by the 210 million banking facility position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position in place until April 2020, which the company anticipates are described in the Financial Review, with details of the no problem in renewing and fully intends to do so.
Groups treasury activities, long-term funding arrangements This three-year period also reflects the three-year planning and exposure to financial risk included innotes 18 to 20 to cycle, which covers the same period, and considers the the Consolidated Financial Statements.
fast moving nature of the industry.
As such, collectively The Group has sufficient financial resources which, these factors allow the directors a reasonable expectation, together with internally generated cash flows, will continue predicated on the basis that there are no unforeseen to provide sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current events outside of the Groups control that inhibit the operations, including its contractual and commercial Companys ability to continue trading, and that using commitments and any proposed dividends.
The Group athree-year period itis possible to form a reasonable istherefore well placed to manage its business risks.
After expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability.
making enquiries, the directors have formed the judgment Process to assess the Groups prospects at the time of approving the financial statements, that As in prior years, the Board undertook a strategic business there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has review in the current year taking into account the Groups adequate resources to continue in operational existence current position and the potential impact of the principal for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue risks set out on pages 38 to 40 of the Annual Report.
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition and in making this statement, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Risk trends facing the Group, including those that would threaten The ongoing review of the Groups principal risks includes theGroups business model, future performance and how these risks evolve.
Changes in the trend direction liquidity.
While the review has considered all the principal ofour principal risks are noted against each risk on the risks identified by the Group, the resilience of the Group following pages of this Report.
to the occurrence of these risks in severe yet plausible scenarios has been evaluated.
Stress testing The Board approves an annual budget and reviews monthly management reports and quarterly forecasts.
The output of the planning and budgeting processes has been used to perform a sensitivity analysis to the Groups cash flow to model the potential effects should principal risks actually occur either individually or in unison.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 37 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 1.
Data governance business exposure Movement in year Movement in year Movement in year Movement in year Movement in year Movement in year Risk description Risk description Risk description Risk description Risk description Risk description The performance of the Group is significantly The Group faces competition from the The Group is reliant on its ability to recruit, The Group operates in 33 countries, with Our dependence on technology in our The business works with personal data impacted by changes tounderlying increasing use of social media for recruitment develop and retain staff to protect the each operating its own legislative, regulative, day-to-day business means that systems inall33 countries on a daily basis under a economic activity, the levels of business purposes and a growing trend towards business it has today and to deliver its future compliance and tax rules, especially for failure due to technical issues or cyber variety of laws and regulations.
Amaterial confidence as businesses consider outsourced recruitment models with growth plans, especially internationally, Temporary workers, with any non-compliance attack may have a significant impact on our data breach or data loss could expose Permanent and Temporary hiring decisions associated margin pressures, which may bothat a manager and consultant level.
increasing the Groups exposure to potential operations and ability to deliver our services theGroupto potential legal, financial and and levels of candidate confidence, which impact materially on the business should Itsstrategy is to grow and nurture talent legal, financial and reputational risk.
if it continued for a number of days and, as reputational risks inthe form of penalties impact their propensity to change jobs, Hays not continue to take appropriate actions internally into senior roles wherever possible.
such, could negatively impact our financial andloss of business.
particularly in the UK, Germany and Australia.
Hays is preparing for the introduction of Brexit specific: The Brexit decision coupled theEU General Data Protection Regulation, with the political environment in the UK which will necessitate certain changes to increased the level of uncertainty and ourdata collection and processing activity therefore increases the risk of negatively byMay 2018. impacting the trading performance in our UKbusiness, as clients have become more cautious inheadcount investment.
Risk impact Risk impact Risk impact Risk impact Risk impact Risk impact Financial Operational People Compliance Operational Compliance Financial Financial Financial Financial Financial Reputational Reputational Reputational Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Hays has continued to diversify its operations Hays monitors industry trends and Hays provides a defined and sustainable Compliance processes and monitoring The Groups technology strategy is Robust procedures for processing, retention to include a balance of both Temporary and opportunities, including social media and career development path for new hires, aretailored to specific specialisms, ensuring continually reviewed to ensure that the and transfer ofpersonal dataare in place Permanent recruitment services to private insourcing, and continues to invest in our starting with a structured induction additional focus is given to higher-risk systems it operates across the Group across the Group, on both aphysical and programme and ongoing training as they and public sector markets, and operates online presence to provide a high-quality specialisms such as Education and Healthcare support its strategic direction.
advance their careers, supported by across 33 countries and 20 sector specialisms.
in the UK, Construction & Property in Ongoing asset life-cycle management Comprehensive data protection and formalised performance and career tracking.
Progress is being made to further diversify Australia and specialised corporate contracts Our key relationships such as with SEEK programmes mitigate risks of hardware information security policies and procedures the business to reduce the Groups reliance through Hays Talent Solutions.
Development Centres focus on the progress inAustralia increase our exposure to online and software obsolescence.
are in place across the Group and, where on the UK, Germany and Australia, which of high-potential individuals, providing professional networking and recruitment Employees receive training in respect of the data protection and privacy legislation currently represent 70% of the Groups Technology systems are housed in various further development opportunities and portals and enhance our value proposition operating standards applicable to their role, allows, protective email monitoring netfees.
data centres and the Group has capacity to also helping to identify any talent gaps and to clients and candidates.
with additional support provided by programmes are undertaken to address cope with a data centres loss through the training needs.
Leadership and development Hays cost base is highly variable and compliance functions, regional legal teams potential areas of concern, to best protect Our expert and specialised consultants are establishment of disaster recovery sites, that programmes are aligned with the Groups our confidential information and candidates carefully managed to align with business and, where necessary, external advisers.
trained in utilising social media to enhance are physically based in separate locations to business strategy.
activity, and can be focused and scaled their day-to-day activities in providing the All staff receive regular training to ensure the ongoing operations, intrinsically linked accordingly to react to the individual markets, Overall remuneration packages are Attention has been focused in this area, with best quality candidates to our clients.
that legal andcompliance updates are to the country business continuity plans.
with Temporary recruitment being more competitive, including an employee benefit the increased threat of cyber crime globally, understood and applied.
Interritories where resilient in times of economic uncertainty We continue to leverage our broad Across the regions we have established programme, together with a long-term and security vulnerability is assessed as part legislation sets out additional compliance ordownturn.
geographical and sectoral footprint to dedicated security teams in order to ensure incentive scheme that is offered to broadly of the ongoing IT strategy across the Group.
win and maintain a significant number that the systems are best protected from 350 senior managers, which encourages a Hays is highly cash generative, requiring low We use external advisers to perform regular of multispecialism contracts with large Dedicated compliance auditors conduct unauthorised access, both externally and performance-led culture and aids retention.
Cash collection is a external and internal physical and logical corporate organisations, which has sample checks to ensure that the appropriate internally, and includes best ensuring that priority and the Group has made appropriate Succession plans identify future potential penetration tests on all major systems and strengthened our relationship with these candidate vetting checks and due diligence anti-virus software is in place and up-to-date, investment in its credit control and working leaders of the business and produce operations and implement any required clients and increased our share of their obligations are carried out in line with legal with regular testing of these environments by capital management processes, resulting in individual development plans in which improvements coming out ofsuch tests as recruitment spend.
the elimination of Group net debtand a to harness and cultivate talent.
part of a continuous improvement process.
year-end net cash positive position.
Significant investment was made in The Group holds all standard business We use external advisers to perform regular The Groups standard employment A project team led by our General Counsel, FY16 and FY17 to enhance data analytics in insurance cover, including employers external and internal physical and logical In the run up to and the immediate aftermath contracts include notice periods and consisting of our global legal team together order to significantly improve our approach liability, public liability and professional penetration tests on all major systems and of the EU referendum, we saw a significant non-solicitation provisions in the event with operational, marketing and technical to, and engagement with, candidates.
operations and implement any required reduction in UK activity and thus fees and of an employee leaving.
leads, is in place to ensure GDPR compliance initiative is overseen by the Group Data improvements coming out of such tests as profits.
While this had stabilised by by May 2018.
November 2016, we clearly face significant potential uncertainty over the next few years.
Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority 38 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 39 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 7.
Contracts Movement in year Risk description The Group enters into contractual arrangements with clients, some of which can be on onerous terms and or impacted bylocal regulatory requirements, especially in relation to Temp Contracting markets.
Risk impact Operational Financial Reputational Risk mitigation During contract negotiations management seek to minimise risk andensure that the nature of risks and their potential impact isunderstood.
Our global legal team has the depth of knowledge and experience to enable them toadvise management on the level of risk presented in increasingly onerous contracts, with clear guidelines in operation.
The Group Finance Director reviews all commercial contracts with onerous nonstandard terms in accordance with the Groups risk appetite.
In addition the Groups Insurance Manager reviews onerous contracts and where necessary engages with insurance providers to ensure that risks are covered.
Reviews are performed on a risk basis across key contracts to identify compliance and agree improvements to the way in which wedeliver services toclients.
Assurance work is undertaken in key countries by Internal Audit to ensure contractual obligations are appropriately managed.
By order of the Board Link to relevant strategic priority Doug Evans Company Secretary 30 August 2017 40 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 GOVERNANCE How the Hays Board sets strategic direction and provides oversight and control.
42 Chairmans Statement 44 Board of Directors 46 Leadership 50 Relations with shareholders 51 Effectiveness 54 Accountability 58 Remuneration Report 91 Directors Report 96 Directors responsibilities
