Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal risks and uncertainties The following section sets out the Boards assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties PRUs that may impact the delivery of our six strategic priorities, their movement during the year and the relevant controls and mitigations in place.
The Board considers these to be the most significant risks facing Kier.
Not all risks facing our organisation are listed and risks are not listed in any order of priority.
Recognising the impact of our principal risks At Kier, we know that risk is an inherent part of doing business, and as such our approach to risk management promotes a deep understanding and consideration of risk and places it at the centre of our decision-making processes.
Our strategic priorities Key to risk movement Risk increased Operate a safe and Accelerate growth Achieve top quartile sustainable to be a top three performance and Risk decreased business player in our chosen efficiency markets NEW New PRU No risk movement Provide sectorAttract and retain Embracing leading customer highly motivated, innovation and experience high-performing technology across teams our business 1.
Health and safety Link to strategy Risk movement Major health and safety incident Description Key mitigations controls The Groups activities are inherently complex and Updated Safety, Health and Environment SHE management system potentially hazardous and require the continuous aligned to the needs of the operational businesses under a monitoring and management of health, safety and framework of Group governance.
The Board has assessed that this Behavioural change programme focusing on operational safety.
risk remains high but unchanged from last year.
Failure Robust major incident response protocols.
to meet safety standards and or ineffective Visible leadership programme designed to promote a safety-first management of safety requirements could result in culture.
the following: Revised accident investigation protocols to ensure robust injury death to employees, members of the public or investigation and implementation of lessons learnt.
third parties: reduced ability to bid for and win work: reputational damage: financial penaltiesarising fromfines, claims, legal action, project delays: and failure to meet investor expectations.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 37 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued 2.
Sustainability Link to strategy Risk movement NEW Breadth of sustainability requirements Description Key mitigations controls With the increasing importance of sustainability and The Groups commitment to sustainability is articulated within a social value in clients evaluation of contract awards, strategy for a sustainable business, Responsible Business, Positive and the emergence of greater stakeholder awareness, Outcomes RBPO.
progressive legislation, and enforcement activity, this The Group operates a management structure including Board risk is included as a new PRU.
committees, and a Corporate Responsibility Leadership Group CRLG which meets quarterly.
Between them they review the If the Group were unable to meet its sustainability progress with identified, and emerging, issues across the areas requirements, the following risks may occur: covered by our strategy for a sustainable business.
non-compliance with legislation: Membership of the CRLG is drawn from our Group services bid exclusion: functions, together with representatives from the operating businesses.
It is responsible for assessing sustainability risk and reputational damage: setting appropriate policies and direction for Kier.
failure to meet customer expectations: The Group has recognised that delivering strong performance across significant financial penalties loss of contracts: and the non-financial focus areas covered by RBPO helps to create value significant failure to meet investor expectations.
for our business, our investors, our clients and wider society.
For example, improving safety and wellbeing leads to less lost time through injury or illness: improved environmental performance can reduce waste of energy and materials, leading to cost savings: and choosing the right subcontractors and supplier partners can lead to an economic boost for the community in which we are operating.
The Group delivers business-wide training programmes to ensure itsemployees are competent and qualified.
We operate a programme ofaudits to review our contracts and measure performance against expectations, assessing and reporting on recommendations forimprovement.
Funding Link to strategy Risk movement Availability of funding Description Key mitigations controls The Group has a variety of funding needs met by The Groups Investment Committee, chaired by the Group Financial external sources.
We have clear metrics to measure Controller, is responsible for approving capital investment and volatility and sensitivity in the key indicators of funding optimising the allocation of capital.
risk and have recently undertaken a review which has Cash forecasting and working capital management remain key strengthened our ability to manage this risk.
The Board performance indicators for the business, with their ability to generate assesses this PRU as unchanged from last year.
If this positive cash flow demonstrated in the year.
funding were not available or curtailed there is a risk The core borrowing facility was recently renegotiated, extending that we could experience: tenure and liquidity.
The Group has access to committed funding failure of business or one stream of the business: that substantially exceeds both peak borrowing and projected funding requirements over the next three years.
The average tenure smaller gains or margins: of committed funding exceeds four years.
failure to achieve profit expectations: Availability of bonding capacity is essential to the Groups ability to loss of investor confidence: and win work.
Kier has strong, long-term relationships with the providers reduced cash generation due to reduced volume of this service and has a dedicated in-house team to monitor growth.
headroom and advise on bond terms and conditions.
The Property division uses a number of joint ventures to manage riskand enhance returns.
Joint venture partners are carefully selected to mitigate operational risk within projects.
By entering intojoint ventures, the Group can ensure that the Property division isnot over-exposed to any one sector, geographical location or individual development.
38 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 4.
Market and sector performance Link to strategy Risk movement NEW Market downturn impacts customer expenditure Description Key mitigations controls The Groups strategy depends on the economic The Group  market performance including performance of the UK, in particular, and the markets theimpact of macro-economic factors e. g. population growth, and sectors in which it operates.
Kier has a breadth of austerity and the associated market risk of specific events capabilities and operates across a number of diverse e. g. Brexit together with its strategy in those markets.
The Board has extended this PRU The Groups strategy is aligned to three core market segments previously the market to reflect the importance of buildings, infrastructure and housing which are underpinned by our sector decision-making and performance, as well as solid long-term fundamentals and where the Group is able to the general performance of the economies in which establish a leading market position.
The Groups operating structure we operate.
is largely aligned to these three segments.
Reduced economic activity and expenditure in public, The Group regularly reviews its business portfolio, which has regulated and private sectors would likely result in resulted in exit from market sectors and disposals e. g. Caribbean, lower growth or lower revenue for the Group.
The Group carries out monthly and quarterly reviews of its secured workload and prospective pipeline, Further, investment allocation across the market and forecasts its overhead levels as a percentage of future work in sectors in which the Group operates is of clear order to maintain an appropriate ratio of overhead costs to revenue.
importance: if the Group were to invest too heavily in The Group has well-established sector sales capability in key areas, the wrong sector, the following risks would occur: and during the year invested in anewcustomer relationship failure of business or one stream of the business: management system to improve pipeline visibility.
reputational impact of inappropriate selections: and failure to meet financial expectations.
Operating model NEW Link to strategy Risk movement Operating model inefficiency Description Key mitigations controls To build and sustain long-term confidence we must We maintain a disciplined focus on honing the portfolio by divesting maintain and evolve our operating model to maximise non-core businesses and making acquisitions in line with strategy.
The Board has assessed this The Group measures its component businesses against a series of as a new PRU.
balanced score-cards throughout the year.
Failure to maintain operating model efficiency could As a key part of our control processes, we challenge our business result in the following risks: units performance and amend plans on a quarterlybasis to ensure that we are on track to meet investor expectations.
failure of business or one stream of the business: We constantly strive to anticipate changes within our business failure to deliver required growth and profitability: environment and customer requirements as well asimplementing failure to remain competitive: and efficiencies where appropriate.
The recent enterprise resource failure to meet investor expectations.
planning ERP implementation and opening of our finance shared services centre are prime examples of this.
We have made ongoing investment in systems to improve our efficiency and management information for example, strengthening back-office systems through the roll-out of Oracle ERP and shared services.
These improvements also enable integrated trading cross-selling and scalability of front-line systems in services businesses, creating operational efficiencies and enhancing competitiveness in certain sectors.
We have implemented a programme of enhanced customer engagement to work as closely as possible with our customers, particularly where the business environment is changing, so we can continue to support them as their priorities evolve.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 39 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued 6.
Contract management Link to strategy Risk movement Ineffective contract management Description Key mitigations controls Kier recognises that effective contract management is The Group maintains a strong focus on longer-term service at the heart of its business model and is critical to contracts.
Potential risks are mitigated, controlled and managed ongoing success and growth.
The Board has assessed through the Groups operating structure, procedures and standing that given the potential impact of this risk and current orders.
Enhanced emphasis and focus on pre-contract controls has external factors, this risk has risen in significance since improved the quality of the Groups portfolio of contracts.
last year and remains an important focus for the Group.
Monthly operational and financial contract reviews are held at both business unit and business stream levels.
These reviews are The Group has a number of large and complex supplemented by a formal quarterly review process, which operates contracts in play at any given time.
Dependent on the across all divisions of the Group and is attended by ExCo members.
nature, location and duration of the work and the legalframework of the contract, there is a risk that The operational and commercial functions manage subcontractor ineffective contract management and lack of ownership performance and relationships across all contracts.
could result in: In further mitigation of this risk, the Groups commercial training programme for all front line staff has progressed positively.
This failure of the business or one stream of the programme is designed to ensure a consistent approach to the business: management of contract risks across the Group.
There has also financial impact of failure to deliver on contracts: been a focus on upgrading key financial controls across the Group.
reputational damage: These improvements have had a positive impact on identifying potentially under-performing contracts.
subcontractor performance impact: wastage of resources: and poor management information, reporting, contract data and transparency.
Customers NEW Link to strategy Risk movement Loss of a key customer relationship Description Key mitigations controls Kier recognises the need to engage effectively with Customer satisfaction surveys are undertaken alongside customers and strives to deliver a tailored service that independent customer surveys designed to better understand clients exceeds expectations.
Given the importance of needs and expectations.
customer satisfaction, the Board has identified this as Each business unit stream has a dedicated business development a new PRU.
team which participates in a quarterly review of clients across the UK through eight regional client forums.
If we fail to deliver a differentiated customer experience which focuses on proactive relationship management, We have developed key client plans and relationship mapping the following could occur: through the allocation of key account managers to each key client.
Regular reviews are scheduled at management meetings covering failure of the business or one stream of the customer relations and thefuturepipeline of opportunities supported business: by theGroups newCRM system.
Senior leaders across the Group reputational damage: and support key client relationshipsthrough regular 1:1 meetings.
loss of a key customer or decline in customer loyalty.
40 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 8.
People Link to strategy Risk movement Availability and retention of the right people Description Key mitigations controls Our people remain a key pillar of our business.
Focus on reduction of voluntary turnover of employees, in particular new hire Ensuring the right people are in the right roles is turnover, through better hiring for fit, improved induction and on-boarding, critical to our future success and growth.
The and employee engagement initiatives.
Board has assessed that the level of risk in this Launch of market-benchmarked reward and benefits offer.
area is the same as last year.
We need to Strategic workforce plan implemented to provide insight on forecast skills attract and retain the right talent to enable needs and headcount and insight on skills and retention hot spots or achievement of our strategic aims.
Failure to do systemic issues to target.
this risks our delivery and growth as follows: Employer brand embedded in talent attraction and reflected in internal failure to meet a specific business need or employer value offer.
contract requirement: Talent fast-track programme in place to retain and progress key talent at reputation damage, both corporate brand and alllevels.
employment brand: Balanced Business strategy agreed with the ExCo to drive inclusion loss of project specialisms: anddiversity.
over-reliance on key staff: and Targeted action taken to improve the diversity mix and inclusive work loss of key skills.
Innovation Link to strategy Risk movement NEW Insufficient innovation to maintain market position Description Key mitigations controls We operate in an increasingly dynamic and The delivery of the Groups services already incorporates innovation and changing environment.
To counter the risks technology at a number of levels, whether through the built environment it is associated with this and, most importantly, to delivering e. g. smart motorways, energy-efficient buildings or the way in exploit the opportunities it presents, we must which it delivers its services e. g. BIM, digital technology, predictive data, embrace innovation and capitalise on new construction methods.
technology advancements to ensure we Given the heightened importance of this area, the Group has revised one of maintain our market position.
its strategic objectives in the year Embracing innovation and technology across our business and launched its #forwardthinking@kier plan.
This has Given the depth and pace of change in this included the appointment of a Group Innovation Director and the launch of a arena this risk opportunity has increased in Group-wide Innovation Forum.
focus and importance from last year and is now listed as a PRU.
Failure to manage this risk As part of its plans to further promote innovation and technology, the Group will: could result in: ensure that employees in every business have access to online innovation loss of new and current business to and idea-sharing platforms: competitors: establish a clear digital strategy supported by an information management new market entrants lead the way on strategy and digital life skills programme: innovation to our detriment: launch a 1m pa seed fund the Kier Accelerator to encourage new ideas loss of staff due to lack of innovation or investment: Increase the rotation of candidates across its graduate early career failure to act on ideas: programme to further increase vibrancy of thinking and seeding of ideas: innovation costs not being managed increased external marketing activity to position our existing innovation: and effectively: and align leadership and development programmes to include a clear focus on negative internal and external publicity.
Additional macro-economic risks Brexit The UKs departure from the EU Brexit, will impact Kier in a may have on Kier, and will act accordingly through various working number of ways.
Although these risks are yet to be fully parties and task forces.
In last years Annual Report, we referred understood and quantified, we are mindful of the many areas of to the risk of a significant decline in the property market following potential risk and uncertainty, including issues around the free the EU referendum result.
Instead, greater volatility materialised in movement of people, delays in major infrastructure investment this market providing a number of opportunities post the Brexit and trade restrictions.
vote for our Property division.
Our largely non-speculative approach to property investment provides mitigation against market We are actively monitoring the UK Governments position on the volatility.
We will continue to monitor changes in the property various matters for negotiation and the potential impact these market and respond accordingly.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 41
