Strategic Report Risk overview Managing risk to protect and grow our business Effective risk management remains critical to oursuccess.
We have continued to review our approach to risk management in2017, taking into account the need to balance risk and opportunity.
Kier manages risk, both ours and our clients, as a natural part of our business operations.
Our risk management framework is aligned with Vision 2020.
A summary of the key elements of the framework is below.
Risk oversight Risk Management and Board Senior management Audit Committee RMAC The Board has overall responsibility Management within the business are for Kier-wide risk management and sets The Board has delegated responsibility for the responsible for the management of risk the Groups risk appetite.
oversight of the Groups risk management and whether financial or non-financial in their internal control systemsto the RMAC.
Risk Review Committee Investment Committee Standing orders Group-wide committees The Risk Review Committee The Investment Committee Standing orders set out Other Group-wide committees reviews risks arising during reviews risks relating to delegated authorities within ensure that key business risks tenders for new contracts.
investment decisions taken by which the Group, divisions and are managed appropriately.
Risk identification During 2017, we haveidentified, analysed and monitored the principal risks which management believes would significantly threaten our business model, future performance, reputation, solvency and liquidity.
Effective risk identification is fundamental to our risk management process and is performed through a top-down and bottom-up process to form a balanced and holistic view of risks as they arise or evolve.
Top down Bottom up Board Business unit divisions The Board and RMAC have agreed a division of responsibilities with Risk identification is built into routine processes and supported respect to the management of risk.
The Board conducts a robust byanannual risk review which is refreshed regularly within each assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, and its risk appetite, businessunit.
Emerging risks are reviewed and added as part of a and the RMAC oversees the Groups systems of risk management and continuous improvement process.
These are also reviewed by divisional internal controls.
Executive Committee ExCo Group risk function Risk identification and management is central to the decisions taken by Challenges assumptions and prioritisation, supports business units in the ExCo.
aggregating their risks and reviews risk registers and heatmaps on a quarterly basis.
Group risk function Reviews heatmaps and registers on a quarterly basis.
Risk recording and review A bespoke risk portal has been developed and implemented The Head of Riskand Internal Audit briefs RMAC onrisk within Kier.
Risks are recorded alongside risk mitigations and management issues, the principal risks, and the compliance with controls, and a quarterly heatmap is produced for each business theelements of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating unit.
The combined risk data for all business units is reviewed to risk.
quarterly by the Group risk function.
Significant risk issues that The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to emerge throughout the year are escalated via the Group risk the RMAC.
function to the ExCo and theRMAC.
The RMAC meets quarterly and reviewsrisk matters and the Internal Audit Plan.
34 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk appetite Balancing risk appetite with our strategic aims The Board assesses its risk appetite annually.
In 2017, the Board undertooka detailed review of its appetite for risk set against each ofKiers strategic priorities.
Risk appetite was mapped against a sliding scale from risk-averse to risk-neutral to risk-tolerant and this informed the development of thresholds to quantify acceptable upper and lower levels of risk for each strategic priority.
Risk framework Kiers risk management framework evolves to support thedelivery of our strategic aims andISO 31000.
A summary of the framework is shown below: Mandate and commitment TheBoard sets a clear mandate for risk managementwhich is designed to ensure that risk is managed rigorously by the business.
Framework for managing risk PLAN Kiers processesidentify, analyse, evaluate and treat risks.
Continuous Implementing risk improvement management ACT DO  regularly Risk identification is performed on reviewed by management.
both a top-down and bottom-up basis and recorded in a bespoke in-house risk There is a focus on lessons learned portal.
This information is distributed within the business units and in the form of risk registers and risk divisions, prompting collaboration heatmaps to guide activity and on risk management across decision-making.
Monitoring and review CHECK Internal audit provides independent assurance to check that processes, controls and policies are operating effectively.
This service is co-sourced to KPMG who undertook 15 internal audits during the last 12 months.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 35 Probable Possible Improbable Likelihood Strategic Report Risk overview continued Analysing our principal risks 1 Health and safety 2 Sustainability requirements 3 Availability of funding 8 2 4 Market and sector performance 6 4 9 3 5 Operating model inefficiency 1 7 5 6 Ineffective contract management Loss of key customer relationships 7 8 Availability and retention of the rightpeople 9 Insufficient innovation Low Medium High Impact The definitions of probability and impact are as follows: Likelihood Impact Improbable the event is not foreseen as likely to occur or may Low the exposure is well understood with a relatively low cost occur in exceptional circumstances of mitigation Possible a relatively infrequent occurrence for the Group Medium risk may be tolerated provided that the benefits are considered to outweigh the costs significantly Probable a relatively frequent occurrence for the Group.
High risk threatens the viability of the Group or there is a reasonable likelihood of danger to people or material brand or reputational damage.
Key areas of risk focus for 2018 Wereview our risk management framework and internal controls to ensure they remain effective and support the Groups continued growth.
Theprincipal areas of focus for 2018 are: continued assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties from both a bottom-up and top-down perspective, deepening our analysisto create a unified viewof both sets of risks: support of business units to embed the useof the risk portal and sharing of best practice across the Group: continued development of Kiers risk culture: further development of risk communication processes within business divisions and to the Board: and continued appropriate focus on risk throughout all levels of management within the Group.
36 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017
