Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk Management and Audit Committee report Effective systems of risk management and internal control are essential to support the Groups continued growth and accountability to shareholders is based on fair, balanced and understandable reporting.
Adam Walker Chair RMAC Committee members Allocation of time External audit and financial Adam Walker Chair reporting Justin Atkinson Kirsty Bashforth Internal audit Constance Baroudel Nick Winser Risk management and internal controls Amanda Mellor retired asa member of the Committee on Governance 18 November 2016.
Dear shareholder I am pleased to present the Risk Management and Audit The following were also in attendance at Committee meetings: Committee report, which provides a summary of the Committees the Finance Director: activities during the 2017 financial year.
other members of the Board, when considered appropriate for example, the Chairman and the Chief Executive attended the Role September 2016 and March 2017 meetings to consider the The role of the Committee includes: Groups results and other Executive Directors attended meetings monitoring the Groups financial reporting procedures and when key accounting judgements on contracts were discussed: the external audit: the Group Financial Controller and representatives from PwC for external audit matters: and examining the integrity of the Groups financial statements and challenging significant financial reporting and other judgements: the Group Head of Risk and Internal Audit and representatives from KPMG for internal audit matters.
reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control: Outside the formal meetings, I met members of management including the Finance Director, PwC and KPMG to discuss a reviewing the Groups whistleblowing arrangements: number of matters relating to the operation of the Committee.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, agreeing the list of audits to be conducted each The secretary of the Committee is the Company Secretary year and reviewing the results of those audits: and HughRaven.
testing the independence and objectivity of the external The Committee met formally four times during the year: details of auditor, assessing its effectiveness and approving the attendance at these meetings are set out on page 65. provision of non-audit services.
Committee performance evaluation The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Companys website 2017 progress against 2016 evaluation at www.
The 2016 Board evaluation identified the following as key areas of Committee composition and meeting attendance focus for the Committee in the 2017 financial year: The names of the members of the Committee are set out above.
continuing to review the Groups risk management framework: and As a chartered accountant and the Finance Director of GKN plc, agreeing the respective roles of the Board and the Committee Iam considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial with respect to the management of risk.
experience and competence in accounting and auditing.
The Following the appointment of a new Group Head of Risk and Internal Committee has competence relevant to the sectors in which the Audit, good progress was made with respect to the review of the Group operates, for example: risk management framework, which will remain a principal area of focus for the Committee in 2018.
The Board and Committee agreed Justin Atkinson: a qualified accountant, has previous executive experience in the contracting sectors with Keller: their respective roles in relation to the management of risk.
Constance Baroudel: has experience of the risks associated 2018 principal areas of focus with strategy implementation: The Committee will focus on: Kirsty Bashforth: has particular experience of the risks relating ensuring that the Groups systems of risk management and to change management programmes: and internal control continue to support the Groups growth: and Nick Winser: a qualified civil engineer, has significant experience challenging PwC to continue to audit the Groups financial in the contracting sector.
Please see Board of Directors on pages 66 and 67 for further details of the Committee members experience.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 73 Corporate Governance Statement Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued Principal activities 2017 financial year Systems of risk management and internal control The following matters were considered during the Committee General meetings which took place during the year: Information on how the Group manages risk, including adescription of the principal aspects of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control, is set out on pages Sept Dec Mar June 34to36 inclusive.
Financial reporting Effectiveness review Full-year results and The Code requires the Board, at least annually, to conduct a announcement review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
The Boards statement about Half-year results and this review is set out on page 62. announcement Significant accounting At its meeting in September 2017, the Committee reviewed judgements managements assessment of the key elements of these systems and confirmed their overall effectiveness.
In forming its Going concern statement conclusion, the Committee noted, in particular, that: Viability statement during the year, KPMG conducted a number of internal audits Fair, balanced and and worked with management to ensure that actions were understandable statement closed-out appropriately.
Please see page 77 for examples: Dividend the FSSC had been set up during the year, introducing common Annual Report systems and procedures across the Group: management continued to review the Groups key financial controls External audit to ensure that they supported the Groups continued growth: and good progress continued to be made in relation to the transition Management to the Groups new ERP system.
representationletter Whistleblowing arrangements Evaluation of external auditors The Group makes available an externally-hosted whistleblowing effectiveness helpline, which employees can call, in confidence, if they have any Re-appointment of external concerns about improprieties in financial reporting or other auditor matters.
Any such concerns are then investigated.
During the year, the Committee oversaw managements Non-audit fees appointment of a new helpline provider, Safecall.
To accompany Non-audit fee policy this appointment, management implemented a programme toraise awareness of the helpline throughout the Group.
External audit plan AteachCommittee meeting during the year, the Committee reviewed reports which provided details of the issues reported Internal audit tothe helpline and how management had investigated them.
Nomaterial issues were reported to the helpline or via other General update means during the year.
Evaluation of internal auditors effectiveness Board statements Introduction Approval of internal audit plan Under the Code, the Board is required to provide a number of statements, as set out on page 62.
The Committees work to Risk management support the Boards statement with respect to the Groups General update systems of risk management and internal control is described Systems of risk management above under Systems of risk management and internal control and internal control Effectiveness review.
The Committees work with respect to the assessment fair, balanced and understandable, going concern and viability statements is described below.
Other Fair, balanced and understandable review Whistleblowing and compliance The work undertaken by management and the Committee to update support the Boards statement included: Review of terms of reference setting up a committee of senior individuals within the Group to draft the Annual Report: holding regular meetings of this committee to discuss and agree significant disclosure items: the committee members confirming that, in their opinion, the sections drafted by them were fair, balanced and understandable: 74 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements requesting that certain key contributors to sections of the The Committee discussed the going concern statement at its Annual Report for example, Managing Directors and Finance meeting in September 2017 and, having done so, recommended Directors of business units sign a declaration confirming the that the Board provide it in the form set out on page 62. accuracy of the information provided: Viability statement arranging for FutureValue a corporate reporting consultancy to The Directors have chosen to consider the prospects of the Group review the Annual Report and for Mercer, the Companys over a three-year period ending 30 June 2020, as they consider it remuneration consultants, to review the Directors to be a period over which they are able to forecast the Groups Remuneration Report: performance with reasonable certainty.
circulating drafts of the Annual Report to PwC, the Committee In particular: and the Board for review: and discussing material disclosure items at a meeting of the a number of programmes relating to the Groups key construction projects, which are important factors in an Committee held in September 2017. assessment of the Groups performance, operate over a The Committee discussed the fair, balanced and understandable three-year period: statement at its meeting in September 2017 and, having done so, the visibility of the Groups secured work and bidding recommended that the Board provide it in the form set out on opportunities can reasonably be assessed over a three-year page 62. period: and Going concern the KPIs contained in Vision 2020 cover a three-year period Theprincipal aspects of the review process conducted by the ending 30 June 2020.
Committee and management to support the Boards The Committees assessment included a review of the potential statement were: impact of severe but plausible scenarios that could threaten the reviewing the Groups available sources of funding and, in viability of the Group and the effectiveness of the potential particular, testing the covenants and assessing the available mitigations that management believes would be available.
These headroom using a range of assumptions: scenarios included a significant downturn in the property market, reviewing the short, medium and long-term cash flow forecasts followed by a similar effect on the UK construction market, and a in various material downside scenarios: decline in the UK infrastructure market.
The Committee discussed the viability statement at its meeting in September 2017 and, assessing the level of available bonding facilities, which are having done so, recommended that the Board provide it in the considered necessary to support the Groups ability to tender form set out on page 62. and deliver future growth: and assessing the Groups current and forecast activities, includingits long-term contracts and order books, and those factors considered likely to affect its future performance and financial position.
2017 financial reporting The audit At its meetings in June and September 2017, the Committee discussed the 2017 audit process.
The following is a summary of the key issues discussed by the Committee and PwC at these meetings: Meeting Issue Outcome action taken by the Committee June PwCs audit plan Challenged and agreed by the Committee PwCs audit risk assessment Discussed with PwC including the approach to identified risks Materiality level for the audit Agreed with PwC at a similarlevelto 2016 PwCs resources Reviewed and discussed with PwC Audit fee and terms of engagement Reviewed, challenged and approved by the Committee September Review of PwCs audit plan PwC confirmed no material changes made to agreed plan Audit findings, significant issues and other Discussed with PwC and management accounting judgements Management representation letter Reviewed and approved by theCommittee PwCs independence and objectivity and Independence and objectivity confirmed: quality control procedures quality control procedures reviewed bythe Committee During the audit, I met PwCs lead audit partner to discuss the process.
Following the conclusion of the September meeting, the Committee met PwC without management being present: no significant issues, other than those discussed at the Committee meeting, were raised.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 75 Corporate Governance Statement Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued Significant issues and other accounting judgements The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of managements judgements, assumptions and estimates in preparing the financial statements.
Following discussions with management and PwC, the Committee also determined that the significant issues and other accounting judgements relating to the 2017 financial statements are as shown in the table below.
Significant issues and accounting judgements Action undertaken by the RMAC Board Valuation of land and The Group holds inventory within the Residential and Property divisions, primarily comprising land held properties for development, for which construction has not started, and work-in-progress.
The carrying value of the inventory is based on the Groups current estimates of the sales prices and building costs.
Inventory in these divisions is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value i. e. the forecast selling price, less the remaining costs to build and sell.
An assessment of the net realisable value was carried out as at 30 June 2017 and requires management to estimate forecast selling prices and build costs, which may require significant judgement.
One of the key elements of the systems of risk management and internal control within these divisions is the development appraisals prepared by management, using a number of internal and external reference points.
Accordingly, PwC challenged these appraisals in a number of ways, including: in Residential reviewing managements expected build costs and challenging forecast sales prices and in Property reconciling the development appraisals to the work-in-progress summary, interviewing those responsible for each development and, where applicable, obtaining independent evidence to support the rental and yield rates adopted in the appraisal.
PwCs conclusion, following these steps, is set out in the independent auditors report on page 106.
Accounting for The Group has significant long-term contracts in the Construction and Services divisions, in particular.
long-term contracts Profit is recognised according to the stage of completion of the contract.
The assessment of profit including profit requires the exercise of judgement when preparing estimates of the forecast costs and revenues of a recognition, work-incontract.
A number of factors are relevant to this assessment, including, in particular, the expected progress and recovery of costs.
provisioning During the year, the Board reviewed and considered managements latest assessment of the forecast costs of, and revenues from, certain long-term contracts, particularly those in the Infrastructure and International businesses for example, the Groups projects for MTR in Hong Kong and in St. Kitts.
TheCommittee identified accounting for long-term contracts as one of the principal matters for review byPwC in the 2017 audit.
As part of its work, PwC reviewed the forecast end life positions, challenging the judgements applied by management in particular, the key assumptions on which they are based, and reviewed correspondence and contracts to assess whether these support the judgements.
The Committee discussed managements assessment of such contracts with PwC and management when considering the interim and year-end financial statements at its meetings in March and September 2017, respectively.
PwCs conclusion is set out in the independent auditors report on page 107.
During the year, the Board also obtained advice from the Companys corporate brokers with respect to such long-term contracts.
Accounting for Management has separately disclosed certain non-underlying items, in addition to presenting the adjustments to underlying results of the Group.
Details of those items are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial underlying profit statements.
The Committee identified the accounting treatment of non-underlying items as one of the principal matters for review by PwC in the 2017 audit.
PwC challenged management as to the appropriateness of the classification of each item, focusing on those items which PwC considered to be more judgemental in nature than others which included the contract loss elements of the Caribbean and Hong Kong exit costs.
PwCs conclusion as to the presentation of the non-underlying items is set out in the independent auditors report on page 108.
During the year, the Board also obtained advice from the Companys corporate brokers with respect to such non-underlying items.
76 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Internal audit Internal audits 2017 financial year During the year, the Committee monitored progress against the 2017 internal audit plan, which was approved by the Committee at its June 2016 meeting.
Results from each follow-up audit were discussed by the Committee, together with actions taken by management.
KPMG the co-sourced internal auditor completed 15internal audits during the year.
Examples of these audits include: ERP payroll process implementation tax governance safety information reporting tender management and pricing subcontractor procurement treasury management Before each audit, KPMG agreed the scope of review, timetable and resources required with management.
KPMG also provided regular updates to management and members of the Committee on the status of ongoing audits.
Internal audit function effectiveness To assess the effectiveness of the internal audit function, members of the Committee and senior management completeda detailed questionnaire addressing various aspects of both the internal audit function and KPMGs performance.
The feedback was then reviewed by the Committee at its meeting in December 2016.
During the year, a new Group Head of Risk and Internal Audit was appointed, to work alongside and manage KPMG with respect to the delivery of the internal audit plan.
The Committee concluded that, overall, the internal audit function was operating effectively.
A summary of the results of the review is as follows: Strengths Future areas of focus Dedicated and focused team Continue to ensure effective communication of material issues to the Committee Good understanding of the business Ensure appropriate engagement with the businesses Clear audit reports, challenging the business to manage riskeffectively Continue to close-out identified issues promptly Internalaudits 2018 financial year At its June 2017 meeting, the Committee approved the 2018 internal audit plan.
Examples of audits planned for the 2018 financial yearinclude: business continuity process compliance HR processes contract management governance joint venture reporting Group procurement function work-in-progress and debt management.
External audit General The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, its effectiveness and the audit process, by: approving the annual audit plan: monitoring the external audit process: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the auditorsappointment, re-appointment and removal: approving its remuneration and terms of engagement: reviewing and monitoring its independence and objectivity: and developing and implementing a non-audit services policy.
External auditor effectiveness During the year, the Committee conducted an evaluation of PwCs performance with respect to the 2016 audit.
A questionnaire was issued tokey stakeholders, including members of the Committee and those involved in the 2016 audit.
Feedback from the evaluation was discussed by the Committee at its meeting in December 2016 and was subsequently provided to PwC so that it could be taken into account when planning the 2017 audit.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 77 Corporate Governance Statement Risk Management and Audit Committee report continued The Committee concluded that, overall, PwC had operated effectively and hadprovided an appropriate level of challenge during the 2016audit.
A summary of the results of the review is as follows: Strengths Future areas of focus The audit plan was thorough and detailed, focusing on the Refreshing communication protocols so as to expedite the key issues audit process Collaborative, but challenging, approach taken by the audit So far as possible, maintaining continuity of audit team team when engaging with the business members Significant technical awareness and expertise evident Ensuring a depth of  across the throughout the audit team audit team The Committee will formally assess PwCs performance in relation to the 2017 audit during the 2018 financial year.
However, the Committee discussed its preliminary views at its meeting in September 2017 and concluded that, overall, it remained satisfied with PwCs performance.
PwC has indicated its willingness to continue in office and theCommittee has recommended PwCs re-appointment to the Board.
A resolution to re-appoint PwC as the external auditorwill therefore be proposed at the2017 AGM.
External auditor independence and non-audit services During the year, PwC provided certain non-audit services to the Group.
The Committee monitors the level and scope of these servicesto ensure that the associated fees are not of a level that would affect PwCs independence and objectivity.
In March 2017, the Committee approved a revised non-audit services policy, which reflects the FRCs revised Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The policy provides that the Committee expects that the level of non-audit fees in any one financial year will not exceed 15% of the audit fee payable in relation to the previous year.
The limits of authority within the policy are: Fees Approval required Up to 10,000 The Finance Director may authorise fees on individual assignments not exceeding 50,000 in any financial year.
Above 10,000 Must be approved in advance by the Committee.
The Chair of the Committee may provide urgent approval subject to the subsequent reporting of the approval to the Committee.
Non-audit fees incurred during the year were 85,000, which is approximately 7% of the 2017 audit fee of 1,266,000.
The non-audit fees related to sustainability reporting assurance 50,000 and the 2017 interim financial statements review 35,000.
The Committee concluded that PwCs independence and objectivity was not compromised by it providing these services and that, as a result of its knowledge of the Group and its financial statements, it was in the Groups interests to engage PwC to do so.
PwC first audited the Groups financial statements in the 2015 financial year.
The lead audit partner since that date has been Jonathan Hook.
PwC requires the lead audit partner to change after five years.
As part of the 2017 audit, PwC confirmed that it was independent within the meaning of applicable regulatory and professional requirements.
Taking this into account, and having considered the steps taken by PwC to preserve its independence, the Committee concluded that PwC continues to demonstrate appropriate independenceand objectivity.
Conclusion I will be available to answer any questions about the Committee, our work and how we operate at the AGM on 17 November 2017.
Adam Walker Chair of the Risk Management and Audit Committee 20 September 2017 78 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017
