Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent Detailed controls and any relevant action plans are monitored by the of the principal risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives, as Group Risk team on an ongoing basis.
well as establishing and maintaining the Groups systems of internal control There is an ongoing monitoring process which is operated by the Group Risk and risk management and reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
team and supported by senior management across the Group, to identify Additional information on the Groups internal control and risk management and report to the Audit Committee on significant changes or new risks.
processes is set out in the Corporate Governance Report and in the Audit The outcome of last years UK referendum continues to cause uncertainty Committee Report.
in both the political and economic environments in which we operate.
For more on the Corporate Governance Report see Although the large majority of our revenue is from subscriptions, we are pages 38 to 49 not immune from the impact of any economic uncertainty.
We do, however, believe that our business model means that we are comparatively wellThe Group has a formal risk management framework embedded within the placed to manage the consequences of the result and of its effect on business to support the identification and effective management of risk the economic environment.
Our operations are conducted mainly on a across the Group.
The divisions within the Group are each responsible for territorial basis and our business involves limited movement of goods and managing and reporting risk in accordance with the Groups risk management services between the UK and the rest of the EU and, to the extent that policy and standards that have been approved by the Audit Committee.
it does, we can adapt our business processes as necessary.
Like all The risks are then consolidated into a Group risk register which provides companies, we will need to monitor and manage the practical implications an overview of the Group risk profile.
Where appropriate we have also outlined in the table below the impact of the result on our principal risk and uncertainties.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, conducts a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks, including those that would threaten its business This section describes the current principal risks and uncertainties facing model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and their mitigation.
In addition to summarising the material risks and uncertainties, the table below gives examples of how we mitigate those risks.
The Group risk register is reported to the Audit Committee typically twice a year.
Description of risk Mitigation Market and competition: The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and faces The Group continues to make significant investments in innovation.
competition from a broad range of organisations.
Technological developments The Groups product development strategic aim is to be at the forefront also have the ability to create new forms of quickly evolving competition.
A failure to develop the Groups product proposition in line with changing Please see the Innovation section on page 8 of the Group Chief Executives market dynamics and expectations could erode the Groups competitive Statement for further details of these products.
The Group regularly reviews its pricing and packaging structures to ensure Great content is central to Skys product proposition and increased that its product proposition is appropriately placed within the market.
competition could impact the Groups ability to acquire content that The Group works closely with its marketing partners to ensure that the value our customers want on commercially attractive terms.
of its offering is understood and communicated effectively to its customers.
Economic conditions have been challenging in recent years across the The Group makes significant investment in the origination of content as well territories in which the Group operates and the outcome of the UK as in acquisition from across the world.
referendum has caused further economic uncertainty.
A significant The Group also works to develop and maintain the brand value associated economic decline in any of those territories could impact the Groups with its individual channels.
ability to continue to attract and retain customers in that territory.
Regulatory breach and change: The Groups ability to operate or compete effectively could be adversely The Group manages these risks through active engagement in the regulatory affected by the outcome of investigations or by the introduction of new laws, processes that affect the Groups business.
policies or regulations, changes in the interpretation or application of existing The Group actively seeks to identify and meet its regulatory obligations and laws, policies and regulations, or failure to obtain required regulatory to respond to emerging requirements.
This includes, for example: approvals or licences.
Please see page 32 of the Regulatory Matters Broadcasting compliance controls and processes are in place in the Groups section for further details.
Interaction with the relevant regulatory authorities is The Group is subject to regulation primarily under Austrian, German, Irish, co-ordinated between the relevant local Compliance, Regulatory and Legal Italian, UK and European Union legislation.
departments: The regimes which apply to the Groups business include, but are not Technical services with respect to the provision of certain technical limited to: services in the UK and Germany, processes are in place to monitor thirdBroadcasting as a provider of audiovisual media services, the Group is party broadcaster access to the relevant broadcast platforms and to ensure subject to Austrian, German, Italian and UK licensing regimes under the that this is provided on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms: applicable broadcasting and communications legislation.
These obligations include requirements to comply with relevant codes and directions issued by the relevant regulatory authorities, including for example, in the UK, Ofcoms Broadcasting Code, Code on the Scheduling of Television Advertising and Cross-Promotion Code: Technical services as a provider of certain technical services in the UK and Germany, Sky UK and Sky Deutschland are subject to regulation in their respective countries: and 28 Sky plc Strategic report Description of risk Mitigation Telecommunications Sky UK is subject to the General Conditions of Telecommunications compliance controls and processes are in place Entitlement adopted under the Communications Act 2003 UK and the in the UK and Ireland, overseen by the Customer Compliance Committee, Conditions for the provision of Electronic Communications Networks and to monitor compliance and performance against the General Conditions Services under the Communications Regulation Act 2002 Ireland, which of Entitlement and the Conditions for the provision of Electronic impose detailed requirements on providers of communications networks Communications Networks and Services.
The Group maintains appropriate oversight and reporting, supported by The Group is also subject to generally applicable legislation including, but not training, to provide assurance that it is compliant with regulatory requirements.
limited to, competition antitrust, anti-bribery, consumer protection, data The Group will monitor carefully future developments that arise out of protection and taxation.
the result of the recent UK referendum and will engage in any relevant The Group is currently, and may be in the future, subject to proceedings, regulatory processes.
and or investigation and enquiries from regulatory and antitrust authorities.
The telecommunications and media regulatory framework applying to the Group in the UK and the EU may be subject to greater uncertainty in the event that the UK leaves the EU.
Potential changes to the regulatory framework could include divergence in the long term between the UK and EU regulation of telecommunications and media, and changes to certain mutual recognition arrangements for media and broadcasting.
Sky does not currently foresee any regulatory changes as a result of a UK exit that would have a material impact on its business.
Please see page 32 of the Regulatory Matters section for further details.
Customer service: A significant part of the Groups business is based on a subscription model The Group strives consistently to exceed its customers expectations, and its future success relies on building long-term relationships with its to put its customers first, to understand what they want and to be customers.
A failure to meet its customers expectations with regard to responsive to what they say.
service could negatively impact the Groups brand and competitive position.
The Group makes significant investments in order to deliver continuous development and improvement to its customer service capabilities, including investment in its contact centres across the UK and Ireland, insourcing of service centres in Germany and implementing ongoing training and development plans.
The Group tracks its customer service performance, benchmarks its customer service experience and strives to be best in class.
Technology and business interruption: The products and services that the Group provides to its customers are The Group makes significant investment in technology infrastructure to reliant on complex technical infrastructure.
ensure that it continues to support the growth of the business and has a robust selection and monitoring process of third-party providers.
A failure in the operation of the Groups key systems or infrastructure, such as the broadcast platform, customer management systems, OTT The Group is committed to achieve best in class business continuity standards platforms or the telecommunications networks on which the Group relies, and makes significant investments in the resilience and robustness of could cause a failure of service to our customers and negatively impact its business infrastructure.
The Group also organises regular scenario-based group-wide business continuity exercises to ensure ongoing readiness of key staff, systems and sites.
Suppliers: The Group relies on a number of third parties and outsourced suppliers The Group continues to invest in its supply chain infrastructure to support operating across the globe to support its business.
A significant failure of a supplier or a discontinuation of supply could A robust supplier selection process is in place with appropriate ongoing adversely affect the Groups ability to deliver operationally.
management and monitoring of key partners and suppliers.
The Group performs regular audits of key suppliers and of their installations and, wherever possible, has dual supply capability.
Annual Report 2017 29 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Mitigation Financial: The effective management of its financial exposures is central to preserving The Groups finance teams are embedded within the business to provide the Groups profitability.
support to management and to ensure accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Reporting on financial performance The Group is exposed to financial market risks and may be impacted is provided on a monthly basis to senior management and the Board.
negatively by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates, which create volatility in the Groups results to the extent that they are not The Group continually invests in the improvement of its systems and processes effectively hedged.
in order to ensure sound financial management and reporting.
Any increase in the financial leverage of the Group may limit the Groups The Group has a formal Treasury Policy which is reviewed and approved by the financial flexibility.
Audit Committee on an annual basis.
In addition, the Group COO and CFO monitors the Treasury Policy on an ongoing basis to ensure its continuing The Group may also be affected adversely by liquidity and counterparty risks.
The Treasury Policy covers all areas of treasury risk including foreign exchange, interest rate, counterparty and liquidity.
The Group manages treasury risk by minimising risk to capital and uses appropriate hedging instruments and strategies to provide protection against adverse foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
Trading transactional currency risk is hedged up to five years in advance.
Interest rate risk protection is in place using interest rate swaps and an appropriate currency mix of debt is maintained using cross-currency swaps.
Cash investment is made in line with the Treasury Policy which sets limits on deposits based on counterparty credit ratings.
No more than 10% of the Groups cash deposits are held with a single bank counterparty, with the exception of overnight deposits which are invested in a spread of AAAf-rated liquidity funds.
The Group maintains headroom within our banking covenants to allow for unforeseen adverse impacts on our leverage ratio as a result of either economic decline or extreme currency movements.
The Group maintains strong liquidity as part of its core strategy, with high cash balances and a 1 billion fully undrawn revolving credit facility.
The Group manages its tax risk by ensuring that risks are identified and understood at an early stage and that effective compliance and reporting processes are in place.
The Group continues to maintain an open and proactive relationship with all relevant tax authorities, including HM Revenue & Customs.
The Group aims to deal with taxation issues, wherever possible, as they arise in order to avoid unnecessary disputes.
Security: The Group must protect its customer and corporate data and the safety of its The Group takes measures ranging from physical and logical access controls people and infrastructure as well as needing to have in place fraud prevention to encryption, or equivalent technologies, raising employee awareness and and detection measures.
monitoring of key partners to manage its security risks.
The Group is responsible to third-party intellectual property owners for the The Group continues to invest in new technological controls and in improving security of the content that it distributes on various platforms Skys own broader business process and works closely with law enforcement agencies and third-party platforms.
and policy makers in order to protect its assets and to comply with its contractual obligations to third parties.
A significant breach of security could impact the Groups ability to operate and deliver against its business objectives.
Projects: A common project management methodology is used to enable the Group The Group invests in, and delivers, significant capital expenditure projects in to manage, monitor and control its major capital expenditure projects and order to continually drive the business forward.
The level of the Groups capital strategic programmes.
This includes detailed reporting and regular reviews expenditure has increased as a result of the increased size of the Groups by senior management as well as cross-functional executive steering groups business following completion of the acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and for major projects.
Third-party partners will, where appropriate, be engaged to provide support The failure to deliver key projects effectively and efficiently could result in and expertise in our large strategic programmes, complex initiatives and significantly increased project costs and impede our ability to execute our for emerging technologies.
30 Sky plc Strategic report Description of risk Mitigation Intellectual property protection: We maintain an ongoing programme to support appropriate protections of The Group, in common with other service providers, relies on intellectual our intellectual property and other rights.
This involves both unilateral action property and other proprietary rights, including in respect of programming and close co-operation with rights licensors and other bodies.
This includes, content, which may not be adequately protected under current laws or for example, the use of automated online monitoring tools, the implementation which may be subject to unauthorised use.
of on-screen imprinting of content and steps in support of the Premier Leagues action to require UK ISPs to block illegal streams of live PL matches together with an active programme to protect our intellectual property rights.
People: Making Sky a great place to work is central to the Groups strategy.
The Group People at Sky are critical to the Groups ability to meet the needs of its champions diversity and develops talent through a number of activities, customers and achieve its goals as a business.
including the Graduate programme, Development Studio, an apprenticeship Failure to attract or retain suitable employees across the business could scheme and a leadership programme.
The Group invests in the working limit the Groups ability to deliver its business plan commitments.
environment to make Sky an even more appealing place to work.
The Group has well established channels and procedures to recruit and retain its employees, and to ensure that an adequate number of suitable employees work within its customer service teams and across all its operations.
Further details on our people is set out in the Employees section of the Directors Report on page 71.
Viability statement Going concern In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its 2016, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over the three future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic years to 30 June 2020.
The assessment has taken account of the current report on pages 2 to 33.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows position of the Group and the potential impact of the principal risks and liquidity position are described in the Financial review on pages 24 to 27. detailed on page 28 to 31 of the Annual Report.
In addition, notes 1 to 29 to the consolidated financial statements include details of the Groups treasury activities, long-term funding arrangements, The Directors believe that an assessment period of three years is financial instruments and hedging activities and exposure to financial risk.
appropriate based on managements reasonable expectations of the position and performance of the Company over this period, taking account As set out above, the Group has sufficient financial resources which, of its strategic plans.
The Directors assessment included a review of the together with internally generated cash flows, will continue to provide financial impact of the most severe principal risks that could threaten the sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including its viability of the Company.
The financial impact was tested taking account contractual and commercial commitments as set out in note 25 on page of currency downside risk and the likely effectiveness of the potential 125, its approved capital expenditure and any proposed dividends, and the mitigations that management reasonably believes would be available to the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the Company over this period, enabling the net financial effect to be calculated.
The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed the process undertaken by After making enquiries, the Directors have formed the judgement, management.
at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, Based on the results of the assessment, the Directors confirm that they that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going period to 30 June 2020. concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
In assessing the prospects of the Company, the Directors noted that such assessment is subject to a degree of uncertainty that can be expected to increase looking out over time and, accordingly, that future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
