Principal Risks and Uncertainties GENUS SUPPLIES BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS TO AGRICULTURAL CUSTOMERS AND IS EXPOSED TO A WIDE RANGE OF RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES.
Some of these risks relate to current The Directors confirm that they have and evaluated a new principal risk business operations in our global undertaken a robust assessment of relating to our ability to hire and retain agricultural markets, while others relate the principal risks and uncertainties talented people, as detailed below.
to future commercial exploitation facing the Group.
As part of this of our extensive research and assessment, we considered the Groups More information on the types developments R&D portfolio.
The increased investment in leadingand levels of risks the Board is table below outlines the principal edge R&D, along with the technical prepared to seek and accept in risks and uncertainties facing Genus and customer-facing skills needed to executing the strategy, and how and how we manage them.
In response we define our risk appetite and to the latter issue, we identified identify and manage risks, can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 52 and 53.
LINK TO STRATEGY Increasing Genetic Control and 1 2 3 Sharing in the Value Delivered Targeting Key Markets and Segments Product Differentiation STRATEGIC RISKS RISK fide SCRIPTION HO W WE MANA GE RISK STRATEG Y RISK CHANGE IN 2017 1 2 DEVELOPING PRODUCTS WITH COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Development programmes fail to Dedicated teams align our product development No change in porcine but produce best genetics for to customer requirements.
We use large-scale decreased in bovine, due to the customers.
data and advanced genomic analysis to ensure acquisition of fide Novo genetics, Increased competition to secure our breeding goals are met.
We frequently which has secured increased elite genetics.
measure our performance against competitors in access to elite dairy genetics.
customers systems, to ensure the value added by our genetics remains competitive.
1 COMMERCIALISING GSS TECHNOLOGY Failure to manage the technical, We have rigorously prepared for the successful Reduced.
The granting of a production and financial risks commercial launch of our GSS technology, permanent injunction against ST in associated with launching a new supported by dedicated internal resources and the US legal proceedings removed product technology.
We initiated legal certain research, marketing and The industry response to the proceedings against ST in the US in 2014, to non-compete restrictions.
Technical introduction of competition into open the market to competition.
progress on GSS continued as we the sexed semen market.
scaled up for commercial launch in September 2017, with strong product trial results.
In June 2017 new patent infringement proceedings were filed by ST in the US which the Group is defending vigorously see note 7.
1 2 DEVELOPING AND COMMERCIALISING GENE EDITING TECHNOLOGIES Failure to develop successfully We maintain awareness of new technology Increased, due to our discovery and commercialise gene editing opportunities through a wide network of and pursuit of new gene editing technologies due to technical, academic and industry contacts.
Our R&D applications and consequent intellectual property IP, market, Portfolio Management Team R&D PMT higher investment in 2018 and regulatory or financial barriers.
oversees our own research, ensures we beyond.
Key initiatives are Game-changing technology correctly prioritise our R&D investments and progressing through the R&D life secured by competitors.
assesses the adequacy of resources and the cycle.
We have formal collaboration agreements with key partners, to ensure responsible exploration and development of technologies and the protection of IP.
The Board is updated regularly on key development projects.
1 2 3 CAPTURING VALUE THROUGH ACQUISITIONS Failure to identify appropriate We have a rigorous acquisition analysis and No change.
The acquisition process investment opportunities or to due diligence process, with the Board continues to provide valuable and perform sound due diligence.
reviewing and signing off all material projects.
timely access to the right Failure to successfully integrate an We also have a structured post-acquisition investment opportunities.
integration planning and execution process.
experiences with post-acquisition integration provide a platform for integrating newly acquired businesses.
| 12 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 STR ATEGIC REPORT RISK fide SCRIPTION HO W WE MANA GE RISK STRATEG Y RISK CHANGE IN 2017 2 GROWING IN EMERGING MARKETS Failure to appropriately develop We have a robust organisation, blending local No change.
Business performance our business in China and other and expatriate executives, supported by the has continued to be strong in emerging markets.
This allows us to grow China.
However, we remain our business in key markets, while managing exposed to the pig cycle in China, risks and ensuring we comply with our global as the majority of our business standards.
there is not yet on a royalty model.
OPERATIONAL RISKS 3 PROTECTING IP Failure to protect our IP could We have a global, cross-functional process to No change.
mean Genus-developed genetic identify and protect our IP.
Our customer material, methods, systems and contracts and our selection of multipliers and technology become freely joint venture partners include appropriate available to third parties.
measures to protect our IP.
We conduct robust Freedom To Operate searches to identify third-party rights to technology.
1 2 ENSURING BIOSECURITY AND CONTINUITY OF SUPPLY Loss of key livestock, owing to We have stringent biosecurity standards, with No change.
independent reviews throughout the year to Loss of ability to move animals or ensure compliance.
We regularly review the semen freely including across geographical diversity of our production borders due to disease outbreak, facilities, to avoid over-reliance on single sites.
environmental incident or international trade sanctions.
Lower demand for our products, due to industry-wide disease outbreaks.
1 2 HIRING AND RETAINING TALENTED PEOPLE Failure to attract, recruit, develop We have a robust talent and succession New principal risk.
Growth in new and retain the global talent planning process, including annual assessments business areas including IVB and needed to deliver our R&D of our global talent pool and active leadership GSS and delivery of our R&D programmes and growth plans in development programmes.
The Groups reward programmes depend on having our chosen markets.
and remuneration policies are reviewed people with appropriate skills.
regularly, to ensure their competitiveness.
We work closely with a number of specialist recruitment agencies to identify candidates with the skills we need.
FINANCIAL RISKS 3 MANAGING AGRICULTURAL MARKET AND COMMODITY PRICES VOLATILITY Fluctuations in agricultural We continuously monitor markets and seek to No change.
markets affect customer balance our costs and resources in response to profitability and therefore demand market demand.
We actively monitor and for our products and services.
update our hedging strategy to manage our Increase in our operating costs, exposure.
Our porcine royalty model and due to commodity pricing extensive use of third-party multipliers volatility.
mitigates the impact of cyclical price reductions or cost increases in pig production.
n a FUNDING PENSIONS Exposure to costs associated with We are the principal employer for the Milk Reduced.
During the year the failure of third-party members of Pension Fund MPF and chair the group of trustees and Genus consented to a joint and several liabilities pension participating employers.
The fund is closed to Flexible Appointment Agreement scheme.
future service and has an agreed deficit FAA resulting in the NMR Group Exposure to costs as a result of recovery plan, based on the 2015 actuarial leaving the scheme after making external factors such as mortality valuation.
In agreement with the employers, payments to the fund and to rates, interest rates or investment the trustees implemented an investment Genus.
More details on this values affecting the size of the fide-risking strategy and have started a liability arrangement can be found in pension deficit.
We also monitor the note 27. strengths of other employers in the fund and have retained external consultants to provide expert advice.
