Strategic report Risk management How we manage risk Rank operates a comprehensive risk management Ranks risk committee further information can be methodology which is closely integrated into its found on page 60 meets a minimum of eight times management structure to provide clear oversight and per year with a remit to conduct a thorough review governance of the risks which are considered to be of the risk register and to ensure that management is working effectively to identify and manage risks material to its business, and to maintain continuous surveillance of its operating environment for as they arise and on a continuous basis.
Working sessions of the committee are held with departmental emerging risks.
and divisional management to ensure that risks are The approach endeavours to ensure that a clear risk being identified in a timely manner, procedural appetite is set that balances risk and opportunities controls over identified risks are effective, and action to contribute to the achievement of the Groups plans are put into place for emergent risks.
approach ensures that risk is identified in both a top-down and a bottom-up manner from the The board has responsibility for the risk framework various management levels of the organisation to and for establishing the Groups risk appetite, as give assurance that risk registers are comprehensive.
well as ensuring that risk controls are built into managements approach to operations.
The audit Group internal audit works in support of the risk committee holds responsibility for assessing the committee to help manage risk identification and effectiveness of the risk management systems which conduct independent reviews of both the businesss are in place and for undertaking an independent risk and its progress in performing the mitigating review of the risk mitigation plans which have action plans agreed for any relevant risks, the status been designed for material risks.
of which is reported to the risk committee at each meeting.
Risk management framework @ Board Sets the Groups strategy Ensures appropriate risk controls and mitigation Sets risk appetite Group Audit internal committee audit Risk function committee.. @ @ Reviews risk management process Reviews corporate risk register Carries out a risk-based programme of internal audits Reviews action plans to manage Carries out deep dive reviews into significant risks specific departments and support Maintains corporate risk register functions risk registers Assists business and support function Provides a forum to ensure the departments in development and adequate and timely progress maintenance of their risk registers of  40 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The Group strategic plan is updated annually for a Going concern In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the period of three years and takes into account current trading trends, the impacts from capital projects, financial information, the directors have considered the issues impacting the Group during the period as existing debt facilities, and expected changes to the regulatory and competitive environment as well detailed in the operating review on pages 32 to 36 and have reviewed the Groups projected compliance with as expectations for consumer disposable income.
In carrying out the assessment the directors have its banking covenants.
Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and operating budgets, the directors believe reviewed and challenged key assumptions within the Groups strategic plan.
A number of plausible that the Group will generate sufficient cash to meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least 12 months from but severe downside risks, including consideration of possible mitigating actions, have been modelled the approval of this report and will comply with its banking covenants.
with particular focus on the potential impact to cash flows, net debt headroom and covenant compliance Viability statement throughout the period of review.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors make A number of assumptions were included within the the following statement: assessment, including no material adverse change to: The directors have considered the current position i gaming legislation of the Group, its prospects and longer-term viability ii the taxation of gambling over a period of three years to June 2020.
Although beyond smaller changes to specific rates longer periods are used when making significant iii societal attitudes to gambling strategic decisions, three years has been used as it iv loss of operating licences required to is considered the longest period of time over which operate gambling suitable certainty for key assumptions in the gambling sector can be made.
A reverse stress test was also carried out in order to analyse combinations of the above risks which could In making this statement, the directors have bring about insolvency unless capital was raised: in performed a robust assessment of the principal such cases it is anticipated that mitigation measures risks facing the Group which includes consideration including a reduction in dividends and capital of both financial and non-financial risks that may expenditure could be implemented in order to threaten the business model, future performance, forestall such an outcome.
liquidity and solvency of the Group.
The principal risks facing The Rank Group Plc and our approach As a result of this assessment the directors have to risk management are set out within our strategic concluded that they have a reasonable expectation report on page 40 and includes consideration of the that the Company will be able to continue in impact of each risk, the direction of travel and actions operation and meet its liabilities as they fall taken to mitigate these risks.
The risks considered due over a three-year period.
included adverse regulation, adverse changes to rates of tax, adverse gaming win, loss of licences, wage rise inflation and technological risks including cyber security.
Our risk management process Identify Mitigate Monitor Review www.
