Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Addressing our risks Regulatory, finance, business environment and tax risks Risk Impact Mitigation Regulation The current political and social environment Rank works hard to ensure that it actively More information Stable 0 continues to perceive the gambling industry in provides and promotes an environment in Regulatory changes could Market review 21 a concerned light and there is a risk that such which customers can play safely, supported increase the cost of doing negative publicity may lead to adverse changes by its long-running Keep it Fun brand business.
which gives customers clear advice and guidance.
The company also works with stakeholders, customers and regulators to help public understanding of the gaming offers it provides.
Rank also participates in trade bodies representations to political and regulatory bodies to ensure that such stakeholders clearly understand the positive contribution that its business provides to the economy.
Taxation Adverse changes in fiscal regulation continue Rank continues to actively participate in More information Stable 0 to be a significant risk, particularly to the digital all relevant consultations by government.
Tax fact file 45 Any increases in the levels environment where changes to Remote Gaming of taxation or duties to Duty will impose this duty on free bets from which we are subject, or the 1August 2017. implementation of any new taxes or levies to which we will be subject, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Macroeconomic conditions Current macroeconomic conditions coupled with A rigorous trading analysis and business More information Increasing political uncertainty over the Brexit negotiations, planning approach ensures that the Macroeconomic conditions Market review 21 are causing a reduction in confidence in the UK business is ready to respond to changing directly impact customers Chief executives economy, with an impact on discretionary conditions in a rapid and flexible manner.
propensity to spend, which Q&A 18 leisure spending.
could have an adverse effect on revenues.
European political uncertainties are fuelling exchange rate weakness which impacts directly on some business costs, reducing profitability.
42 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Operational risk Risk Impact Mitigation Volatility of gaming win The nature of the games played means that win Gaming limits are utilised across all More information Stable margin can fluctuate in the short term although areas of gaming operations to continually Fluctuations in gaming win Operating it will generally perform at a stable average over manage risk exposure.
New systems of margin directly affect review 32 a longer period.
table management are being implemented profitability.
in the casino estate to deliver up-to-theThe important VIP sector of the business in minute information to aid management both retail and digital contains a small volume of to help promptly detect any operational customers who can themselves create volatility issues which may affect the customer in the overall margin given the value of their experience or the win margin.
The VIP population is closely managed to Issues with misfeasance or the accurate ensure that strong long-term relationships management of the games can also affect are developed through dedicated customer win margins.
handling and specialised incentive schemes.
The VIP segment is also monitored by senior management and resources are in place to attract and retain suitable high value players within appropriate limits to mitigate business risk.
Loss of licences or imposition of serious licence conditions Ranks gaming licences are fundamental to its All staff undergo relevant training for their Stable More information operation.
In the British venues business there roles to ensure that a good understanding The loss of licences could Market review 21 is a requirement to hold an operators licence of the objectives of compliance and the have an adverse effect on our Operating from the UK Gambling Commission the body obligations of their role is maintained.
business and profitability and review 32 responsible for regulating commercial gambling Rank also has a dedicated compliance prevent us from providing in Great Britain in respect of each of the licensed function that is independent of the gambling services.
Additionally, it is necessary operational teams and exists to provide to hold premises licences from the relevant local guidance and support to the operational authority in which each venue is situated, one for teams delivering compliant operations, as gambling activities and one for the sale of alcohol.
well as oversight of all relevant matters relating to ensuring full compliance.
Our UK customer-facing transactional websites In addition, there is a separate and also require an operators licence from the UK independent internal audit function to Gambling Commission as well as a licence from provide assessments of the compliance the Alderney Gambling Control Commission, the of all operating areas on a regular basis.
body responsible for the regulation of eGambling in the States of Alderney where our remote gambling operations are based.
Our operations in Spain and Belgium are also subject to licensing requirements in the jurisdictions and local areas in which they operate.
Single account and wallet project The project to deliver an integrated wallet and Rank has a structured and disciplined project Stable More information account experience for customers across the delivery methodology to ensure that critical A failure to deliver key Strategy 24 digital and retail casinos is a key strategic projects are robustly managed to achieve strategic projects impacts on enabler for the Company.
Key projects are also customer loyalty and growth.
subject to detailed management oversight from a project board as well as having sponsorship from a senior-level stakeholder.
A comprehensive project risk approach is also undertaken within the project, managed by experienced project managers.
com | 43 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risk continued Risk Impact Mitigation Business continuity and disaster recovery The ongoing operation of the business is Business continuity plans are in place More information Stable 0 dependent on the availability of IT systems, for key operations and are reviewed on Without effective business Strategy 24 staff and physical club venues.
Ensuring that a regular basis to ensure that they remain continuity and disaster serious disruptive events such as fire, flood, in a state of preparedness.
recovery plans the business pandemic or security incident can be managed could experience delays in Plans for the recovery of critical IT services to restore operations swiftly and smoothly is restoring revenue-generating are likewise in place and reviewed on an of critical importance.
activities or important ongoing basis.
operational processes such as financial reporting, causing both financial and reputational damage.
Information risk Data management, information technology and cyber risk In the course of its commercial business, Rank has invested considerable resources More information Stable 0 and to comply with relevant regulatory and in its information technology and A breach of data security Strategy 24 legal requirements, Rank collects and stores cyber-security capabilities and continues could result in significant a considerable amount of data regarding its to do so, with a team of specialist security reputational damage as customers, staff and suppliers.
The robust resources guiding a comprehensive data well as impacting our protection of this data is critical to ensuring and security strategy.
A continuous process customers trust of the that Rank acts responsibly in protecting these of risk assessment, identification and Company, affecting their stakeholders from risk as well as complying with remediation is in place alongside robust ongoing relationships and relevant data protection regulation, including change management protocols to minimise consequently the Companys the forthcoming EU General Data Protection the risk of interruptions caused by financial performance.
Regulations due to come into force in May 2018.
Additionally, potential consequences of a breach In order to deliver commercial improvements could include compensation and new customer experiences there is an payments to those affected, ongoing programme of IT changes, additions or significant fines.
This continues the Groups significant dependence on strong IT systems Any failure of technology and processes, as well as its reliance on a large systems could leave the number of suppliers of IT services and software.
Company unable to render The resilient and secure operation of these IT service to customers, systems is a key requirement, particularly for impacting on revenue the operation of the digital business, and and profitability.
any vulnerability to malfunctions, service interruptions or cyber-attacks would pose a risk to the Groups ability to serve its customers.
44 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017
