Strategic report P rincipal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Managing risk is a key aspect of our Managing the risks to Hargreaves Lansdown is fundamental to success.
It plays a major role in our delivering the incredible levels of service our clients expect and ability to provide exceptional client generating returns for shareholders.
The Board has performed a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group through a service, while also generating good process of continual review, including those that would threaten its returns for both our clients and business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
In making such an assessment the Board considers the likelihood of shareholders alike.
each risk materialising in the short and longer term.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are detailed below, along with actions taken to mitigate and manage them.
The principal risks are categorised into strategic risks, operational risks and financial risks as per our risk framework.
Strategic and emerging risks Risk Potential impact Mitigations 2017 impact Negative impact on AUM, The Board reviews the strategy Development of the Active Future strategic change shareholder returns and client in the context of providing our Savings proposition.
Hargreaves Lansdown fails to number targets.
clients with the services and provide innovative propositions propositions they need.
and services to our clients.
Reputational damage as a result of the under performance.
Steering groups are set up for all new services or client offerings to ensure they are delivered to time, quality and costs requirements.
The Group Steering Board ensure MiFID II.
Future regulatory change all regulatory projects are Managing implementation of Missed opportunities to achieve European General Data.
properly prioritised and regulatory change has been a competitive advantage through Protection Regulation.
major element of the emerging the approach to implementation.
performs horizon checking to ensure the Group has timely visibility of future regulatory change.
Director of Risk and Compliance maintains reporting on future regulatory change.
Capital requirement figure Attendance at industry events.
Monitoring and inputting to the Change in regulatory capital materially larger than the figure review.
levels Ongoing communication with the under the current ICAAP regime.
A revised regime could have a FCA.
Building assumptions based on material impact on both available materials.
Hargreaves Lansdown and the Special dividend cancelled industry.
because of increased capital requirement.
24 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Operational risks Risk Potential impact Mitigations 2017 impact Negative impact on consumer The Executive and the Board Brexit.
Continued geo-political and confidence and desire to hold track and discuss emerging risks economic uncertainty Middle East.
buy investments preferring to to ensure appropriate responses Both nationally and Eastern Europe.
keep funds as cash savings.
internationally we are in a period of substantial geo-political and economic instability.
Conduct Reputational damage resulting Strong client-centric culture.
Evolution and further embedding The risk that Hargreaves from poor levels of customer of the Propositional Lifecycle.
Formal policy in place with Lansdown fails to deliver fair service.
ongoing review at Group and outcomes for clients.
Negative impact on AUM, departmental level.
shareholder returns and client Conduct Risk Management number targets.
Information is discussed at the Risk Committee as part of the wider Risk Management Information.
Regulatory Reputational damage resulting Independent Compliance, Risk None.
The risk that the Group fails to from poor levels of customer and Internal Audit functions.
Strong compliance culture leading to reputational damage, Negative impact on AUM, geared towards client outcomes monetary fines or the withdrawal shareholder returns and client and regulatory compliance.
of its authorisation to carry on number targets.
Disruption to business Inability to service clients needs.
Business continuity and disaster Testing of business continuity Physical business continuity recovery plans tested regularly.
plan and disaster recovery Reputational damage if not event or catastrophic loss of solutions.
Dual hosting of all critical systems, or other external event servers, telecommunications and could cause disruption to our applications.
business and result in inability to High level of resilience built into perform core business activities daily operations.
or reduction in client service.
Separate business continuity disaster recovery site available 24 7.
Loss of data or inability to Dedicated information security, A programme of training and Financial crime maintain our systems resulting in anti money laundering and client awareness.
Failure to protect against client detriment and reputational protection teams in place.
cybercrime, fraud or security Expansion of the security damage.
breaches could result in loss of Formal policies and procedures.
data or inability to maintain our Fraudulent activity leading to A security operations centre systems resulting in client identity fraud and or loss of focused on the detection, detriment and reputational customer holdings to fraudulent containment and remediation of damage.
25 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report P rincipal risks and uncertainties Financial risks Risk Potential impact Mitigations 2017 impact Regulatory censure.
As part of the ICAAP, Hargreaves Ongoing review of the capital Prudential risk Lansdown undertakes regular held under the ICAAP regime The risk that the Group may hold capital adequacy assessments to linked to management of the risk insufficient regulatory capital ensure that it maintains financial profile of the organisation.
resources in order to meet FCA resources of sufficient scale and Threshold Conditions Consideration of the impacts of quality at all times.
the EBA advice on the design of a assessments include risk-based new prudential framework for stress testing to model the investment firms.
impact of extreme scenarios on Capital managed in order to the Groups own funds.
maintain a capital buffer in line with our risk appetite.
Unable to meet obligations as A Treasury management policy is Annual refresh of Liquidity Policy Liquidity they fall due.
in place, overseen by the and Framework.
Lack of sufficient readily Treasury Committee, which realisable financial resources to maximises return on capital meet the Groups obligations as while providing the ability to they fall due, or lack of access to access sufficient liquid funds at liquid funds on commercially short notice should this be viable terms could lead to necessary.
inability to pay clients and regulatory breaches.
Counterparty Failure of a third-party bank, Group deposits with highly None.
The Group must always protect broker or market maker.
credit-rated institutions only, in against the risk that a bank or accordance with the Treasury other counterparty could fail.
The Treasury Committee monitors the counterparties credit ratings on a regular basis.
Market Downturns in the market and The Group business model None.
Fluctuations in capital markets resultant drops in AUA and AUM comprises both recurring may adversely affect trading will have a negative impact on platform revenue and activity and or the value of the Hargreaves Lansdown income.
Groups Assets Under A high proportion of the AUA and Administration or Management, AUM are held within taxfrom which we derive revenues.
advantaged wrappers, meaning there is a lower risk of withdrawal.
Multi-Manager funds publish market exposures in prospectus and funds are managed and monitored accordingly.
26 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
