STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION POLICIES AND DECISIONS 52 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 53 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS HOW WE MANAGE RISK Our Risk Assessment Process BOARD OVERSIGHT Principal risks and material concerns identified by the Main Board MAIN BOARD Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Sustainability Committee Operational review and feedback from Divisions OPERATIONAL MEETINGS Risk owners and Executive Board EXECUTIVE BOARD Divisional Boards Functional Seminars Team Meetings Risk Register and policies and procedures update POLICIES FOR IDENTIFYING AND CONTROLLING RISKS The Main Board has the ultimate responsibility over Any new risks identified are assessed one at a time, Budgeting & Forecasting Price & Sales Monitoring Cost Reviews Land Bank Management System the effective management of the risks we face in order evaluating any potential impact to our business and to achieve our strategic and financial objectives.
the likelihood of its occurrence.
These new risks are then fed back to the risk owners who use this As part of our risk assessment framework, a detailed assessment to inform their formal review, ensuring PROCEDURES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS review is carried out of the Companys strategic there are preventive and detective controls in objectives and identifies the principal risks and place and included in the risk register.
material concerns we face as a business.
These Business Policies and Procedures Authorisation Processes System Based Controls headline risks are then approved and compiled The risk register is reviewed annually to ensure into a risk register.
It is also reviewed by the Audit Business Process Reviews Site Completion Reviews Committee to ensure that it is relevant and The risks and material concerns are then further appropriate to our business.
broken down into components and sub level risks.
These sub level risks are reviewed by each Divisional PEOPLE AND CULTURE Board, individually assessing the probability and impact of each risk.
In order to mitigate, control and continually monitor these risks, appropriate internal Professionalism Strong Communication Qualified Personnel controls are implemented.
Pride and Achievement Interests Aligned with Shareholders Commitment to Training BUSINESS RISKS MONITORING AND REPORTING STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 54 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 55 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management continued Risk Risk Owners Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Risk Risk Owners Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Housing Market Group Chief The UK housing market is closely Land Procurement Group Proactive monitoring of the market conditions Executive monitored, with management Development to implement a clear defined strategy at both UK housing market The ability to purchase responding if there are any changes Director Group and Divisional level.
conditions have a direct land suitable for our in marketconditions.
impact on our business products and the timing Experienced and knowledgeable personnel GROW OUR MANAGE OUR performance and Help to of future land purchases Regular review and product updates in our land, planning and technical teams.
BUSINESS RESOURCES Buy continues to provide are fundamental to the in response to demand in the market.
RESPONSIBLY EFFICIENTLY Use of third party legal resources for larger significant support.
Groups future Weekly review of the sales at both site acquisitions in order to reduce risk.
Effective use of our Land Bank Management Regular review of competitor actions System to support the land acquisition and their performance.
Ongoing and regular monitoring of Government policy.
Availability of Group Proactively engage with the Government, Planning and Regulatory Group Close monitoring of the planning and Mortgage Finance Environment Finance Lenders and Insurers to support the Development regulatory environment at Group and Director housing market.
Lending criteria and The inability to respond deposit requirements for and adapt to the Expert New Build Mortgage Specialists Communication of proposed changes across GROW OUR MANAGE OUR mortgages remain key changing planning and provide updates on regulatory changes.
the Group through the Executive Board.
BUSINESS RESOURCES issues in the current regulatory environment RESPONSIBLY EFFICIENTLY Well prepared planning submissions environment.
will adversely impact addressing local concerns and displaying upon our ability to good design.
comply with the regulatory requirements of the industry.
Liquidity and Funding Group Suitable committed banking facilities Appropriateness Group Regular review and product updates in with covenants and headroom.
of Product Design and Finance response to the demand in the market.
The Group requires Director Technical appropriate borrowing The failure to design Regular review of our banking covenants Design focused on high quality build and Director facilities in place for its and build a desirable and capital structure.
MANAGE OUR short term liquidity and CREATE product for our Regular communication with our investors RESOURCES Regular site visits and implementation of BETTER long term funding.
customers at the EFFICIENTLY and relationship banks.
product changes to meet demands.
PLACES TO appropriate price may LIVE Robust forecasting and budgeting process undermine Redrows in order to provide a clear view of future ability to fulfil its cash flows.
Customer Service Regional Customer First initiative continues to Attracting and Group Personal Development Programmes Chief Executive further improve our engagement with Retaining Staff Human supported by National training centres The failure of our our customers.
customer services could The loss of key staff and Director undermine Redrows or our failure to attract My Redrow website to support our Graduate training, Undergraduate PUT VALUE AND business performance.
high quality employees customers purchasing their new home.
placements and Apprentice training CUSTOMERS DEVELOP OUR will inhibit our ability to programmes to aid succession planning.
FIRST PEOPLE Regular review of our marketing and achieve our business communications policies at Group and Remuneration strategy to attract and objectives.
retain talent within the business is reviewed regularly and benchmarked.
Regular INsight e-magazine and annual employee survey create a framework for strong communication.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 56 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 57 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management continued Risk Risk Owners Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement VIABILITY STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL Health and Safety Group Health Dedicated team operating across the Group In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK The Strategic Report outlined on pages 1 to 57 Environment and Safety to ensure compliance of appropriate Health Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors has been approved by the Board.
Instances of nonhave assessed the prospects and viability of By order of the Board Undertaking regular visits and audits on sites.
compliance with VALUE AND Health & Safety and DEVELOP OUR Internal and external training provided to all The Groups investment case, business model and PEOPLE employees.
Environmental strategy are key to understanding Redrows future GRAHAM COPE regulations could prospects.
The Directors assessment has made Divisional Construction Design and Company Secretary reference to our current position, our strategy, the expose our people, Management Regulation CDM inspections potential impact of the principal risks facing the carried out to assess our compliance with our the environment and 4 September 2017 Group, and the Boards appetite for risk which are client duties under CDM.
to be found in this Report in the Strategic Report.
Health and Safety discussion at both Group The Group has committed banking facilities and Divisional level board meetings.
CDM competency accreditation requirement The Directors have selected a three year timeframe as a minimum for contractor selection process.
over which to assess the viability of the Group, from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2020.
This timeframe was chosen as it corresponds with the Boards three year Key Supplier or Group Use of reputable supply chain partners with planning horizon.
On an annual basis, the Directors Subcontractor Failure Commercial relevant experience and proven track record.
review the financial forecasts for the Group Director The failure or inability to Monitoring of subcontract supply chain to constructed using a detailed bottom up process expand capacity of a key maintain appropriate number for each trade incorporating assumptions about the timing of legal GROW OUR supplier, main contractor and to identify any potential shortage in completions of new homes and land purchases, BUSINESS or subcontractor may skilled trades in the near future.
RESPONSIBLY selling prices, profitability, working capital disrupt our ability to requirements and cash flows.
The Group also uses Subcontractor utilisation on sites monitored manage our production a top down model to give another perspective.
to align workload and capacity.
process in an efficient Bi-annual quality assessments of suppliers, The three year plan is stress tested for robust and cost effective downside scenarios.
This involves flexing key contractors and subcontractors.
assumptions including the impact of reduced Group Monthly Product Development average selling prices, sales rates and land prices meetings to identify and monitor changes which could arise from a deterioration in housing in the regulatory environment.
market conditions and mortgage availability.
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable Cyber Security IT Director Communication of IT policy and procedures expectation that the Group will be able to continue to all employees.
Failure of the Groups IT in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due systems and the security Regular systems back up and storage of over the three year period ending 30 June 2020. of our internal systems, data offsite.
GROW OUR data and our websites BUSINESS Internal specialist IT security personnel.
can have significant RESPONSIBLY Use of third party entity to test the Groups impact to our business.
cyber security systems and other proactive approach for cyber security including Cyber Essentials Plus accreditation.
Fraud Uninsured Loss Finance Systems, policies and procedures in place Director which are designed to segregate duties A significant fraud or Operations and minimise any opportunity for fraud.
uninsured loss could damage the financial Regular Business Process Reviews MANAGE OUR performance of our undertaken to ensure compliance with RESOURCES business.
procedure and policies followed by formal EFFICIENTLY action plans.
Insurance strategy driven by business risks.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 58 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 59 WOODFORD GARDEN VILLAGE, WOODFORD
