Strategic Report Operational Controls Internal Control Framework Our key operational control processes are as follows: Our internal control framework is designed to ensure: Quality Assurance: All our manufacturing sites have an proper financial records are maintained: established Quality Management System.
These systems are the Groups assets are safeguarded: designed to ensure that our products are manufactured to a high standard and in compliance with the relevant regulatory compliance with laws and regulations: and requirements.
effective and efficient operation of business processes.
Pharmacovigilance: Our regulatory team operates a robust The Dechra Values are the foundation of the control framework and it system with a view to ensuring that any adverse reactions related is the Boards aim that these values should drive the behaviours and to the use of our products are reported and dealt with promptly.
The key elements of the control framework are Information Technology: Our business units currently use a described below: number of different local financial, manufacturing and warehouse management systems to support their operations.
We are in the process of implementing Oracle across the Group.
Financial Controls: Our controls are designed to prevent and detect financial misstatement or fraud and operate at three Management levels: Structure Entity Level Controls performed by senior managers at Group and business unit level: Policies and Procedures Month-end and Year-end procedures performed as part of our regular financial reporting and management processes: Business Planning and Operational Level Controls Transactional Level Controls operated on a day-to-day basis.
Quality Information Financial Pharmacovigilance Assurance Technology Controls Internal Audit provides independent and objective assurance and advice on the design and operation of the Groups internal control Dechra Values framework.
The internal audit plan seeks to provide balanced coverage of the Groups material financial, operational and compliance control Management Structure processes Our management structure has clearly defined reporting lines, accountabilities and authority levels.
Improvements in 2017 We have continued to strengthen and improve a number of key control The Group is organised as business units.
Each business unit is led processes and the following changes have been implemented: by a SET member and has its own management team.
a number of portfolio and project management improvements have Policies and Procedures been implemented in our product development processes: Our key financial, legal and compliance policies that apply across the Group are: the manufacturing Quality Management Systems in all our recent acquisitions have been assessed and improvements implemented to Code of Business Conduct: ensure they meet relevant regulatory standards: Delegation of Authorities: a risk assessment of the key contract manufacturing organisations CMOs that our supply chain is dependent upon has been Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption: completed and quality audits have also been conducted on Whistleblowing: the top 35 CMOs: and Sanctions: and our standard financial control framework has been updated and rolled out across the Group, including all recent acquisitions, in Charitable Donations.
response to a number of improvement opportunities identified Strategy and Business Planning from internal audit reviews.
We have a five year strategic plan which is updated and reviewed by Plans for 2018 the Board annually.
Business objectives and performance measures We will continue to refine and strengthen our internal control framework are defined annually together with budgets and forecasts.
Monthly where required in response to changes in our risk profile and business performance reviews are conducted at both Group and improvement opportunities identified by business management, business unit levels.
quality assurance and internal audit.
The product pipeline is reviewed regularly to: We are planning to review our key corporate compliance processes assess whether products in development are progressing and training activities including our Group Code of Conduct, key Group according to schedule: Policies and our Third Party Principles Policy in order to improve our ability to comply with existing and emerging legislation.
identify new product ideas and assess fit with our product portfolio: and assess the expected commercial return on new products.
Stock Code: DPH 57 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 57 04 09 2017 13:59:32 Understanding Our Key Risks Dechra is one of only a handful of listed veterinary pharmaceuticals Lower pricing pressure: Livestock producers and pet owners companies in the FTSE.
We therefore believe it is important to generally pay for animal healthcare themselves.
Pricing decisions summarise the key distinctions between the animal and human are not influenced by government payors that are involved in pharmaceutical industries in order to provide a better understanding of product and pricing decisions for human medicines.
Less price erosion by generic competition: Generic competition The business of developing and marketing animal pharmaceuticals in animal healthcare, whilst playing an important role, has a lower shares a number of characteristics with human pharmaceutical impact on prices compared to human pharmaceuticals because businesses.
These similarities include the need to conduct clinical trials of the smaller average market size of each product opportunity, to prove product safety and efficacy, obtain regulatory approval for new stronger customer relationships and brand loyalty.
products, complex and highly regulated product manufacturing, and to The SET has identified and agreed key risks with the Board.
Of these, market products based on approved clinical claims.
However, there are a number are deemed to be generic risks facing every business also significant differences between animal and human pharmaceutical including failure to comply with financial reporting regulation, foreign businesses, including: exchange, IT systems failure and non-compliance with legislation.
The Product development is generally faster, cheaper and more table below therefore details the ten principal risks that are specific to predictable and sustainable: Development of animal medicines our business and provides information on: typically requires fewer clinical studies with fewer subjects and is how they link to Group strategy: conducted directly in the target species.
Decisions on product safety, efficacy and likelihood of success can therefore be made their potential impact on the business: and more quickly.
what controls are in place to mitigate them.
Diversified product portfolios: Animal pharmaceuticals businesses are generally less reliant on a small number of blockbuster products.
Animal health products are sold across different regions which may have distinct product requirements.
As a result, animal health products often have a smaller market size and the performance of any single product typically has less impact on overall business performance.
Stronger customer relationships and brand loyalty: Companion Animal Products are directly prescribed and often dispensed and sold by veterinarians which contributes to building brand loyalty, which continues after the loss of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity.
Link to Strategic Growth Driver and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Control and Mitigating Actions Trends Competitor Risk: Revenues and margins We focus on lifecycle management strategies Competitor products launched may be adversely affected for our key products to ensure they fulfil evolving Competitor against one of our leading brands should competitors launch customer requirements.
product launches e. g. generics or a superior product a novel or generic product Product patents are monitored and defensive against profile.
that competes with one of some of strategies are developed towards the end of the our unique products upon our key We depend on data exclusivity patent life or the data exclusivity period.
the expiry or early loss of products periods or patents to have patents.
We monitor market activity prior to competitor a b c exclusive marketing rights for products being launched, and develop a some of our products.
Costs may increase due to marketing response strategy to mitigate defensive marketing activity.
Although we maintain a broad competitor impact.
portfolio of products, our unique products like Vetoryl and Felimazole have built a market which may be attractive to competitors.
58 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 58 04 09 2017 13:59:33 Strategic Report Link to Strategic Growth Driver and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Control and Mitigating Actions Trends Market Risk: The emergence of corporate We manage and monitor our national and a b c The emergence of veterinary customers and buying European pricing policies to ensure equitable buying groups and corporate groups represents an pricing for each customer group.
opportunity to increase Our relationships with larger customers are sales volumes and revenue We sell and promote primarily to managed by key account managers.
but may result in reduced veterinary practices and distribute margins.
Our marketing strategy is designed to support our products through wholesaler veterinarians in retaining customers by promoting and distributor networks in most Our reputation and the benefits of our product portfolio in our major markets.
relationships with veterinary therapeutic areas.
practices could also be In a number of mature markets, adversely affected.
veterinarians are establishing buying groups to consolidate their purchasing, and corporate customers are also emerging.
Acquisition Risk: Failure to identify or secure We have defined criteria for screening Identification of acquisition suitable targets could slow acquisition targets and we conduct commercial, Successful candidates and their potential the pace at which we can clinical, financial and legal due diligence.
expand into new markets or The Board reviews acquisition plans and acquisitions grow our portfolio.
Identification of suitable progress regularly and approves all potential candidates and securing a Acquisitions could deliver transactions.
successful approach involves a lower profits than expected The SET manages post-acquisition integration high degree of uncertainty.
or result in intangible assets and monitors the delivery of benefits and impairment.
Acquired products or businesses returns.
may fail to deliver expected returns due to over-valuation or integration challenges.
Product Development Risk: A succession of clinical trial Potential new development candidates are Failure to deliver major products failures could adversely assessed from a commercial, financial and either due to pipeline delays or affect our ability to deliver scientific perspective by a multi-functional team to newly launched products not shareholder expectations allow senior management to make decisions on meeting revenue expectations.
and could also damage our which ones to progress.
reputation and relationship The development of pharmaceutical The pipeline is discussed regularly by senior with veterinarians.
products is a complex, risky and management, including the Chief Executive Officer lengthy process involving significant Our market position in key and Chief Financial Officer.
Regular updates are financial, R&D and other resources.
therapeutic areas could be also provided to the Board.
affected, resulting in reduced Products that initially appear Each development project is managed by corevenues and profits.
promising may be delayed or project leaders who chair project team meetings.
fail to meet expected clinical or Where we are unable to Before costly pivotal studies are initiated, smaller commercial expectations or face recoup the costs incurred proof of concept pilot studies are conducted to delays in regulatory approval.
in developing and launching assess the effects of the drug on target species and a product this would result It can also be difficult to predict for the target indication.
in impairment of intangible whether newly launched products assets.
In respect of all new product launches a detailed will meet commercial expectations.
marketing plan is established and progress against that plan is regularly monitored.
The Group ensures that it has a detailed market knowledge and retains close contact with customers through its management and sales teams which are trained to a high standard.
Stock Code: DPH 59 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 59 04 09 2017 13:59:33 Understanding Our Key Risks continued Link to Strategic Growth Driver and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Control and Mitigating Actions Trends Regulatory Risk: Delays in regulatory The Group strives to exceed regulatory Failure to meet regulatory reviews and approvals could requirements and ensure that its employees requirements.
impact the timing of a product have detailed experience and knowledge of the launch and have a material regulations.
We conduct our business in a effect on sales and margins.
highly regulated environment, Manufacturing and Regulatory have established which is designed to ensure the Any changes made to the quality systems and standard operating safety, efficacy, quality, and ethical manufacturing, distribution, procedures in place.
a c b promotion of pharmaceutical marketing and safety Regular contact is maintained with all relevant products.
surveillance processes of regulatory bodies in order to build and strengthen our products may require Failure to adhere to regulatory relationships and facilitate good communication additional regulatory standards or to implement changes lines.
approvals, resulting in in those standards could affect our additional costs and or The regulatory and legal teams keep updated in ability to register, manufacture or delays.
respect of changes with a view to ensuring that promote our products.
the business is equipped to deal with, and adhere Non-compliance with to, such changes.
regulatory requirements may result in delays to Where changes are identified which could affect production or lost sales.
our ability to market and sell any of our products, a response team is created in order to mitigate the risk.
External consultants are used to audit our manufacturing quality systems.
Regulatory Risk: Reduction in sales of our Regular contact is maintained with relevant a b c Continuing pressure on reducing antimicrobial product range.
veterinary authorities to ensure that we have Antibiotic antibiotic use.
a comprehensive understanding of regulatory decline has Our reputation could increased in changes.
The issue of the potential transfer be adversely impacted the UK and Denmark of antibacterial resistance from food if we do not respond We strive to develop new products and minimise producing animals to humans is appropriately to government antimicrobial resistance concerns.
In some countries this has led to government recommendations on reducing the use of antibiotics in food producing animals.
Reliance on Third Parties Risk: Raw material supply failures We monitor the performance of our key suppliers A supply failure on a key product may cause: and act promptly to source from alternative may affect our ability to develop, Increased product suppliers where potential issues are identified.
make, or sell our products.
costs due to difficulties The top ten Group products are regularly reviewed in obtaining scarce in order to identify the key suppliers of materials or a b c We rely on third parties for the materials on commercially finished products.
supply of all raw materials for acceptable terms: products that we manufacture We maintain buffer stocks and dual sourcing in-house.
We also purchase many product shortages due to arrangements of key products.
of our finished products from third manufacturing delays: or All contracts with suppliers are reviewed from party manufacturers.
delays in clinical trials both a commercial and legal perspective to try to due to shortage of trial ensure that assignment of the contract is allowed products.
should there be a change of control of either of the contracting parties.
Shortages in manufactured products and third party We have recruited a dedicated CMO Director to supply failures on finished manage our third party supplier network.
products may result in lost sales.
60 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 60 04 09 2017 13:59:33 Strategic Report Link to Strategic Growth Driver and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Control and Mitigating Actions Trends Reliance on Third Parties Risk: Loss of a key customer The DPM sales team maintains relationships with a b c Loss of key third party can impact manufacturing key customers.
Strategy manufacturing customers revenues and lead to an to reduce Robust supply agreements are in place with each third party from DPM.
increase in the cost of goods of our key customers and are regularly reviewed.
manufacturing of the remaining portfolio.
contracts Other sales, relating to third party Monthly customer service level monitoring and manufacturing and other non-core reporting is in place.
activities, represents approximately 9.2% of Group revenues.
People Risk: Loss of key skills and The Nomination Committee oversees succession Failure to retain high calibre, experience could erode our planning for the Board and the SET.
Board talented senior managers and other competitive advantage and and SET Succession plans are in place for the SET succession key roles in the business.
could have an adverse impact together with development plans for key senior planning on results.
a b c managed Our growth plans and future managers.
Key person insurance is in place where successfully success are dependent on retaining Inability to attract and retain appropriate.
knowledgeable and experienced key personnel may weaken Remuneration packages are reviewed on an senior managers and key staff.
annual basis in order to help ensure that the Group can continue to retain, incentivise and motivate its employees.
People Risk: Failure to recruit or develop The Group HR Director reviews the organisational Failure to resource the business to good quality people could structure with the SET twice a year to aim to Successful achieve our strategic ambitions, result in: ensure that the organisation is fit for purpose and recruitment of DPM particularly on geographical to assess the resourcing implications of planned capability gaps in new management expansion and acquisition.
team markets: As Dechra expands into new A development programme is in place to identify challenges in integrating markets and acquires new opportunities to recruit new talent and develop new acquisitions: or businesses or science we recognise existing potential.
that we may need new people overstretched resources.
with different skills, experience This could delay implementation and cultural knowledge to execute of our strategy and we may our strategy successfully in those not meet shareholders markets and business areas.
Key to Strategic Growth Drivers: Key to Strategic Enablers: Key to Risk Trend: Pipeline Delivery Manufacturing and Supply Chain Increased risk a b c Portfolio Focus Technology Decreased risk Geographical Expansion People No change Acquisition Read Delivering Our Strategy on pages 13 to 15 Stock Code: DPH 61 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
