Strategic Report Case Study: Our Environment Cleanaural Historically production of Cleanaural, one of the care products, The result of this transfer means we can support the commercial was undertaken at our small manufacturing facility located ambition of the Group by reducing our cost of goods.
alongside the logistics hub in Uldum, Denmark.
In 2013 following Furthermore, the 90% reduction in unnecessary movement of the closure of this manufacturing facility, production was moved to goods means a dramatic CO emission reduction.
2 a lower cost Contract Manufacturing Organisation CMO located in Florida, US.
Although manufacturing was carried out in Florida, the bottles and nozzles were still supplied from Denmark, as they had been specially designed and manufactured in Denmark.
This meant a journey of over 4,600 miles one way moving empty bottles from Europe to US, the bottles being filled in the US, then transported over 4,600 miles back to the logistics hub before onward distribution into Europe.
Therefore, a single bottle would have travelled more than 9,200 miles before it was distributed to the final customer.
Following the five year Dechra Manufacturing and Supply Chain strategic plan it was decided to make use of the geographical location and skilled workforce of our Zagreb manufacturing facility in Croatia.
We wanted to ensure security of supply chain and the quality and cost improvements for the product.
The plan was to source and produce the product in Croatia and then send to the logistics hub in Denmark, resulting in a total journey of around 1,000 miles compared to the 9,200 previously.
This transfer process has resulted in significant investment in staff training and upskilling in Croatia.
In addition, the technical teams have looked at the manufacturing process and have made improvements to the production methods.
The site had to seek regulatory approval for the manufacturing facility, and in December 2016 it received the GMP licence to operate from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medicinal Devices of Croatia HALMED.
In March 2017, we successfully achieved the technology transfer from the CMO facility in USA with the first production arriving in our Danish logistics hub in April 2017, months ahead of the original plan.
The team have also undertaken a project to source bottles and caps locally in Croatia to have a tighter supply chain in place.
We have been working closely with the CMO to ensure they maintain our USA supply chain and provide a dual supply source.
Stock Code: DPH 55 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 55 04 09 2017 13:59:32 S d r E a T o B How the Business Manages Risk Effective risk management and control is key to the delivery of our The Board and the SET together set the tone and decide the level of business strategy and objectives.
Our risk management and control risk and control to be taken in achieving the Groups objectives.
processes are designed to identify, assess, mitigate and monitor significant risks, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Board assurance that the Group will be successful in delivering its objectives.
Top Down Overseeing of the Groups risk management and internal controls The Board is responsible for overseeing how the Groups strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks are managed, and for Audit Committee Annual validation of the risk reporting process assessing the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework.
Senior Executive Team Owners of the risk management process and responsible for embedding Our Senior Executive Team SET owns the risk management process risk management into business units and is responsible for managing specific Group risks.
Bottom Business Units The SET is also responsible for embedding sound risk management Up Identication, mitigation and monitoring of risks in strategy, planning, budgeting, performance management, and operational processes within their respective Operating Segments and business units.
Risk Management Process Our strategy informs the setting of the objectives across the business and is widely communicated.
Strategic risks and opportunities are identified as an integral part of the strategy setting process.
The SET is responsible for evaluating and managing risk from both a bottom up and top down level and acts as a link between the Board and the business units to ensure management of operational risks is embedded in the business.
Each SET member owns one or more Group risks and is responsible for identifying how the risks are currently controlled, what additional mitigating actions are required, what monitoring and assurance mechanisms are in place, assessing the effectiveness of key control processes, and addressing any weaknesses identified.
The Board conducts a review of the risk management and internal control framework and SET members present their risks, controls and mitigation plans to the Board for review on a rolling programme throughout the year.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal financial controls annually.
Identify Internal Control Monitor r Assess Framework Mitigate e 56 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
