Strategic report The Board has conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the business.
The full Principal risks and business implications of Brexit remain uncertain, which will be the case uncertainties for some time.
The Board is closely monitoring the situation as it develops.
Further commentary Our performance is subject to a number ofrisks, on Brexit is provided on page 67. the principal risks and factorsimpacting on them Currency fluctuations, trading arrangements, employment issues and are set out inthetable below.
other risks that become apparent over time, will be monitored by the Board and mitigation put in place where possible.
The cyber security threat risk has been included for the first time this year, to demonstrate how the Group is addressing this increasing and Increased Decreased No change challenging threat.
1 Current trading levels and order book Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change Revenue growth is The Group is expanding and diversifying its Global market conditions continue to unpredictable and orders product range in order to maintain a worldhighlight risks to growth and demand from customers generally leading position in its sales of metrology products.
that can lead to fluctuating levels Targeted investment in sales and marketing of revenue.
involve short lead-times resources continues in order to support the Whilst global investment in production with the outstanding order breadth of the product offerings.
systems and processes is expected book at any time being The Group is applying its measurement expertise to expand, future growth is difficult to to grow its healthcare and additive manufacturing around one months worth predict, especially with such a shortbusiness activities.
This limited forward of revenue value.
The Group retains a strong balance sheet and has order visibility leaves the annual Related strategic priorities: the ability to flex manufacturing resource levels revenue forecasts uncertain.
2 Research and development Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change The development of new Patent and intellectual property generation is core Being at the leading edge of new products and processes to new product developments.
technology in metrology and involves risk, such as healthcare, there are uncertainties R&D programmes are regularly reviewed against whether new developments will development timescales, milestones and, when necessary, projects provide an economic return.
meeting the required Medium to long-term R&D strategies are technical specification and monitored regularly by both the Board and the impact of alternative Executive Board, including reviews of the allocation of R&D resource to key projects.
Product development processes around the Related strategic priorities: Group are reviewed and aligned where possible to provide consistency and efficiency.
2 5 7 New products involve beta testing at customers to ensure they will meet the needs of the market.
Market developments are closely monitored.
3 Supply chain management Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change Customer deliveries may Inability to meet customer deliveries Production facilities are maintained with fire be threatened by a failure and flood risk in mind.
could result in loss of revenue in the supply chain.
Critical production processes are replicated at different locations where practical.
Related strategic priorities: The Group is highly vertically integrated providing 3 increased control over many aspects of the supply chain.
The Group has the ability to flex manufacturing resource levels and shift patterns.
Regular vendor reviews are performed for critical part suppliers.
Stock policies are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Product quality is closely monitored.
52 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4 Regulatory legislation for healthcare products Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change The expansion of the Regulatory approval can be very Specialist legal and regulatory employees are in Groups business into the place to support the healthcare business.
healthcare markets involves This area is also very complex The Group has experience of healthcare a significantly increased and there is a risk that the correct regulatory matters at Board level.
requirement to obtain Healthcare operations in UK and France have ISO13485 certification for their quality regulatory approval prior to management systems, with Ireland and other the sale of these products.
subsidiary healthcare operations falling under the UK quality management system.
Related strategic priorities: 2 5 6 No change.
5 Defined benefit pension schemes Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change Investment returns and Volatility in investment returns The investment strategy is managed by the actuarial valuations of the pension scheme trustees who operate in line with and actuarial assumptions defined benefit pension a statement of investment principles.
can significantly affect the fund liabilities are subject to defined benefitpension scheme A new recovery plan was agreed in June 2016 for deficit, impacting on future the 2015 actuarial valuation based on funding to economic and social factors funding requirements.
that are outside of the control of the Group.
Related strategic priorities: 1 Strong performance of fund assets during the year in addition to contributions made in line with the recovery plan.
6 Exchange rate fluctuations Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change Fluctuating foreign exchange With 95% of revenue generated The Group enters into forward contracts in rates may affect the results order to hedge varying proportions of forecast outside of the UK, there is an of the Group.
US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen revenue.
exposure to major currency Forward contracts which are ineffective for fluctuations, mainly in respect of the Related strategic priorities: accounting purposes provide the protection US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen.
against rate changes that management intended Such fluctuations could adversely 6 7 when entering the contracts.
impact both the Groups income The Group uses currency borrowings to hedge statement and balance sheet.
the foreign currency denominated assets held in the Groups balance sheet.
There is a monthly board review of currency rates and hedging position.
7 Cyber security threats Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change For the Group to operate There is substantial resilience and back-up built Reduced service to customers due effectively it requires into group systems.
to lack of reliable management continuous access to timely information putting the Group at a An IT security committee exists, comprising IT competitive disadvantage.
and reliable information at and business leadership.
Delay or impact on decision making all times.
We seek to ensure Cyber risk and security is a regular topic for through lack of availability of sound board discussion.
continuous availability, data or disruption in denial of service.
External penetration testing is utilised on an security and operation Loss of commercially sensitive and appropriate basis.
or personal information leading to The Group operates central IT policies in all implications including reputational Cyber threats continue aspects of information security.
Regular monitoring of all group systems takes Theft of commercial or sensitive place with regular reporting and analysis.
Related strategic priorities: information data or fraud causing Operating systems are continuously updated and loss and disruption.
refreshed in line with current threats.
2 3 4 7 The Group employs a number of physical, logical and control measures to protect its information and systems.
E-learning courses covering certain cyber threats were rolled out to all employees group wide during the year as well as management training.
Increased vigilance against evolving threats.
Explanation of change in risk.
Our business model for more information see page 9 Our strategy for more information see page 22 onwards 53
