Group business code and other policies Strategic report Overview of risk management The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship of our system of Risk and risk risk management and internal control.
It has established the level of risk management that is appropriate for our business and acceptable in the pursuit of our Effective risk management is critical strategic objectives and has therefore set appropriate policies.
It has also set to the achievement of our strategic delegated authority levels to provide the framework for assessing risks and objectives.
Risk management controls ensuring that they are escalated to the are integrated into all levels of our appropriate levels of management, including up to the Board where business and across all our operations.
appropriate, for consideration We continually assess our exposure to and approval.
risk and seek to ensure that risks are The roles and responsibilities of the Board, key committees and all levels of appropriately mitigated.
management from a risk management perspective are summarised in the infographic below.
This process ensures that risks are not just the product of a bottom-up approach but are also examined from a top-down perspective via an integrated senior management process, which is closely aligned with the Groups strategy in order to enhance the Groups approach to risk generally.
Risk management framework information and feedback flow Board Audit Committee Executive Board Risk Committee Top-down review Group risk register Bottom-up review ISM Board Other operational Group operating companies management 50 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 External auditor and internal audit Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Activities during the year Cyber threats Key focus areas for the A new executive risk committee was In relation to the continuing threat 2017 financial year formed in 2016 creating greater linkage from cyber security, we have provided across our review and assessment of employees with online training and A robust assessment of the risk.
The committee met four times in further strengthened our IT systems principal risks facing the Group, the period and conducted a thorough resilience as well as the monitoring including those that would review of our principal risks as well as of threats.
threaten its business model, the relevant mitigation plans for each.
future performance, solvency Other key developments or liquidity.
The overall effectiveness of the Groups New enhanced due diligence Implementation of measures risk management and mitigation procedures have been implemented for in response to the Modern processes is reviewed regularly routinely screening new and existing Slavery Act.
by the Executive Board and the agents and distributors, utilising Implementation of an executive Audit Committee.
the services of a market-leading risk committee, fourmeetings screening service.
We have rolled out During the year a new Group Audit held in the period.
refresher e-learning training on our Manager was recruited.
The internal Implementation of a groupwide Group Business Code which sets audit team operates independently, whistleblowing policy.
out the ethical standards expected of reporting to the Audit Committee.
employees and our business partners Recruitment of a new Group Scheduled visits to Group companies and also on anti-bribery.
were held and documented, with an executive summary provided Consideration of the risks related A groupwide whistleblowing policy was to the Audit Committee and any to Brexit.
implemented this year which involved shortcomings acted upon promptly.
the appointment of an independent Evaluation of and protection Process enhancements are worked third party provider to operate a against cyber security threats.
All operating confidential reporting line, enabling Anti-bribery due companies are required annually people to raise concerns in confidence diligence enhancements.
to complete self-certification if they feel the standard internal questionnaires regarding compliance processes are not appropriate.
with Group policies, procedures and requirements.
Going concern for more information see page 75 Viability statement for more information see pages 7576 For further explanation of our approach to risk management and internal control see page 76 Risk likelihood and impact before mitigation The diagram to the right shows the Boards analysis of the principal risks affecting the Group, before mitigation.
1 Current trading levels and 1 order book 2 Research and development 3 Supply chain management 6 4 Regulatory legislation for 2 healthcare products 5 Defined benefit pension schemes 3 7 6 Exchange rate fluctuations 4 7 Cyber security threats Further descriptions and associated 5 mitigations are shown on pages 5253.
Low High Likelihood of risk 51 Risk impact Low High
