Strategic report How we protect our business DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 19 environment with significant change across many fronts.
Macroeconomic volatility sits How we protect alongside deep political change and a continued threat from terrorism.
Cyber our business security threats continue to evolve.
Shifting social and consumer trends, driven in part by profound technological developments, Risk management and principal risks provide a huge opportunity for innovation.
Protectionism and local trade and regulatory Our Performance Ambition calls on us to be bold and to act like policies have led to excise tax increases and owners.
Well managed risk taking lies at the heart of this.
Meanwhile the management drives better commercial decisions, creating a growing, international tax environment continues to evolve.
Alongside all of this, we remain resilient and sustainable business.
deeply committed to operating in the right way in everything we do, and our risks on non-compliance with laws and regulations, including on data privacy, and our long-term commitments to sustainability, demonstrate Our approach groups risk assessment annually, which Our risk management framework is simple.
Similarly, all our continued commitments here.
Our Risk We believe that great risk management markets and functions perform annual risk Management global standard emphasises starts with the right conversations, to drive assessments and, at all levels in the business, leadership behaviours and on ensuring risk management is a basic part of doing better business decisions.
We assign clear risks are reviewed throughout the year, with accountability for managing our risks.
It is updates to risks and or mitigation plans business every day.
the responsibility of each market and made as necessary.
We continue to develop our risk planning function to manage its risks directly, and work around Brexit and continue to work Further details about the groups risk closely with our industry bodies to seek then to report on the risks and their management approach are described in the management to the relevant Executive clarity on the transition process.
Report of the Audit Committee on page 65. member.
The Diageo Executive reviews the The Audit Committee and Board also effectiveness of risk management through Focus in the year receive periodic updates on emerging or topical risks.
During the year, the Audit the Audit & Risk Committee, and the Board The Diageo Executive and Board considered exercises independent review through the the risks described here as the groups Committee received an update on terrorism Audit Committee, supported by Global Audit principal risks for this financial year.
Our and political violence, and the Board & Risk.
The Diageo Executive updates the principal risks reflect a turbulent external received training on crisis management.
Viability statement The three-year business plan is based on our The principal risks considered in the most In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of current strategy.
This plan has been stress likely combination of downside scenarios the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate tested by modelling severe but plausible are identified with the symbol V on pages Governance Code, the Directors have downside scenarios linked to principal risks.
20 and 21. assessed the prospects of the group over In order to reflect the most likely We have considered the risks presented a longer period than the 12 months combination of principal risks affecting the by Brexit and at this early stage do not required by the Going Concern statement.
business at one time a combination of the perceive any material risk to the companys The Directors confirm that they have a following scenarios was also modelled: viability.
We will keep this under review reasonable expectation that the company as exit negotiations progress.
severe marketing and or route to market will continue to operate and meet its Testing also considers the effectiveness or fiscal changes are introduced by local liabilities, as they fall due, over the next of mitigation actions and internal control governments, three years from 30 June 2017.
The systems, makes certain assumptions about the potential impact of material negative Directors assessment has been made temporary reduction in discretionary changes in the macro economic by considering our current position and cash flows including capital expenditures environment that could impact the prospects, our strategy, the Boards risk and dividend payments and considers emerging markets, that generated 28% appetite and our principal risks and how whether additional financing facilities of our operating profit before exceptional these are managed, as set out on pages will be required.
items for the year ended 30 June 2017, 20 and 21 in the Strategic report.
Based on the results of this analysis the underperformance from acquisitions Although the prospects of the company Directors confirm they have a reasonable made in recent years, are considered over a longer period the expectation that the group will be able Directors believe that a three-year to continue in operation and meet its unfavourable exchange movements in assessment is most appropriate as it aligns liabilities as they fall due over the period foreign currencies, mainly the euro and with our normal and well established to 30 June 2020.
US dollar against sterling, three-year strategic business planning potential failure to adapt to or participate processes and presents readers of the in critical industry developments, and also annual report with a reasonable degree increased potential tax rate due to changes of assurance while still providing a in the international tax environment.
20 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 How we protect our business Relevance to strategy 1 Efficient growth 2 Consistent value creation 3 Credibility and trust 4 Motivated people Risk Impact How we mitigate Developments in 2017 Regulators in major Comprehensive tax and regulatory risk tracking Political volatility and economic instability have 1.
Market markets impose and scenario planning.
increased public policy uncertainty and risk, restrictions and indirect tax increases particularly in tax, trade and regulatory policies.
Economic modelling to sharpen focus on tax indirect tax and or restrictions and trade issues, and strengthened in-house Despite this, we have successfully mitigated threats on marketing and Fiscal pressures and or resources and structure.
and built momentum in our engagement with availability.
failure to address governments around the world to shape more Proactive, evidence based engagement to build perceived growth in Damage to our balanced regulatory outcomes.
trust and deepen our relationship and reputation V anti-alcohol sentiment.
with governments, industry and other Strengthened delivery of programmes and policies 1 2 3 stakeholders.
Social unrest, liquidity On-the-ground market and country intelligence Further scenario planning exercises across our higher 2.
Economic change issues, generalised to build local preparedness for rapid change in volatility markets to strengthen response to uncertain Significant local volatility downturn, currency external environment.
or upheaval, uncertainty instability, inflationary Market visits by Chief Executive and other senior Corporate scenario planning undertaken at group level or failure to react quickly pressures, possible executives to review local strategy.
in response to higher global risk factors.
enough to increasing changes to customs volatility, including the duties and tariffs and Market-sensitive multi-country investment and Ongoing identification and development of mitigation V or eroded consumer capacity expansion strategy, and local sourcing planning around risks of UK exit from EU.
confidence, impacting strategy e. g. to minimise currency risk.
1 2 business forecasting Cross-functional steering group keeping risks of and or performance.
UK exit from the EU under review.
Consumers move Highly diversified portfolio of brands to ensure Our mitigation approaches remain unchanged, and 3.
Critical industry away from our brands.
we have continued to deploy them in response to developments industry changes.
Less efficient business Rigorous processes of strategy development at Failure to shape or model compared to corporate and market level.
For example, we are building new capabilities in digital participate in critical key competitors.
commerce and marketing, testing potential disruptive Systematic review of emerging consumer and industry developments.
technologies through our Tech Ventures team and V route-to-consumer trends including potential investing in potential new global brands through disruptive technologies.
Continuous assessment and optimisation of business efficiencies.
Severe damage to our Code of Business Conduct Code and Retrained all employees on Code through eLearning 4.
Non-compliance corporate reputation supporting framework of policies set out module and face-to-face events with integrated with laws and and or significant compliance requirements.
Periodic training, communications and Scenario planning undertaken in high risk and volatile Non-compliance with engagement activities to refresh employee markets to identify key risk indicators and triggers.
local laws or regulations, understanding.
Continued focus on embedding control and or breach of our internal Internal risk-based control assurance programme, compliance in new businesses and business change.
global policies and with local management accountability.
standards and or Strong tone from the top, anchored by our significant internal Performance Ambition of most trusted and control breakdown.
1 2 3 4 Harm to future Sustainable Development Strategy credible Human rights assessment programme undertaken 5.
Sustainability growth either directly: with stakeholders and set up to deliver against in six countries.
Stronger impact metrics with new data collection Failure to manage key Indirectly via Partnerships with NGOs i. e. CARE, WaterAid system.
sustainability risks or reputational impact in place.
Development of Brands with Purpose activity for key meet key sustainability reducing trust Resource scarcity issues identified and mitigated, global brands aligned with sustainable development goals.
amongst consumers especially within agriculture.
and alcohol in society strategies e. g. Smirnoff, Johnnie 2 3 4 and other Walker, Captain Morgan.
Manufacturing standards programme including environmental performance in India, with Stronger communications programmes e. g. Guardian future activity on community water around Sustainable Business campaign, with increased production sites.
Increased investor and external scrutiny of climate change impacts and human rights.
Strategic report How we protect our business DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 21 Risk Impact How we mitigate Developments in 2017 Business case for an Board and Executive Committee regularly track Our focus has been on embedding recent acquisitions 6. Business acquisition is not actual performance against the business case.
e. g. USL and Don Julio, making sure we have the right acquisitions delivered leading to governance and integration platforms in place.
Global minimum standards for control and Failure to deliver value impairment charges compliance for post-acquisition entities, subject We have continued to monitor the M&A environment from acquisitions and or and failure to meet to internal audit review.
Rigorous focus on timely roll-out of control and Diageo effectively, Market confidence in compliance standards for acquired entities.
including failure to Diageos ability to embed Diageos deliver its strategy is standards of compliance weakened.
with laws, internal Prospects for securing V policies and controls.
regulatory approval in 1 2 3 future are harmed.
Diageo may inherit liability for compliance failures in acquired businesses.
Financial loss, Embedding policies and standards on all IT service continuity plans integrated with cyber 7.
Cyber threat operational disruption data-sensitive applications.
Theft, loss and and reputational Mandatory eLearning and regular phishing Threat intelligence used to prioritise vulnerability misappropriation of damage.
our most important Non-compliance with digital assets.
External monitoring of key security logs and Improved email encryption.
statutory data events to proactively identify and respond to 1 2 3 4 protection legislation.
Strengthened privileged access management processes.
SAP system user role review to eliminate excessive access.
Advanced malware detection and blocking.
Stepped up external expert penetration testing of our Two-factor authentication for cloud-based network and systems to test IT security defences.
Network segmentation to protect important mission-critical networks from general access networks.
Diageo employees, Monitoring of local security situation.
Refreshed business continuity manual and global 8.
Political sites or supply chain programme of market business continuity exercises instability and In-country security managers oversee people threatened and or underway.
security, physical security and business terrorism harmed.
Impacts from political Our ability to operate Global travel security programme for all Diageo Detailed briefings to Audit & Risk Committee instability and security in key markets is travellers.
Global and market liaison with government, academia, and industry on evolving threats and 1 3 4 responding to incidents.
Harm to trust and or Data Privacy global risk assessment to Publication of official Guidance under the General Data 9.
Data privacy reputation of Diageo, understand full range of specific risks and Protection Regulation GDPR by the Article 29 Working Breach of laws or our brands or people.
Party in several key areas and further guidance awaited regulations.
Fines of up to 2-4% of Briefings to Board, Executive and other senior 1 2 3 4 global turnover.
leadership on impact and implications of new GDPR Toolkit for key business areas to identify their data EU Data Protection Regulation.
processing operations, any gaps to GDPR compliance Significant restriction and remediation plans.
in ability to deliver our Use of Privacy Impact Assessments in key risk digital productivity areas of business concerning the proper use Know Your Data global campaign ongoing with key and growth plans.
actions steps for markets to identify and mitigate data risk.
Increase in the cost of Ongoing review of business strategy and Preliminary notices received from HM Revenue & 10. International tax doing business arising tax policy in light of changing rules and Customs, the UK tax authority, in respect of Diverted Significant changes to from an increase in stakeholder expectations.
See note 18 to the Financial Statements.
the international tax our Effective Tax Rate.
Monitoring and, where appropriate, expressing Change of governments in a number of countries environment such as the Changing tax laws views on the formulation of tax laws either notably the US potentially increasing the likelihood OECD Base Erosion and lead to unexpected directly or through trade associations or of relevant tax law changes.
Profit Shifting initiative tax exposures and similar bodies.
Continued development of processes to ensure we and EU anti-tax abuse uncertainty.
continue to comply with documentation requirements.
measures alter our V operating position.
