Y M F A I T N A N G E E D I RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups system of internal control and risk management and its effectiveness is monitored and reviewed by the Board, the The Board has a responsibility to govern the Group in the interest Audit Committee and senior management, and the Board believes of its shareholders.
Comments and suggestions of shareholders that the Group has maintained throughout the year, and up to the are always considered by the Board.
Where the Board considers date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, an effective that a risk has not been fully mitigated, follow-up meetings embedded system of internal control and has complied with the will be arranged to assess the risk and formulate mitigation FRCs Risk Guidance.
A specialist management team of Directors and senior management highlight risks as and when they become apparent.
The systems of internal control and risk management are The team then in turn assists the Board in devising controls to designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to minimise the Groups exposure.
THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK RISK POLICIES AND PROCEDURES The identification and management of risk is a continuous Business plans and budgets for each business include financial process, and the Groups system of internal controls and the and strategic targets against which performance is monitored.
business continuity programmes are key elements of that.
Monitoring includes the examination of and changes to rolling The Group maintains a system of controls to manage the business annual and quarterly forecasts, monthly measurement of actual and to protect its assets with the development of contingency achievement against key performance targets and plans, and plans and rapid response to changing circumstances and does weekly reviews of performance.
much to mitigate the risks facing the Group.
The Group continues to invest in people, systems and in IT to manage the Groups The Group has clear procedures for the approval and control operations and its finances effectively and efficiently.
Strategic investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to a formal detailed 1.
RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board.
RISKS ARE EVALUATED Operating expenditure is controlled within each business with 3.
ACTION IS TAKEN TO MANAGE THE RISKS approval levels for such expenditure being determined by the individual businesses.
PRACTICES ARE REVIEWED AND MONITORED TO LIMIT THE RISK There is an approved whistle-blowing policy within the Group.
The policy was established to be utilised by staff who wish to raise any issues or concerns relating to the Groups activities, and all matters are discussed on a confidential basis.
KEY RISKS Control Environment The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting information to the Board including: assessment of three years of strategy plans for business development: The specialist management teams are responsible for the creation and assessment of legal policies: and identification, analysis, evaluation and mitigation of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
The teams review of the Group at each Board meeting, focusing on meet regularly to discuss the identified risks, and how these potential new risks such as key changes in the market and should be reviewed and monitored.
The Board ensures that the appropriate arrangements are in place CONTROL PROCEDURES under which staff can raise concerns about possible financial or Detailed operational procedures have been developed for each other impropriety, which are then appropriately investigated.
of the Groups operating businesses that embody key controls.
The implications of changes in law and regulations are taken into The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee in fulfilling its account within these procedures.
overview responsibilities, reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders and the audit process, FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and The Group has in place internal control and risk management risk management are in place and are serving to identify and systems in relation to the Groups financial reporting process manage risk.
and the Groups process for the preparation of consolidated The Group operates a Retail Support Unit which provides strong accounts.
These include clearly defined lines of accountability operational internal audit services in the Retail division, and there and delegation of authority, policies and procedures that are procedures in place in the Brands division to monitor and cover financial planning and reporting, preparing consolidated control licensees.
accounts, capital expenditure, project governance and information security.
66 R E V O A T L I U N A O T E M Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring Lengthy contracts are often used by the Group to ensure that key these processes, which are designed to ensure that the Group manufacturers are aware of our commitment to them.
complies with relevant regulatory reporting and filing provisions.
TREASURY AND FINANCIAL RISK As at the end of the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee, with the participation of the Chief Executive, The Group operates internationally.
The majority of foreign evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of contracts relating to the sourcing and sales of Group branded disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that information goods are denominated in US Dollars and the Euro, thus leaving required to be disclosed in financial reports is recorded, exposure to foreign exchange risk.
processed, summarised and reported within specified time periods.
The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at floating interest rates linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AFFECTING THE GROUP Following the outcome of the EU referendum the Group noted the The Group has identified the following factors as potential risks associated market volatility and in particular material changes to to, and uncertainties concerning, the successful operation of its sterling US dollar and sterling Euro exchange rates, and the lack business.
The Group is, however, exposed to a wider range of risks of transparency as to those rates in the short to medium term.
than discussed below but these are the principal risks that have recently been discussed by the Board and Audit Committee and Risk: The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from are of primary concern.
various currency exposures and a strengthening of the US Dollar or a weakening of the Pound making goods more expensive.
SUPPLY CHAIN The Group operates internationally so is reliant on the successful There is also a potential exposure in relation to the Euro forward distribution of goods from when they are distributed by the sales contracts and written option arrangements that the Group manufacturer to when they are sold in the stores.
Adverse movements on the sterling Euro exchange rate could impact group profitability.
The Group is reliant on manufacturers in developing countries as the majority of the Groups products are sourced from outside the Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial UK.
transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency, as Risk: The Group is subject to the risks associated with exchange rates move.
This could significantly reduce profitability.
international trade and transport as well as those relating to exposure to different legal and other standards.
Particular risks The Group is exposed to interest rate risk due to its borrowings at include worker strikes, failure to meet minimum code of conduct floating interest rates.
standards, and transport delays for products which could all cause substantial difficulties.
Mitigation: The Group seeks to mitigate the foreign exchange fluctuations by hedging via forward foreign currency contracts Disasters in or around the factories of our suppliers could bring which are designated as cash flow hedges.
Forecast sterling euro negative media attention to the Group.
requirements are currently hedged up to the end of FY21 at rates of between 1.09 and 1.24 As per our announcement on 9 June Mitigation: The Group requires all suppliers to sign up to the 2017, the sterling dollar exchange rate is fully hedged for FY18 Groups Code of Conduct Supply Policy which enables the Group to at 1.31. monitor and benchmark the performance of the supplier.
The Group also holds assets overseas in local currency, and these Many risks relating to the supply chain, reliance on non-UK assets are revalued in accordance with currency movements.
suppliers, and to the reputation of the Groups brands are This currency risk is not hedged.
managed and mitigated by the implementation of these policies.
Strong service level agreements and maintaining relationships The Group is cash generative and maintains appropriate debt with all parties involved in the supply chain also mitigate these levels to mitigate interest rate risk and at year end has debt levels risks.
of less than 1x underlying EBITDA.
KEY SUPPLIERS CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISK The Group is reliant on good relationships with its major The Group, primarily the Group Brands division, provides credit to manufacturers, key brands and brand suppliers.
Risk: A failure to replace any of its major manufacturers or Funding and liquidity for the Groups operations are provided suppliers on commercially reasonable terms could have an through bank loans, overdrafts and shareholders funds.
adverse effect on the Groups business, operating profit or overall financial condition.
It may mean that customers shop elsewhere if Risk: The Group could have a credit risk if customers were unable stores cannot supply the required product.
to make payments for products purchased on credit.
Mitigation: The Group follows policies of forging long-term The Groups objective is to maintain sufficient funding and relationships with suppliers and of utilising two leading supply liquidity for its requirements, but the availability of adequate cash chain companies to procure much of the Groups own branded resources from bank facilities and achieving continuity of funding goods.
This close relationship brings a better understanding of in the current financial climate could be a risk to the Group in the suppliers resources enabling the Group to react quickly to future years.
changes in the international supply market.
67 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS The purchase of strategic acquisitions and investments to Mitigation: Our departments work together to develop their strengthen and compliment the Group may be hindered.
understanding of each department and of the Group.
Senior managers work at ground level to help to assess the strengths Relationships with suppliers could break down if we are unable to within their teams and to offer development opportunities where pay them in line with our contractual obligations.
This can be of assistance when considering the suitability of internal candidates for vacancies.
Mitigation: The Groups key suppliers also face credit risks and as such the Group regularly assesses the viability of its suppliers Promotion opportunities, a competency framework, and regular and ensures there are plans to source from alternative businesses appraisals give staff a voice, encourage a sense of responsibility should key suppliers fail.
Rigorous procedures are in place to mitigate this credit risk.
Our structured talent management programmes, and specialist The Group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to risk is masterclasses, encourage internal progression within the Group.
monitored on an on-going basis.
Executive development is important to us and we aim to promote internally rather than recruit external individuals who are unknown Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring to the Group.
credit over a certain amount, and concentration of credit risk is managed.
Our Share Schemes seek to reward and retain our key members of staff.
The Nomination Committee reviews the succession plan Investment of cash surplus, borrowings and derivative of the Group, and discusses who would take over roles if key team investments are made through banks and companies which have members were to leave.
credit ratings and investment criteria approved by the Board.
MARKET FORCES The Group mitigates liquidity risk by keeping debt levels low and The sports retail industry is highly competitive and the Group the current finance facility is held with a syndicate of 14 banks, currently competes at international, national and local levels thereby spreading the risk.
with a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes who may have competitive advantages.
New competitors may enter the market.
TAXATION The Group operates internationally and in a wide range of Risk: The competition continues to place pressure on the Groups jurisdictions and is therefore subject to tax risk across its pricing strategy, margins and profitability.
Mitigation: The Group has a discount pricing policy in its Sports Risk: The Group is subject to varying degrees of tax risk in relation Retail division to help reduce the risk of increased competition in to its international trading activities, both in the UK and overseas.
These include duty and VAT in relation to its overseas supply chain both internal and external and sales taxes in relation to The Group has a strong property portfolio, and continues to online sales made to overseas customers from the UK.
The Group strengthen this by relocating and improving stores to enhance the is also subject to transfer pricing regulations relating to trading customer experience and adapt to market conditions.
relationships and transactions between Group companies.
A number of key brands are owned by the Group, providing an Tax regimes differ country by country and the Groups overseas internal level of control and certainty on margins.
subsidiaries are subject to local tax compliance requirements and tax enquiries from the local tax authorities.
OPERATIONAL The Group is reliant on the Head Office and National Distribution Mitigation: Group level tax risks are monitored by the Group Centre at its Shirebrook Campus operating without disruption, finance function, with support from external tax advisors as along with the uninterrupted running of the Groups fleet of required.
On-going compliance with local tax regulations is vehicles.
maintained through a combination of local finance teams, central oversight from the Group finance function, and the use of external The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from the UK.
tax advisors in key jurisdictions.
Risk: Any disruption to the Head Office, National Distribution The Group takes a proactive approach to engaging with the tax Centre or the fleet of vehicles might significantly impact the authorities across its business.
Key tax risks are monitored and Groups ability to manage its operations, distribute products to its discussed at Board level, with appropriate actions agreed and stores and maintain its supply chain.
Any long-term interruption of the Groups IT systems would have SUCCESSION PLANNING a significant impact on the Groups operation, particularly in the Key individuals within the Group have such a level of knowledge Sports Retail division.
and experience of the business which makes them essential to Terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, government actions or adverse continue to further the interests of the Group.
weather affecting the road networks within the UK could result in Risk: Natural disaster, illness, injury, or the sudden resignation a significant reduction in consumer confidence, which would in of key individuals could mean key people are no longer available turn have an adverse effect on sales in stores.
to manage the Group, and this could result in a change to the Mitigation: The Group has a strong business continuity plan that operations and strategic direction of the Group.
is regularly reviewed to address operational risks.
68 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 The Board is confident that as far as it is practical, the risks Training courses are regularly offered and staff are encouraged and uncertainties that face the Group are being monitored and to learn essential Health and Safety techniques.
A revised managed and that, where required, appropriate action is being staff induction, refresher training and handbook has been taken.
introduced within our stores, along with revised task based risk assessments and safe Systems of Work.
The Warehouse teams The Group constantly monitors the business environment and the have also undertaken similar reviews and implemented improved nature of the business model allows for the Group to act swiftly documentation and standards.
The team at our Head Office is always on hand to visit and assist The Head Office and National Distribution Centre has been stores with Health and Safety issues, assess incidents and report extended so that there is additional room for storage and workers, relevant matters to the Health and Safety Executive via the for future business needs and in case of disaster.
Reporting of Injuries, Disease and Dangerous Occurrences Report RIDDOR.
We have a team of employees dedicated solely to CYBER FAILURES AND ATTACKS dealing with claims and complaints.
The introduction of a bespoke Online sales and advertising are key to the Groups strategy online Accident Incident reporting system in November 2016 has assisted the team to become more proactive investigating going forward.
However, cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, commanding headlines and causing incidents and building claims defensibility where necessary.
Accidents involving staff or customers are reported to the Board Risk: Reputational implications if the attack is reported to the regularly, as are any legal claims that arise from these.
The Board considers ways to reduce the number of claims.
media, including a loss of sales whilst the site is down, and longer term loss of sales through the deterioration of customer Additional day to day safety support for stores has also been confidence.
Loss of competitive advantage against market recruited, with two new Regional Health & Safety Officers.
competitors and the new GDPR regulations will enable overseeing bodies to enforce sizeable sanctions and penalties.
LEGAL Mitigation: The Group has a strategy and processes in place The Groups trade marks, patents, designs and other intellectual which relate to our IT security posture.
The recent establishment property rights are central to the value of the Groups Brands.
of a Group IT Security Officer role and ongoing work with internal and external parties enable us to continuously monitor our Risk: The Group currently believes that its licensees, suppliers, systems to ensure that they are sufficiently strong to deal with agents and distributors are in material compliance with ever increasing cyber risks.
We have invested and continue to employment, environmental and other laws.
The violation, or invest in systems to protect our sites, data and customers.
allegations of a violation, of such laws or regulations, by any of the This investment spans several new security initiatives, including: Groups licensees, suppliers, agents or distributors, could lead to new security tools, external penetration testing, employee IT adverse publicity and a decline in public demand for the Groups security awareness training and GDPR planning.
products, or require the Group to incur expenditure or make changes to its supply chain and other business arrangements to The Groups IT is independently audited by outside agencies on ensure compliance.
an annual basis to challenge and test our defences.
Our existing strategies are under constant review to ensure we are protecting The Group may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce ourselves and fully utilising new technologies where those its intellectual property rights and any litigation could result in technologies could assist.
substantial costs and a diversion of resources.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Third parties may try to challenge the ownership of or counterfeit the Groups intellectual property.
Health and Safety is key across all areas of the Group.
Policies are implemented, in conjunction with legal standards, to protect our Mitigation: The Group has an in-house legal team who have staff and customers.
These have been subject to a detailed review knowledge of a variety of legal areas that apply to the Group.
This in-house expertise is vital in mitigating such issues.
Risk: Potential injuries, distress and fatalities could result from The legal team work closely with external advisors to assist with, a failure to establish and maintain safe environments.
Lack of and gain knowledge on, matters outside their areas of expertise.
competence in health and safety reporting could lead to legal claims which are difficult to defend.
The Groups legal advisors actively monitor trade mark applications by other companies, as well as the stock of rival Mitigation: We take reasonable steps to train all relevant retailers, to ensure that our rights are not infringed and where employees within the Group to the appropriate standards these are infringed, to take appropriate action.
Shirebrook Head Office is now a registered training centre for First Aid and Health & Safety, with The legal team carefully draft contractual agreements to ensure Qual Safe and the British Safety Council respectively.
We have that documentation is clear and legally binding.
Standard recruited a Health & Safety Training Officer and additional Health templates and key points are shared so that processes are & Safety Officer based within Head Office.
The Regional Health & streamlined and legal spend is reduced.
Safety Officers have received additional training and education regarding delivery of Fire Risk Assessments and Evac Chair training.
69 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS SALES The Groups retail businesses are subject to seasonal peaks.
The incidence of and participation in major sporting events will have a particular impact on the Sports Retail business.
Risk: Prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or temporary severe weather during peak trading seasons could have a material adverse effect on the Groups businesses.
The Group is dependent upon the store portfolio and consumers spending habits.
Customer tastes could change and stocked items could no longer be suitable for the market.
Mitigation: Although unable to mitigate environmental conditions, the Group is able to influence the retail portfolio and therefore constantly monitors development of stores and the Groups aim to increase the square footage through viable new retail space.
By monitoring stock levels through sales forecasting the Group can manage peaks in demand and trading profiles can be predicted.
Building sales units at our Head Office and National Distribution Centre allows us to trial and monitor differing sales techniques and products, before rolling these out to the rest of the Group.
Our team keep ahead of the trends, conducting market research on our customers and monitoring our competitors.
Sophisticated ordering systems ensure that items which sell well in particular areas will be restocked.
Our strong relationship with suppliers ensures that we are able to source key items at short notice, should this be required.
BREXIT The referendum decision for the UK to leave the European Union could have persistent adverse consequences for economic activity in the UK.
Risk: A period of heightened economic uncertainty would reduce consumer confidence, holding back spending decisions and tighten financial conditions by creating extra risk thus impacting on the cost of finance and reducing its availability.
Mitigation: Although we are unable to fully protect the Group from what is potentially a completely new economic landscape, we are taking a number of measures to protect our business.
Brexit is a regular agenda item at Board meetings.
We are also monitoring movements in customer behaviour and have begun negotiations with lenders.
