PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES MANAGING OUR RISK Committee reports annually through the Our risk identification processes seek The Group recognises the Audit Committee to the Board.
As part to identify risks from both a top-down importance of identifying of this process, it reviews the results of strategic perspective and a bottom-up and managing financial and the local risk committee assessments.
The Board has It produces an annual report and updated overall responsibility for risk management, non-financial risks faced by Group Risk Register which is reviewed by setting of risk appetite and implementation the business.
In response the Audit Committee to assess whether of the risk management policy.
This is the appropriate risks have been identified to this, it has developed a designed to enable our employees to take and to ensure adequate assurance is advantage of attractive opportunities, rigorous risk management obtained over those risks and then it is yet to do so within the risk appetite set framework designed to identify presented formally to the Board for by the Board.
discussion, approval and, if appropriate, and assess the likelihood and re-rating of risks.
Our risk appetite is The Group Risk Register is the core of consequences of risks and to reflected in our rating of risks and ensures the Groups risk management process.
manage the actions necessary the appropriate focus is placed on the It contains an overall assessment of the correct risks.
The Board takes a view of risks faced by the Group and is maintained to mitigate their impact.
the prospects of the business through the by the Group Risk Committee.
The Group cycle and, given the inherent cyclicality in Risk Register is based on detailed risk the business, tends to operate with a low registers maintained by Sunbelt and risk appetite.
Further detail on our risk A-Plant, which are reviewed and management framework and priorities monitored through local risk committees.
during the year is provided on pages 46 The operation and effectiveness of the and 47.
Set out below are the principal local risk committees, which meet at least business risks that could impact the quarterly, continues to be enhanced.
Groups business model, future The Group Risk Committee meets twice a year, or more frequently if required, with performance, solvency or liquidity and the objective of encouraging best risk information on how we mitigate them.
management practice across the Group Our risk profile evolves as we move and a culture of regulatory compliance through the economic cycle and and ethical behaviour.
The Group Risk commentary on how risks have changed is included below.
Increased risk Constant risk Decreased risk Economic conditions POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE STRATEGIC In the longer term, there is a link Prudent management through Our performance is benefitting PRIORITY between demand for our services and the different phases of the cycle.
from the economic cycle and we levels of economic activity.
The Flexibility in the business model.
expect to see further upside as construction industry, which affects Capital structure and debt the economic recovery continues.
our business, is cyclical and typically facilities arranged in recognition However, our longer-term planning lags the general economic cycle by of the cyclical nature of our is focused on the next downturn between 12 and 24 months.
market and able to withstand to ensure we have the financial market shocks.
firepower at the bottom of the cycle to achieve the next step-change in business performance.
34 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Competition POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE STRATEGIC The already competitive market Create commercial advantage Our competitive position continues PRIORITY could become even more competitive by providing the highest level to improve.
We are growing faster and we could suffer increased of service, consistently and at than our larger competitors and competition from large national a price which offers value.
the market, and continue to take competitors or small companies Differentiation of service.
market share from our smaller, less operating at a local level resulting Excel in the areas that provide well-financed competitors.
We have in reduced market share and barriers to entry to newcomers: a 7% market share in the US and 7% lower revenue.
industry-leading IT, experienced in the UK.
personnel and a broad network and equipment fleet.
Regularly estimate and monitor our market share and track the performance of our competitors.
Financing POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE STRATEGIC Debt facilities are only ever Maintain conservative 1.5 to At 30 April 2017, our facilities were PRIORITY committed for a finite period of time 2 times net debt to EBITDA committed for an average of four and we need to plan to renew our leverage which helps minimise years, leverage was at 1.7 times facilities before they mature and our refinancing risk.
and availability under the senior guard against default.
Our loan Maintain long debt maturities.
agreements also contain conditions Use of an asset-based senior known as covenants with which facility means none of our debt we must comply.
contains quarterly financial covenants when availability under the facility exceeds $310m.
Business continuity POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE STRATEGIC We are heavily dependent on Robust and well-protected data Our business continuity plans were PRIORITY technology for the smooth running of centres with multiple data links to reviewed and updated during the our business given the large number protect against the risk of failure.
year and our disaster recovery of both units of equipment we rent Detailed business recovery plans plans were tested successfully.
A cyber security which are tested periodically.
incident could lead to a loss of Separate near-live back-up data commercially sensitive data, a loss centres which are designed to of data integrity within our systems be able to provide the necessary or loss of financial assets through services in the event of a failure fraud.
A cyber attack or serious at the primary site.
uncured failure in our systems could Use of antivirus and malware result in us being unable to deliver software, firewalls, email service to our customers.
As a scanning and internet monitoring result, we could suffer reputational as an integral part of our loss, financial loss and penalties.
People CHANGE STRATEGIC POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Our compensation and incentive PRIORITY Retaining and attracting good people Provide well-structured and competitive reward and benefit programmes have continued to is key to delivering superior packages that ensure our ability evolve to reflect market conditions performance and customer service.
to attract and retain the and the economic environment.
Excessive staff turnover is likely Ensure that our staff have the Staff turnover was at a similar to impact on our ability to maintain right working environment and level to the prior year as our the appropriate quality of service equipment to enable them to well-trained, knowledgeable to our customers and would do the best job possible and staff have become targets for ultimately impact our financial maximise their satisfaction our competitors.
Invest in training and career We continue to invest in training development opportunities for and career development with our people to support them over 250 courses offered across in their careers.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 35 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Health and safety POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE STRATEGIC We need to comply with laws and Maintain appropriate health and The overall incident rate continued PRIORITY regulations governing occupational safety policies and procedures to decrease in Sunbelt and A-Plant.
regarding the need to comply In terms of reportable incidents, Furthermore, accidents could happen with laws and regulations and to the RIDDOR reportable rate which might result in injury to an reasonably guard our employees increased to 0.32 2016: 0.27 individual, claims against the Group against the risk of injury.
in Sunbelt and decreased to 0.20 and damage to our reputation.
Induction and training in A-Plant 2016: 0.42. programmes reinforce health and safety policies.
Programmes to support our customers exercising their responsibility to their own workforces when using our equipment.
Further details are provided on page 40.
Environmental CHANGE STRATEGIC POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION We continue to seek to reduce the PRIORITY We need to comply with the Policies and procedures in place environmental impact of our numerous laws governing at all our stores regarding the business and invest in technology environmental protection matters.
need to adhere to local laws to reduce the environmental These laws regulate such issues as and regulations.
impact on our customers wastewater, stormwater, solid and Procurement policies reflect the need for the latest available businesses.
In 2016 17 we reduced hazardous wastes and materials, emissions management and fuel our carbon emission intensity ratio and air quality.
Breaches potentially efficiency tools in our fleet.
to 79 2016: 93 in Sunbelt and 80 create hazards to our employees, Monitoring and reporting of 2016: 91 in A-Plant.
Further detail damage to our reputation and expose carbon emissions.
is provided on pages 54 and 55. the Group to, amongst other things, the cost of investigating and remediating contamination and also fines and penalties for non-compliance.
Laws and regulations POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION CHANGE STRATEGIC Failure to comply with the frequently Maintaining a legal function to We monitor regulatory and PRIORITY changing regulatory environment oversee management of these legislation changes to ensure could result in reputational damage risks and to achieve compliance our policies and practices reflect or financial penalty.
them and we comply with Group-wide ethics policy and relevant legislation.
Evolving policies and practices Our whistle-blowing arrangements to take account of changes in are well established and the legal obligations.
Company Secretary reports Training and induction matters arising to the Audit programmes ensure our staff Committee during the course of the receive appropriate training and year.
During the year over 2,200 briefing on the relevant policies.
people in Sunbelt and 1,100 people in A-Plant underwent induction training and additional training programmes were undertaken in safety.
36 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The nature of the Groups business is such VIABILITY STATEMENT that its cash flows are countercyclical.
The Board has assessed the prospects In times of improving markets, the Group of the Group and its ability to meet its liabilities as they fall due over the medium invests in its rental fleet, both to replace term.
This assessment has taken account existing fleet and grow the overall size of the Groups current position and the of the fleet, which results in improving principal risks facing the Group, which are earnings but negative cash flow from set out on pages 34 to 36.
This longer-term operations in times of rapid growth.
assessment process supports the Boards However, in more benign or declining statements on both viability, as set out markets, the Group invests less in its below, and going concern, made on rental fleet and, as a result, generates page 88. significant cash flow from operations.
Recognising the cyclicality of the business, While the Board has no reason to we undertake scenario planning based on believe the Group will not be viable over the timing, severity and duration of any a longer period, the period over which downturn and subsequent recovery.
the Board considers it possible to form a This scenario planning considers the reasonable expectation as to the Groups impact of the cycle on revenue, margins, longer-term viability, is the three-year cash flows and overall debt levels.
This aligns with on this analysis, and the Boards regular the duration of the business plan prepared monitoring and review of risk management annually and reviewed by the Board.
and internal control systems, we do Furthermore, our committed borrowing not believe there are any reasonably facilities do not mature before the end foreseeable events that could not be of this period.
We believe this provides mitigated through the Groups ability to flex a reasonable degree of confidence over its capital expenditure plans, which would this longer-term outlook.
result in the Group not being able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group prepares an annual budget and three-year business plan.
This plan Based on the foregoing, the Board has a considers the Groups cash flows and is reasonable expectation that the Group will used to review its funding arrangements be able to continue in operation and meet and available liquidity based on expected its liabilities as they fall due over the period market conditions, capital expenditure to April 2020. plans, used equipment values and other factors that might affect liquidity.
It also considers the ability of the Group to raise finance and deploy capital.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 37
