STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties MANAGING RISK Greene King is not alone in facing a range of risks and uncertainties in the course of its business.
Ouraim is to identify and manage these risks effectively so that we can deliver on our strategic objectiveof being the best pub company in the UK and to maximise shareholder returns.
Approach to risk management BOARD Board Overall responsibility for risk management Overall responsibility for the groups risk management framework lies with the board.
It reviews the groups principal risks on an annual basis, Sets the groups risk appetite together with the actions taken to mitigate them.
The board has continued to focus on its risk tolerance by defining group-level risk tolerance statements to set out the boards desired risk-taking approach to the achievement of our strategic objectives, in the context of managing our principal risks.
Our risk tolerance is an expression of the types and AUDIT COMMITTEE amount of risk we are willing to take or accept to achieve our plan, and Delegated responsibility for monitoring risk profile enables us to better determine the mitigating activities required to manage andmitigation to within acceptable risk levels.
Regularly reviews risk management process foreachdivisionand functional area Details of our broad risk tolerance in relation to each of our key risks is set out in the table on pages 34 to 37.
Audit committee The audit committee has been delegated responsibility for reviewing the GROUP RISK BUSINESS UNIT effectiveness of the groups risk management processes.
It regularly reviews COMMITTEE AND FUNCTIONAL the risk management processes for each business unit and functional area, AREA SENIOR Reviews individual risk on a rotational basis, reviewing presentations from relevant management registers and mitigation plans MANAGEMENT and challenging their analyses.
Ensures consistency of risk Responsibility for Management profiling across thegroup identification of risks, The implementation of risk management and internal control systems is implementation of Aggregates risk registers to mitigating actions and the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management, create group risk register with each business unit or functional area responsible for identifying, assessing maintenance of business unit and functional and managing the risks in their respective areas.
They are required to maintain, review and regularly update a risk register to assist in this process.
riskregisters Risk management process Classification of risks follows a standard methodology used in risk management and takes into account the likelihood of their occurrence and the scale of potential impact both financial and reputational on the business.
Once the key economic, operational, financial, people and strategic risks have been identified, each business unit and functional area is then responsible for evaluating current controls in place to manage their risks, drawing up plans to improve controls and managing new risks as and when they arise.
Each key risk has an action owner to ensure that responsibilities are formally aligned.
To ensure continuous improvement across the business, progress of these risk implementation plans is monitored by senior management on a regular basis.
In addition, a group-wide risk committee reviews the individual risk registers in detail, monitors the risk mitigation plans and assists in the production of the group risk register, whereby risk registers are aggregated and considered on a top-down basis in the context of delivering our strategy for the group.
Given that some risks are external and not fully within our control, the risk management processes are designed to manage risks which may have a material impact on our business, rather than to fully mitigate all risks.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 33 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties This section highlights some of the key risks and uncertainties which affect Greene King.
The group is of course exposed to risks wider than those listed, but these are believed to be likely to have the greatest impact on our business at this moment in time.
STRATEGIC RISKS CHANGE LINK TO SINCE SPECIFICS AND STRATEGIC LAST YEAR POTENTIALIMPACT MITIGATION RISK TOLERANCE PRIORITIES Business strategy Failure to adopt the right Our strategy is focused on building strong and attractive We are comfortable 1 2 3 4 strategy for the group or brands, delivering industry-leading service and quality, managing risks which poor execution of the groups working with the best people, owning the UKs best weunderstand and strategy could lead to invested pub estate and maintaining a strong balance areconsistent with reduced revenue, profitability sheetand flexible capital structure.
thedelivery of our and lower growth rates than strategic objectives.
Overall strategy is determined by the board at an annual our strategic objectives.
two-day strategy meeting, and progress against strategic plans is reviewed regularly by the board and the operating board, which is tasked with the execution of the plans on a day-to-day basis.
There is regular review of the execution of strategic plans by management in operating board meetings and at other relevant meetings.
Customer offer Failure to deliver an appealing We have identified a range of consumer trends and With our vision to be the 1 2 3 4 5 customer offer, to identify developed plans to respond to them, including the piloting best pub company in the and respond to fast-changing of new brands or variations of existing brands and the sale UK we expect to be able consumer tastes and habits of non-core sites.
We use guest satisfaction tools and net to react swiftly and including the use of digital promoter scores to collect customer feedback and measure appropriately to changing media, to respond to increased performance of our pubs.
Each brand has its own pricing consumer trends to competition, to price products strategy and discounting and promotions are carefully targeted.
maintain earnings and the appropriately and to align the Competitor activity is monitored at both a strategic and achievement of our portfolio to the market could tactical level, and we provide training, support and a range strategic objectives.
all lead to reduced revenue of innovative agreements for our tenants, so that they are and profitability and lower also able to compete in their markets.
market share and growth We support and train our employees to ensure service rates than anticipated.
standards meet guest expectations and continue to improve, and we are increasing our use of social media to enhance our communications with our guests and other consumers.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 Build strong and 2 Industry-leading 3 Work with the 4 Own the UKs best 5 Maintain a strong attractive brands serviceandquality bestpeople investedpubestate balancesheet and flexiblecapital structure 34 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKS CHANGE LINK TO SINCE SPECIFICS AND STRATEGIC LAST YEAR POTENTIALIMPACT MITIGATION RISK TOLERANCE PRIORITIES Economic uncertainty and cost pressures We are at risk of a weakening We have a relentless focus on value, service and quality We acknowledge and 1 2 3 4 economy and softer consumer and are continuing to invest in our pubs, as well as piloting recognise that in the confidence in the UK, new brands and variations of existing brands, to ensure normal course of business, particularly given the recent that our pubs appeal to a broad range of consumers.
the group is exposed to UK general election and as Plans have been developed to mitigate much of the risks in this area.
We are Brexit negotiations unfold.
anticipated cost increases facing the business, including willing to accept a level We also face significant cost better procurement and labour scheduling and otherwise ofrisk in order to achieve headwinds, including wage reducing our cost base.
We have a broad geographic our strategic priorities cost inflation as a result of the spread of pubs across the country, including in andwill manage the introduction of the National Londonand the South East.
Living Wage, higher business rates and increased costs of goods, which could all lead to reduced revenue, profitability and lower growth rates.
OPERATIONAL AND PEOPLE RISKS CHANGE LINK TO SINCE SPECIFICS AND STRATEGIC LAST YEAR POTENTIALIMPACT MITIGATION RISK TOLERANCE PRIORITIES Data security A significant cyber security A data governance group oversees improvements in We have a low tolerance 1 3 5 breach or other loss of data systems and processes, including information security, level for significant could impact our ability to designed to maintain securely employee, customer and breaches within our dobusiness, impacting both other data held by the group, and also seeks to raise IToperations.
awareness of issues among employees and ensure their Inaddition we could suffer compliance with our IT policies.
reputational damage and A range of enhanced controls have been introduced financial damage from fines across the business by the groups information security orcompensation.
Deliberate team to improve the security of our networks and acts of cyber crime are on systems, including encryption, enhanced access and the increase, targeting all information handling controls.
Our networks are markets and heightening protected by firewalls and anti-virus protection systems, riskexposure.
and threats to our data security, by viruses, hacking or breach of access controls, are constantly monitored.
Recruitment, retention and development of employees and licensees If we are unable to recruit, We have both a branded recruitment plan to ensure that The nature of the sector 1 2 3 develop and retain key we attract suitable candidates and operate a range of inwhich we operate employees it may be more apprenticeship programmes.
Career development plans ispredisposed to high difficult to execute our are in place to retain key employees, whilst remuneration employee turnover levels, business plans and strategy, packages are benchmarked to ensure that they remain but we have a low tolerance impacting our revenue and competitive.
We have recently launched our new values for levels which exceed the profitability.
For our Pub programme, Winning Ways, to improve engagement sector average, and we Partners division we face across the business.
expect our staff to have the similar issues with regard appropriate skills to deliver Where appropriate exit interviews are conducted to tolicensees.
the functions of the business.
enable action plans to be developed to deal with key leaver reasons, and our annual employee engagement survey is used to obtain direct feedback from employees on a range of issues.
Managers are tasked with developing action plans to deal with the feedback received.
For our tenanted pub business we have a range of tenancy agreements, training programmes and support available toattract and retain the best quality licensees.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 35 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties continued OPERATIONAL AND PEOPLE RISKS CONTINUED CHANGE LINK TO SINCE SPECIFICS AND STRATEGIC LAST YEAR POTENTIALIMPACT MITIGATION RISK TOLERANCE PRIORITIES Suppliers, distributors and our own production facilities We are reliant on a number We maintain back-up plans in case of the failure by or loss We recognise that we 1 2 ofkey suppliers and third party of a key supplier, and we expect our key suppliers to carry an inherent risk in distributors and on our own maintain disaster recovery plans which we review on a relation to both our own ability to produce, package and regular basis.
Regular monitoring is undertaken of KPIs production facilities and distribute our own beers.
applicable to both third party suppliers and distributors, third party suppliers but Supply disruption could impact with issues flagged for resolution.
we seek to minimise this customer satisfaction and lead risk through management In the event of a failure in our own production and to loss of revenue whilst the and control.
distribution activities a range of alternative solutions exist long-term failure or withdrawal to enable us to continue to brew, package and distribute of a key supplier or distributor our own beers.
could also lead to increased costs.
If we were unable to brew, package and distribute our own beers for long periods we could suffer loss ofrevenue and profitability.
Health and safety and food safety If we fail to comply with We have a comprehensive range of formally documented We have no tolerance for 1 2 3 4 major health and safety policies and procedures in place, including centrally health and safety or food legislation and cause serious managed systems of compliance KPI tracking and internal safety breaches within injury or loss of life to one of and independent audits to ensure compliance with current ouroperations.
our customers, employees or legislation and approved guidance.
Our health and safety tenants, this could have a policies have been reviewed by our primary authority significant impact on our partner, Reading Borough Council, which has rated our reputation, leading to financial safety management system, which includes training for all loss.
If there is an issue in our relevant staff, as very good.
We have also established a link food supply chain, including between EHO Scores on the Doors and remuneration the provision of incorrect incentives for relevant employees.
allergen information, that In our tenanted estate we have a detailed compliance leads to serious illness or loss programme to ensure that pubs are safely handed over of life to one of our tonew tenants.
customers this could lead to restrictions in supply, In relation to our food supply chain we require all suppliers potential increases in the cost to have BRC or SALSA accreditation as a minimum and we of goods and reduced sales.
risk-rate suppliers on an annual basis to determine audit type and frequency.
Regular meetings are held with key suppliers to review issues and follow up on any corrective actions required.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 Build strong and 2 Industry-leading 3 Work with the 4 Own the UKs best 5 Maintain a strong attractive brands serviceandquality bestpeople investedpubestate balancesheet and flexiblecapital structure 36 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL RISKS CHANGE LINK TO SINCE SPECIFICS AND STRATEGIC LAST YEAR POTENTIALIMPACT MITIGATION RISK TOLERANCE PRIORITIES Funding requirements If we are unable to meet the The groups debt structures and financing requirements We expect the group to 1 4 5 funding requirements of the are kept under regular review.
The group has a 400m beable to access suitable group we risk reduced revenue bank facility to support activities outside the securitisation financial facilities to meet and lower profitability than and debenture vehicles, which is available until 2021, and the ongoing requirements our strategic plan.
we completed a tap of the Greene King securitisation of the business and our vehicle in May 2016. longer-term strategic objectives.
The Spirit debenture has secured bonds with a carrying value of 770m and an average life of eleven years.
Agroup treasurer has been appointed to manage thegroups funding requirements going forward.
Covenant risks If we are unable to meet the Long-term strategy and business plans are formulated to We expect to be able 1 4 5 covenant requirements of the ensure that financial covenants can be met and monitored tomeet our payment groups debenture, securitisation on a regular basis.
Working capital is carefully forecast, obligations and covenant and other financing arrangements regularly reviewed and closely managed by the finance teams.
levels under a range of our ability to pay dividends or The refinancing model closely tracks future covenant cautious but plausible reinvest cash could be affected, headroom across all debt platforms through all liquidity scenarios.
which in turn would damage transactions considered.
our reputation and ongoing creditworthiness.
Pension scheme funding Any inability to meet the funding All schemes are closed to future accrual to reduce We expect to maintain 5 requirements of our defined volatility.
We are proposing to extend a liability funding levels for our benefit pension schemes, which management programme in the Spirit scheme to the pension schemes at are subject to the risk of changes Greene King scheme, whilst there is regular monitoring manageable levels.
in life expectancy, actual and ofthe schemes investments and an ongoing dialogue expected price inflation and with the trustees regarding funding requirements.
investment yields, could impact our balance sheet, whilst the volatility of the deficit makes longerterm planning more difficult.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance The three-year plan considers cash flows and compliance with the Code, the board is required to assess the prospects of the company over financial covenants contained within the groups revolving credit facility an appropriate period of time selected by it.
The board concluded that for these purposes a three-year period was As detailed on pages 34 to 37 the board has conducted a robust assessment appropriate as it is aligned to the groups strategic planning process.
of the principal risks facing the company.
This includes consideration of Thelatest three-year plan was approved by the board in February 2017 strategic risks, economic and market risks, operational and people risks and covers the three-year period to the end of the 2019 20 financial year.
The resilience of the group to the impact of these risks has been assessed by applying significant but plausible sensitivities to the Long-term financing is provided by the groups securitisation and cash flow projections based on past experience.
This includes modelling debenture vehicles both of which have a weighted average life of eleven the effect of reduced consumer confidence and therefore spending, the years remaining.
The group also utilises a 400m revolving credit facility, failure of our business to maintain and develop compelling customer offers, which expires in October 2021, to provide liquidity and to manage its food safety issues, lower than anticipated acquisition synergies and the seasonal cash flows.
impact of increased regulation across the business.
The groups three-year plan is prepared by consolidating each business Taking account of the companys current position, principal risks and the segments own plan and overlaying group assumptions in respect of estate sensitivity analysis discussed above, as well as the potential mitigating actions optimisation and capital structure.
Key assumptions underpinning the three-year that the company can take, and the experience that the company has in plan and the associated cash flow forecasts are the economic outlook, adapting the business to change, the board has a reasonable expectation revenue growth expectations, impact of expected inflationary cost pressures that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its and estate development and disposal opportunities.
liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of assessment.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 37
