Strategic report Principal risks Why might our customer-led How risk management solutions fail to deliver profitable growth in our markets?
supports effective If our acquisition strategy fails to deliver our planned growth.
planning and quality Our plans have a level of dependence on the success of a growth strategy designed to create greater value through the economies of scale, as well as product decision-making and service differentiation to our existing customers whenever they require it.
Our risk management activities are part of a strong If access to capital markets and liquidity framework that ensures we have robust processes to restrictions take hold.
identify, quantify, manage and report on the principal Adverse political, economic and credit conditions risks that could affect the Groups ability to execute its including uncertainty about and the impact of Brexit might have an adverse effect on our ability to finance strategy and deliver on its commitments.
These conditions may have a negative impact on our competitive position, net operating profit and The objectives of the risk management process are to: cash flow flexibility.
support the executive management across the Group in making decisions: If markets continue to consolidate.
reduce the magnitude of threat events: and The continuing trend towards consolidation in our capitalise on potential opportunities.
markets creates larger and more focused competitors, This process forms the basis for the Boards conclusions on effectiveness of which may leave the Group less differentiated.
This the Groups risk management and internal controls.
trend could have an impact on our relative bargaining power with suppliers and has a potential to reduce margins and market share in one or more of Principal risks update our markets.
During 2016 17, the Board based its assessment of the Groups principal risks on questions relating to our strategic priorities.
In order to achieve If Eurozone and macro-economic markets weaken.
these objectives, our strategic focus remains on: The complex interplay of the multiple political and growing our business organically and through acquisitions: economic factors from Brexit to foreign exchange and interest rates, may impact on disposable consumer investing in innovation to deliver commercial differentiation: income and the level of industrial activity.
This could optimising the performance of our packaging whilst using less fibre: affect the Groups results and future prospects, given increasing efficiency within our manufacturing and support functions: and the concentration of business in the Eurozone.
ensuring all our colleagues have access to and engage in appropriate learning and development to fulfil their potential.
What may limit momentum building, The table on the right illustrates the questions and answers that responsiveness to market changes were discussed.
If we do not recognise the speed with which Additional principal risks consumer-led demands drive fundamental In light of this analysis and bearing in mind the uncertainty of the outcomes changes in the retail environment.
related to Brexit, the Board has decided to include two additional principal Our investments in innovative packaging might fail to risks resulting from: match the growth in consumer spending.
This may arise fibre technology, that increases the use of fibre substitutes or leads to from mega brands, micro-brands, online, discounters fibre being used for alternative purposes: and and big box superstores and their distribution channels.
If our investments fail to exploit the opportunities These threats have been recognised previously.
However, given their that personalised packaging offers.
potential impact over our planning horizon, the Board has decided to mark We might fail to harness improvements in digital them as principal risks in their own right.
printing or fail to integrate our packaging products The Board has also recognised that, as a result of our investment, the and services to drive further integration between relative balance between risk and reward has changed, compared with last our customers and other related products.
A summary of these changes are shown in the threat-opportunity heat map on page 40.
The Board and executive management are committed to continuous monitoring of all the principal risks that have been identified.
The current list of principal risks is outlined in the table on pages 42 to 45.
The list includes specific references to the amount of risk the Board is comfortable with, commonly referred to as the Boards risk appetite.
com 39 Principal risks continued The Board has three classifications of risk appetite.
A green colour What factors may threaten the reflects the Boards decision to actively take the risk to deliver the best balance of our paper supplies to returns to our shareholders.
Yellow is where the Board feels the level of risk meet minimum security needs?
warrants additional oversight, whilst red indicates the areas where the Board is willing to revisit its strategic assumptions and adapt its plans to changing If trading patterns make us vulnerable circumstances and opportunities.
to essential sources of paper supply.
The Group is a net purchaser of corrugated case A risk aware culture remains our continuous focus and we embed it material and paper made from virgin pulp purchased through an effective risk governance structure.
We recognise the inherent from third party suppliers.
Therefore, large fluctuations nature of the threats affecting all our business activities.
In 2016 17 we have in cost and availability of fibre or paper could adversely continued to make investments that enable us to better identify, assess and affect our long-term performance.
mitigate threats at the appropriate organisational level and to generate value by delivering on our plans.
If we miss rapid developments in fibre technology or use of fibre substitute products.
Risk heat map We could fail to exploit major developments in fibre A visual presentation of the results of a risk assessment process aligned to substitute products or to capitalise on breakthrough our strategic priorities.
technology in fibre recovery and or new packaging materials technology.
What might prevent us from 4 achieving consistent business efficiency throughout the Group?
If we fail to manage process change.
6 Efficiency and process change investments, 8 mainly those focused on strategic energy deployment, 1 12 asset footprint alignment and various initiatives such as our perfect box project, may fail to deliver 11 7 5 expected outcomes.
10 If our business model fails to adapt to 2 9 3 regulatory changes.
New and broader regulations challenge how we deploy resource in our business and constrain the use of certain materials that could inhibit our know-how and Increasing opportunity capability to operate effectively in the circular economy.
1 7 Acquisition strategy Changes in shopping habits If we do not live up to our sustainability promise.
2 Capital markets 8 Security of supply The foundation between our business strategy and 3 Talent barriers 9 Sustainability the sustainability priorities of our customers may fail 4 10 Eurozone and macro-economic limits Digital vulnerabilities to deliver the required level of transparency, clarity and traceability.
5 Market consolidation 11 Process changes 6 Governance and compliance 12 Fibre technology What might stop us from attracting, developing, motivating and Risk governance review retaining the best people?
Your Board is responsible for maintaining the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
The Board sets risk appetite levels and the If our operating arrangements fail to make the tone and direction for risk control.
This ensures that the nature and extent most effective use of our best people.
of significant risks taken across the Group is aligned with our overall goals Despite our investments, we may fail to retain and and strategic objectives.
We may also fail to identify, support and sufficiently develop key talent In accordance with our governance practices, the Audit Committee assists the Board in monitoring the Groups exposure to risk and continues to be necessary to harness the Groups potential across key business areas.
responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems.
The Groups Risk Officer and Internal Audit team support the Audit Committee in evaluating the design and operational effectiveness of the risk mitigation strategies and the internal control processes implemented by senior management.
Our executive management, through the Group Operations Committee and Group Strategy Committee, regularly review the level of risk related to strategic objectives and the operational effectiveness of our controls.
This helps to ensure that all risk management actions performed in the business are aligned with, and focused on, the current strategy.
