Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Risk Strategic objective Risk description Potential impact Mitigation appetite rating Movement Globalisation Weakening of financial, tax, audit and legal Control is exercised locally in accordance with the Groups policy of autonomous 1 The global interconnectedness of control and divergence from overall Group management.
We seek to employ local high-quality experts.
operations poses wide-ranging challenges strategy in remote operations, leading to The increasing geographic diversity of operating personnel emphasises 4 grow 2 across the Group especially where businesses taking on more risks than intended theimportance the Group places on local knowledge and experience.
businesses manage operational matters orunexpected financial outcomes.
The Groups acquisition model supports retention of management and 3 via remote locations: the increasing global Failure to comply with local laws and regulations staffin acquired businesses, meaning that local expertise is retained.
spread of our businesses, particularly in in unfamiliar territories, leading to reputational Sector Chief Executives ensure that overall Group strategy is fulfilled through L H China, requires additional vigilance over issues and legal or regulatory disputes.
ongoing review of the businesses.
The right balance between autonomy and communication, culture, training and Continued international growth increases risk.
adherence to the overall objectives of the Group is a key function of the Sector export controls sanctions in order to Missed opportunities due to failure to mobilise Chief Executives, Sector Vice Presidents and Senior Finance Executives.
anticipate and contain any vulnerabilities.
Regular visits to remote operations and maintenance of key adviser relationships by senior management, finance staff and Internal Audit support local control.
The Groups geographic and product diversity reduces risk.
Competition Loss of market share due to price pressure and By empowering and resourcing innovation in local operations to respond to 1 The Group faces competition in the changing markets.
changing market needs, the potential adverse impact of downward price formof pricing, service, reliability Reduced financial performance arising from pressure and competition can be mitigated and growth maintained.
competitive threats both from third parties We recognise the competitive threat coming from emerging economies and M M andcustomers bringing production in-house.
by operating within these economies, typically using local staff, we are 3 better placed to make fast progress ourselves.
The Group operates in specialised global niche markets offering high barriers to entry.
Economic conditions Reduced financial performance.
Risks are primarily managed at the operating company level where local 1 In times of uncertain economic conditions, Loss of market share.
The financial strength and availability ofpooled businesses face additional or elevated Unforeseen liabilities.
finances within the Group mitigates local risks faced byoperating companies grow 4 2 levels of risk.
These include market and Disruption of service to customers.
as does the robust credit management processes in place across the Group.
customer risk, customer default, fraud, Breaches of legal or regulatory requirements The Halma Executive Board identifies any wider trends which requireaction.
3 supply chain risk and liquidity risk.
The resulting in fines penalties impacting the Group A Brexit Committee has been created to assess, monitor and publish M H decision made in the UK to leave the EU financially and reputationally.
guidance on potential impacts due to Brexit.
The agility of Group Brexit creates additional uncertainty.
operationsis expected to help mitigate any adverse impacts of Brexit.
The Groups geographic diversity limits its exposure to economic risk arising in any one territory.
The Group does not have significant operations, cashdeposits or sources of funding in economically uncertain regions.
Financial Constraints on trading and or acquiring new The strong cash flow generated by the Group provides financial flexibility.
1 Funding companies limiting the Groups growth aspirations.
Gearing has reduced during the year.
A key risk is that the Group may run out Availability of additional funding in traditional The Group increased its funding capacity in January 2016 via a US$250m grow 4 2 ofcash or not have access to adequate debt markets.
Inaddition toshort-term overdraft facilities, the funding.
In addition, cash deposits are Permanent loss of shareholders funds Grouprenewed and increased to 550m its five-year revolving credit facility L M 3 required to be held in a secure form and or restrictions on dividend payments.
inNovember 2016 providing security offunding and sufficient headroom for andlocation.
Cash deposits are monitored centrally and spread amongst a number of high credit-rated banks.
Financial Volatile financial performance arising from The risk has increased because more of the Groups profits are derived from 1 Treasury translation of earnings from the Groups non-Sterling currencies.
Currency profits are not hedged.
Currency hedging Breaches of banking US Private increasing proportion of overseas operations or must fit with the commercial needs of the business and we have in place a 4 grow 2 Placement covenants andforeign poorly-managed foreign exchange exposures.
hedging strategy to manage Group exposures.
This requires the hedging of currencyrisk are the most significant Deviation from core strategy through the use of asubstantial proportion of expected future transactions up to 12 months 3 treasury-related risks for theGroup.
speculative or overly complex financial instruments.
and in exceptional cases 24 months ahead.
Longer-term currency trends M M Intimes of increased volatility this can Financial penalties, reputational damage and can only be covered through a wide geographic spread of operations.
have a significant impact on performance.
withdrawal of facilities arising from breach of The Group does not use overly complex derivative financial instruments The Group is exposed to a lesser extent to banking US Private Placement covenants.
andno speculative treasury transactions are undertaken.
other treasury risks such as interest rate Increased interest rate risk on higher borrowings.
We closely monitor performance against the financial covenants onour risk and liquidity risk.
Currency markets continue to be volatile revolving credit facility and US Private Placement and operate well within causinguncertainty.
22 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Movements indicate managements perception of how the pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year.
L Low Increased risk M Medium No change to risk H High Decreased risk Risk Risk Strategic objective Risk description Potential impact Mitigation appetite rating Movement Globalisation Weakening of financial, tax, audit and legal Control is exercised locally in accordance with the Groups policy of autonomous 1 The global interconnectedness of control and divergence from overall Group management.
23 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Risk Strategic objective Risk description Potential impact Mitigation appetite rating Movement Financial Excessive consumption of cash, limiting There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and pension strategy 1 Pension deficit investment in operations.
isa regular Halma Board agenda item.
The Groups strong cash flows and To meet our pension obligations, we must Unexpected variability in the Companys access to adequate borrowing facilities mean that the pensions risk can grow 4 2 adequately fund our closed UK defined financial results.
The Group has maintained additional pension contributions with the overall 3 objective of paying off the deficit in line with the Actuarys recommendations over an appropriate period.
Alternative means of reducing pension risk is evaluated in light of the best long-term interest of shareholders.
Cyber security Information Technology There is substantial redundancy and back-up built into Group-wide systems Delay or impact on decision making through lack 1 Business interruption Natural disasters and the spread of business offers good protection from individual events.
of availability of sound data or disruption in Group and operational management A small central resource, Halma IT Services, assists Group companies with denial of service.
4 grow 2 depend on timely and reliable information strategic IT needs and ensures adequate IT security policies are used across Reduced service to customers due to poor from our IT systems to run their the Group.
information handling or interruption of business.
We seek to ensure continuous An IT security committee exists, comprising central and subsidiary Loss of commercially sensitive and or availability, security and operation of ITpersonnel.
Halma IT is ISO 27001 certified for its information security Intended and unintended actions of employees managementsystems.
L H Cyber threats continue to show an Regular IT health checks of all companies are conducted by the Group increasing trend.
We also aim to have ITteam.
Comprehensive IT systems monitoring is in place.
wider business continuity plans in place Cyber risk and security is a regular Board agenda item addressing the should one or more of our premises landscape as it evolves.
External penetration testing is utilised and a centralised IT disaster recoverysolution is in place to supplement local processes.
Business continuity plans exist for each business unit with ongoingtesting.
Education awareness of cyber threats continues to ensure Group employees protect themselves and Group assets.
Acquisitions The sector management teams provide resource to focus on M&A activities, Failure to attract sufficient numbers of 1 The identification and purchase of suitable including a dedicated M&A Director for each sector.
Suchresources remain high-quality businesses to meet our strategic businesses which are an important part of under constant review.
acquire 4 2 our strategy for developing the Group, as We acquire businesses whose technology and markets we know well orwho Failure to deliver expected results resulting is ensuring the new businesses are rapidly operate in adjacent markets.
Sector Chief Executives are responsible for finding and completing Failure to identify new markets in which to expand.
acquisitions in their business sectors, subject to Board approval, supported Reduced financial performance arising from M H by sector and central resources, as necessary.
We employ detailed postfailure to integrate acquisitions into the Group.
Unforeseen liabilities arising from a failure to Thorough due diligence is performed by a combination of in-house and understand acquisition targets fully.
external experts to ensure that a comprehensive appraisal of the commercial, legal and financial position of every target is obtained.
Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions which are value-enhancing from day one.
24 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Movements indicate managements perception of how the pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year.
L Low Increased risk M Medium No change to risk H High Decreased risk Risk Risk Strategic objective Risk description Potential impact Mitigation appetite rating Movement Financial Excessive consumption of cash, limiting There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and pension strategy 1 Pension deficit investment in operations.
25 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Risk Strategic objective Risk description Potential impact Mitigation appetite rating Movement Laws and regulations The Groups emphasis on excellent internal controls, high ethical standards, Unfavourable changes in laws and regulations 1 Group operations are subject to widethe deployment of high-quality management resources andthe strong focus that restrict the export of our products.
ranging laws and regulations including on quality control over products and processes ineach operating business Reputational damage and or loss arising from empower 4 2 business conduct, employment, export help to protect us from product failure, litigation, fraudulent activities and non-compliance.
controls sanctions, environmental and contractual issues.
Diversion of management resources resulting 3 health and safety legislation.
There is Each operating company has a health and safety manager responsible for inlost opportunities.
alsoexposure to product litigation and compliance and our performance in this area is good.
Health and Safety Penalties arising from breach of laws and contractual risk.
The laws and regulations policies, guidance and monthly reporting requirements are updated to regulations.
we are exposed to as our businesses reflect changing reporting and governance requirements and to enhance Loss of revenue and profit associated with expand around the world increase compliance.
Our well-established policies on anti-bribery and corruption contractual disputes.
have been maintained during the year to ensure continued compliance with L H bestpractice internally, via the Group Codeof Conduct and externally, viaappropriate clauses included inthird-party agreements.
Comprehensive insurance covers all standard categories of insurable risk.
Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure to contractualliability.
The Groups whistleblowing policy and externally facilitated hotlineassist the timely identification of potential problem areas.
Continued investment in international markets may introduce additional riskwhile we develop the appropriate commercial infrastructure necessary to build a direct presence.
Talent and diversity Group development programmes are under continuous review toensure Failure to recruit and to retain key staff 1 Group performance is dependent on theydeliver enhanced skills for executives and middle managers asneeded leadingto reduced innovation and progress having high-quality talent and diversity intheir current and future roles.
empower 4 2 atall levels of the organisation allowing Comprehensive recruitment and ongoing evaluation processes assist Acquisition growth limited due to our usto continue to grow through acquisition high-quality hiring and development.
organisations and leaders inability to 3 as well as driving organic growth.
The Group regularly surveys staff to assess the alignment of individuals effectivelymanage acquisition integration.
International growth increasing the need The Group Talent Director assists the identification and development of L M forhigh-quality local talent.
Ongoing focus on increasing the diversity of our employees worldwideto better meet our markets needs and provide sufficient opportunities for advancement as well as clear succession planning.
Considerable time spent assessing senior management talent andestablishing better processes to improve the talent pipeline hasadvanced our succession planning and talent quality.
Research & Development and Devolving control of product development to the autonomous operating Loss of market share resulting from product 1 Intellectual Property strategy businesses spreads risk and ensures that the people bestplaced to service obsolescence and failure to innovate to meet New, high-quality products are critical the customers needs are driving innovation.
4 innovate 2 toour organic growth and underpin New product development best practice is shared between Group Loss of market share resulting from a failure ourability to earn high margins and companies and return on investment of past and future innovation projects toprotect key intellectual property.
3 highreturns over the long term.
This ensures that the collective experience and expertise Diversion of resources to address related matters.
of the Group can be utilised to maximum effect.
Large R&D projects, especially those which are capitalised, require Head M H Office approval, ensuring that the Groups significant projects are aligned tooverall strategy.
Workforce quality and retention is a central objective.
This focus ensures that intangible resources stay and grow within the business.
Operating businesses are actively encouraged to develop and protect know-how in local jurisdictions.
Innovation is encouraged and fostered throughout the Group and recognised at Halmas Annual Innovation Awards.
Product quality Strict product development and testing procedures in place to ensure Loss of market share resulting from product 1 The quality and reliability of our products quality of products and compliance with appropriate regulations.
quality issues including the necessity to recall is vital to meet the needs of our customers Rigorous testing of products during development and also during the replace product.
empower 4 2 and ensure compliance with regulations.
Reputational damage and financial loss due to L M Terms and conditions of sale limit liability as much as practically possible.
unexpected liability for injuries, fatalities and Insurance is in place.
26 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Movements indicate managements perception L of how the pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year.
M L Low Increased risk H M Medium No change to risk H High Decreased risk Risk Risk Strategic objective Risk description Potential impact Mitigation appetite rating Movement Laws and regulations The Groups emphasis on excellent internal controls, high ethical standards, Unfavourable changes in laws and regulations 1 Group operations are subject to widethe deployment of high-quality management resources andthe strong focus that restrict the export of our products.
27 Global insight The global expectation of improvements in workplace health and safety is backed bygovernment occupational programmes andcontinually increasing regulation.
Key trends: increasing and more stringent global health, safety and environmental regulations population growth and economic development stimulating rising energydemand increasing development, complexity and geographic spread of energy resources andtheir safety requirements automation and digitalisation, requiring connected safety controls systems increasing development, complexity and geographic spread of energy resources andtheir safety requirements Our strategy investment in new products to diversify our end markets and meet local requirements geographic market expansion via shared regional sector hubs acquisition of businesses that will reinforce our diversification, accelerate our digital transformation and contribute to geographic expansion operating efficiency improvement Business Review: Process Safety Local agility Keeping Chinese workers safefrom hazardous gases Hazardous gases can be problematic in industries as diverse as water treatment, oil and gas, construction, food processing and manufacturing.
In addition to portable gas detectors, which are worn by workers tokeep them safe, we also manufacture fixed gas detectors for installation in confined spaces such asutility tunnels.
You may also see these installed Crowcons development inunderground car parks to keep you safe.
team in China specifically tailored the companys In response to different requirements, standards and specifications, Crowcons development team in China fixed gas detector range specifically tailored the companys fixed gas detector for the Chinese market rangefor the Chinese market.
The team identified that therange needed to evolve and added the additional features now expected in the fastest growing sectors ofthegas detection market.
