Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk Management and Internal Controls Maintaining a robust risk and control framework of Risk and Internal Audit, the team of Internal control and financial policies but also includes The Board meets regularly throughout aspects ranging from our Group three internal auditors, residing in the UK, the USA and China, schedule visits the year with agenda planning looking benefits and incentives to information forward at least one year designed to related tothe internal financial review to Group companies toconduct internal audit procedures which have recently ensure all significant topics are procedures conducted to complement scheduled for discussion.
This is within the operating control environment.
been benchmarked to reflectchanging circumstances, specific requirements the framework of an adopted schedule Wecontinue to strengthen the internal of matters which are required to and external resources utilised in the and to enhance effectiveness.
The results of each internal audit are bebrought to it for decision.
This identification of, and investigation into, procedure ensures that the Directors potential acquisitions.
Our approach documented for internal distribution and action, with an executive summary maintain full and effective control over and policies areparticularly designed all significant strategic, financialand toensure a rapidandsuccessful going to the Audit Committee: any significant shortcomings identified organisational issues and is subject to integration following acquisition.
scope of the Groups policiesand the aresubject to an escalation process toensure matters are assessed programme of compliance audits are During the year, actions to strengthen regularly reviewed to ensure theyare anddisclosed to the Committee on atimely basis.
The team may also be the control environment continue to be sufficient to address current risks.
taken centrally by Group management.
TheGroupplaced additional emphasis involved in any special investigations that may arise at the direction of the The sector structure provides additional, on updating our business continuity dedicated personnel who supplement plans over recent years ensuring that Company Secretary.
they aremutually complementary to and reinforce our controls and the culture in whichwe operate within the ourinsurance programme.
Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating structure which spreads the subsidiaries themselves.
The duties andresponsibilities of management The Groups treasury-related policies Groups activities across a number of are keptunder review to ensure that autonomous subsidiary companies.
arecontinually refreshed as well as documented.
The Groups policies and appropriate accounting and banking Each ofthese companies is overseen arrangements arealigned with by sector executives and led by a procedures were relaunched on a secure web-based portal and have been theGroups growth and toensure high-quality board ofdirectors continued compliance with covenants including a finance executive.
updated to be in a more user-friendly format.
The portal also includes links and accounting requirements.
Theintroduction of internal nonexecutive director opportunities within tothe additional guidance given to all subsidiary managing directors and The Internal Audit function operates the Group during 2017 will provide independently, reporting to the Audit further, mutually beneficial, oversight subsidiary finance directors.
Such guidance not only includes compliance Committee.
Reporting to the Director ofoperations.
Group internal control system The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are summarised below: Operating companies, with the oversight of their sector boards, carry out a detailed risk assessment each year and identify mitigating actions inplace or proposed for each significant risk.
A risk register is compiled from this information, against which operational risk action is monitored through to resolution and strategic risks are reported to the Group.
Management also compiles a summary of significant Group risks, documenting existing or planned actions to mitigate, manage or avoid risks.
Each month the board of every operating company meets, discusses and reports on its operating performance, its opportunities, therisks facingit and the resultant actions.
The relevant Sector Chief Executive or Sector Vice President chairs this meeting.
Sector Chief Executives meetregularly withthe Chief Executive and Finance Director and report on sector progress to the Executive Board.
Financial and trading warning signs are reported to Group and sector management.
Weekly data on cash management, sales and orders are also reported directly to the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Group finance team.
This framework isdesigned to provide an early warning of potential risks and to direct appropriate action where necessary.
The Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma plc Board meeting which includes the main features of Group operations and an analysis of the significant risks and opportunities facing the Group.
The papers also cover progress against strategic objectives and shareholder-related issues.
The Finance Director also submits a separate financial report to each Halma plc Board meeting.
Regular Director visits to Group companies are scheduled and open access to the subsidiary company boards is encouraged: periodic and risk-based internal control visits are carried out by internal audit or senior finance staff resulting in actions being fedback to each company and followed up by senior finance executives and Sector Chief Executives.
Reviews are coded in terms of risk and a summary of all such reviews is given to the Audit Committee, with any significant control failings being reported directly to the Audit Committee: senior finance staff also conduct financial reviews at each operating company before publication of half-year and year end results.
We have a Group-wide IT policy supported by a programme of IT health checks.
Group IT manages aspects of our cyber security risks and IT development needs.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Internal Audit function report to the Audit Committee on all aspects ofinternal control, and the Company Secretary reports any significant matters raised through the whistleblowing channels with the Audit Committee and the Board.
Regular reports are received by the Board from the Audit Committee Chairman and the papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are used as abasisfor its annual review of internal control.
20 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Embedding internal control and risk a comprehensive financial reporting disruptions.
The Group has a wide management within the operations system, regularly enhanced, within rangeofmeasures and policies and ofthebusiness and dealingwith which actual and forecast results a framework in place which includes areasof improvement which come are compared with approved a virtual private network covering tomanagements andthe Boards budgets and the previous years over 100 sites worldwide, secure attention is a continuous process figures on amonthly basis.
Weekly firewalls, an IT security and threat andone which is subject to cash sales orders reporting, monitoring system, information rigorousscrutiny.
including details of financial management audits, disaster institutions, is also maintained recovery and a mobile devices Group companies operate under a within the financial reporting management system system of controls which includes system, all of which is reviewed at an acquisitions and disposals butis not limited to: both local, sector and Group level framework which governs the due an investment evaluation procedure diligence, negotiation, approval and a defined organisational to ensure an appropriate level of integration processes to ensure structurewith an appropriate approval for all capital expenditure that value-enhancing, quality delegation ofauthority to and other capitalised costs investments are made in order to operational management which self-certification by operating meet our strategic objectives.
ensures appropriate segregation company and sector management ofkey duties ofcompliance and control issues See Viability Statement on page 82. the identification and appraisal of with additional verification risks both formally, through the performed centrally annual process of preparing a robust structure for electronic business plans and budgets, communication and conducting through an annual detailed risk e-commerce to ensure that the assessment carried out at local and Group isnot adversely impacted by sector level and informally through threats to itsIT infrastructure and close monitoring of operations to minimise potential for business Group risk management Board Operational and financial risk Compliance and monitoring Chief Executive Finance Director Audit Committee Executive Board Company Secretary Sector boards Internal Audit Whistleblowing Compliance Subsidiary company boards Senior Finance Executives The diagram below summarises our complementary integrated approach to risk management which is consistent with the Groups structure.
Halma has also refined the timings of the Group-wide risk assessment as well as the division of responsibility for the risk review cycle throughout the year.
Top Down Bottom Up Strategic Risk Management Operational Risk Management review and management of the strategic risks of assessment of the effectiveness of risk theGroup with visibility of the sector risks: managementsystems across the Group: and Board and Audit consideration of the environment in which the reporting principal risks and uncertainties in the Group.
Committee Groupoperates: and setting the risk appetite of the Group.
delivery of Group strategic actions: and reviewing completeness and consistency across monitoring Group key risk indicators.
thesectors and adequacy of mitigation actions: consideration of the aggregation of risk exposures Executive Board across the businesses: and and Senior Finance review management consolidation of operational Executives risks both sector and business, delegated as theSector Chief Executive deems appropriate.
execution of any Grouplevel strategic actions: and reporting of significant and emerging risks to the Group: reporting on any identified key risks and mitigation identification, evaluation, prioritisation, mitigation progress.
and monitoring of operational risks which are the Subsidiary responsibility of each subsidiary company: and companies identification of strategic risks which are reported tothe Group.
