r e t s s r i e g t s i e g r e r k k s s i r i STRATEGIC REPORT 29 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AVEVA FACES A NUMBER OF POTENTIAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUPS LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE.
THE BOARD IS RESPONSIBLE FOR DETERMINING THE NATURE OF THESE RISKS AND ENSURING APPROPRIATE MITIGATING ACTIONS ARE IN PLACE TO MANAGE THEM EFFECTIVELY.
Risk management process This year we have continued to Based on this assessment, the The Board retains ultimate improve our risk management Directors have considered the Groups responsibility for the Groups risk process, by drafting departmental risk current position and principal risks, management and as part of this, registers to supplement the Group and have a reasonable expectation regularly completes a review of Risk Register.
Next year we intend that the Group will be able to continue the Group Risk Register and an that the highest risks from each in operation and meet its liabilities as assessment of the adequacy of the departmental register are considered they fall due over a three-year period.
mitigating controls identified by for inclusion on the Group Risk Register.
To aid this process a In making this statement, the Risk Committee comprising senior The updated Group Risk Register was Directors have also made the management from each function of ultimately reviewed and approved following assumptions: the business was formed in 2015 16. by the Board and in the context oil prices will stay relatively flat The Risk Committee is chaired by of the assessment of viability the for the next three years the CFO and reports jointly to the Board considered which risks, and Brexit will not unduly affect current Board and the Executive team.
combination of risks, would threaten trading or existing customer the viability of the Company.
contracts or relationships The Risk Committee meets at least our internal controls in mitigation twice a year and has responsibility The principal risks faced by the Group of a significant proportion of the for considering risk appetite, risk are set out on pages 30 to 31, and risks on the register continue to identification, risk quantification include indicators of the financial operate effectively.
qualification and the determination impact, likelihood and whether the of mitigating internal controls.
The risk has increased or decreased in Going concern statement Risk Committee is not responsible significance since the last review.
The Group has significant financial for internal audit activities which resources, is profitable, has high levels remain under the responsibility of Viability Statement of recurring revenue and has a strong the Audit Committee.
More details In accordance with the revised UK position in the markets it serves.
At of AVEVAs assessment of internal Corporate Governance Code, the 31 March 2017, the Group had cash controls is included within the Audit Directors have assessed the Groups and treasury deposit balances of Committee report on pages 44 to prospects and viability over a period 130.9 million 2016 107.9 million 46 of the Corporate Governance significantly longer than the outlook and no debt.
Therefore, after making section of the Directors report.
of the going concern statement enquiries and considering the cash flow of 12 months.
The Directors have forecasts for the Group, the Directors The Risk Register was compiled determined that the appropriate have a reasonable expectation that after considering three main risk period is three years, corresponding the Group has adequate resources characteristics likelihood, size of with the period covered by the to continue in operational existence impact and timeframe for when the Groups business planning cycle.
For this risk may impact the Group.
Likelihood reason they continue to adopt the was assessed on a net risk basis i. e. The Directors considered the principal going concern basis of accounting in after the operation of internal controls risks in plausible but severe scenarios preparing the financial statements.
as the Risk Committee considered this and assessed the potential impact gave a more robust view of the risks of a decline in the Groups revenue currently faced by AVEVA.
Separately, caused by a period of sustained low the Audit Committee has responsibility economic growth resulting in low for determining the appropriate level of levels of capital investment and this review required to ensure that internal was combined with an unfavourable controls are operating as designed.
Principal risks l r a n e o i t t c a n r u o F p r o C AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 30 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Strategies Risk level Risk change from 2016 1 More than 3D MT3D Low No change 2 Owner Operators Medium Risk decreased 3 Growth markets High Risk increased 4 Broadening market exposure 5 SaaS and the Cloud STRATEGIC AND MARKET RISKS Risk Likelihood Impact Change Mitigation Strategy Dependency on key markets AVEVA is expanding into other market 1 AVEVA generates a substantial amount of its income from segments such as Power, Petrochemical customers whose main business is derived from capital projects & Chemical and Construction, albeit 2 in the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
Currently, some from a relatively small base.
It is central of AVEVAs vertical end markets are under pressure with lower to our strategy to diversify our customer 4 oil prices and inevitably this is having an impact on the Groups offerings into Owner Operators and Plant revenues.
As the availability of capital expenditure returns to our operations.
This will help secure a longerkey markets, particularly Oil & Gas, the balance may shift away from term income stream that extends beyond our traditional core sector of complex off-shore projects, towards the design build phase of these capital simpler on-shore projects, such as shale gas extraction.
In addition, our extensive global this further reinforces our need for market diversification.
presence provides some mitigation from over-reliance on key geographic markets.
Competition We carefully monitor customers and 1 AVEVA operates in highly competitive markets that serve the Oil other suppliers operating within our & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
Our 3D design tools are well chosen markets.
We stay close to our 2 established in our markets and we believe that there are a relatively customers and ensure we have a strong small number of significant competitors.
However, some of these understanding of their needs and their 5 competitors could, in the future, pose a greater competitive threat expectations from the AVEVA product to AVEVAs revenues, particularly if they consolidate or form development roadmap.
strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, well capitalised companies.
We expect that the customers we serve will, over the next 3 to 5 years, show an Further threats are posed by the entrance, into AVEVAs markets, increased appetite or insistence on their of a much larger technology competitor or transformational software needs being delivered with more technology, such as Cloud-based solutions.
AVEVA is already well progressed with its Cloud strategy and expects to be The Groups strategy to extend the Digital Asset footprint is key to able to meet these customer demands as ensuring that our customer penetration is broad and that AVEVAs they develop.
sources of revenue are diversified.
Professional Services We employ experienced industry 2 Where AVEVA assists customers with the deployment of an professionals within our professional enterprise solution, this involves some degree of consulting and services team and continue to build 5 or implementation work.
This requires specialist knowledge to commercial partnerships with third party be available and well managed, potentially in many geographic systems integrators.
There is a risk that the services provided do not meet the customers expectations or that technical difficulties We have rigorous processes and controls are encountered.
for the appraisal of potential commercial opportunities prior to any bid being In some instances we may opt to partner with a third party for this submitted.
Bids are appraised on grounds work and this relationship also requires careful management and of technical complexity as well as financial maintenance to ensure that AVEVAs strong reputation with our and commercial risk.
Acquisitions While each acquisition and integration is 1 An acquisition by AVEVA or of AVEVA could pose a significant unique, AVEVA now has an experienced distraction to management and to the delivery of our business plan.
team to appraise and complete 4 acquisitions.
The Groups experience of The Group expects to continue to review acquisition targets as part previous bolt-on acquisitions as well as 5 of its strategy.
The integration of acquisitions involves a number the aborted transaction with Schneider of unique risks, including diversion of managements attention, Electric provides a good understanding of failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business, failure to potential transaction and integration risks.
realise the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition, and successful integration of the acquired intellectual property.
STRATEGIC REPORT 31 OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Likelihood Impact Change Mitigation Strategy Recruitment and retention of employees The Group endeavours to ensure that 1 AVEVAs success has been built on the quality and reputation employees are motivated in their work of its products and services, which rely almost entirely on the and there are regular appraisals, with staff 2 quality of the people developing and delivering them.
Managing encouraged to develop their skills.
Annually this pool of highly skilled and motivated individuals across all there is a Group-wide salary review that 3 disciplines and geographies remains key to our ongoing success.
rewards strong performance and ensures 4 salaries remain competitive.
Commission and bonus schemes help to ensure the success 5 of the Group and individual achievement is appropriately rewarded.
Protection of intellectual property The Group uses third party technology to 1 The Groups success has been built upon the development of its encrypt, protect and restrict access to its substantial intellectual property rights and the future growth of products.
Access limitations and rights are 5 the business requires the continual protection of these tools.
also defined within the terms of the software licence agreement.
The protection of the Groups proprietary software products is achieved by licensing rights to use the application, rather than The Group seeks to ensure that its intellectual selling or licensing the computer source code.
property rights are appropriately protected by law and seeks to vigorously assert its proprietary rights wherever possible.
Research & Development AVEVA continually reviews the alignment of 1 The Group makes substantial investments in Research & the activities of our Research & Development Development in enhancing existing products and introducing teams to ensure that they remain focused 5 new products and must effectively appraise its investment on areas that will meet the demands of decisions and ensure that we continue to provide class-leading our customers and deliver appropriate solutions that meet the needs of our markets.
This process is managed by developing a product roadmap that identifies Our software products are complex and new products or the schedule for new products and the enhancements may contain undetected errors, failures, enhancements that will be made to successive performance problems or defects which may impact our strong versions of existing products.
Products are reputation with our customers.
extensively tested prior to commercial launch.
International operations The Group manages its overseas operations 3 The Group operates in over 30 countries globally and must by employing locally qualified personnel determine how best to utilise its resources across these diverse who are able to provide expertise in the markets.
Where necessary, the business must adapt its market appropriate language and an understanding approach to best capitalise on local market opportunities, of local culture, custom and practice.
particularly in the strategically key growth economies.
Local management is supported by local professional advisers and further oversight is In addition, the Group is required to comply with the local maintained from the Groups corporate legal, laws, regulations and tax legislation in each of these financial and internal audit functions.
Significant changes in these laws and regulations or failure to comply with them could lead to additional liabilities and penalties.
FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Likelihood Impact Change Mitigation Strategy Foreign exchange risk The overseas subsidiaries predominantly 3 Exposure to foreign currency gains and losses can be material trade in their own local currencies, which acts to the Group, with more than 80% of the Groups revenue as a partial natural hedge against currency denominated in a currency other than Sterling, of which our two movements.
In addition, the Group enters largest are US Dollar and Euro.
into forward foreign currency contracts to manage the risk where material and practical.
The result of the UK referendum on European Union membership The Group limits its hedging of revenue to US has led to significant weakening of the British Pound, and the Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen, and its hedging volatility is likely to continue until further certainty is reached of costs to Swedish Krona and Indian Rupee.
