30 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE RISK MANAGEMENT As with any business, we face risks and uncertainties on a daily basis.
Eff ective risk management is essential to support the achievement of our strategic and operational objectives.
APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT KEY AREAS OF FOCUS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board is accountable for carrying out We continue to challenge and improve the The details of our principal risks and a robust assessment of the principal risks quality of risk information generated across uncertainties and the key mitigating activities facing the Company, including those the business, while maintaining a simple in place to address them can be found on threatening its customers, people, values, and practical approach.
We disclose those we reputation, business model, operations, working with the Operating Committee believe are likely to have the greatest impact safety, future performance, solvency or have evolved during the year.
More detailed on our business at this moment in time liquidity.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit discussion regarding the nature and extent and which have consequently been the Committee reviews the eff ectiveness of of our principal risks has enhanced our subject of debate at recent Board or Audit the risk management process.
understanding in the context of the Committee meetings.
The year 2016 17 has businesss risk appetite, as well as informing been one of change and this is re ected in Each business area is responsible for our consideration of emerging risk areas.
the year-on-year evolution of the principal formally identifying and assessing its By completing periodic deep dives on risks and uncertainties.
risks half-yearly, measuring them against targeted, connected risks, we can also better a fide ned set of criteria, and considering The Company is exposed to a wide range assess the eff ectiveness of the mitigating the likelihood of occurrence and potential of risks in addition to those listed.
These are activities in place and strengthen our impact to the Group.
The Group Risk monitored for any increase in likelihood approach to risk management.
function facilitates a similar exercise with or impact and to ensure that appropriate members of the Operating Committee, mitigations are in place.
RISK APPETITE before combining these perspectives to While our capacity to in uence external The UK Corporate Governance Code create a consolidated view.
In compiling this risks is often limited, we recognise the requires companies to determine their complete risk pro le, consideration is given importance of operating a business model to risks that are external to our business, risk appetite in terms of the nature and that has the potential to ex and adapt core to our day-to-day operations, related extent of the principal risks faced and to a changing environment.
For example, those they are willing to take in achieving to business change and any other that may the consequences of the UKs decision strategic objectives.
In addition to impact achievement of our future strategy.
to leave the European Union will directly assessing whether residual risk is at an The principal risks identi ed by this process impact our business in a variety of ways.
acceptable level in the context of overall form our Group Risk Pro le, which is agreed While we have already been aff ected by the risk appetite, the Board has established by the Operating Committee ahead of depreciation of sterling, other risks are not a set of risk appetite statements that final review and approval by the Board.
Potential risks could address key risk areas and speci c In addition to this periodic review, key areas include trade tariff s, higher taxation and operations.
The statements articulate of risk are subject to regular oversight and limits to the free movement of people: all risk parameters within which the Group challenge by the Operating Committee and, will demand a proactive response as the operates, supported by our policies where appropriate, by the Board and Audit implications are better understood.
In addition to ensuring Committee, during the course of the year.
created a working group to monitor the that our risk appetite statements remain changing risk pro le.
Economic uncertainty relevant and evolve with the business, The directors assessment of the long-term and socio-political unrest also fall under we recognise the importance of fostering viability of the Company is also reviewed this umbrella of external risk.
annually, mindful of the principal risks an environment where innovation can faced.
Further detail on our approach thrive.
Consequently, there are times when there may be merit in operating to assessing long-term viability can be outside agreed risk parameters, found on page 31. if appropriate approvals and mitigating controls are in place.
31 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 RISK INTERDEPENDENCY We recognise that there is signi cant the relationship between our key risks, The following is an illustrative interdependency between our key risks.
we are better placed to ensure we are example of a potential scenario: This diagram, based on an extract from managing them appropriately and to In order to drive long-term Pro table our current Group Risk Pro le, highlights understand our broader risk exposure.
Growth, we need to ensure that we how changes to one risk might impact This is especially important when assessing proactively manage a number of our those connected to it.
By understanding the Companys long-term viability.
We must off er and deliver a Customer Proposition & Experience that is competitive and reliable across all channels, keeping pace with changing consumer behaviours and enabling us to leverage growth Pro table opportunities as they arise.
In addition, Growth our Brand needs to evolve with consumer lifestyles and attitudes, ensuring that it resonates with customers and remains relevant as they move from one life stage to the next.
To be able to realise growth opportunities, we need to identify, keep pace with and embrace developments in Technology.
This will enable us to both Customer Technology Proposition & Brand meet and exceed customer expectations, Experience while ensuring that our business remains innovative, resilient and exible.
All of these aims are ultimately underpinned by the strength of our people.
Through eff ective management of Talent & Succession, we can ensure our people are best set up for success to deliver business objectives as they evolve.
Talent & Succession OUR APPROACH TO ASSESSING LONG-TERM VIABILITY The UK Corporate Governance Code requires We have modelled scenarios which group In making the statement, the directors us to issue a viability statement declaring together principal risks where we believe have applied the following assumptions whether we believe the Company is able to interdependencies exist between the risks, in preparing the scenarios: continue to operate and meet its liabilities, in addition to scenarios where unconnected Bonds maturing during the assessment taking into account its current position risks occur simultaneously.
The scenario period will be repaid through our and principal risks.
The overriding aim is to with the most signi cant adverse impact existing bank facilities.
encourage directors to focus on the longer was reviewed against the current and term and be more actively involved in risk projected liquidity position to conclude on The actions included in our plan to grow management and internal controls.
The assessment sales are not fully realised or are off set also took account of additional potential by lower than expected market growth.
The Board is required to assess the mitigations available in the event of further Companys viability over a period greater The actions included in our plans to downside factors, including a reduction in than 12 months.
The increased levels of mitigate input cost increases that capital expenditure and reduced returns to uncertainty within the global economic we expect are not delivered in full or shareholders.
The Audit Committee reviews and political environment and the macrothe input cost increases are greater the output of the viability assessment in economic challenges being experienced than expected.
advance of final evaluation by the Board.
within the retail sector, mean the Board The UK governments noti cation of its continues to believe a three-year period In assessing viability, the Board considered intention to exit the European Union will is appropriate for business planning, a number of key factors, including our have adverse financial impacts, including measuring performance and remunerating business model see pages 12 and 13, our input cost in ation from increased tariff s at a senior level.
Our assessment of viability strategy see page 9, risk appetite see and a further weakening in sterling, as therefore continues to align with this page30 and our principal risks and well as reduced UK consumer spending.
These have been reviewed in the context of our The Boards assessment is that M&S is a The process adopted to assess the viability financial plans, speci cally the annual viable business.
The viability statement of the Company involves collaborative budget and three-year plan.
The directors can be found on page 83. input from a number of functions across also satis ed themselves that they have the business to model severe but plausible the evidence necessary to support the scenarios in which a number of the Groups statement in terms of the eff ectiveness of principal risks and uncertainties materialise the internal control environment in place to within the period of the three-year plan.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 32 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Our Group Risk Pro le evolves as changes in circumstances elevate risk, mitigating activities reduce net risk over time, or as new risks emerge.
As a result of our new strategy, our business has undergone considerable change during the year, aff ecting our people and operations.
This has signi cantly in uenced the risks re ected in the Group Risk Pro le, which forms the basis of the principal risks and uncertainties disclosed below.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK DESCRIPTION CURRENT CONTEXT MITIGATING ACTIVITIES CLOTHING & HOME RECOVERY Early signs of improved Clothing & Home strategy and supporting workstreams performance are being seen in place to drive sales, target market share, control costs Our future performance will be impacted 1 in Clothing & Home following and drive pro tability.
if we fail to meet customer expectations.
ongoing eff orts to strengthen Monthly monitoring and challenge of delivery against As we continue to reassert our Clothing & Home product style and quality.
credentials, we are focused on ensuring that Irrespective of this, there is Continued focus on product quality and style, including product relevance, pricing and quality meet no room for complacency and adherence to our Clothing Quality Charter.
Meeting our customers achieving recovery and further Ongoing engagement through customer panels and our needs in all respects is key to driving improved growth of our Clothing & Home Customer Insight Unit.
performance in an increasingly competitive market.
FOOD SAFETY AND INTEGRITY While we set our own exacting Dedicated Food Technology team responsible for ensuring standards, the external products are safe for consumption through rigorous A food safety or integrity related incident 2 pressures facing the food controls and processes.
occurs or is not eff ectively managed.
Our brand industry are continually Long-established store, supplier and depot auditing is based on trust and our customers have high evolving.
Fraudulent supply programme in place.
expectations of both the quality and integrity of chain behaviour, supplier cost Visible response to emerging customer concerns.
It is of paramount importance that we pressures, innovation demands Proactive horizon scanning for future issues, including focus eff ectively manage safety and integrity, especially and stringent regulatory on fraud and adulteration.
as we continue to grow our global food business.
requirements are just some Crisis management plan in place.
of the contributors to this risk.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our business values and Continued commitment to and development of Plan A practices are being in uenced objectives to allow risks to be identi ed, mitigated Our reputation as a sustainable retailer relies 3 by a broader range of factors and monitored.
on our ability to meet our social responsibility than ever before, including Overarching governance of processes through Plan A leadership.
Our modern slavery and human Mature supplier ethical auditing programme, including sustainability credentials have historically been rights.
It is essential that our independent third party auditors, across our Clothing & Home a key diff erentiator in the retail market.
As our commitment to our ethical and Food businesses.
peers place greater focus on this and the standards remains at the Policy on supplier selection processes.
regulatory environment continues to develop, forefront of our behaviours, Business-wide human rights policy and ownership.
it is essential that we continue to evolve our especially during a period Updated Global Sourcing Principles to incorporate aims, maintain strong ethical standards and of signi cant change.
requirements of Modern Slavery Act.
Signatory to United Nations Global Compact principles covering human rights, the environment and ethical behaviour.
Membership of the Ethical Trading Initiative.
INFORMATION SECURITY INCLUDING CYBER Experiences across the Established security controls, including policies, procedures corporate landscape have and use of security technologies.
We experience a major information security 4 continued to highlight the real Dedicated Head of Data Governance.
Our business, and society, continues threat of cyber and physical Data Governance Group in place.
to be subject to external threats to security attacks.
The external threat Dedicated Corporate Security team with ongoing focus including external hackers and viruses, physical pro le is ever changing, on improving physical security environment.
security attacks or sensitive data being lost or becoming more sophisticated Dedicated Head of Cyber Security, leading a team of accessed without authorisation.
cyber security experts and analysts, with 24 7 monitoring In addition, regulatory and defence tools.
responsibilities in relation to Third party cyber maturity assessment performed.
data protection are becoming Ongoing monitoring of developments in cyber security increasingly stringent, including threats, engaging with third party specialists as appropriate.
the implementation of the Control of sensitive data through limited and monitored General Data Protection access and the roll-out of systems with enhanced security.
Speci c team dedicated to managing security requirements for M&S.
TECHNOLOGY The ever-increasing importance Digital lab in place developing new technologyof technology in meeting enabled solutions.
To support future pro table growth, we need 5 customer needs, successfully Proactive simpli cation of IT infrastructure through clearly to keep pace and develop our technology growing our business and fide ned technology roadmaps for all business areas.
Our business needs to identify, keep pace supporting our people means Structured deployment of Smarter Working principles with and embrace developments in technology.
this remains an area of change and enabling technologies.
This will encompass a range of technology demands and focus.
Overall review of future IT strategy under way.
driven by the needs of our customers, deployment of tools that promote eff ective and exible working and maintaining an overarching IT infrastructure that enables resilient business delivery.
Risk key Nr New risk Evolved from prior year No material change to risk 33 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION CURRENT CONTEXT MITIGATING ACTIVITIES CUSTOMER PROPOSITION & EXPERIENCE Our business recognises Appointed dedicated Head of Customer Experience.
the need to deliver a reliable Omnichannel approach adopted to drive consistent Our performance and reputation will be 6 and competitive customer experiences online and in store.
impacted if we fail to deliver a competitive and proposition across all channels Proactive monitoring of social media to observe and reliable customer proposition and experience to keep pace with changing respond to trends in customer experience.
Notwithstanding the consumer behaviours, drive Further integration of M&S.
com functions within core growth delivered and expected to continue in performance and leverage teams to drive consistency across all channels.
com business, we need to ensure that growth opportunities.
Robust business continuity plans, incident reporting and we meet expectations however our customers management procedures in place across all channels.
choose to shop or have their order delivered.
Ongoing review of future strategic opportunities to meet customer needs.
TALENT & SUCCESSION Our people continue to be Completion of top tier talent review.
a key pillar of our business Review of cross-Group talent management processes We need to attract, develop, motivate and 7 and ensuring that the right under way.
retain the right individuals to achieve our people are in the right roles Third party review completed to help support operational and strategic objectives.
Eff ective is a signi cant enabler to and develop skill set of senior leadership group.
Nr talent management is essential to deliver current leveraging performance Targeted development programmes in place.
Clear line manager responsibility for succession the importance of both developing internal talent planning supported by appropriate people forums.
and successfully integrating external hires.
Ongoing focus on enhancing recruitment processes across the business.
MARGIN Ongoing sourcing and Clearly fide ned margin targets across the business with cost pressures are placing performance monitored and reported to management.
Sourcing or cost pressures impact our margin 8 increasing focus on our margin Comprehensive sourcing plans in place for key performance.
While our business continues to performance and the need products suppliers.
face challenging foreign currency headwinds, to further evolve our sourcing Currency strategy to actively manage foreign exchange other factors place signi cant pressure on margin strategies and ways of working rate uctuations.
These include the availability of raw in response to this.
Ongoing monitoring of pricing strategy in the context materials and pricing strategies in the context of of the wider retail market.
Strong engagement with buying teams to communicate uctuations in raw material prices and foreign exchange rates.
Enhanced Clothing & Home product development system in place, improving effi ciency to leverage margin growth.
BRAND To drive future performance Focus on clearly fide ned brand purpose to Make Every and leverage opportunities, Moment Special, connecting with customers through Our brand needs to evolve with consumer 9 our brand needs to stay relevant our Spend It Well campaigns with greater focus on lifestyles and attitudes for us to successfully and appeal to customers as lifestyle and outlook.
We need to ensure they move from one stage of Engagement with customers through our Customer that we recruit, engage and retain customers life to the next.
We recognise Insight Unit and focus groups, providing rich insights through the ongoing relevance of the M&S brand.
the importance of ensuring that and quanti able data.
the M&S brand resonates with Strengthened Customer Insight Unit leadership.
customers of diff ering lifestyles Continued investment in the development of Sparks.
UK STORE ESTATE Stores are, and will remain, a Full review of our UK store portfolio during 2016 17. critical part of our customer focus Multi-year programme under way to improve our estate We fail to maintain and develop a UK store 10 alongside a fully integrated to better meet customers needs.
estate that is relevant to future customer online off er.
We recognise the Strengthened property capabilities, including appointment preferences and supports business performance.
Nr importance of proactively of senior external hires.
As consumer behaviours continue to evolve, managing our UK store estate Cross-business Steering Group and working groups set up our physical store estate planning must align to ensure that our space is to manage and monitor the store estate change programme.
to our business strategy, providing better range relevant to the customer, Property Board approval process and governance authority in more convenient locations, while while supporting strong framework in place.
business performance and Continued expansion of our Simply Food business alongside pro table growth.
improvements to the UK store estate.
PROFITABLE GROWTH We must successfully drive Customer Insight Unit provides horizon scanning of changes innovation and diversi cation in consumer behaviour.
To drive pro table growth our business needs 11 to secure future pro table Review of innovation processes underway.
to innovate as well as successfully deliver growth for our business.
New operating model implemented to drive effi ciency and additional space and strong like-for-like eff ective decision-making.
To generate long-term shareholder Business restructure completed to help drive our business value, we need to identify alternative revenue objectives and strategic aims.
streams and opportunities to leverage growth, Ongoing focus on establishing foundations for new paths while also ensuring that we drive the performance to growth.
of our existing products and services.
THIRD PARTY MANAGEMENT A signi cant level of expertise Ongoing Board-level review of key relationships and eff ort is required to and partnerships.
To drive value for our business we need to 12 eff ectively manage third parties.
Dedicated personnel managing key contracts.
successfully manage and leverage our third As our business model evolves, fide ned service level agreements and key performance party relationships and partnerships.
Our Nr we need to maintain focus on indicator standards in place for key contracts.
business relies on a number of signi cant third this area to continue to drive fide ned contract governance and oversight standards.
To ensure that we continue to commercial and cost bene ts.
Strong engagement with in-house Legal and drive value for the business, it is essential that we Procurement teams.
work collaboratively, clearly fide ne requirements Periodic, independent review of performance.
and proactively manage our third parties.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with Marks & Spencer and the numerical referencing does not denote an order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse eff ect on the business.
These less material risks are kept in view in case their likelihood or impact should show signs of increasing.
Further information on the financial risks we face and how they are managed is provided on pages 118 to 123.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
