Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk management Caledonia risk governance and structure Effective risk management is a key Risk management and its governance is the responsibility component of the companys investment of the board, with the executive given the task of model and assists in ensuring that the ensuring an effective and transparent process to ensure risks are identified, documented, assessed and, where different parts of the group operate appropriate, mitigated.
The board sets the risk appetite within strategic risk parameters.
within the business model and this is communicated The board has overall responsibility for through the executive to all those with managerial responsibilities.
Risks emanate from all parts of the setting and monitoring the companys business and are considered by all executives as part risk appetite.
of their work, from origination of investments to ongoing monitoring and portfolio management.
The Audit Committee assesses and monitors the risk management processes and structure and specifically reviews the controls assurance programme.
This programme identifies key mitigating controls, tests their operation and reports on compliance and effective operation.
This, together with reports arising from the external audit, provides input to the board as a whole on the status of the risk management process.
Board of directors Risk management leadership Audit Committee Review and monitor the risk management process Finance Director Risk reporting and running the controls assurance programme Investment executives Risk management as part of the investment process Investee managements Risk identication and mitigation Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 29 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk management Risk management reporting Risk level Caledonia manages and reports risk through two primary Principal risks Mitigation Key developments change areas of focus an overall business risk report and a The companys business model and strategy are Caledonia reviews its investment strategy Strategic portfolio investment risk report.
reviewed periodically, against market conditions annually, taking into consideration the Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business and target returns.
current and potential future investing The business risk report considers the wider business model to deliver long term growth in capital and income environment and discussions with environment of the group, including business continuity and the effective communication and delivery of the The performance of the company and its key risks are executives.
The investment strategy is planning, IT and cyber security risks, regulatory risks and business model.
monitored regularly by management and the board.
reviewed and approved by the board.
Caledonia manages business risk Strategic risks include the appropriate allocation of through a number of integrated processes and procedures capital in relation to geographic, sector and currency operating throughout the year to provide risk visibility exposures.
to both the executive team and the wider board.
Pool managers have well-developed networks Pool managers have significantly Investment Caledonia risk management process through which they attract proprietary deal flow.
developed their own risk management Risks in respect of specific investment and realisation Risks are identified and assessed through a risk processes during the year.
Investment opportunities are subject to rigorous dashboard, capturing the most significant business risks regularly reviews investment risk at both Investment risks include the appropriate research and appraisals and multi-stage approval processes.
Target facing Caledonia and documenting the actions required pool and company portfolio level.
due diligence of new investments and the timely entry and exit events and prices are monitored and to achieve an acceptable level of risk.
The business risk execution of both investments and realisations for updated regularly, in relation to market conditions dashboard is reported to the board half yearly.
The portfolio investment risk report specifically focuses Market risks and sensitivities are reviewed weekly and Caledonia benefited from its global focus Market on the more technical areas of investment portfolio actions taken to balance appropriately risk and return.
during the Brexit period, but has remained Risk of losses in value of investments arising from risk in relation to Caledonias investment strategy.
This significantly invested in the UK, largely sudden and significant movements in market prices, A regular review of market and investment volatility includes such risks as investment volatility, value at risk, through the Unquoted pool.
particularly in highly volatile markets.
and value at risk is conducted by the board.
Reviews diversification, liquidity and concentration.
also consider investment concentration, currency Caledonia liaises closely with advisers to Caledonias principal market risks are therefore equity and liquidity exposures.
ensure that it understands the landscape price volatility, foreign exchange rate movements and arising from the impending Brexit and interest rate volatility.
An explanation of these risks is how this might impact its business.
Detailed cash forecasting for six months ahead is We have continued to manage our Liquidity Set risk updated and reviewed weekly, including the expected investment process to ensure we minimise appetite Risk that liabilities cannot be met or new investments drawdown of capital commitments.
the need to access our available facilities.
made due to a lack of liquidity.
Such risk can arise At 31 March 2017, following the sale of from not being able to sell an investment due to lack Loan facilities are maintained to provide appropriate Park Holidays, we had net cash of 207m of a market or from not holding cash or being able liquidity headroom.
The liquidity of the portfolio is and undrawn, committed borrowing to raise debt.
Report Identify and facilities of 175m, which are in place and feedback document up to April 2018.
Systems and control procedures are developed and We have operated from our temporary Operational reviewed regularly.
They are tested to ensure offices in Stratton House throughout Risks arising from inadequate or failed processes, effective operation.
the year and plan to move back to our people and systems or from external factors.
refurbished property in Buckingham Gate Appropriate remuneration and other policies are in Operational risks arise from the recruitment, in summer 2017. place to encourage the retention of key staff.
Business development and retention of staff, systems and continuity plans are maintained, using an offsite facility.
The board has reviewed and approved our procedures and business disruption.
Monitor Score impact business continuity plans during the year.
and improve and likelihood Regulatory and legal Caledonia has internal resources to consider all There have been no significant additional Risk arising from exposure to litigation or fraud and regulatory and tax matters as they arise.
Use is made regulatory requirements in the year.
adherence to the tax and regulatory environment.
of advisers and the Association of Investment Caledonia operates across a number of jurisdictions Companies, of which Caledonia is a member and Set target and mitigate and in an industry that has been subject to increasing on whose self-managed investment trust committee regulation.
30 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk level Principal risks Mitigation Key developments change The companys business model and strategy are Caledonia reviews its investment strategy Strategic reviewed periodically, against market conditions annually, taking into consideration the Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business and target returns.
current and potential future investing model to deliver long term growth in capital and income environment and discussions with and the effective communication and delivery of the The performance of the company and its key risks are executives.
The investment strategy is business model.
Strategic risks include the appropriate allocation of capital in relation to geographic, sector and currency exposures.
Pool managers have well-developed networks Pool managers have significantly Investment through which they attract proprietary deal flow.
developed their own risk management Risks in respect of specific investment and realisation processes during the year.
Investment opportunities are subject to rigorous regularly reviews investment risk at both Investment risks include the appropriate research and appraisals and multi-stage approval processes.
Target pool and company portfolio level.
due diligence of new investments and the timely entry and exit events and prices are monitored and execution of both investments and realisations for updated regularly, in relation to market conditions optimising shareholder value.
Market risks and sensitivities are reviewed weekly and Caledonia benefited from its global focus Market actions taken to balance appropriately risk and return.
during the Brexit period, but has remained Risk of losses in value of investments arising from significantly invested in the UK, largely sudden and significant movements in market prices, A regular review of market and investment volatility through the Unquoted pool.
Reviews also consider investment concentration, currency Caledonia liaises closely with advisers to Caledonias principal market risks are therefore equity and liquidity exposures.
Detailed cash forecasting for six months ahead is We have continued to manage our Liquidity updated and reviewed weekly, including the expected investment process to ensure we minimise Risk that liabilities cannot be met or new investments drawdown of capital commitments.
facilities of 175m, which are in place up to April 2018.
business continuity plans during the year.
Regulatory and legal Caledonia has internal resources to consider all There have been no significant additional Risk arising from exposure to litigation or fraud and regulatory and tax matters as they arise.
of advisers and the Association of Investment Caledonia operates across a number of jurisdictions Companies, of which Caledonia is a member and and in an industry that has been subject to increasing on whose self-managed investment trust committee regulation.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 31 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
