Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Risk report The Board is responsible for identifying principal risks Quarterly risk and assurance forums are held The Group faces andensuring appropriate riskmitigation is in place to toreview and challenge principal risks, where a numberofrisks manage them effectively.
management justify their bottom-up risk assessments through formal reports which, iftheyarise, Risk management framework and presentations Successful management of existing and emerging could affect its Principal risks of each subsidiary are reviewed risks is essential to the long term success of the andconfirmed on a quarterly basis by the ability to achieve its Group and the achievement of its strategic objectives.
subsidiary executive management teams, Pennon has established a fully embedded Group risk strategic objectives.
following which the Group Risk Forum completes management framework, to identify significant risks a comprehensive top-down evaluation of risks and determine whether they are being appropriately thatcould impact on the delivery of Group managed in line with the Groups agreed risk appetite, strategic objectives.
The Forum consists of senior and mitigated.
executives and its role is to debate, challenge, agree and prioritise the principal risks faced by A Group RiskForum provides a top down theGroup, based on the risk appetite set by the assessment of Group risks, that supplements the Board.
The risk assessment is then subjected to bottom up risk assessments by each subsidiary.
athorough appraisal by the Pennon Executive Thekey stages ofthe risk process are: before consideration by the Audit Committee and Identification of significant risks by core then formal presentation to the Board for approval businessfunctions, utilising agreed risk The impact of risks on the three long-term criteriabased on acombination of likelihood strategic priorities is included in the following overa five-year period, and impact based on tableof principal risks and uncertainties.
financial, reputational, management effort and impact on stakeholders and customers Risk appetite Principal and other business risks are captured Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk it is inrisk registers which are reviewed on an ongoing considered appropriate to accept in achieving basis as part of a robust assessment of key risks, Groupstrategic objectives.
The appropriateness mitigations, controls and assurance activities ofthe mitigation applied to each principal risk defined by risk owners.
The assessment considers isconsidered by the Board in the context of the gross risk, net risk after mitigation, and risk effectiveness of the overall control environment appetite, as well as the direction of travel of the inensuring compliance with the agreed risk risk level appetiteof the Board.
Robust risk assessment The Directors confirm that they have carried out arobust assessment of risks facing the Group, including assessing the impacts on its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
The following table describes the principal risks and how they are being managed or mitigated in line with the Boards risk appetite.
These principal risks have been considered in preparing the viability statement on page 51.
Countess Wear Wastewater Treatment Works 46 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic impact Risk level 1 2 3 Leadership Leadership Driving Low Medium High Increasing Stable Decreasing in UK water in cost base sustainable and waste efficiency growth Long-term priorities affected.
The low, medium and high risk level is our Current assessment of direction of travel of estimate ofthe net risk to the Group after risk level.
It is important to note that risk is difficult to estimate withaccuracy and therefore may be more or less than indicated.
Law, regulation and finance Principal risks Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: Robust regulatory framework ensures High standards of Compliance with compliance with Ofwat, Environment compliance are sought law, regulation Agency and other requirements.
with no appetite for legal 1 2 ordecisions by Fullengagement in consultations on and regulatory breaches.
Non-compliance could leadto financial reform of policy and legislation, helps As regulatory reform is Government penalties and other additional costs influence change through effective progressing, we aim to andregulators, which could undermine our efforts stakeholder relationships.
minimise the impact by to maximise cost base efficiency.
including water targeting changes which Clear and accessible guidance for Damage to reputation couldaffect are NPV neutral over the industry reform employees is in place and training shareholder value.
longer term, to protect programmes have been rolled out shareholder value and Regulatory reform could lead to and are ongoing.
inefficiencies and have a consequential Good progress has been made affect on customer affordability.
inpreparing for regulatory reform and The June 2017 General Election we entered the non-household retail could lead to a changed regulatory market on1 April 2017.
engaged in the programme for the next regulatory price review.
External reviews support the assurance provided by the water business to its regulators.
Long-term priorities affected: Clear treasury and funding policies and Ensure funding Maintaining an effective Group Treasury team.
requirements are fully sufficient finance met by maintaining 1 3 Funding in place at effective average and funding to prudent headroom.
interest rates below many in its sector, Failure to maintain funding meetongoing with prefunding and headroom, requirements could lead to including revolving credit facilities, to commitments additionalfinance costs and meet future funding requirements.
put ourgrowth agenda at risk.
Long-term priorities affected: Risk is reduced through health and High standards of Non-compliance safety compliance systems, policies compliance are sought oroccurrence of and procedures, which are currently with no appetite for 1 2 3 avoidable health being reviewed and enhanced, compliance breaches Breach of health and safety laws and supported by a programme of within the Group and and safety incident regulations could lead to financial capital investment.
penalties, significant legal costs, damage to reputation and loss of shareholder value.
Long-term priorities affected: Professionally qualified and experienced Full compliance with Uncertainty arising in-house tax team, supported by HMRC requirements.
from open tax external specialists.
2 computations Significant progress made during Censure for non-compliance with where liabilities 2016 17 to agree outstanding tax items HMRC requirements could lead to with HMRC.
remain to be agreed financial penalties, significant legal costs, damage to reputation and lossof shareholder value.
47 Strategic report Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Risk report continued Law, regulation and finance continued Principal risks Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: Use of professional advisers to manage Expectation that pension Increase in defined the pension schemes investment benefits can be paid in benefit pension strategy to ensure the scheme can full without increased 2 scheme deficit pay its obligations as they fall due.
The Group could be called upon to Risk increased post-Brexit vote due increase funding to reduce the deficit, to market uncertainties.
The situation impacting our cost base.
has since stabilised, as evidenced by the outcome of the recent triennial evaluation, which demonstrates the recovery plan from 2013 is still on track.
Market and economic conditions Principal risks Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: Water business debt collection Minimise non-recoverable Non-recovery of strategies kept under review with debt.
We recognise customer debt newinitiatives regularly implemented: customer affordability 1 2 challenges and that given Targeting previous occupier debt Potential impact on customer debt the inability to disconnect after customer moves collection, particularly with regardto domestic customers, Specific case management and vulnerable customers andaffordability.
some risk of uncollectable useof court claims and debt remains.
Affordability tariffs e. g. Restart, WaterCare, FreshStart help to reducebad debt exposure for customers struggling to pay.
Viridors debt collection risk is lower due to the high proportion of public sector accounts.
Long-term priorities affected: Viridor is well positioned across Taking well-judged risks Macro-economic the waste hierarchy, with long-term and having response risks arising contracts supporting the ERF plans in place to mitigate 3 fromthe global segment.
The recycling self help external macro-economic The economic climate and falling measures focus on performance, risk factors down to an andUK economic commodity and energy prices have in mitigating the impact of acceptable level.
downturn adirect impact on the revenues global economic conditions generated by our recycling business.
commodity and on commodity prices.
power prices Energy risk management at a Grouplevel acts as a natural hedge between South West Water and Viridor, offsetting any drop in power prices.
Existing investments thatqualified for Renewable Obligation Certificates are protected by the grandfathering principle.
48 Operating performance Principal risks Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: Contingency plans, emergency Reduce both the Poor operating resources and investment through a likelihood and impact performance due planned capital programme mitigates through long-term 1 to extreme weather the risks of extreme weather incidents.
planning and ensuring Failure of our assets to cope with sufficient measures are or climate change We prepare a Water Resources extreme weather conditions may lead inplace to mitigate risk.
Management Plan every five years and to an inability to meet our customers drought plans every three years, which needs, environmental damage, are both reviewed annually for a range additional costs and loss of reputation.
of climate change and demand scenarios, with schemes promoted to maintain water resources e. g. pumped storage for reservoirs, conservation and customer water efficiency measures.
While no water restrictions are envisaged, the risk is rising due to the recent prolonged period of dry weather.
Viridor has in place a regional adverse weather management strategy, aimed at reducing disruption to site operations and transport logistics.
Long-term priorities affected: Targeted improvements made to Good customer service is Poor customer improve customer service including at the heart of everything service increased South West Watersrelative industry we do.
Continually seek 1 3 competition standing during the K6 period.
toincrease customer Poor customer service has a direct satisfaction.
leadingto loss of Viridors strategy to diversify into impact on South West Waters delivery energy recovery has offset the Minimise the impact customer base of the PR14 business plan and Viridors declinein landfill and current ofmarket reform by ability to retain and grow market share.
defending the existing The opening up of the non-household customer base Viridor is exploring alternative retail market to competition means whilstdeveloping usesforits landfill assets.
that we must ensure we understand furthermarkets.
and meet the needs of ourbusiness customers if we are to deliver growth in this area.
Long-term priorities affected: Detailed contingency plans and Effective business Business incident management procedures.
continuity and interruption contingency plans in 1 Equipment failure is managed orsignificant place to mitigate the throughsophisticated planned Operational failure in our Water riskand accelerate the operational preventative maintenance regimes.
business could mean that we are not recovery from an incident, Any disruption is alleviated by good failures incidents able to supply clean water to our with residual risk covered liaison and communication.
customers or provide safe wastewater by insurance.
This has a direct impact on successful delivery of the PR14 business plan.
Business interruption caused by defects, outages or fire could impact the availability and optimisation of ourERFs and recycling facilities.
49 Strategic report Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Risk report continued Operating performance continued Principal risks Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: Succession plans are in place.
Appropriate skills and Difficulty in The recent Group restructure, experience in place, recruitment, Viridor transformation and integration withgood succession 1 2 3 retention and of Bournemouth Water have plans to mitigate impact Ensuring we have a workforce of strengthened the executive team, but on strategic plan.
development of skilled and motivated individuals is key in turn has the potential to impact appropriate skills, to delivery of all our strategic priorities.
which are required We need the right people in place to With reliance on EU nationals, to deliver the share best practice, deliver synergies uncertainties across the Group and move the Group forward in the following the Brexit vote mean the Groups strategy new shared services structure.
current assessment of the direction of travel of the risk is increasing.
We need a team with the necessary commercial acumen to help our businesses grow and prosper.
Business systems and capital investment Principal risks Strategic impact Mitigation Net risk Direction Risk appetite Long-term priorities affected: Skilled project management Pennons investment Failure or increased resourceand oversight boards activities are based on cost of capital providerigour to the delivery of taking well-judged risks 1 3 projects exposure majorprojects.
Due diligence for appropriate returns.
The success of our capital programme onsuppliers, technologies and to contract failures and long-term contracts is key to our acquisitions.
Back-to-back ability to provide top class customer agreementsand supplier service, the delivery of our growth guaranteesprovide protection.
agenda and our aspirations togrow Regular reporting of performance market share in our waste recycling onmajor contracts and post and recovery business.
The Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority has publicly stated it is seeking an exit from the Greater Manchester Waste PFI.
Pennon Viridor is working closely with its JV partners to secure a mutually acceptable outcome.
Long-term priorities affected: Major systems implementation is Robust systems in place Failure of supported by a formal programme to support business information governance framework, supplemented activity, with strong cyber 1 technology systems, by specialist consultants.
Viridor protection to minimise Failure of our systems due to systems are in the process of migrating agrowing risk.
management inadequate cyber security could lead to a Group shared service platform.
andprotection, to significant business interruption.
Cyber risks are mitigated by a strong Corruption or loss of data could result including information security framework, cyber in detriment to our customers, financial cyberrisks security awareness campaigns, plus penalties and reputational damage.
internal and external testing and formal ISO accreditation.
Ensure all possible measures are in place, aligned to guidance issued by the National Cyber Security Centre NCSC, commensurate with the fast changing cyber risk landscape.
50 Britains exit from the European Union Principal risk Matters considered by the Audit Committee As with all major decisions and changes that affect our business, Recycling and commodity Management and fide-risking of recycling Pennon conducted a thorough analysis of the possible implications market volatility andcommodity market volatility of a vote to leave the European Union.
Pennon did not take a public Recruitment and retention Review of people risks including the ability stance on the referendum in June 2016 as the Board believed that the to attract and retain the right skills to deliver vote was a personal decision.
the Group strategy Water resources, flooding and Consider the impact of climate change It is too early to know the implications of the vote to leave: this will only resilience anddrought risks on water resources become clear when negotiations following the March 2017 triggering andongoing flood-related resilience of Article 50 are complete.
In the meantime, we are tracking Brexit implications in assessing every risk.
It was determined that none of the individual risks would in isolation compromise the Groups viability, so a number of plausible risk Ofwats principles for holding companies Board combinations were considered to stress test the plan, primarily leadership, transparency and governance by reducing revenues, increasing costs and impacting cash flows.
Ofwat requires that holding companies manage their risks in such The Board considered the monetary impact of these scenarios over a way that the regulated company is protected from risk elsewhere a five-year period, to ensure that they did not adversely impact the in the Group.
Theprincipal risks and uncertainties disclosed above Groups viability.
The five-year period was chosen for consistency include the Group-level risks that could materially impact on South with the length of the Water businesss regulatory contract and the West Water.
associated business planning cycle, and the longer-term nature of the business.
Pennons risk management and internal control frameworks ensure that it does not take any action that would cause South West Water In making the assessment, the Directors have taken account of to breach its licence obligations.
Further, the Groups governance and theGroups robust capital solvency position, its ability to raise new management structures mean that there is full understanding and financeand a key potential mitigating action of restricting any consideration of South West Waters duties and obligations under non-contractual payments.
as well as an appropriate level of information sharing and In assessing the prospects of the Group, the Directors note that, as disclosure to give South West Water assurance that it is not exposed theGroup operates in a regulatory industry which potentially can as a result of activities elsewhere in the Group.
besubject to non-market influences, such assessment is subject to Viability statement uncertainty, the level of which depends on the proximity of the time The Board has assessed the Groups financial viability and confirms horizon.
Accordingly the future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or that it has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to predicted with certainty.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a As set out in the Audit Committees report on page 68, the Directors five-year period.
The assessment has been made with reference to reviewed and discussed the process undertaken by management, the Groups current position and prospects, its longer-term strategy, andalso reviewed the results of the stress testing performed.
the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed on pages 47 to 50 of the risk report.
Forward-looking statements This strategic report, consisting of pages 1 to 51, contains forwardThe Groups strategic business plan and associated principal risks are looking statements regarding the financial position: results of operations: a foundation of the scenario testing.
This assessment has considered cash flows: dividends: financing plans: business strategies: operating the potential impact of these risks arising on the business model, efficiencies: capital and other expenditures: competitive positions: future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period in question.
growth opportunities: plans and objectives of management: and other In making their assessment, the Directors reviewed the principal risks matters.
These forward-looking statements including, without limitation, and considered which risks might threaten the Groups viability.
those relating to the future business prospects, revenues, working Over the course of the year the Audit Committee has considered a capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs andincome in relation to deep-dive review of the following principal risks to enable a thorough Pennon Group and its subsidiaries, wherever they occurin this strategic assessment of the impact of these risks on ongoing viability: report, are necessarily based on assumptions reflecting the views of Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies, asappropriate.
Principal risk Matters considered by the Audit Committee Cyber security Review of the cyber security framework They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause inplace actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the Financial markets Ability to manage external shocks or forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements should, potentialmarket dislocations that could therefore, be considered in the light of relevant factors, including impact on financing strategy thoseset out in this section on principal risks and uncertainties.
Brexit Initial assessment of Brexit implications andmitigations The strategic report consisting of pages 1 to 51 was approved by theBoard on 23 May 2017.
Wholesale energy risk Review of Group energy risk strategy tomitigate volatility in the wholesale By Order of the Board energymarket Drinking water contamination Review the risk to drinking water qualityin Helen Barrett-Hague the event of significant watercontamination Group Company Secretary Legislative and Management of changes in EU and 23 May 2017 regulatory compliance UKlegislation and regulation, including theimpact of Brexit ERF business interruption Review of business continuity planning and continuity management inplace across all ERF facilities Water Business Non-recovery of household debt risks debt collection andmitigations 51 Strategic report Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 This years evaluation concluded The annual performance that the balance of skills, knowledge evaluation is an important and experience on the Board helped tool for assessing the Boards Two of our Directors have it to demonstrate a high degree of a background in industry, effectiveness in overseeing effectiveness, with a broad understanding three in finance and one the use of shareholders funds of Pennons businesses, the opportunities in governance.
available to them and the threats they face.
and ensuring the Pennon Executive implements the Read more page 62 Groups strategy.
Three of our Directors have held office for less than threeyears, reflecting our commitment to continually refresh the Board and bring in new ideas.
Committed to operating to the highest standards of corporate governance Exmouth beach, Devon 52 54 Chairmans letter to shareholders Governance and 56 Board of Directors remuneration 63 Board Committees reports 74 Remuneration report 100 Directors report - other statutory disclosures 53 Governance
