22 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks Effective risk management is key to delivering our strategic objectives and realising our vision.
The Board is accountable for effective risk management Balanced: Preference for delivery options that have across the Group.
Board-level oversight is discharged a low or moderate degree of residual risk.
Applying through two committees: innovation only where successful delivery is likely.
Cautious: Avoidance of uncertainty with negligible Audit Committee: focuses on risks where the or low residual risk.
Applying innovation prudently primary impact is financial: and where the risks are fully understood.
Risk & CSR Committee: focuses on risks where the primary impact is non-financial.
Commercial appetite These three categories are then used within the context The reports of the Audit Committee and Risk & CSR of the business strategy to define the Boards Committee can be found on pages 59 to 65.
Details commercial appetite as: of the Groups system of risk management and internal control can be found in the Corporate Governance Delivery Markets Commercial capabilities Customers appetite statement on pages 54 to 58.
Proven Existing Eager Risk appetite Proven New Eager balanced The Board defines and reviews its tolerance of risk New Existing Balanced through establishing a clear risk appetite and setting New New Balanced cautious appropriate delegations of authority to the executive and senior leaders.
Risk appetite within QinetiQ focuses Risk register on those critical risk areas necessary to achieve our The Group Risk Register consists of material risks strategic goals.
The risk appetite is articulated by relating to effective delivery of our strategy.
The Board defining three categories which describe the balance recognises that some risks may be affected by factors of scrutiny and mitigation activity against likely outside the control of the Company and also recognises benefit or reward: that however good the risk management processes are they cannot provide absolute assurance and unknown Eager: Willing to consider all delivery options despite risks may manifest without warning: the Company has greater inherent risk and eager to be innovative.
processes in place to deploy appropriate management to such risks.
internal control systems, as discussed on page 64, Longer-term viability assessment is taken into account.
It is assumed that existing undrawn bank facilities could be re-financed as Assessing the prospects of the Group they mature in FY20.
The Groups corporate planning processes involve the following individual processes covering differing Alongside the annual review of risk scenarios applied to time frames: the strategic plan, performance is rigorously monitored to alert the Board and Executive Committee to the 1.
An annual Integrated Strategic Business Plan ISBP potential crystallisation of a key risk.
process that looks at the detailed financials for the subsequent three years, together with an overview We consider that this stress-testing-based assessment of one additional year, to 31 March 2021. of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the 2.
An annual budget process that covers the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
A bi-annual detailed forecast process to update The period over which we confirm longer-term viability the view of the first budget year the year now While the Directors have no reason to believe the Group in progress.
will not be viable over a longer period than three years, 4.
A rolling monthly latest best estimate process to given the inherent uncertainty involved, the period over assess significant changes to the budget forecast which the Directors consider it possible to form a for the year in progress.
reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability is the three-year period to 31 March 2020.
This The corporate planning process is underpinned by period, essentially the period used for our mid-term assessing scenarios and risks that encompass a wide business plans that are subject to stress-testing and spectrum of potential outcomes, both favourable and scenario planning, has been selected because it adverse.
The downside risk scenarios are designed presents the Board and readers of the Annual Report to explore the resilience of the Group to the potential with a reasonable degree of confidence whilst still impact of all the significant risks set out on pages providing an appropriate longer-term outlook.
23 to 25, or a combination of those risks.
Confirmation of longer-term viability The scenarios are designed to be severe but plausible, As noted on page 58, the Directors confirm that their and take full account of the availability and likely assessment of the principal risks facing the Group effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be was robust.
Based upon the robust assessment of the taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of principal risks facing the Group and their stress-testingthe underlying risks, and that realistically would be open based assessment of the Groups prospects, all of which to them in the circumstances.
In considering the likely are described in this assessment, the Directors have a effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to Boards regular monitoring and review of risk and continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2020.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Principal risks 23 Strategic risks UK defence test and evaluation strategy International strategy Innovation strategy Risk Risk Risk UK Government budget constraints lead Failure to execute the international strategy.
Failure to sustain a culture of innovation or to reduced spending in the core markets to invest adequately in, or create value from, in which the Group operates.
EU exit our innovation investment.
causes a loss of market confidence and reduction in collaborative EU funding.
Impact Impact Impact A reduction in revenue and associated Failure to execute this strategy would Negative impact on the Groups market profitability from the Groups T&E contracts.
position, competitiveness, and future growth.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Positive stakeholder engagement.
QinetiQ The Groups Integrated Strategic Business Innovation will be driven through cultural monitors and responds to potential opportunities Planning process is used to articulate clearly change, investment in, and application arising from the MODs actions to deliver strategy, appropriate objectives and metrics.
of, our core competences for our improved value for money by making customers advantage in defence proactive proposals that deliver the The Group has established and is investing and commercial markets.
Internal Research and Development IRAD investment process.
Metrics Metrics Metrics Customer satisfaction All financial KPIs Customer satisfaction All financial KPIs Employee Engagement Metrics under development as part of CFO review IRAD investment rate Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Group Director Business Development Managing Director International Group Director Engineering & Operations Chief Technology Officer Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Eager Cautious Eager Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Medium High Medium High Medium High Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity 2 yrs Low 2 yrs Low 1-2yrs Low 24 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks continued Strategic risks continued Operational risks Transformation Recruitment and retention Single source contract regulations Risk Risk Risk The transformation does not result in change The Group operates in many specialised Group performance is adversely affected that embeds customer focus and creates value engineering, technical and scientific by application of the UK Government from increased innovation and competitiveness.
domains where a lack of domain-specific regulations for profit rates of contracts graduates leads to a future skills shortage.
Impact Impact Impact An internal culture which leads to Key capabilities and competences may be lost.
The regulations could have an adverse sub-optimal performance.
impact on the Groups profitability.
The UK workforce has a skewed age distribution which creates risk on future skills shortage.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Our way of working has been designed to Implemented a talent management review QinetiQ is supporting a joint industry position support the delivery of our strategy to increase across the Group to include succession in the Single Source Regulations Office SSRO customer focus, improve our competitiveness planning at Executive Committee level and consultation of the Profit Rate methodology.
and deliver collaboration across the Company.
ensuring our resourcing pipelines are focused on our critical skills for the future, including The contract and orders pipeline is regularly Leadership Development training to Early Careers.
reviewed to identify qualifying contracts.
upskill teams on how to implement a high-performance culture.
We will continue to focus on the efficient and effective delivery of contracts for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Metrics Metrics Metrics Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Apprentices and graduates All financial KPIs Transformation scorecard Voluntary employee turnover Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Chief Financial Officer Group Director Human Resources Chief Financial Officer Group Director Human Resources Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Eager Balanced Balanced Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Medium High Medium High High High Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity 0-1yr Medium 0-1yr Low 2 yrs Low QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Principal risks 25 Operational risks continued Security and IT systems Significant breach of relevant laws A material element of the Groups revenue and regulations is derived from one contract Risk Risk Risk A breach of data security, cyber attack or IT The Group operates in highly regulated The Long Term Partnering Agreement systems failure could have an adverse impact environments and recognises that its LTPA is a 25-year contract to provide test, on our customers operations.
operations have the potential to have evaluation, and training services to the MOD.
an impact on a variety of stakeholders.
UK Government budget constraints could lead to a material change to the contract.
Impact Impact Impact Significant reputational damage, as well as Failure to comply with particular regulations The LTPA directly contributes a material the possibility of exclusion from some types could result in a combination of fines, proportion of the Groups revenue of government contracts resulting in reduced penalties, civil or criminal action, suspension or and earnings.
debarment from government contracts, as well as reputational damage to the QinetiQ brand.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Data security is assured through a multiThe Group has robust policy, procedures In December 2016, the Group signed a layered approach that provides a hardened and training in place.
1bn, 11-year amendment to the Long environment, including robust physical security Term Partnering Agreement LTPA.
The next arrangements and data resilience strategies.
The QinetiQ Code of Conduct defines clear scheduled re-pricing point for areas beyond expectations for the Group and its employees.
the amendment is scheduled for March 2018.
Information systems are designed with consideration to single points of failure and Key areas of focus for the Group include the comply with relevant accreditation standards.
following: safety of product and services: Cyber security is monitored using an internal health, safety & environmental: bribery & cyber dashboard.
ethics, and international trade controls.
Metrics Metrics Metrics All financial KPIs All financial KPIs All financial KPIs except orders Cyber dashboard Health & safety Customer satisfaction Security dashboard Mandatory training compliance LTPA as a % of total Group revenue Commercial intermediary monitoring Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Group Director Engineering and Operations Company Secretary Group General Counsel Group Director Business Development Group Director Test & Evaluation Risk appetite Risk appetite Risk appetite Cautious Cautious Balanced Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Likelihood Impact Medium High Medium High Medium High Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity Proximity Velocity 0-1yr High 0-1yr High 1-2yrs Low
