Oversight 28 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Risk management Identifying and managing our risks We have a global framework for identifying and managing risk within our defined tolerance levels, in relation to both our operations and strategy.
The framework has been designed to provide the Executive Committee and Board with a clear line of sight over risk and to enable informed decision making.
Our risk management framework Our external operating environment Identify is subject to constant and sometimes rapid Group Audit & Risk Committee change.
We must be able to respond to this change, take appropriate levels of risk to protect our market position and take advantage of opportunities.
Equally, failure to manage risk could have an adverse impact Report Measure Group Risk & on the achievement of our strategic goals.
Compliance Committee To understand our risk profile and align it with our objectives and decision making processes, we operate a global framework that ensures we identify risk, set tolerance levels and consistently manage risk Local Audit & across our business.
This also allows Risk Committee us to consolidate our view on risk looking Monitor Manage across all local markets, functions and specialist areas.
This line of sight gives management the information they need to make the right decisions for our business.
Assurance First line of defence Second line of defence Third line 1 of defence Identify Measure Manage Monitor Report Risks identified in each Risk tolerance Controls set Co-ordinated Inform Executive Vodafone local market set by Executive to manage the risk assurance across Committee and and entity Committee and the within tolerance and the three lines the Board on how 1 Board for all principal ownership defined of defence assesses effectively risks are Strategic risk reviews risks the effectiveness being managed with senior leadership Risk action plans of the controls Consolidation and created to manage Risk management Group principal escalation across risks within tolerance information used risks reviewed and the Group using to inform strategy, agreed by Executive standardised scoring capex and resourcing Committee and and categorisation decisions theBoard Note: 1 A term used to describe a systematic approach to how we manage risk and provide assurance to the Board that risks are managed effectively.
The first line of defence typically sits with the business operations, the second line of defence has oversight over the first line of defence e. g. risk management and the third line of defence are the independent assurance providers e. g. Internal Audit.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 29 Assurance and oversight Our principal risks of risks We undertake a two stage process to identify our principal risks.
All local markets and entities In order to provide the Executive Committee, identify their priority risks which are consolidated into a Group-wide view.
We then conduct Audit & Risk Committee, and Board with a clear interviews with over 40 senior leaders to gain their insights.
The results of both exercises are view on how we mitigate our principal risks and consolidated to produce our principal risks, as reported here.
whether the mitigations are effective, we apply Key changes in the year a model of co-ordinated assurance.
Our Risk, Our risk profile remains stable relative to last year, with the following key changes: Compliance and Internal Audit communities work together on planning, executing and The two technology risks are now considered separately, as the causes for these are reporting assurance activities to ensure different now risks 5 & 7. that there is adequate coverage across the The Customer eXperience eXcellence CXX risk now focuses on digital capability risk 8. control environment with a robust level of independent testing.
The adverse political measures risk now includes upcoming 5G auctions risk 3.
Information gathered through our co-ordinated assurance process is provided to the relevant committees to help drive informed decision making.
It also helps senior Principal risks management to understand our overall risk profile, current levels of control and the culture of our business.
11 Strengthening our framework We constantly strive to improve risk 1 management and have made the following enhancements over the last 12 months: 2 3 4 A consistent reporting and oversight methodology has been extended across all 6 5 local markets and entities.
We have increased our engagement with 9 8 7 risk owners to improve monitoring of key risks, actions and indicators.
10 We have invested in a global risk tool, which allows us to standardise the data stored on all risks and to share information across the Group.
We have worked to develop our risk community through best practice sharing, training and our annual Global Risk Forum.
Low High Likelihood Risk movement l Risk increased l Risk stable l Risk decreased 1 Cyber threat and information security 7 Technology failure External or internal attack resulting in service Failure of critical IT, fixed or mobile assets unavailability or data breach causing service disruption 2 Market disruption 8 Failure to deliver on digital transformation Disruptive technology, changes in competitor and CXX business models, lack of agility Failure to create a differentiated, digital customer experience 3 Adverse political and regulatory measures Excessive pricing of 5G licences, tax authority 9 Non-compliance with legal and regulatory challenges, changing national politics requirements Non-compliance with laws, regulations, 4 Failure to converge and integrate network licence requirements acquisitions Incumbent re-monopolisation, failure to 10 Failure to deliver major Enterprise access critical content, inability to integrate contracts profitably acquisitions Failure to meet commitments and or deliver atappropriate profitability levels 5 IT transformation failure IT transformation failures impacting NPS 11 EMF health related risks EMF found to pose health risks causing 6 Unstable economic conditions reduction in mobile usage or litigation inadequate liquidity Global financial crisis reducing consumer spending and ability to refinance Low Impact High 30 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Risk management continued Cyber threat and information security What is the risk?
What is our target tolerance position?
A successful cyber-attack or internal event could result Failing to protect our customer information and service We aim for a secure digital future for our customers.
in us not being able to deliver services to our customers availability could have major customer, financial, Security underpins our commitment to protecting our and or failing to protect their data.
reputational and regulatory impact in all markets in which customers with reliable connections and keeping their we operate.
This corresponds to strong preventative, detective and responsive controls to minimise the risk of a successful attack.
Market disruption What is the risk?
We face increased competition from a variety of new Our market position and revenues could be damaged We aim for a fair and competitive environment in all of our technology providers, new market entrants, evolving by failing to provide the services that our customers want markets, and adopt strategies to deliver this through the customer needs and competitor consolidation.
use of innovative products, services and pricing models.
We must be able to keep pace with new technology and We also work with regulators and governments to ensure to compete in changing markets.
Adverse political and regulatory measures What is the risk?
We operate under licence in most markets and face If the cost of operations were to significantly increase, We seek actively to engage with governments and tax regular changes in regulation, law and operating directly or indirectly, this would impact our profitability authorities to encourage good working relationships environments.
Significant adverse changes, for example and returns to shareholders.
and to help shape potential impacts of legislative change to tax laws, spectrum pricing or an unfavourable on the Group.
regulatory landscape for multi-national companies, could We look for spectrum auctions to be fair for all impact our ability to do business in our preferred manner.
participants both in terms of ability to access auctions andpricing of spectrum.
Failure to converge and integrate acquisitions What is the risk?
We face competition in key markets from providers who If we fail to deliver converged services, either through We seek a sustainable competitive position to protect our have the ability to sell converged services on their existing not being able to access infrastructure or content mobile market share and grow our fixed broadband and infrastructure, with regulation that often fails to deliver at a reasonable price, or through ineffective integration TV activities in markets with increasing convergence.
a level playing field across fixed and content markets.
of acquired fixed assets, this could lead to higher customer churn and or significant downward pressure on prices.
IT transformation failure What is the risk?
As we undertake major IT change programmes A significant implementation and migration failure could We seek successful IT transformation initiatives as in a number of markets, there is a risk that these projects result in a major impact on our customers, revenues, the vehicle for delivering a great customer experience, disrupt services or do not provide the benefits that they costs and reputation.
high-quality reliable systems, improving our time should in a timely manner.
to market and enabling best-in-class digital capabilities.
Unstable economic conditions inadequate liquidity What is the risk?
As a multinational business, we operate in many The potential for another global financial crisis may We take a conservative approach to financial risks which countries and currencies so changes to global economic lead to further economic instability and subsequent reflects our diverse business.
This could be because a global reductions in corporate and consumer spending We carefully manage our liquidity and access crisis results in reduced spending power for customers or an impact on capital markets that could restrict to capital markets to limit our exposure to unstable or because a relative strengthening or weakening of the ourrefinancing requirements.
major currencies in which we transact could impact our profitability and cash flow.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 31 Key to strategic programmes: Network Leadership Customer eXperience eXcellence Fit for Growth People and Culture Executive Committee risk owners: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic Cyber threat and information security Johan Wibergh and Matthew Kirk Stable Operational programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We have a risk based security strategy that is delivered We monitor multiple trends including: Organisations in all sectors are targeted by an increasing by a leading cyber defence team who implement volume and sophistication of cyber attacks.
We have Privileged user access levels customer-focused security controls centrally and continued to: improve our cyber defences: upgrade our in local markets, and we have embarked on a continuous Confirmed security incidents internal controls: and to educate our people, suppliers improvement programme to mitigate the changing and customers on how to protect our customers Critical vulnerabilities threats we face.
information and communications, networks and assets.
Executive Committee risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic Market disruption Serpil Timuray Increased Strategic programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We aim to offer a superior customer experience and This risk has increased due to a growing use of OTT voice Trends in competitor behaviour and new technologies continually improve our offering through a wide set apps, changing competitor business models and new of innovative products and services, including fixed and Level of customers actively using our new products entrants in some of our markets.
In the case of new mobile content, IoT and voice over LTE.
and services competitors, we have responded by changing our approach such as entering into a joint venture in India, We monitor the competitor landscape in all markets, to ensure that we remain in the best possible position and react appropriately: working to make sure each to compete.
market has a fair and competitive environment.
Executive Committee risk owners: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic Adverse political and regulatory measures Nick Read and Matthew Kirk Increased Financial programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We maintain constructive but robust engagement with We monitor: This risk has increased due to the evolution of national tax authorities, relevant government representatives politics, which could have an impact on multinational Public sentiment, changes to laws and regulations, and non-governmental organisations, as well as active companies, the potential for government spectrum number and value of disputes across the Group engagement with a wide range of international auctions to push pricing for 5G beyond reasonable levels, companies and business organisations with similar issues.
Benchmarking of spectrum cost between countries and increasing instability in some of our markets.
We plan our approach to spectrum auctions to ensure we achieve fair access at sustainable prices.
Executive Committee risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic Failure to converge and integrate acquisitions Serpil Timuray Decreased Strategic programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We actively look for opportunities, in all markets, We track various metrics around: This risk has decreased overall due to successful to provide services beyond mobile through organic merger activities, improved access to assets and Achievement of synergies investment, acquisitions, partnerships, or joint ventures.
an increased number of converged customers.
Next Generation Network NGN reach However, we need to continue to focus on ensuring our We carefully manage the integration of acquired mobile and fixed customer bases are fully converged, businesses and joint ventures through the alignment Available assets and that we successfully integrate and manage our of policies, processes and systems to ensure maximum Number of converged accounts acquired assets.
Executive Committee risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic IT transformation failure Johan Wibergh Stable Operational programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We use a standardised programme methodology across We consider trends in: We have launched a new global approach all major IT transformation programmes to ensure to IT transformation programmes.
The process was Customer disruption a high-quality start up process and increase the certainty designed to ensure that lessons learnt from previous of the outcome.
Unplanned spend transformation projects are fed into new projects to encourage consistency and strengthen governance.
We ensure careful testing of all new developments, Return on capital employed particularly customer-facing solutions, prior to go-live.
Executive Committee risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic Unstable economic conditions inadequate liquidity Nick Read Stable Financial programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We maintain access to long and short-term capital We have taken action to increase the average life of our Current credit rating markets through diversified sources of funding.
bond debt and interest rate fixing, thereby respectively Average life and cost of debt reducing our refinancing risk and interest rate risk We forecast with contingencies in our business plans to material inflationary impacts.
to cater for negative operational impacts that could occur Currency and interest rate exposures from a variety of drivers including the impact from lower Monitoring of economic and financial market drivers economic growth than is generally expected.
32 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Risk management continued Technology failure What is the risk?
If our network or IT systems fail, voice, video or data Major incidents caused by suppliers, natural disasters Our customer promise is based on reliable availability transmissions may be significantly interrupted.
We need or an extreme technology failure, although rare, of our network, therefore the recovery of critical mobile, to ensure that our critical assets are protected and our couldresult in the complete loss of a key technology fixed and IT services must be fast and robust.
systems are resilient, so that the impact on our customers site causing severe impact on our customers, revenues is avoided or minimised.
Failure to deliver on digital transformation and CXX What is the risk?
Failure to deliver a digital, differentiated and This risk is relevant to all our markets, in both our The Customer eXperience eXcellence CXX programme superior experience to our customers in store, consumer and Enterprise businesses.
is designed to ensure the customer is always at the heart online and by phone, could diminish our brand and of everything we do.
Failure to deliver on our digital and customer experience reputation.
To do this we need to be agile with strong objectives could result in lack of differentiation leading We have a customer experience framework and facilitate digital capabilities.
to increased customer churn and eventual loss best practice sharing and support to local markets.
Non-compliance with legal and regulatory requirements What is the risk?
Vodafone must comply with a multitude Non-compliance with legislation or regulatory We seek to comply with all applicable laws and of local and international laws as well as more specific requirements could lead to reputational damage, regulations in all of our markets.
These include licence requirements, financial penalties and or suspension of our licence We seek to process personal data honestly, ethically, customer registration, data privacy, anti-money to operate.
withintegrity, and always consistent with applicable laundering, competition law, anti-bribery law and lawsand our values.
Failure to deliver major Enterprise contracts profitably What is the risk?
If we do not understand the needs of our Enterprise Failure to deliver these Enterprise services profitably may We pursue, win and deliver new Enterprise customers and contract on the correct basis to account lead to a reduction in our expected revenue and could business profitably.
for the complexity of requirements, we will not be able impact our credibility to deliver on large, complex deals.
We deliver against the commitments made to the to profitably deliver services.
customer and will manage change throughout.
We deliver the best customer experience at every interaction with Vodafone.
Electro-magnetic fields related health risks What is the risk?
Electro-magnetic signals emitted by mobile devices This is an unlikely risk: however, it would have a major Vodafone does not want to expose anyone to EMF levels and base stations may be found to pose health risks, impact on services used by our customers in all our above those mandated by regulators.
with potential impacts including: changes to national markets particularly in countries that have a very low We comply with national standards, where existing, legislation, a reduction in mobile phone usage tolerance for environmental and health related risks.
and with our own EMF policy, based on international or litigation.
Our vision is to lead within the industry in responding to public concern about mobiles, masts and health.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 33 Key to strategic programmes: Network Leadership Customer eXperience eXcellence Fit for Growth People and Culture Executive Committee risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic Technology failure Johan Wibergh Stable Operational programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report Unique recovery targets are set for critical sites to limit This risk is considered stable as we continue to implement Number of critical sites able to meet the the impact of service outages.
A global policy supports improvements to the resilience capabilities of our critical recovery targets these targets with minimum controls to ensure mobile, fixed and IT sites.
Levels of incidents near misses We monitor the lifespan of critical assets and maintain back up where necessary.
Executive Committee risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic Failure to deliver on digital transformation and CXX Serpil Timuray Increased Operational programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We have central and local CXX teams in place.
This risk has been expanded to include a focus Measurement of NPS Minimum standards and implementation plans for CXX on delivering a differentiated digital experience for have been developed for each local market.
We link our Implementation and monitoring of minimum our customers.
For this reason, the risk is considered senior leaders remuneration to customer appreciation CXX standards increased, despite the continued success of our KPIs.
Benchmarking is underway on digital capabilities CXX programme.
Executive Committee risk owners: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic Non-compliance with legal and regulatory requirements Rosemary Martin and Matthew Kirk Stable Legal and Regulatory programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We have subject matter experts in legal and regulatory With mature compliance programmes in place, this Results of the annual compliance testing programme teams at a local and global level, and a robust policy risk remains stable.
We actively seek to improve compliance framework.
Number of Speak Up cases in each market these programmes and this year will see a focus on ensuring compliance with the EU General Data We train our employees in Doing whats right, Changes to applicable legal and Protection Regulation.
our training and awareness programme which sets our regulatory requirements ethical culture across the organisation and ensures employees understand their role in ensuring compliance.
Executive Committee risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic Failure to deliver major Enterprise contracts profitably Brian Humphries Decreased Operational programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report We manage the commercial and reputational risks We track trends in: Due to the successful implementation of a number through strict new product development, deal of process improvements, this risk has decreased.
NPS governance, customer solution delivery and service We have improved deal governance and now have management processes.
Revenue and major contract profitability stronger in-life contractual management processes.
Order completion rates Cumulative deal risk Executive Committee risk owner: Risk movement: Risk category: Link to strategic Electro-magnetic fields related health risks Matthew Kirk Stable Operational programmes: How do we manage it?
Key risk indicators Changes since last report Our Group EMF Board manages potential risks through We monitor: There are no material changes to the risk.
cross sector initiatives and oversees a global programme Scientific research to respond to public concern.
International standards and guidelines We monitor scientific developments and engage with relevant bodies to support the delivery and transparent Public perception communication of the scientific research agenda set Compliance with EMF policies by the World Health Organization.
34 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Risk management continued Long-Term Viability Statement In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period significantly longer than 12 months from the approval of the financial statements.
The Board has concluded that the most relevant time period for this assessment should be three years to align with the Groups normal business forecasting cycle and the long-range plan to 31 March 2020, as well as taking into consideration the pace of ongoing change in the telecoms industry.
The assessment for this three year period includes consideration of the forecast cash flows and obligations of Vodafone India.
The plans and projections prepared as part of this forecasting cycle include the Groups cash Risk management in action flows, committed and required funding and other key financial ratios.
They were drawn up on the basis that debt refinance will be available in all plausible market conditions and Brexit implications that there will be no material changes to the business structure over the review period.
The Board continues to keep the possible As of 31 March 2017, the Group had sources of liquidity primarily comprised of certain cash implications of Brexit for Vodafones operations under review.
A cross-functional team, led by two and cash equivalent balances and available facilities, of 18.8 billion, which includes undrawn Executive Committee members, has identified Revolving Credit Facilities expiring in FY2020 21. ways in which Brexit might affect the Groups operations.
Despite the Article 50 Notice The Risk Management Framework on page 28 outlines the approach the Board has taken having been served, there remains insufficient to identifying and managing risk.
In making this statement, the Board carried out a robust information about the likely terms of the postassessment of the principal risks facing the Group, detailed on pages 30 to 33, including those Brexit arrangements between the UK and the that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
EU, as well as about any possible transitional arrangements, to draw any conclusions about Against this background, the output of the long-range plan has been used to perform the probable impact.
Although we are a UK central debt profile and cash headroom analysis, including a review of sensitivity to business headquartered company, a large majority of our as usual risks to revenue and profit growth.
In addition, severe but plausible scenarios in the customers are in other countries, accounting for event of each of the principal risks materialising individually and where multiple risks occur most of our revenue and cash flow.
Each of our in parallel, were also tested.
This combined scenario included the impact of failing to execute national operating companies is a standalone key elements of our strategy and respond to market disruption resulting in a significant loss business, incorporated and licensed in the jurisdiction in which it operates, and able to adapt of market share to converged and OTT players.
This was considered together with a major to a wide range of local developments.
As such, cyber-attack and a subsequent General Data Protection Regulation fine, as well as the our ability to provide services to our customers macro political uncertainty resulting in restricted access to capital markets and devaluation in the countries in which we operate, inside or of emerging market currencies.
outside the EU, is very unlikely to be affected by Brexit.
We are not a major international trading To assess viability, the headroom position under these scenarios has been calculated using company, and do not use passporting for any of the cash and facilities available to the Group.
The assessment took into account the availability our major services or processes.
and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to reduce the impact Depending on the arrangements agreed of the identified underlying risks.
The headroom remained positive in all scenarios tested.
between the UK and the EU, two issues that could directly affect our operations, in both cases Having considered the principal risks that the Group may face, the Directors consider that this potentially causing us to incur additional cost, are: stress-testing based assessment of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the circumstances, taking into account the inherent uncertainty involved.
Although this review has considered creation of a data frontier between the UK andthe EU: the inability to move data severe but plausible scenarios relevant to the Group, any such review cannot consider all freely between the UK and EU countries might risks which may occur, therefore an overall view of the total level of risk required to impede cause us to have to move some technical our viability was also considered.
The cash and available facilities at year end, along with the facilities, and affect future network design.
mitigating actions available to reduce cash outgoings, provides a sufficient level of headroom.
inability to access the talent we need to run Based on the results of their analysis, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable a multinational Group operation from the expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they UK: increased controls over or restrictions to our ability to employ leading talent from fall due over the three year period ending 31 March 2020. non-UK markets could cause us to have to adjust our operating model to ensure that we attract and retain the best people for the roles we have.
A further, indirect, issue that could affect our future performance would arise if the Brexit process caused significant revisions to macroeconomic performance in our major European markets including the UK, thus affecting the economic climate in which we operate, and in turn impacting the performance of the operating companies in those markets.
