Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT A strong and robust risk management programme is fundamental to NEXs ability to meet its strategic objectives.
NEXseeks to generate attractive returns through Risk function informed risk-taking and proper consideration of NEX maintains a strong and independent Group Risk boththe upside and potential downside of the risks it function, responsible for providing independent takes and faces.
We also strive to ensure that our risk expertise, challenge, advice and escalation with regard management programme operates within a framework to noteworthy risk issues and developments.
The Chief oftransparency and continuous self-improvement, Risk Officer reports forgovernance purposes to the andthat it effectively responds tochanges in the RiskCommittee and, in order to ensure continuing internal and external environment and what is learned independence, the Chairman of the Risk Committee through experience.
makes recommendations to the Remuneration Committee regarding compensation of the The core nature of our approach to risk management Chief Risk Officer.
The key elements ofthatapproach are below.
Risk culture NEX maintains a strong risk culture, whereby all staff are Board oversight and governance expected to embrace their responsibility to manage risk The Risk Committee of the board has responsibility and properly, and where thefirst line of defence business oversight of our risk management and internal control management isprimarily and ultimately responsible systems.
It provides this oversight through approval of for the identification, analysis and management of the the risk appetite and key policies, collection and review risks in its business.
Essential to the risk management of extensive management information about key and programme is widespread acceptance of a nosurprises emerging risks, risk developments and risk events, and culture, where transparency and promptidentification regular meetings with the Chief Risk Officer and other and escalation of mistakes orproblems are fundamental key executives to discuss, analyse and challenge risk and non-negotiable, andare the foundation for constant developments.
The report from the Chairman of the introspection and continuous self-improvement.
20 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017
