THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION How were mitigating the risks Impact Weve introduced governance to clarify responsibilities for data Failure to implement and maintain effective health and safety activities across our whole business.
People, processes and management could have a huge impact on our people and our technology have been our core areas of focus.
It could lead to people getting injured, work-related governance, were reinforcing our expectations around personal data sickness and service disruption for customers.
with our people, our partners and third parties.
It could also result in our people and third parties making The cornerstone of our education and training programme is making compensation claims against us, and fines or other sanctions being sure our people understand our data governance culture and the issued by regulators.
There could even be criminal prosecutions impact of data risks on our business.
Our mandatory data privacy against us, our directors and our people all of which would harm training focuses on the individuals role, and uses relevant scenarios our brand and business.
to highlight the varying data risks of different BT job families.
By educating our technical and commercial units weve made a step And of course an unhappy or unhealthy workforce also leads to change in understanding data risks across BT Group.
higher work absence rates and lower performance levels.
We want to give our people the tools they need to make everyday Whats changed over the last year?
risk-based decisions around privacy and data protection without The range and complexity of risks has gone up as weve offered it being a burden or making their job more complicated.
If we do new services to our customers.
Those risks include us doing more that, theres a much better chance of data compliance becoming construction and electrical engineering work on our own network, business as usual.
For example, using Privacy Impact Assessments aswell as new contracts requiring us to maintain and extend the when we develop new products and services makes sure everyone UKs mobile network.
Weve taken a lot of steps to mitigate these understands privacy issues from the start and builds in the right risks especially around how our people work with electricity or at controls, without any operational impact.
Supporting the third-line assurance of our Internal Audit team, the The integration of EE has introduced new elements such as high Chief Privacy Officer and his team are a second line of defence.
They street retail and an expansion of existing risks such as operating undertake an annual cycle of audit and monitoring.
Our mitigations against cyber attacks are described in our Security Were continuing to implement a strategy which embeds effective and resilience risk page 52. management of health and safety into all our operations and promotes health and wellbeing to help improve business performance.
Two prosecutions against us for past incidents Health and safety concluded in 2016 resulting in guilty verdicts and fines.
Levels ofsickness absence rose in the first part of the year but this trend Link to strategy reversed in the second half.
Our workforce has also lost less time 1 Deliver great customer experience from injuries as a result of accidents.
2 Transform our costs Trend How were mitigating the risks Link to business model Were implementing the next stage of a Board-endorsed health, Financial capital safety and wellbeing strategy.
As part of this, each year every line Human capital of business produces its own health and safety plan with its own Social capital targets and programmes.
Natural capital Our people managers take responsibility for making sure their teams Our business and in particular our UK engineering workforce does know how to comply with health and safety standards.
We monitor a lot of work where our people could be injured or their health could compliance using annual licensing, scheduled refresher training, be damaged.
Its essential we do all we can to keep our people safe: competency assessments and accreditation processes for higher risk not only is it the law but it also means theyll be better at their jobs.
All our people undertake training in basic health and safety.
Acquiring EE has also raised the exposure of our customers and Wherever we do business around the world, we put in place staff to radio frequency emissions from wireless mobile devices and policies and programmes to make sure we adhere to our own mobile telecoms sites.
Media reports have suggested these emissions standards and that those standards meet or exceed minimum legal may cause health issues, including cancer, and may interfere requirements.
We also work to make sure our products comply with with some electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and safety regulations, including meeting industry standards for radio pacemakers.
Research and studies are ongoing.
According to the frequency emissions.
World Health Organizations Fact Sheet Number 193, last reviewed in October 2014, there are no known adverse effects on health We provide advice to help management teams understand and from emissions at levels below internationally recognised health and control health and safety risks and help everyone feel involved in safety standards.
Even so, we cant provide absolute assurance that health, safety and wellbeing.
Weve created interventions to help research in the future wont establish links between radio frequency promote good mental health and physical wellbeing.
We also provide emissions and health risks.
support and rehabilitation services for people who have mental or physical health issues.
And we complement these measures with strong attendance management processes.
46 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 47 Our principal risks continued Strategic and financial risks It also means transforming our costs.
We take a forensic approach, Growth in a competitive market supported by a team of specialists, to identifying opportunities to better manage our cost base and maximise our ability to invest in Link to strategy 3 customer experience and growth.
However, these opportunities Invest for growth Trend are becoming more challenging to identify and deliver as our cost transformation programme matures.
Link to business model Financial capital If we do all this, well grow our revenue profitably and sustainably.
Intellectual Capital Weve been investing in five key areas: providing differentiated content, services and applications, making our UK network the best Our markets are characterised by: in the country, becoming a fully converged service provider, securing c onstant, rapid change: market leadership in all our UK segments and meeting the needs of str ong, new competition: multinational customers.
Our transformation programmes continue f alling prices and in some markets falling revenues: to drive service and productivity improvement.
We can also seek t echnology changes: changes in regulation to make things fairer.
mark et and product convergence: cust omers moving between providers: and r egulation to promote competition and cut wholesale prices.
Communications industry regulation Link to strategy Potential impact 1 Deliver great customer experience Its important we grow our revenue profitably and sustainably to 2 Transform our costs protect our cash flow.
Failure to do so could limit our ability to invest Trend in the business or pay dividends.
Its also important that we manage Link to business model our cost base to be able to invest in growth opportunities.
Financial capital Manufactured capital Whats changed over the last year?
Weve been executing our strategy by: extending our 4G and fibre broadband coverage: Regulation affects much of what we do.
making good progress on integrating EE and hitting our synergy targets: and In the UK, where Ofcom identifies concerns with the competitiveness investing to improve customer experience and the products of markets, it can set regulatory rules that require us to provide we offer.
certain services on specified terms to our customers.
The rules it imposes are assessed every three years via a series of market reviews Our leading competitors have also been very active.
Important focused on the supply of network access services to wholesale developments included: customers for example, the supply of fixed access lines to support Virgin Media expanding its UK network: the provision of phone or broadband services, or the supply of Sky and Gamma launching new mobile services: business connectivity services.
Ofcom can extend or remove rules as 21st Century Foxs bidding for the share in Sky it didnt a result of its findings in a market review.
Where controls are placed already own: on our prices, these can be tightened or relaxed following a review Sky launching a Now-TV branded triple-play bundle without of the expected costs of future supply.
Ofcom will investigate our a contract: and compliance with any regulatory rules in place and can impose fines TalkTalks continued success at growing its data revenues.
and restitution on us if we dont comply.
The level of competitive risk facing the business has worsened over Ofcom also has powers to regulate the terms on which we get the last 12 months.
Some of our leading telecoms competitors have supplied with certain services by others for instance, mobile taken important steps to grow their revenues.
In addition the threat call termination and wholesale access to certain pay-TV channels.
from new competitors, enabled by disruptive technologies, continues This can increase our costs and affect the scope of services we can to increase.
Leading players, operating in adjacent markets, still view provide to customers.
Ofcom can also sort out disputes between telecoms services as an attractive growth opportunity.
In particular us and other communications providers about the terms on which OTT providers, who already dominate messaging, are services are supplied.
now increasingly turning their attention to voice.
Outside the UK, general licensing requirements can make it tough There are also economic risks that could threaten revenue growth: for us to enter markets and compete.
Regulation will also define the Downside risks to the UK and global economy are bigger than terms on which we can buy wholesale services from others.
Its unclear how much the UK economy will be impacted by the Potential Impact vote to leave the European Union, nor is it clear what trade Certain of our revenues come from supplying wholesale services arrangements will be agreed after the UK leaves.
to markets where Ofcom has found us to have significant market power.
Most of these revenues relate to services where regulatory How were mitigating the risks rules require us to cut average prices each year by a specific, realWe stick to our strategy, which means: term percentage for a three-year period.
broadening and deepening our customer relationships: providing a great customer experience: and Where other telecoms providers ask Ofcom to resolve disputes investing for growth.
with us, theres a risk that Ofcom may set the prices at which we supply services, and or make us provide additional services.
In some circumstances, Ofcom can adjust past prices and make us pay back amounts to wholesale customers.
48 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 49 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Regulation outside the UK can hit our revenue too.
For example, Pensions overly-restrictive licensing requirements or ineffective regulation of access to other networks mean we might not be able to compete Link to strategy fairly.
Regulation can also define and control the terms of access to 2 Transform our costs Trend necessary regulated inputs, which raises our costs.
Link to business model Whats changed over the last year?
Financial capital Theres been a lot of regulatory activity in different areas over the Human capital last year.
Ofcom has started market reviews in relation to wholesale Social capital narrowband access, wholesale local access and wholesale broadband access.
Weve summarised this in the Regulation section on page38.
We have a large funding obligation to our defined benefit DB pension schemes.
The largest of these, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS In March 2017 Ofcom found that Openreach had breached or Scheme, represents over 97% of our pension obligations.
The its contractual and regulatory obligations by inadequately and BTPS faces similar risks to other UK DB schemes: things like future retrospectively applying Deemed Consent between January low investment returns, high inflation, longer life expectancy and 2013 and December 2014: and that Openreach then failed to regulatory changes may all mean the BTPS becomes more of a compensate communications providers fully.
As a result of the financial burden.
findings, Ofcom imposed a fine on BT and Openreach agreed to compensate communications providers outside of BT in full.
See Potential impact page 41 for further information.
The last funding valuation of the BTPS, as at 30 June 2014, provides certainty over scheme funding until the forthcoming Alongside the standard cycle of market reviews, in March 2015 valuation, due to start in June 2017, is concluded.
Ofcom announced an overarching strategic review of the digital communications market.
In March 2017 we reached agreement If theres an increase in the pension deficit at the next valuation date, with Ofcom on the legal separation of Openreach, subject to we may have to increase deficit payments into the Scheme.
Higher consultation by Ofcom and changes to legislation to retain the deficit payments could mean less money available to invest, pay out Crown Guarantee on Openreach employees.
Under this arrangement as dividends or repay debt as it matures, which could in turn affect Openreach will have its own board and make its own investment our share price and credit rating.
decisions, within an overall budget set by BT.
Although we believe that this is a good solution for BT and the UK communications Were considering a number of options for funding the deficit after market, we will face the risks and challenges that come with the next valuation, as at 30 June 2017.
These options include operating an independent business within BT.
considering whether there are alternative approaches to only making cash payments, including arrangements that would give the BTPS a How were mitigating the risks prior claim over certain BT assets.
Our team of regulatory specialists includes economists, accountants and lawyers.
Together with legal experts and external advisers Whats changed over the last year?
they check for potential disputes with other CPs and look for The pension deficit of the BTPS is calculated as the value of the opportunities to change regulatory rules.
They talk regularly with assets less the value of the liabilities.
The deficit at the valuation date regulators and other key influencers to understand their outlook will influence the deficit payments we agree.
and to make our position clear.
Their insight also helps us to forecast future regulatory outcomes.
We can then build sensible expectations A number of things affect the liabilities, including expected future into our financial plans and investment decisions.
investment returns at the valuation date.
When considering expected future returns, we review different factors including yields We push for fair, proportionate, consistent and evidenced-based or returns on government bonds, which have fallen in the year and regulation everywhere we do business.
Whenever there are market have dropped significantly since 30 June 2014.
If a lower future reviews, charge controls and disputes or investigations we put investment return is assumed at the next valuation our liabilities forward evidence and analysis.
This helps us manage the risks would likely go up.
around decisions in any particular year.
Asset returns have been positive over the year with strong returns We can appeal any regulatory decisions we think are wrong, from equities and government bonds.
albeit the basis upon which these appeals are judged in the UK has changed under the Digital Economy Act.
We can also raise How were mitigating the risks disputes or complain under the relevant regulatory framework The investment performance and liability experience are regularly or competition law where we have problems getting access to reviewed by both us and the Trustee of the BTPS.
We also consider wholesale services such as wholesale pay-TV channels or to the associated risks and possible mitigations.
The investment other access networks.
strategy aims to mitigate the impact of increases in the liabilities, for example by investing in assets that will increase in value if future Were also working hard to deliver a great customer experience, inflation expectations rise.
The assets held are also well diversified, going beyond our minimum regulatory obligations.
softening the impact of sharp drops in the value of individual asset classes.
This helps us maintain a reasonable balance of risk and return.
Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of protection against the impact of changes in the funding position of the BTPS.
The funding liabilities also include a buffer against future negative experience, as legislation requires that we calculate liabilities on a prudent basis.
48 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 49 Our principal risks continued Strategic and financial risks continued Whats changed over the last year?
Political risk The most significant development was the referendum on 23 June 2016 by which the UK voted to leave the EU.
That was Link to strategy 1 immediately followed by political change, a fall in sterling, UK bond Deliver great customer experience 2 credit rating downgrades and uncertainty for business and foreign Invest for growth Trend direct investment.
On 29 March 2017, Article 50 was triggered initiating a two-year period of negotiation for the UK to leave the Link to business model EU.
In the same month, Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon Financial capital confirmed she would seek the approval of the Scottish Parliament Human capital to open discussions with the UK Government on legislating for a Social capital second Scottish independence referendum.
UK Prime Minister Theresa May has said that permission would not be forthcoming during Brexit Across our operations we are exposed to the effects of political and negotiations, potentially opening the possibility of a referendum in geopolitical risks, in particular: 2019 or 2020.
Further change may also now follow as a result of the In the UK, internet access is increasingly seen as an essential General Election called for 8 June 2017.
From a telecoms perspective, part of peoples lives.
As a result, the level of political debate and this has been played out against the backdrop of the progression of focus on issues such as quality and speed of service has increased.
the Digital Economy Act and in particular debate around Ofcoms As well as providing a critical element of the UKs national Digital Communications Review see page 39, and of dialogue on the infrastructure, we are also engaged in supporting high profile European Electronic Communications Code revisions.
programmes such as BDUK and the Emergency Services Network.
The result of the UK referendum to leave the European Union How were mitigating the risks Brexit has significantly increased political uncertainty.
This has We maintain strong engagement with the UK Government, key been exacerbated by the possibility of further political change departments such as DCMS and BDUK, MPs, peers, the media and across the United Kingdom, most notably a second referendum with consumer bodies: and with Governments and politicians in that may be held on Scottish independence.
Brussels and in our key markets around the world.
We seek to inform Outside the UK, political and geopolitical risk can impact our public debate around telecommunications through fact-based business through changes in the regulatory and competitive evidence concerning the market and BTs role within it.
landscape, but also as a direct threat to our people and assets as a result of social unrest or a break down in the rule of law.
As explained in the case study on page 51, we have set up a programme across the business to help us understand and manage Potential impact the risks associated with Brexit.
This will also consider other Political uncertainty can have direct financial consequences across potential impacts such as those associated with a second Scottish the economy, impacting for example foreign exchange rates, the Independence referendum, and is led by a steering group chaired availability and cost of capital, interest rates and also resulting in by the group finance director.
Weve also offered our views to changes in the tax regime.
For BT specifically, the most significant Government and business groups on related policy areas, including impact of political risk is its potential interaction with some of our responding to Parliamentary inquiries.
In the UK, we are seeing an increasing overlap between political debate and the regulatory environment, with the Outside the UK, our Public Affairs and regulatory teams work to potential that our Communications Industry Regulation risk increases help support governments and regulators in ensuring that markets as a result.
work in an open and fair way for the benefit of customers and competition.
Geopolitical risks are tracked by a committee, with The impacts of Brexit are still uncertain while the UKs future our security and business continuity teams particularly focused on relationship with the EU is determined.
However, there is the protecting our people and our assets.
potential for our costs to increase for example through any changes required to our systems to reflect new taxes or customs duties : Financial risk regulatory risk to increase as a result of any future divergence with the EU regime, including on data flows: supplier disruption to occur Link to strategy as a result of challenges in suppliers own organisations and supply 1 Transform our costs chains: and for delivery of a great customer experience to become 2 Invest for growth Trend more challenging if it becomes harder for us to recruit and retain talent.
Link to business model Financial capital Geopolitical risk outside the UK can most clearly impact our Social capital Communications Industry Regulation risk, but also our Security and Resilience risks where it poses a threat to the continuity of our operations.
In common with other major international businesses, we are exposed to a variety of financial risks.
These include treasury risks, which arise principally from market risk including interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk.
They also include tax risk, principally that we need to understand fully the current and future tax consequences of business decisions to comply with tax rules and avoid financial and reputational damage.
50 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 51 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Potential impact If there is an adverse movement in foreign exchange and interest rates there could be a negative impact on the groups profitability, cash flow, and balance sheet.
Sensitivity in the income statement and shareholders equity arising from interest rate and foreign exchange volatility is shown in note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The failure of Treasury counterparties to honour financial obligations could have an adverse impact on the groups liquidity for example from the loss of cash deposits and profitability for example from increased finance expenses.
A deterioration in liquidity could have an adverse impact on the Boards assessment of going concern, particularly if combined with an inability to refinance maturing debt.
Brexit If we fail to comply with tax rules then we could face financial penalties and reputational damage.
Beyond compliance, if we Once the Government decided to hold a dont adequately reflect the current and future tax consequences referendum on the UKs membership of the in our business decisions, we might make bad decisions resulting in financial loss and potentially financial misstatements, as well as European Union, we realised this would create reputational damage.
The risk of this Whats changed over the last year?
increased after Britain voted to leave the EU.
Following the UK referendum to leave the European Union, we saw increased volatility in foreign exchange rates.
However, we continue How we managed the risk to face the same treasury risks as in financial year 2015 16.
We decided early on that we needed to understand what risks and opportunities Brexit might create for us, so ahead of the From a taxation perspective, BTs business continues to evolve vote we set up a programme bringing together functions rapidly, creating different tax consequences, for example the across the business.
acquisition of EE and the DCR.
Global tax rules also continue to evolve, for example the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting The results of this work were reported to the Operating project and the prospect of US tax reform, changing the current and Committee.
We then ramped up the activity after the vote, future tax consequences of business decisions.
forming a steering group chaired by the group finance director.
This continues to meet on a regular basis, overseeing work that How were mitigating the risks is being done by our various sub-projects.
These are looking We have a centralised treasury function whose primary role is to at areas such as the tax, people, procurement, systems and manage liquidity and funding requirements as well as our exposure commercial impacts of Brexit.
Weve also offered our views to to associated financial and market risks, including credit risk, interest Government on related policy areas, including responding to rate risk and foreign exchange risk in-line with Board approved Parliamentary inquiries.
These risk management policies are described in detail in note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Board reviews The result, and what we learnt liquidity and funding requirements of the group on an ongoing basis.
We had trialled similar approaches during previous events such as the Eurozone crisis and the Scottish independence A strong governance framework is also at the heart of our mitigation referendum.
Weve a framework for managing taxes that is set centrally and agreed by the Board.
We employ specialist teams This experience helped us make sure that senior leaders across BT to manage and assure the operation of this framework.
We pay tax understand how geopolitical events such as Brexit can impact us.
in accordance with the laws of the countries where we do business.
Weve also been able to explain to Government what we believe However, in some areas these laws arent clear, and it can take many their priorities should be for our sector when negotiating with years to agree an outcome with a tax authority or through litigation.
Nevertheless, we always seek to deal with tax authorities in an open and constructive manner, engaging specialist external advice where More broadly, weve recognised that we need to work together as required.
a business to manage such risks.
And we also appreciate that our customers can take confidence from us developing plans to get through uncertain times.
50 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 51 Our principal risks continued Operational risks How were mitigating the risks Security and resilience Were investing in improvements across the full range of technology, processes and people for both security and continuity risks.
Link to strategy 1 Deliver great customer experience Trend Our cyber defence programme is focused on segmenting our IT estate to enhance access control and limit the spread of attacks.
Link to business model Weve improved our strategic defences against Denial of Service Financial capital DoS attacks in order to limit the disruption from high volumes Intellectual capital of malicious traffic and from slower, more sophisticated attacks Manufactured capital that mimic legitimate data flow.
Weve deployed more scanning, monitoring and logging tools to identify intrusions and to detect The security and continuity of our services are critical factors in anomalous data traffic as early as possible.
Weve also invested in our commercial success.
Our networks and systems are constantly the development of cyber security skills that are deployed around exposed to many different threats, and our customers expect the the clock to apply threat intelligence to our defences and manage highest standards of protection and recovery planning to minimise live incidents.
any impact on our services.
Weve completely revised the frequency and scope of our Cyber-attacks on our own IT systems and those of our customers vulnerability testing using a risk-based approach to setting priorities, are becoming more frequent and sophisticated, and were and weve increased resources for proactive penetration testing investing heavily to keep pace with this growing threat to steal and ethical hacking.
Were adopting a more rigorous approach to data or equipment or damage our infrastructure.
However, service auditing our suppliers security and are increasingly asking suppliers interruption can result from many other sources.
These include to substantiate their responses with evidence of compliance with our physical threats like fire, explosion, flooding, overheating, extreme security policies and contract terms.
cold or power failure: logical threats such as equipment failure or problems encountered with software upgrades or major changes: Our flood preparedness programme has seen us double the size of our or disruptions in our supply chain.
Emergency Response Team and their associated capabilities.
Weve enhanced our extreme weather monitoring processes and our ability Potential impact to map warnings to specific assets.
This, together with the production In the event that our protective measures fail to prevent or contain a of specific flood defence plans for our critical sites, allows us to major security or continuity incident we might incur major financial respond more rapidly and appropriately to fast-changing weatherloss, long-term damage to reputation and loss of market share.
Weve also enhanced our ability to provide emergency Regulatory sanctions, fines and contract penalties might be applied, communications support to local communities should these become contracts might be terminated, and costly concessions might be isolated following storm damage.
We continue to invest in resilience needed, together with unplanned and rapid improvements to retain and recovery capabilities in response to a range of threats.
We might also miss opportunities to grow revenue and launch new services ahead of the competition.
Major contracts Whats changed over the last year?
Link to strategy The acquisition of EE has substantially changed our security risk, 1 Deliver great customer experience adding large volumes of bank account and credit card data which 2 Transform our costs are attractive to hackers.
The rapidly escalating cyber threat is 3 Invest for growth Trend recognised as a major risk faced by organisations across the world, and were clearly seen as a legitimate target for cyber-incidents.
Link to business model Were also exposed to collateral damage from attacks on our Financial capital suppliers and customers by highly motivated and well-resourced nation state actors and criminal gangs.
We responded to several potentially serious cyber-attacks during the year, and attempts to We have a number of complex and high-value national and compromise our systems using known hacking tools have repeatedly multinational customer contracts.
The revenue and profitability failed.
Weve made real progress on improving risk controls, but of these contracts are affected by things like: variation in cost: more needs to be done to make sure we can keep up with the achieving cost savings anticipated in contract pricing both in terms growing threat.
The two major data breaches announced by Yahoo of scale and time : delays in achieving agreed milestones owing in September and December 2016 both included BT mail account to factors either in or out of our control: changes in customers records dating from 2013 and 2014.
Some of these accounts needs, their budgets, strategies or businesses: and our suppliers are still vulnerable because their owners have never changed their performance.
Any of these factors could make a contract less passwords.
The customers affected were quickly advised to reset profitable or even loss-making.
their passwords, and forced resetting of passwords will be applied where necessary.
The degree of risk varies with the scope and life of the contract and is typically higher in the early stages.
Some customer contracts need Following the impacts of the winter storms of 2016 17, and the investment in the early stages, which we then expect to recover over publication of the UK National Flood Resilience Review, its clear that the life of the contract.
the risk of extreme weather events is increasing.
In response, our flood preparedness programme has seen major enhancements in our defence and response capabilities.
52 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 53 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Major contracts often involve implementing new systems and How were mitigating the risks communications networks, transforming legacy networks and At both group and line of business-level we have governance, developing new technologies.
Delays or missed milestones might risk management and reporting processes in place.
Independent have an impact on us recovering these upfront costs.
Theres a audits and the checks and balances in individual contracts provide substantial performance risk in some of these highly-complex assurance through an independent review programme.
progress, we monitor how were doing on these risks and mitigation actions, and report the result to senior management.
A separate, Potential impact dedicated team provides assurance for our BDUK and ESN projects.
If we dont manage to meet our commitments under these contracts or if customers needs, budgets, strategies or businesses change The BT Academy helps support skills development and learning then our expected future revenue, profitability and cash generation initiatives.
These help our Contract Management Profession to better may go down.
Unexpectedly high costs associated with fulfilling identify and manage risk.
We also update new training collateral particular transformational contracts could also hit profitability.
whenever we learn something new.
The scope and availability of Earnings may drop.
Contracts may even become loss-making training options continues to improve through BT-wide learning and through loss of revenue, changes to customers businesses due development initiatives.
to, for example, mergers or acquisitions, business failure or contract termination.
In fact weve invested in risk training, and assess the management of our contracts against a best practice framework weve developed One of our largest and highest risk contracts is the delivery of a key based on our knowledge of running and managing major element of the UK Emergency Services Network ESN on our EE programmes.
The complexities described above all apply to this programme.
So far delivery has gone well, but there are still plenty of challenging parts of the programme to be delivered including aspects of the contract that are not in our control.
Were still delivering contracts with local authorities through regional fibre deployment programmes, including the Broadband Delivery UK programme BDUK.
As with our other major contracts, if we fail to deliver these contracts successfully it might lead to reduced future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
As well as carrying a higher reputational risk, these contracts present specific risks around deployment, delivery and our ability to recover public funding.
We also have an obligation to potentially either reinvest or repay grant funding depending on lots of different factors including how many customers take up a new service.
Contract management and automation Whats changed over the last year?
Our ability to successfully manage Weve acquired EE and with it the Emergency Services Network major contracts is critical to maintaining ESN programme, which is a high-profile contract delivered with several partners and managed by the Home Office.
To date weve performance and providing a great customer delivered on our commitments but its still a high-risk programme experience.
and is being managed as such.
How we managed the risk Tough market conditions continue and the impact of the UK voting How we handle both contractual obligations and risk is key to to leave the EU has meant some customer programmes have been success.
To help our management community weve introduced delayed, which has had an impact on the business.
Customers are a contract lifecycle management system.
This will centralise the requiring more flexibility in their contracts.
storage, access and retention of all contract documents.
The majority of our first phase of BDUK contracts have now The result, and what we learnt completed deployment, with the remainder closing in 2017 18.
Our contract lifecycle management system promises many Were now mid-delivery of the second phase of contracts SEP. benefits.
Once its rolled out across the business, itll help us Whilst these contracts are smaller in scale and coverage, the understand our contractual obligations and make sure every deployment challenges are significantly greater in terms of the contract has a dedicated owner.
Itll also help with allocating geography encountered as we reach further into the final 5%.
work and by providing an online risk register, make sure risks are understood and agreed across the business.
Finally, it should While our broadband contracts and ESN carry a different risk profile make it simpler to develop our expertise as we adopt a single to other major corporate contracts, we apply our governance and way of working across contract management.
reporting processes to make sure we identify risks and mitigation activities and report them to management.
52 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 53 Our principal risks continued Operational risks continued We make sure we exercise the right due diligence when it comes Supply chain to introducing new suppliers and continuing to do business with existing ones.
That includes checks on company finances, business Link to strategy systems, accreditations, media reputation and ethical practices.
1 Deliver great customer experience 2 Trend Transform our costs We manage our top suppliers according to the contracts theyve signed.
We work with them to find better ways of working, reducing Link to business model our exposure to risks around poor supplier practices in the process.
Financial capital Social capital The increasing focus on human rights, following legislation like the Natural capital Modern Slavery Act 2015, means that we must keep examining the potential risk of both modern slavery and human trafficking in our We operate in a global supply market, with a variety of supply chains supply chain.
ranging from simple to very complex.
Guaranteeing their integrity and continuity is critical to our operations.
We must also ensure that our products are free of components that could be sourced from areas of armed conflict, or sourced using Global markets expose us to global risks, including different methods that are unsustainable or ethically questionable.
standards in labour, environmental and climate change practices.
We weigh up the impact and likelihood of external market forces on our Employee engagement suppliers ability to support us.
A global supply market means better sourcing opportunities, but brings challenges if suppliers become Link to strategy more geographically and culturally remote from our customers or 1 Deliver great customer experience Trend if governments put barriers in the way of doing business to protect national economic interests.
Link to business model Human capital Our dealings with suppliers from the way we choose them, to the contracts we sign and how we pay them follow our trading and ethical policies.
For more detail, see Our suppliers on page 37.
Our people are a vital part of our ambition to deliver a positive customer experience and sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
Impact Our people strategy supports this ambition by creating an If something goes wrong in our supply chain, the speed and scale environment where people can thrive as part of a dynamic business.
We need to determine the potential damage to Great employee engagement is necessary to ensure we meet our customer experience, the likelihood of higher costs and the potential strategic aims.
If losing an important supplier meant that we had to change technologies, it could cost us a lot of money.
If Potential impact we couldnt find an alternative supplier, it might compromise the If we fail to recruit, retain and engage our workforce it could impact commitments we make to our customers, which could in turn lead to our ability to deliver a great customer experience and continue to breach of contract, lost revenue or penalties.
Furthermore, a failure to develop and retain talent could result in a greater need for external recruitment, which If any link in our supply chain falls foul of the law, or fails to meet our would add cost to the business.
Poor engagement also raises the risk ethical expectations, that could damage our reputation possibly of general industrial unrest and action.
leading to legal action and lost revenue.
Whats changed over the last year?
Following the acquisition of EE were working to bring these two We dedicate time to assessing emerging geo-political threats and businesses together into a truly integrated company.
Weve identified the impact they could have on our supply chain.
These include the examples of best practice from both organisations that will act as impacts of the UK leaving the EU: economic problems in countries building blocks for our better than both ambition.
Weve launched like Venezuela: increasing regulation over the privacy of personal a new set of values to reflect this.
Weve launched a new employee data: and the growing threat of cyber-attacks on networked survey and approach which make it easier for managers and their ICT systems.
teams to see the key things they need to do to improve levels of engagement and better serve our customers.
We note the continuing trend of mergers and acquisitions in some of the global markets in which we source products and services.
How were mitigating the risks It highlights the risk of us becoming too dependent on single As we explain in the Our people section on page 26, we provide or monopolistic suppliers particularly those less constrained comprehensive support and training to help our people deliver to by regulation and who might charge us more than their the best of their ability.
We regularly review our pay and benefits to domestic customers.
make sure our remuneration is competitive when compared to other companies of a similar size and complexity.
We seek a positive and How were mitigating the risks enduring relationship with our people and their representatives.
We We have a few really critical suppliers.
We keep a close watch on have a very comprehensive global engagement strategy in pursuit of their performance and ability to meet their obligations.
This involves both our employees and their representatives business when to prepare for the risk of a supplier failing, and our Unions, Works Councils and Employee Fora.
We also have a senior leaders continually review how ready we are for such events.
54 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 55 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our viability statement Assessment of prospects Viability statement An understanding of the groups strategy and business model is central In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK to assessing its prospects, and details can be found on pages 16 Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the prospects and22.
and viability of the group.
Our business model provides resilience that is relevant to any Although the directors have no reason to believe that the group will consideration of our prospects and viability.
In the UK, we benefit from not be viable over a longer period, the Board has chosen to conduct diversification across a number of markets and products, which has this review for a period of three years to 31 March 2020.
The Board increased as we moved into quad play through the launch of believes this is an appropriate timeframe as it aligns with the groups BT Sport and the acquisition of EE.
We also have a broad spread financial planning processes.
In addition, a number of our principal of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and risks share a natural three-yearly cycle: for example the BTPS funding market sectors, serving the needs of customers in more than 180 valuation and Ofcoms market review cycle.
In support of this statement we have stress tested our forecast cash Our strategy of delivering great customer experience, transforming flows by assessing, through a probabilistic analysis, the range of our cost base and investing for growth is designed to support potential combined impacts our most significant risks could have on long-term and sustainable cash flow growth.
This assessment was informed by our judgements as to the potential financial impact of these risks if they materialise, We assess our prospects on a regular basis through our financial together with their likelihood of occurrence.
Our three year Medium Term Plan forecasts the groups profitability, cash flows and funding requirements, Our stress testing confirmed that existing projected cash flows and and is reviewed by the Board during the year.
The Medium Term cash management activities provide us with a buffer against the Plan is built from the bottom up forecasts of each of our Lines of impact of our most likely risks.
In the most extreme scenarios we Business, supplemented by items managed at a group level and tested, where all of our principal risks are assumed to materialise assumptions such as macro-economic activity and exchange rates.
over the three-year period, we have considered the further actions The performance of the group and our Lines of Business against these we could take to mitigate the negative cash flow impact and ensure forecasts is monitored monthly and this is supplemented each quarter additional liquidity.
These actions could include, for example, sale through a series of deep-dive Business Unit Reviews performed by the of assets, limiting or delaying discretionary capital expenditure and Operating Committee.
marketing activities, restricting share buyback programmes and reducing or ceasing dividend payments.
Beyond our core three-year planning horizon, the group also makes investments that have business cases covering a longer time period, In our viability assessment we have adopted a number of assumptions such as our network investments.
Significant capital expenditure designed to stress test our resilience.
For example, in making our investment cases are approved by the Design Council, a pan-BT assessments of the impact and likelihood of our risks, we have only investment board and, where appropriate, the Operating Committee taken into account the control activities that we have in place today.
and the Board after taking into account longer-term risks and We have not factored in any of the extensive future mitigation activity opportunities such as the economy, technology and regulation.
that we are undertaking to address these risks, thereby assuming such activity proves ineffective.
Whilst we do not expect this to happen, we Finally, our business and financial planning also takes into account our have adopted these pessimistic assumptions to add greater stress to longer-term obligations, including the funding of our defined benefit our viability testing.
We have also assumed that, should the need arise, we would have both the ability to renew existing debt facilities which mature over the three-year period and be able to raise new debt.
Based on the results of this analysis, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
54 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 55 Lines of business Consumer Were the largest provider of consumer fixed-line voice and broadband services in the UK.
Were also the second-largest pay-TV sports broadcaster in the UK and a leading innovator in .
Consumer and Plusnet our award-winning second brand connect Markets and customers our customers to information, entertainment, friends and family, Our broadband copper and fibre products are both at home and on the move.
available to over 99% of UK premises, and our We buy access to fixed-line and broadband infrastructure from home phone and mobile services are available to Openreach, and we use EEs mobile network to provide mobile phone services.
Everyone who has a BT internet connection with a sufficient broadband speed can sign up Consumer, Plusnet and EE all provide home phone, broadband, TV and mobile services.
The UK consumer telecoms market is highly competitive.
In Consumer brands December 2016, Ofcom found that UK prices for telecoms and TV services compared well to international benchmarks.
In 2016 the UK ranked second among six comparator countries France, Germany, Italy, Spain, UK and the US for a combination of standalone, bundled and lowest-available prices.
Within the UK market, our three consumer brands mean were well placed See page 62 to compete with the likes of Sky, Virgin Media, Talk Talk and Vodafone.
Home phone Home phone Home phone BT retail market share Broadband Broadband Broadband % BT TV YouView TV on EE TV 40 Plusnet 30 BT Sport BT Sport BT Sport app 20 Mobile Mobile Mobile 10 Our Consumer line of business offers products and services from both BT and Plusnet.
Subscriber numbers and market share data for home phone, retail broadband and pay-TV are reported at group level and 0 a b c can be found in this section.
Figures for mobile also reported at Home phone Retail broadband Pay-TV group level can be found in the EE section on page 62.
Consumer sells a range of devices including telephones, baby Home phone monitors and wi-fi extenders via high street retailers, the online According to Ofcom, the number of home phone lines in the UK is BT Shop and on our website, BT.
We work closely with our 26.4m.
The number of minutes of residential fixed line calls made in suppliers to make our products and business operations as sustainable 2016 fell by 12.8% year on year to 43.5bn, as people increasingly as possible, from the first link in the supply chain through to the prefer to use mobile phones, voice over IP or instant messaging end customer.
We also sell services to commercial premises, such as pubs and Broadband hotels, so they can access BT Sport or BT Wi-fi.
There were 25.3m fixed broadband residential and SME connections in 2016, an increase of 2.2% from the previous year.
We employ over 11,000 full-time equivalent employees.
Of these, 46% were fibre broadband connections.
Around10,000 of these directly help our customers through ourcontact centres.
TV and content There are approximately 18m pay-TV subscriptions in the UK.
a Home phone includes Consumer and EE analogue and ISDN channels WLR, including customers in Northern Ireland and Plusnet.
b Retail broadband Consumer including Plusnet and Northern Ireland, EE, B&Ps, and broadband lines sold by Global Services.
c TV refers to the total number of customers either with a BT Vision, YouView or EE TV box registered and enabled to receive video on demand including YouView from Plusnet.
