Our principal risks continued Compliance risks continued Our sanctions policy helps us keep track of trade sanctions and export Processing our customers data controls that apply to us.
That means all bids involving a country with sanctions imposed by the EU and or the US need approval.
The policy Link to strategy also mandates everyone in BT must use our internal shipping system to 1 Deliver great customer experience Trend arrange international exports, as it runs compliance checks and flags any orders which need an export licence.
Link to business model Financial capital Social capital BT Italy our response In response to the inappropriate behaviours we identified in our Italian business, we suspended a number of BT Italys senior We control and process huge quantities of customer data around management team who have now left the business.
The president the world, so observing data privacy laws is something we take of our European operations has also left the business.
Its essential that individuals and businesses appointed a new president of our European operations and a can trust us to do the right thing with their data.
new CEO and CFO of BT Italy, from outside the Italian executive management team.
Firstly, we must make sure our customers data is secure, and protected against both internal and external threats eg cyber attacks.
We appointed KPMG, with support and oversight from our Legal, Being trusted with our customers data goes further than that though.
Governance and Compliance function and Freshfields Bruckhaus It means preserving the integrity of the personal data we process, Deringer, reporting directly to both the chair of the Audit & Risk and only keeping the things we need to provide customers with the Committee and BT Group chairman, to perform an independent services theyve signed up for.
It also means being transparent around investigation of the systems and controls relating to our Italian how we use that data, making sure the way we process personal data business.
We also conducted a broader review of financial processes, is legal, fair and in line with customers rights and wishes.
systems and controls across the group.
We are acting on both the recommendations of KPMG and our own observations and have As a communications provider we operate under a stringent taken steps to improve our controls within Italy.
We have also taken 24-hour reporting regime to tell the UK Information Commissioners steps to enhance our wider controls that monitor our overseas Office ICO if we become aware of a personal data security breach.
operations in our shared service centres, Global Services and at a We must also tell any affected individuals as quickly as possible.
Different parts of the world approach privacy and data protection As a result of our US listing we are required to make certain differently.
An individuals fundamental right to privacy is reflected assessments of our controls as of 31 March 2017 for the purposes in the fact that data privacy laws are in force in over 100 countries.
Despite the remediation steps we took, the More and more we and other multinationals have to show that controls had not operated for sufficient time to allow assurance were handling personal data in line with a complex web of national testing to confirm their effectiveness under Sarbanes-Oxley.
We data laws and societys ethical expectations.
have therefore concluded for these purposes that our controls were ineffective as of 31 March 2017 due to a material weakness with Impact regards to our Italian business.
Failing to stick to data protection and privacy laws could result in regulatory enforcement action, fines, class-action, prison sentences Beyond Italy, we have completed detailed balance sheet reviews and the regulator telling us to stop processing data.
in seven selected country operations in Global Services outside of the UK.
These thorough reviews were supported by EY, and did not On top of that, we could see huge reputational damage and big identify any similar issues or areas of concern elsewhere giving us financial losses.
Those losses could come from fines and damages if comfort that the inappropriate behaviours were isolated to Italy.
we fail to meet our legal requirements, as well as costs resulting from having to close customer contracts and the subsequent customer While we have taken steps to improve our control environment, churn.
Companies whove had high profile data incidents have seen we recognise we have more to do.
Further activities will include their share price hit hard, and suffered ongoing costs from their increasing the resources and improving the capabilities of the non-compliance.
controlling function and the audit function outside the UK, and further developing our integrated risk and assurance reporting Whats changed over the last year?
We are also enhancing our controls and compliance National regulators are more aggressively protecting their citizens programme to strengthen awareness of the standards we expect, privacy and data protection rights.
Theyre especially targeting the capabilities of our people, and to reinforce the importance of companies that fail to do due diligence, or who knowingly accept or doing business in an ethical, disciplined and standardised way.
ignore a related risk for too long.
This has been brought into sharp focus by the growth of data threats, with several big organisations The new CEO and CFO of BT Italy will continue to review the Italian suffering incidents.
management and finance teams and work with BT Group Ethics and Compliance to improve the governance, compliance and financial Theres been a general trend toward bigger financial penalties and safeguards.
Going forward, we will also continue to rotate senior more frequent public shamings for organisations who break global management among countries to ensure an independently governed privacy and data protection laws.
and rigorously controlled organisation throughout all parts of Global Services.
46 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 47
