Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions PRINCIPAL RISKS The principal risks to our business model and strategic objectives are regularly identified and reviewed.
These are not the only risks NEX faces, but they are those considered to be the more significant ones flowing from the business model.
Below is a description of what we view to be NEXs principal risks along with a discussion of the nature of the risk, the NEX businesses affected by the risk, the relevant risk appetite, and whether the risk level is increasing or decreasing.
We also describe some of the controls in place to mitigate the identified risk.
While no control can guarantee that a risk event will never occur, these are controls that we believe contribute toawell-designed framework around risk management and mitigation.
Risk Nature of risk and appetite Trend Mitigating controls Liquidity risk The risk that NEX will have This risk occurs within the BrokerTec US matched This risk has increased The Group seeks to mitigate insufficient funds to meet principal business, where it serves as a fully matched somewhat over the past year, andcontrol this risk through its obligations under counterparty to offsetting positions entered into by as both the clearing house thefollowing: ordinary and reasonably clients of its electronic trading platform to facilitate and the Groups clearing banks periodic reviews, including stressed conditions.
anonymity and access to clearing and settlement.
have increased their margin going concern assessments: In the course of utilising a central clearing house as requirements industry wide in membership of the clearing well as a third party clearing bank for the settlement response to more aggressive house netting group: of transactions, BrokerTec will be required to post stress scenarios.
$200 million swingline facility collateral as well as twice-daily short-term margin maintained centrally for based on the size of executed but unsettled sameand next day utilisation: transactions.
Without sufficient funds to meet its contingency funding obligations, BrokerTec could be exposed to breach of arrangements and contract claims, a reluctance of clients to continue proceduresin place: and using the platform, and an inability to continue as daily monitoring and a member of the central clearing house.
The boards escalation to executive risk appetite provides for NEX to maintain access management and Group Risk to sufficient funding to meet itsobligations during of funding requirements.
ordinary and reasonably stressed market conditions.
Counterparty credit risk The risk of loss from the This risk occurs within the BrokerTec US matched This risk has decreased The Group seeks to mitigate failure of a matched principal business, where it serves as a fully matched somewhat over the past year as andcontrol this risk through principal counterparty to counterparty to offsetting positions entered into by NEX has increased its collection thefollowing: settle itstrades.
clients of its electronic trading platform to facilitate of collateral from clients and membership of the anonymity and access to clearing and settlement.
lowered the available trading clearinghouse netting group: Transactions with clearing house members are limits for certain clients.
establishment and typically confirmed and novated shortly after Moreover, with the sale of the administration of boardexecution, at which point the clearing house voice broking business, the approved credit limit matrix: assumes therisk of settlement.
For transactions instruments that are the subject regular review of client with counterparties that are not members of the of settlement risk are exclusively financial position and clearing house, however, settlement typically high-quality sovereign tradingactivity: occurs on the day following execution and, prior to instruments and not the broader collection of client credit settlement, BrokerTec is exposed to the risk ofloss range of instruments in which enhancement e. g. collateral, in the event a counterparty fails to meet its the broking business used letters of credit : and obligations.
If that were to occur, BrokerTec would to transact.
system-administered blocks have the right tocover or liquidate the open position, on transactions in excess of but couldincur a loss in doing so.
The boards risk notional limits.
appetite provides for the establishment and administration of counterparty credit limits and other risk management tools reasonably designed to avoid any significant credit loss.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 21 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk Nature of risk and appetite Trend Mitigating controls Legal and regulatory risk The risk of breaching This risk generally applies to all of NEXs This risk has decreased in certain The Group seeks to mitigate regulatory requirements, businesses, though in different ways.
BrokerTec, ways and increased in others.
andcontrol this risk through general laws and or TriOptima, NEX SEF previously called EBS Global Withthe sale of the voice broking thefollowing: contractual commitments.
Facility and NEX Exchange operate regulated business, the Group believes that its NEX has internal legal and introducing ortrading platforms, and the Abide regulatory risk, while still important compliance departments Financial regulatory reporting service is an for certain of its businesses, has which act as independent approved reporting entity.
These businesses are decreased on an overall basis as advisory and investigation subject to extensive regulation, including compared with ICAP.
The Group functions to enable and adherence to specific rules and standards, now has significantly fewer regulated defend the Groups regulatory exams and inquiries, monitoring and entities, engages insignificantly strategicaims: surveillance, and creation and maintenance of fewer regulated activities, and has the Group seeks to utilise required records.
All of NEXs businesses utilise substantially fewer staff engaging standard contracts for its to a significant degree client contracts that in regulated activities.
The risk of baseline services that have set forth mutual obligations to be adhered to in breaching contractual commitments, been reviewed by both the the course oftheprovision of products and however, has increased, not because legal department and services.
Abreach of those obligations by NEX of agreater likelihood ofbreaches, commercial management could result in damages, as well as harm to its but because the consequences of a to properly allocate risks: reputation and loss of clients.
In addition to the breach have become greater as the advice is taken regularly risks associated with NEXs existing businesses, business increasingly gives rise to fromappropriately qualified it may also be exposed to legacy risks from the assisting its clients with completion external advisors and voice broking business sold to TP ICAP pursuant of their regulatory obligations.
professionals: to indemnities and warranties agreed to as part documented policies and of the sale.
The boards riskappetite provides for procedures are communicated NEX to materially operate at all times in to all relevant staff: and accordance with its legal, regulatory and training is provided to staff contractual obligations.
Information security risk The risk of confidential client This risk generally applies to all of NEXs This risk has increased as the The Group seeks to mitigate information being improperly businesses.
The NEX Markets business will incidence and gravity of cyber andcontrol this risk through shared oraccessed.
routinely have access to information about security threats and attacks thefollowing: thetrading activity of its clients on its platforms, continue to increase in the financial timely escalation and and the NEX Optimisation business provides sector and in the markets generally.
mitigation of risk events: avariety of services that necessitate access to The risk is also likely to increase in provision of training and its clients trading, settlement, margining and light of two impending regulatory guidance: risk activity.
The failure to protect this developments.
One is the information security breach information effectively could result in damages implementation of the EU General monitoring: for breach of contract, breach of data protection Data Protection Regulation, which cyber security programme, requirements in certain jurisdictions and a loss takes effect on 25 May 2018, and including penetration testing: of client trust.
The boards risk appetite provides which increases both the contractual liability for the Group to maintain robust policies, obligations associated with limitations: and procedures and systems reasonably designed to protecting confidential information restrictions on physical access protect the confidentiality of client information.
and the penalties associated with to Company facilities.
The other is the implementation of MiFID II, which takes effect on 1 January 2018, and which will require specified new monitoring ofthe Groups EU-based EBS and BrokerTec trading platforms that will necessitate collection and proper handling ofindividual traderinformation.
22 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Risk Nature of risk and appetite Trend Mitigating controls Business resiliency risk The risk that key operating This risk applies to all of NEXs businesses.
This risk has increased in The Group seeks to mitigate and control systems are NEXsclients utilise the Group to provide essential recognition that cyber threats andcontrol this risk through unavailable.
execution and optimisation services and, as such, generally are increasingly targeted thefollowing: rely on the services being available and operating not only at the theft of information timely escalation and as intended.
A failure to maintain thisavailability but at disrupting the operations of mitigation of risk events: could result in disruption and loss for clients, as market participants.
provision of training and well as increase their interest in utilising guidance: competitor service providers.
This isaparticularly cyber security programme, significant risk for NEX Markets trading platforms, including penetration testing: which have established well-regarded levels of contractual liability liquidity that encourage continued use, but could limitations: and face difficulty replicating those same levels of documented and tested liquidity if clients were to make a significant and business recovery programme.
sustained switch to alternative venues.
Certain of the NEX Optimisation businesses also rely on the network effects of multiple participants utilising a service at the same time, so a service disruption that prompted client defections could also have a pronounced negative affect on certain of these businesses.
The boards risk appetite provides for the Group to maintain robust policies, procedures and systems reasonably designed to ensure the availability of keysystems.
External change risk The risk that NEX does not This risk applies to all of NEXs businesses.
This risk has increased, given the The Group seeks to mitigate effectively respond to NEXs businesses are either themselves regulated, magnitude of the change and andcontrol this risk through significant political and or serving financial institutions that are.
As such, uncertainty that both the UK vote thefollowing: regulatory changes developments in the regulatory environment to leave the EU and the new US maintenance of internal and pertinent toits business.
have the potential to significantly affect NEXs administration pose to the future of external regulatory affairs business.
Two recent examples of such financial services.
The elevated risk advisors to provide updates developments are particularly noteworthy.
level is not a judgement that the on regulatory developments First, the vote for the UK to leave the EU has the eventual changes will be negative and convey the Groups potential to change significantly the prevailing for the Group: they may in fact be perspective on legislative model of howfinancial institutions in Europe positive.
Itis, rather, a judgement and regulatory issues to operate and how and fromwhere they provide that the level of change and policymakers: their services.
With UK-based regulated platforms uncertainty isat an almost historic internal committees tasked that have relied on EU passporting notably level, creating a necessarily higher with monitoring, analysing BrokerTec Europe, the Group will have to respond degreeof challenge to manage and implementing change to changes in licensing requirements as well as thechange effectively.
necessitated by regulatory decisions by its clients, all of which may entail developments: and added cost and operating complexity.
Secondly, regular reporting and with the change in presidential administration in discussion of key and the US, the regulatory climate of the past eight emerging risks at the years may change significantly, potentially boardRisk Committee.
manifesting itself in reduced regulatory burdens and greater flexibility.
This would be helpful for some of theGroups businesses that are regulated, but potentially unhelpful for those that provide services to financial institutions seeking to comply with regulatory obligations.
The boardsrisk appetite provides for sufficient resources and expertise to be allocated to theidentification, analysis, monitoring and response to such changes.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 23
