Strategic Report Performance PRINCIPAL RISKs Effective management of risk is essential to the execution of the Groups strategies, the achievement of sustainable shareholder value, the protection of the brand and ensuring good governance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management information provided for the purposes of deciding and internal controls system and reviewing its effectiveness.
whether to approve those significant matters which The system is designed to identify and manage, rather than have been reserved for the Board: eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic Group risk assessments facilitated by the Group objectives and to provide reasonable but not absolute Risk function and the reports of the internal and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
More external auditors: and information on the Groups internal control and risk management systems can be found in the Corporate risk appetite guidelines relating to the Groups Governance Report on pages 70 to 86. principal risks.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the The risks set out in the table on the following pages nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take represent the principal risks and uncertainties which in achieving its strategic objectives its risk appetite, and may adversely impact the performance of the Group for ensuring that risks are managed effectively.
The Board and the execution of its key strategies.
The Groups has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility key strategies are set out on pages 33 to 44. for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management methodology.
Within the table is a summary of how each risk is defined, its context, potential impact, mitigating activities and the As part of this review, the Audit Committee considers the Groups assessment of the change in risk during 2016 17. principal risks facing the Group and the nature and extent This assessment is based on the external environment in of these risks.
The Group Risk function facilitates a risk which the Group operates, its business operations and the assessment process in each key business area and global impact of the Groups internal controls on the severity of the support function to review the significant risks facing Group risk in the period.
The Groups risk exposure is continually operations and the controls and actions in place to mitigate reviewed by senior management and is therefore subject these.
The detailed assessments are then consolidated to to change as a result of internal and external factors, provide input into the overall Group risk assessment.
It is not possible for the Group to implement controls to respond to all the risks it may The Board and the executive management team use face and the steps the Group has taken to address a combination of different and complementary skills to certain risks including those listed may not manage assess the risks facing the business.
In determining its these risks effectively.
risk appetite the Board considers a variety of information when reviewing the Group operations and in approving key The principal risks are not listed in order of significance matters reserved for its decision.
This information includes: andeach of the risks should be considered independently.
If more than one of the events contemplated by the updates provided by senior management on key strategic risks set out occurs, it is possible that the combined and operational matters: overall impact of such events may be compounded.
The Group Risk function examines these risks for discussion and approval by the Board of the Groups correlation impacts.
Other factors could also adversely three-year strategic plan, budget and viability statement affect Group performance and so the risks set out see page 61 : should not be considered to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties the Group may face.
60 Strategic Report Performance The key changes in the principal risks during the The stress testing consisted of estimating the impact of year include the following.
revenue sensitivities on the profitability and cash generation in the Groups strategic plan, together with reverse stress Following the outcome of the UK referendum to leave testing to identify the theoretical revenue sensitivity that the EU and the invoking of Article 50, uncertainties the Group could absorb, without impacting its viability.
remain about the impact of Brexit on the Groups The sensitivities took account of the likely mitigating operations and financial performance.
The Group has actions available to the Directors through adjustments considered the possible consequences that Brexit could to the operating plan in the normal course of business, have upon the business and has concluded that it does together with resulting impacts on returns to shareholders.
not raise any new principal risks.
However, it does have the potential to impact a number of the Groups existing The period considered for the assessment was three risks at an individual risk level including: outlook for the years to March 2020.
This period was considered luxury sector remains uncertain, volatility of exchange appropriate by the Directors on the basis of the following.
rates, loss of key management personnel and regulatory It is the period for which the Groups strategic plan requirements.
The Group has established a Brexit was prepared.
Steering Committee to monitor developments arising from Brexit, headed by the Chief People and Corporate It is sufficient to encompass the completion of the almost Affairs Officer, who will provide regular updates on this all currently approved capital expenditure projects.
As the Group has no contracted income, and as most The previous risk relating to the failure to realign current projects will be completed in the three-year the organisational resource capability to deliver the period, any projections beyond March 2020 will only productivity and efficiency agenda announced last vary as a result of estimates of sales growth and cost May, has been reclassified as one relating more growth assumptions.
generally to the loss of key management personnel or the inability to attract and retain key employees.
In assessing the viability of the Group, the Directors This shift reflects that the implementation of the have also taken into account the Groups current liquidity Groups growth and productivity and efficiency and available facilities set out in note 21 of the Financial programme is well under way.
Statements and financial risk management objectives and hedging activities set out in note 25.
Longer-term viability statement During the year, the Directors have carried out a robust On the basis of this assessment, the Directors have assessment of the principal risks of the Group, set out a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able on pages 62 to 65.
The Directors have also identified to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they those risks which they consider could potentially impact fall due over the period to March 2020. the viability of the Group.
In making this statement, the Directors have made The Directors have assessed the potential impact of the key assumption that there is no material long-term these risks materialising and the impact on the ability impairment to the Burberry brand.
of the Group to continue in operation and to meet its obligations.
This assessment consisted of an analysis of the potential impact of the net risks on the Groups viability and, where appropriate, stress testing.
The Groups annual corporate planning process consists of the preparation of a three-year strategic plan, reforecasting of the current year business performance during the year and preparation of a more detailed budget for the following year.
The Directors have reviewed the plans, forecasts and budget including assumptions regarding the Groups products and markets, expenditure commitments and expected cash flows.
61 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business impact Mitigation A major breach in cyber The Groups customer and employee data, Information systems and cyber-security continued to receive systems or information Burberry.
com business, digital strategy and substantial Audit Committee focus during the year to ensure security could adversely operations mean that it is critical that the that the Groups response to this developing risk is appropriate.
impact the Groups Groups technology is robust, its systems are Investment in the ongoing cyber-security programme continued business operations and secure and data protected.
Sensitive data and a four-year security strategy was reviewed and approved or result in a major data faces the threat of misappropriation and by the Audit Committee.
A new Information and IT security loss adversely impacting a breach of cyber-security on key business team was put in place.
systems could also affect business operations.
Ongoing activities to detect and investigate threats and incidents including with the support of key technology partners and suppliers.
Evaluation and testing of cyber-security using specialist third parties and of the crisis management and wider Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change All key strategies business continuity plans.
The outlook for the luxury Changes and events in the external market With the outlook for demand in the luxury sector remaining sector remains uncertain.
or environment could impact the Groups uncertain and underlying cost pressures persisting for the performance and the delivery of its strategies.
sector, in May 2016 the Group outlined its productivity These changes or events could include: and efficiency agenda and its plans to optimise future organic i asustained economic slowdown, which revenue growth opportunities.
adversely impacts the Groups customers, The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate local economic suppliers and operations: ii a change in and geopolitical risks.
consumer behaviour or other events, which The Group focuses on engaging consumers through the Brand adversely impact consumer demand and realising its opportunities among key consumer groups particularly in relation to key consumer groups and geographic markets.
who make a significant contribution to Group revenues: and iii increasing global economic The Groups financial reporting and review processes are uncertainty including matters such as Brexit designed to highlight any change in ongoing sales performance which could have an impact on economic to enable action planning to address underperformance.
growth and adversely impact the Group or give Counterparty credit checks are in place for all key customers rise to additional costs relating to movements and suppliers and flexible payment terms are used to assist of inventory within the supply chain.
Group Treasury monitors the credit ratings of financial institutions which hold Group deposits to enable the Group to take appropriate action should there be a downgrade in their credit ratings.
The Group would seek to mitigate any adverse cost impacts Change in level of risk Strategic link arising as a result of Brexit, through optimisation of operations No material change Productive Space, E-Commerce Leadership within the supply chain.
Inability of the The growth and productivity and efficiency The Senior Leadership Team is accountable for the conduct of organisation to programme is being implemented to optimise this programme and the delivery of the outcomes in accordance successfully deliver future organic revenue growth opportunities with the plan approved by the Board.
the growth and and to deliver productivity and efficiencies, A Transformation Management Office TMO has been productivity and particularly through ways of working.
established to drive and coordinate delivery and to monitor risks efficiency programme The failure to effectively manage this of each of the major programmes underway.
without compromising programme could adversely impact the Progress of the delivery of the programme is subject to regular business as usual.
delivery of the Groups strategies, the review by the Board.
The Board also approves the Groups anticipated productivity and efficiency strategies, its three-year plan and annual budget.
improvements, and its operations and return on investments.
The Groups systems of internal control will need to be maintained.
Change in level of risk Strategic link All key strategies Decreased risk 62 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business impact Mitigation Loss of key management Insufficient capability and capacity in senior The Inspired People strategy has been established to oversee or the inability to management and insufficient employees the Groups organisational capability requirements, culture attract and retain with the right skills may limit the Groups and engagement, equality and wellbeing, talent development, key employees.
ability to execute the Groups strategies training and reward and recognition.
The Board and Audit Committee regularly review key talent The period of change may result in a loss of and resource risks.
key individuals or the inability to recruit and There is a programme of clear and open engagement with retain individuals with the relevant talent and employees to promote an environment of trust and honesty.
experience, which could disrupt the operation Competitive incentive arrangements currently exist, with of the business and adversely impact the specific initiatives in place designed to retain key individuals.
Groups ability to deliver its strategies.
Recruitment is ongoing and talent review and succession Brexit may have an adverse impact on planning programmes are in place and are regularly reviewed the Groups UK workforce which includes and updated.
EU nationals, including within senior management.
The Group would seek to mitigate any adverse impacts on its UK workforce arising from Brexit.
The Groups Brexit Steering Change in level of risk Strategic link Committee will keep this under review.
Amended risk All key strategies Sustained breaches of Trade marks and other intellectual property The Groups global Brand Protection team is responsible for the Groups intellectual IP rights are fundamentally important to the the Groups brand protection efforts globally, including in the property rights and Groups reputation, success and competitive digital environment.
Where infringements are identified these are unauthorised sale of position.
Unauthorised use of these, as addressed through a mixture of criminal and civil legal action and Burberry products.
well as the unauthorised sale of Burberry negotiated settlement.
IP rights are driven largely by national laws products and distribution of counterfeit which afford varying degrees of protection and enforcement products, damages the Burberry brand priorities depending on the country.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change Product Focus, Productive Space, E-Commerce Leadership Chinese consumer A significant proportion of the Groups The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate reliance on spending patterns sales are to Chinese consumers globally.
In addition, the Group continues to significantly change Consequently, any change to Chinese focus on engaging with the Chinese luxury consumer, both adversely impacting consumer tastes or the economic, regulatory, in China and while travelling abroad.
social and or political environment in China could adversely impact this consumer groups disposable income, confidence and travel, which could impact the Groups revenue and profits.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change Product Focus, Productive Space, E-Commerce Leadership, Operational Excellence Volatility in foreign The Group operates on a global basis and The Group seeks to hedge anticipated foreign currency exchange rates could earns revenues, incurs costs and makes transactional cash flows using financial instruments.
These are have a significant investments in a number of currencies.
mainly in the Groups centralised supply chain and wholesale impact on the Groups The Groups financial results are reported in and Beauty businesses.
The Group does not hedge intra-group reported results.
The majority of reported revenues foreign currency transactions at present.
The Group monitors the are earned in non-Sterling currencies, with desirability of hedging the net assets of non-Sterling subsidiaries a significant proportion of costs in Sterling.
when translated into Sterling for reporting purposes, but the Therefore, changes in exchange rates which Group has not entered into any material transactions for this are driven by a number of factors, such as purpose in the current or previous year.
global economic trends, Brexit or other developments, can impact the Groups revenues, margins, profits and cash flows.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change All key strategies 63 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business impact Mitigation Major incidents such A major incident at a key location could Business continuity plans are in place to mitigate operational as natural catastrophes, significantly impact business operations, risks, but cannot ensure the uninterrupted operation of the global pandemics or with the impact clearly varying depending business, particularly in the short term.
The regional spread terrorist attacks affecting on the location and its nature.
The impact of the Groups key distribution hubs helps to mitigate this risk.
one or more of the of the loss of a distribution hub would clearly A Group incident management framework is in place that Groups key locations differ from a global pandemic, but both addresses the reporting and management of major incidents, could significantly would impact revenue and profits.
and is tested each year using third-party specialists.
plans have been produced for a number of high-impact events.
These plans are regularly reviewed and updated.
Change in level of risk Strategic link Decreased risk All key strategies The Groups operations Failure to comply with these requirements The Group monitors and seeks to continuously improve are subject to a broad could leave the Group open to civil and or its processes to gain assurance that its licensees, suppliers, spectrum of regulatory criminal legal challenge, significant penalties franchisees, distributors and agents comply with the Groups requirements in the and reputational damage.
contractual terms and conditions, its ethical and business various jurisdictions policies and relevant legislation.
in which the Group Specialist teams at corporate and regional level, supported operates.
The pace by third-party specialists where required, are responsible of change and for ensuring employees are aware of regulations relevant the consistency of to their roles.
application of legislation Assurance processes are in place to monitor compliance in can vary significantly a number of key risk areas, with results being reported to the across these management Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee.
jurisdictions, particularly in an environment The Groups Brexit Steering Committee will keep under where public sector review any regulatory requirements arising from Brexit.
debt is often high and tax revenues are falling.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change All key strategies Failure by the Group or A failure to act appropriately could result A number of initiatives are in place, led by the Corporate associated third parties in penalties, adverse press coverage and Responsibility function.
These include the continuing to act in accordance reputational damage with a resulting impact activities set out in the Responsibility section on pages with ethical and on revenue and profits.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change All key strategies Over-reliance The Group relies on a number of vendors The Group continues to evolve its supply chain organisational on key vendors.
Failure of these design to develop its manufacturing base to reduce businesses to deliver products or services dependence on key vendors.
The Group is extending its would have a significant impact on business continuity planning framework to key vendors in business operations.
specific business operations to minimise the impact of an incident affecting those vendors.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change Product Focus, Productive Space, E-Commerce Leadership 64 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business impact Mitigation The Groups IT A failure in these systems could have a The Groups IT systems and infrastructure continue to receive systems and operational significant impact on the Groups operations substantial Audit Committee focus.
infrastructure are critical and reputation.
A number of controls to maintain the integrity and efficiency to its operation and The Group also relies on a small number of of the Groups IT systems are in place, including recovery plans the delivery of products, vendors of specialist digital and IT services, which would be implemented in the event of a major failure.
services and market thereby concentrating the impact of this risk.
These recovery plans are tested on a regular basis.
communications to The Group has continued to strengthen its internal Digital its consumers.
and IT teams and actively manages dependency on external specialist services.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change All key strategies The Group operates in Typical potential risks faced in these markets The Group uses the services of professional consultants to a number of emerging include: seizure of assets or staff, business advise on legal and regulatory issues when entering new markets, markets which are associate practices that are inconsistent to undertake due diligence and to monitor ongoing developments.
typically more volatile with the Groups ethical standards and the Where appropriate, the Group seeks to work with franchisees than developed markets, UK regulatory environment, and increased or partners who compensate for its relative lack of experience and are subject to operational costs due to country-specific in a number of these markets.
changing economic, processes driven by the operating or regulatory, social and regulatory environment.
political developments that are beyond the Groups control.
Infrastructure and services also tend to be less developed.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change Productive Space, E-Commerce Leadership, Operational Excellence 65 Board and Governance 68 Board of Directors 87 Directors Remuneration Report 70 Corporate Governance Report 112 Directors Report
