36 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK 3: FALSE DETECTION OF THREATS How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk The Groups products may falsely movement Sophos is committed to investment in its world class detect threats or malware that do not Virus Labs facility with emphasis placed on staff training, actually exist in applications or content testing and quality procedures.
based on the Groups classification Moreover, there is a continuous proactive focus on of application type, virus, malware, vulnerability exploits, data or URL improvement of processes to enable early detection of categories known as false positives.
a false positive event, as well as applying a lessons These false positives, while inherent learnt approach through root cause analysis.
in the Groups industry, may impair Sophos acknowledges the inherent risk associated the perceived reliability of the Groups products and may therefore adversely with a false positive incident within the industry and is impact market acceptance of the committed to ensuring there are mitigating processes in Groups products.
place to manage any incident, large or small, in order to minimise the impact on its customers.
If the Groups products restrict important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that could be restricted, this could adversely affect end customers systems and cause material system failures.
Any such false identification of important files or applications could result in negative publicity, damage to the Groups reputation, loss of end customer and sale, increased costs to remedy any problem and risk of litigation, any of which could materially adversely affect the Groups financial condition and operating results.
RISK 4: IT SECURITY AND CYBER RISK How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk movement As a provider of IT security products, Sophos has a dedicated cybersecurity team that is the Group is naturally a target and focused on investigation and mitigation of risks related to the Groups networks and products cyber-attack.
The team is focused on day-to-day active may have vulnerabilities that have monitoring processes to identify and deal with IT security from time-to-time been, and may incidents, and in implementing continual improvements in the future be, targeted by attacks in the IT security technology, education and awareness specifically designed to disrupt the and policies that combine in the overall security posture Groups business and harm the of Sophos.
Groups reputation Sophos continues to increase its investment in If an actual or perceived breach of cybersecurity.
security occurs in the Groups internal The Sophos Group maintains cyber insurance to transfer systems, it could adversely affect part of the risk of any deliberate attack to the insurer.
the market perception of the Groups products.
In addition, a security breach could affect the Groups ability to operate its business, including the Groups ability to provide support services to end customers.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 RISK 5: PRODUCT PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk movement Sophos has an extensive number of Sophos continue to focus on and improve the interaction products, enhanced further by acquired between product management, product development, technologies.
The extent of investment sales and marketing and all support functions in an in each product needs to be managed integrated product development approach.
and prioritised taking into account the Internal processes are run to identify opportunities for expected future prospects.
Additionally, standardisation and consistency across products lines.
consideration must be given to the This helps eliminate redundancies, reduce development ability to be able to adequately support and support costs and improve partner and customer the entire product range.
experiences through a more predictable and coherent Failure to manage the product portfolio product portfolio.
adequately could result in inappropriate Sophos are working to bring all products under a investment focus in relation to research single cloud management platform to deliver parity and innovation in product development, of management features and user experience and which is essential to meet customer portability to address any privacy or data sovereignty and partner requirements.
This could issues that our partners customers might face.
result in products that do not meet the requirements of customers or partners Additionally, during the current financial year, Sophos have and could increase the risk they will look consolidated both Network and Enduser under single to alternative solutions, resulting in the leadership in order to improve synchronized security, cross potential loss of both new and existing business unit interlock and investment efficiencies.
Sophos customer and partner communities continue Additionally, insufficient focus on key to be invaluable resources in guiding portfolio research and development projects management decisions.
They provide immediate and may damage the long-term growth constant feedback on how well Sophos are meeting their prospects of the Group.
requirements, improvements that Sophos can make to its current offerings and opportunities for portfolio consolidation or expansion.
During the year-ended 31 March 2017, the Group strengthened its product portfolio through the acquisition of Invincea, Barricade and PhishThreat.
RISK 6: DISRUPTION TO DAY TO DAY GROUP OPERATIONS How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk movement Sophos is at risk of disruption to its Sophos has made significant investments in the day to day operations from a disaster technology and infrastructure of the Group to ensure it incident which may seriously impact IT continues to support the growth of the organisation.
systems or access to office space.
Additionally, incident management procedures and A failure in the operation of the Groups escalation processes are in place as well as maintaining key systems or infrastructure on which security, business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
the Group relies could cause a failure of Continual updates and testing of these plans is ongoing.
service to its customers and negatively impact the Sophos brand.
38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Case Study: Village adoption Sophos India, through its Prarambh CSR initiative has Sophos is a firm believer in using environmentally friendly adopted a rural village to uplift the lives of 350 families technology for the greater good and has installed solar living there.
The aim is to improve education, healthcare, street lights to help meet the energy requirements of the family welfare, infrastructure, sanitation and sustainable village community.
There is also a focus on building water livelihood patterns in the village.
conservation structures with the active involvement of the villagers, the objective being the preservation of The plan is to bring about all-round development of the rainwater and to facilitate agricultural activities.
village by focusing on key areas like education, sanitation, basic infrastructure, medical facilities and empowerment of women: Sophos works with the people of the village to ensure development goals are mutually agreed.
EMPLOYEES The Group operates by its core values: simplicity, empowerment, passion, innovation and authenticity.
The Group promotes a culture where people can achieve and be recognised for their achievements, where people have the support they need to develop themselves and where people are valued and treated with respect.
Development opportunities are made available to all employees through unlimited access to one of the largest independent online libraries of e-learning courses in the world for technical, personal and leadership skills development, in addition to rolespecific training and access to Instructor-Led Training ILT aligned to their development and career aspirations.
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities and recruits and promotes staff on the basis of their experience, qualifications, skills and attitude.
At the end of the financial year, the gender breakdown of employees and Directors was: 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Female Male Female Male Executive & Non-Executive Directors 2 8 1 8 Senior Managers 17 79 13 70 Employees 692 2,495 600 2,194 T he Group has defined Senior Managers as members of the Senior Management Team and their direct reports excluding Executive Directors separately reported.
Each year Sophos conducts an employee opinion The Group actively engages with local universities in survey to gain direct feedback from employees and our key locations and offers internships and working help identify and deliver actions that will increase student opportunities in Canada, the USA, the UK, employee engagement and company performance.
In the UK, the Group has an The results from the survey are reviewed by the senior established intern and graduate program, supporting management team and are used to drive global, regional students through a full-year paid internship and or departmental changes so that the business makes provides support, expertise and guidance for their final Sophos a better place to work.
Many of the interns receive permanent offers to join Sophos post-graduation, as well as During the year, the Group introduced a global Save as financial assistance for their final year of study.
You Earn SAYE plan, and an equivalent Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP for US employees to enable all employees to save and participate in the longterm success of Sophos.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 Education is a core element of the project and Sophos aims include preventing drop-outs after 8th grade through providing uniforms, bags, books and transportation to students as well as providing skill development courses.
To improve the health and wellness of villagers, free medical check-up camps are organised and a rural clinic is planned.
Sophos also plans to further the cause of women empowerment in the village by imparting training in arts, crafts and other skillsets to aid selfdependence.
COMMUNITY & CHARITIES ENVIRONMENT Sophos employees share the core values of a The Group recognises that it has a responsibility for commitment to help others and make a positive impact effectively managing its environmental performance in the communities where they live and work.
Sophos and minimising the impact of its operations.
The Group encourages and supports these activities and around is committed to continual environmental improvement the world local Sophos offices support a wide range of in the management of its premises, operations and charities and community projects.
To that end, an Environmental Sustainability Program has been developed that During the year, Sophos in the Philippines continued will operate over the medium to long term with key its annual Sophos Cares project with Santuario fide San stagesof: Jose.
Local staff held collections for donations and gifts were distributed by eighteen Sophos employees to A scoping review to explore in depth Sophos current forty orphans aged three to seven years old after having position, establish appropriate standards for the spent quality playtime with the children.
In Hungary, Group and perform a gap analysis and action plan to the Budapest office prepared Christmas gift boxes for attain the standards.
children living in poverty, as well as donating their time Development of a comprehensive policy, embracing and creative skills to raise money for a local charity that all aspects of environmental sustainability that helps support vulnerable people throughout the year.
In would include a road map for the Group to follow.
the UK, a series of events were held in the year to raise Perform a sustainability materiality audit to identify money for Byte Night in support of Action for Children, and prioritise issues, risks and opportunities to a charity that supports some of the 80,000 young enable the Group to focus on those activities which people who are homeless in the UK through no fault of make the most significant contribution to the their own.
UK employees participated in a month-long business and to sustainable development.
series of sponsored events, auctions and fund-raising, culminating in 26 of the team, headed by the CFO, Greening audit of buildings to explore opportunities sleeping out for a night to raise over 16,000 for for greening the interior and exterior of building the charity.
and site, guided by the principles of sustainability, biodiversity and health and wellbeing.
MODERN SLAVERY ACT Sophos is committed to compliance with the provisions of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
As such, the Group has a zero-tolerance approach to modern STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL slavery and is further committed to acting ethically, The strategic report on pages 10 to 39 was transparently and with integrity in all of its business approved by the Board on 16 May 2017 dealings and relationships.
During the year, the Board and signed on its behalf by: adopted the Sophos Group Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy and published its Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement, each of which can be found Kris Hagerman on the Groups website at www.
