Strategic report Pr incipal risks and uncertainties Every organisation faces risks of varying severity as an inherent part of doing business.
Someof these are within the control of the organisation and others are not.
The Board has identified the following principal Strategic governance risks and uncertainties to the Group, which the Group seeks to proactively manage and monitor on an ongoing basis.
The details of Board these principal risks, and the controls in place for mitigating them, are outlined below in no particular order of severity.
In October 2016, Audit Committee TalkTalk revealed simplified new branding reflecting its mission to deliver simple, affordable, reliable and fair connectivity Remuneration Committee foreveryone.
The principal risks have been identified and assessed with consideration tothe impact on the Groups ability to Nomination Committee deliver its strategy and therefore its mission.
In addition, a directional arrow has been included alongside each risk to reflect the Operational First line Second line Third line movements in gross risk from the prior year.
and financial of defence of defence of defence governance The Groups risk management framework facilitates continuous and ongoing discussion Risk management of risks and associated risk appetite to ensure Senior Operational Central support function including the appropriate focus is placed on mitigating Management management functions internal audit and principal risks.
The Board will continue to Team external advisers assess the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and will update the risks and mitigation plans accordingly.
For more information 09 onourstrategy Strategy: Customer experience and Profitable growth in Retail Sustained momentum in TTB Network capability 1 2 3 operational excellence 4 Key: Gross risk has increased Gross risk has decreased Gross risk remains broadly the same as the prior year Customer trust and brand reputation 1 2 3 Risk and impact Mitigation Gross risk Customer confidence and trust are critical TalkTalk remains confident of the role for a well-regarded value operator in the toTalkTalks business, and the Companys market and is committed to delivering a positive end-to-end customer experience.
operating approach always seeks to do what The MTTS programme has delivered improved customer experience through isright for the customer.
However, as a value better quality and availability of products and services.
The remaining activities for money connectivity provider in the market, inthe programme have transitioned into business as usual with an ongoing focus there is a risk that TalkTalk is perceived as a and commitment to continuous improvement of the customer experience.
budget provider, associated with price The organisation also continues to invest in network and systems to support the rather than quality and service.
provision of reliable products to customers as well as ongoing investment in and Business and industry challenges including focus on security see data and cyber security risk.
In addition, TalkTalk continues cyber threats and scam calls also present to support customers in dealing with the industry-wide issue of scam calls.
Initiatives arisk to brand reputation andtrust.
such as the Beat the Scammers campaign are designed to help customers protect themselves from the threat of scams.
Failure to maintain trust, improve brand reputation andoffer a positive customer These activities have contributed to mitigating the risk and driving an improving experience may result inincreased churn, net risk position.
performance decline and loss of TalkTalk will continue to focus on existing as well as new customers, guided investorconfidence.
bythefour key principles we believe are critical to being a value for money connectivity provider simplicity, affordability, reliability and fairness.
22 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 People 3 Risk and impact Mitigation Gross risk TalkTalk recognises employees as a key asset Structured talent forecasting and assessment processes are in place to ensure andaspires to be a Great Place to Work for required talent is proactively understood.
A people scorecard is also in place allcolleagues.
We understand the increasing for ongoing monitoring and oversight of people risk and, where required, actions challenges and importance in the market to further mitigate risk exposures are identified and implemented.
In addition, ofattracting and retaining the right talent to Group-wide activities are carried out to assess the level of employee engagement delivercurrent performance and future growth and insight gained is used to develop action plans to ensure a highly engaged aspirations.
Failure to attract and retain required and motivated workforce is maintained.
In addition, the organisation has talent and competencies may negatively impact defined values which have been recently reviewed to include a focus our ability to deliver on performance targets oncommitment and delivery.
The Executive Committee assesses the engagement level of the workforce and, TalkTalk has undertaken an extensive inaddition, performs an annual assessment of talent at senior management level programme tounderstand and implement to ensure the right leadership is in place for motivating, inspiring and leading thebehavioural and values-based changes the workforce to deliver on the corporate objectives.
required for the Company to evolve from A plan is in place to manage the leadership transition and the activities described astart-up culture to afully mature business.
above will continue to be employed to understand and maintain colleague Failure to successfully bring about thischange engagement during this period.
may have anegative impact on the Companys reputational and commercial outlook.
In addition, the change in leadership in 2017 willneed to becarefully managed to ensure colleague engagement and more mature business culture are maintained during thisperiod.
Competitive landscape 1 3 Risk and impact Mitigation Gross risk TalkTalk is established as a value for money A clear pricing strategy is in place with ongoing monitoring of pricing position connectivity provider in the fast growing quad andvalue proposition.
The strategy is reviewed to ensure it remains competitive play market.
Thevalue proposition is a key part and continues to support our position as a value for money provider against the of the businessmodel and to date has provided changing competitor activity landscape.
As a result, in FY17 TalkTalk launched its competitor differentiation.
Over the last year FLPP with strong customer take-up.
FLPP offers both new and existing customers therehas been significant activity particularly the opportunity to lock in their price for the term of their contract guaranteeing inthe retail competitive landscape which nomid-contract price rises.
The introduction of FLPP forms part of the risk presentscontinuously increasing gross risk.
mitigation and driving an improved net risk position.
Thereis a risk that this competitive backdrop In addition, competitor pricing activity is monitored to understand customer makes it difficult for TalkTalk to maintain and market impact and plans are revisited accordingly if necessary.
uses customer communications to promote thevalue for money connectivity provider message and is committed to helping customers understand the best positioned package to meet theirneeds.
Changing market structure 3 4 Risk and impact Mitigation Gross risk The UK telecommunications market structure TalkTalk has been a vocal advocate of competition and is well placed tobenefit iscurrently experiencing significant change.
froman increasing trend toward a more pro-competition regulatory framework.
Boththe regulator and the Government have Thisposes a significant risk to incumbent players in the market, whilst presenting acknowledged a pressing need to promote potentially valuable opportunities for challengers.
The business is actively engaging competition and drive investment across with the necessary external stakeholders to share views and attempt to deliver themarket, and TalkTalk is well placed to thebest market and customer outcomes, as well as to proactively understand participate inthe opportunities that may result.
andrespond tothe opportunities and challenges presented by structured marketchanges.
Ofcom made a series of announcements designed to improve the performance of BT Openreach andmake it easier for rivals to invest in alternative networks.
These included an agreement with BTtolegally separate Openreach in response totheregulators Digital Communications Review: proposed higher service standards for Openreach: proposals to make it simpler for BTs rivals to use existing Openreach infrastructure when building networks: and proposed lower Openreach wholesale broadband prices.
Ofcom also sets out proposals for automatic compensation to retail customers, which will impact all providers.
There is a risk that such significant change tothe structure of the industry could create opportunities for regulatory gaming or fail todeliver the positive customer outcomes TalkTalk and Ofcom expect.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 23 Strategic report Pr incipal risks and uncertainties continued Strategy: Customer experience and Profitable growth in Retail Sustained momentum in TTB Network capability 1 2 3 operational excellence 4 Key: Gross risk has increased Gross risk has decreased Gross risk remains broadly the same as the prior year Regulatory compliance 3 Risk and impact Mitigation Gross risk The telecommunications sector is There has been continued focus on improving processes and controls and clarifying highlyregulated, withcompliance over key lines of accountability both in first-line operations and in our second-lineassurance customer-focused regulations monitored by function.
There has been significant progress with delivering improvements in our thegoverning body, Ofcom.
Another of the complaint handling processes during the period and thereiscontinued focus key governing bodies relevant to the company onreducing complaint volumes.
is the Information Commissioners Office While other matters that took place before the cyber attack remain under ICO.
The regulations and laws that TalkTalk investigation by the ICO, since the cyber attack TalkTalk has made significant must comply with, including Ofcom General investments in driving more robust compliance and controls in the area of Conditions and data legislation including the dataprotection.
Data Protection Act, are designed to support customers and theregulatory landscape is The Groups Regulatory Compliance Committee, a subcommittee of the Board, has increasingly more demanding as it seeks to continued to convene throughout the year to monitor the mitigation of operational further support customers.
Failure to comply risks which could give rise to customer complaints and regulatory breaches.
The with regulatory obligations may result in Group Legal Counsel and Company Secretary has chaired weekly compliance negative customer impact and or significant meetings throughout the year, attended by senior management.
regulatory fines asexperienced by TalkTalk There will be a significant amount of activity for the Group in FY18 as itprepares following the October2015 cyber attack.
fortheintroduction of the new General Data Protection Regulation GDPR in May2018 and delivers changes in response to Ofcoms review and updates tovarious General Conditions.
The progress of this activity will be governed by theexisting Compliance Committee and meetings to ensure effective delivery.
Data and cyber security 3 4 Risk and impact Mitigation Gross risk Security of customer, commercial and Since the cyber attack in October 2015, TalkTalk continues to invest in and focus colleague data poses increasing reputational onactively implementing an ongoing programme to build security capability.
and financial risk to all businesses and the gross Theorganisations security strategy is centred around four strategic themes: risk remains ever increasing.
Inparticular, the Secure by Design: ongoing rise in cyber and data related crime presents a significant challenge in terms of Secure in Operations: securing data and systems against attack.
Secure Third Parties: and TalkTalk receives most ofits revenue through card transactions and like many businesses Secure Culture.
utilises third parties as part of doing business.
TalkTalk recognises that failure to successfully The strategy is underpinned by the NIST Cyber Security Framework andis secure data and systems against attack may positionedto continuously improve the security maturity of the organisation, have a material impact onbrand reputation aswellasmaintaining and updating ongoing activities such as monitoring activities, and financial performance.
Other associated vulnerability scanning, penetration testing and the data loss prevention solution costs may also be incurred, including toensure they remain fit for purpose.
Since the cyber attack, significant investment has been made in building out abiggersecurity function and capability including establishing an in-house Security Operations Centre, bringing currently outsourced monitoring activities in house, whichis due to go live in autumn 2017.
Investment also continues to be made in security related resource with the hire of a permanent Chief Security Officer who joined the business inJuly 2016 and the Group Data Protection Officer who joined inDecember 2016.
The security function will work closely with the Group Data Protection Officer over the next twelve months to support delivery of the new dataprotection requirements under the General Data Protection Regulation.
Theseactivities and investments are supporting management of the risk andimproving net risk trajectory.
In addition to the above, a robust governance structure remains in place with theSecurity Committee meeting every two months.
This is a subcommittee of the Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, with senior executive representation and including a Non-Executive Board member.
24 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Resilience and business continuity 1 2 3 4 Risk and impact Mitigation Gross risk TalkTalk is reliant on its infrastructure Network resilience is assessed and monitored on a regular basis and, over the aswell askeythird party suppliers and last year, TalkTalk has continued to deliver network improvements supporting partners in order todeliver quality products greater resilience.
Continuous monitoring of network availability is also in place and services to its customers.
Network, to ensure any issues are identified in a timely manner.
Where an incident does system or third party failure could result occur, a robust incident response process is in place and exercised to ensure insignificant disruption to services or effective response, followed by a problem management review that islinked business processes, which may have a toservice improvement.
The Group recognises that network resilience is also negative impact on customers and reliant on the dependency on BTOR for the last mile and as such Ofcom focus therefore damage customer loyalty or drive on BTOR processes, systems and controls should help mitigate therisk.
Itis therefore important to Other prioritised critical processes, systems and third parties are identified establish resilience in thenetwork and andbusiness owners are assigned accountability for assessing resilience and require resilience from our thirdparties implementing business continuity plans to enable continuity of operations in the and partners.
It is also noted that inthe event of an incident.
TalkTalk also continues to invest in supporting appropriate event of an incident, TalkTalk must be able resilience on critical systems taking a risk-based approach.
For third parties, the torespond in an efficient and effective relationship owners are assigned accountability for requiring critical third parties manner inorder to minimise impact on tohave adequate business continuity plans in place and obtaining third party customers andperformance.
assurance that their plans have been reviewed and tested on a regular basis.
Financial 1 2 3 Risk and impact Mitigation Gross risk As with many organisations, TalkTalk must The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Groups liquid actively manage liquidity risk.
Other key resources and managing compliance with the terms of funding agreements.
financial risks include availability of long term Policies and operating procedures are in place and these are regularly reviewed funding, theability to comply with covenants to ensure they remain appropriate for the business.
In addition, the Executive and other terms of funding arrangements, Committee and the Board oversee the liquidity and funding position ofthe and foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Group on a regular basis and are required to provide approval on major andsignificant funding decisions.
In addition, there are a number of changes toaccounting standards that will be adopted The Group Treasury function is also responsible for managing foreign exchange inFY19, in particular IFRS 15 and IFRS 16. and interest rate risks in line with the Groups policy.
TalkTalk has established a change project to deliver the required changes toaccounting standards over accounting for revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 and lease accounting IFRS 16.
Change delivery and execution 3 Risk and impact Mitigation Gross risk Delivery of performance objectives and Following the implementation of a formal change framework for significant change development of the business is reliant on projects in FY16, TalkTalk has continued to embed the framework more broadly the ability to successfully deliver innovation forall change projects in FY17.
The framework is intended to ensure a desired level and other operational changes required to of quality is reached throughout the lifecycle of each project and has supported support growth and performance.
Failure successful delivery of key change programmes in FY17, including the introduction to effectively deliver significant change of FLPP.
programmes and associated benefits critical The Group Change function remains a key control for facilitating prioritisation to TalkTalks strategy would result in an inability discussions to ensure people and financial resources are appropriately engaged, to deliver performance objectives and limit allocated and focused.
Performance measures for key change projects are defined TalkTalks competitive position in the market.
and monitored and regularly reviewed by Group Change.
Monitoring and oversight ofkey change projects occurs at both the business unit leadership team level and by the Executive Committee on a regular basis, enabling real time consideration of the potential impact of other operational and strategic activities on change projects.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 25
