Principal risks and uncertainties Risks and delivering Risk culture Activities in 2016 17 Risk Management continues our strategy We continue to focus on our annual rolling risk objectives, In order to deliver our strategy to be an integral part of all undertaking the following work streams: our activities.
Risks and and the Workspace Advantage 1.
3. throughout the business we opportunities are considered in every business decision we must ensure that we maintain Site reviews Adhoc audits Cyber security a balance between safeguarding make.
We focus on key risks We have undertaken We continue to Cyber security which could impact on the against potential risks, and around 30 site reviews instruct detailed has become taking advantage of potential achievement of our strategic at our properties reviews by third parties an increasingly goals and therefore on the opportunities.
covering financial and on key areas including: important risk area.
We VAT During the year Our Key Strategic Aims are: have used the results CIS compliance we have prepared a Right market Risks are considered at every of these reviews to: Payroll taxes detailed paper on the Right properties level of the business including amend procedures Data Protection risks we face and also Right brand when approving corporate if they are not a draft response plan Right customers transactions, property acquisitions working adequately.
We review and action if we were to face a Right people and disposals and whenever increase training for any findings and cyber security breach.
recommendations We operate within the London and redevelopment projects.
mostly to provide from these reviews.
This is an evolving area market which continues to be positive feedback This helps enhance and we will continue to a resilient and vibrant market The Executive Committee meets to our centre staff our underlying control work to enhance and in which to operate.
weekly to discuss key performance who are achieving environment.
refine our controls in measures and any change in high scores on this area.
We want our properties to be these, meaning they are ideally these reviews.
safe, secure and well maintained.
placed to notice any concerning 4.
Our customers are at the heart Social media Brexit of everything we do and we Further information on our We have considered During the year the want them safe and secure and KPIs can be found on pages the increasing impact Board and Audit to create an environment in for 24 and 25. of social media, as Committee have them which they can thrive.
considered the We are fortunate to have a close potential impact of We need our brand to be and open communication culture We continue to exiting the European reflective of our product, within Workspace.
This enables provide updates to Union on our business our customers and our culture.
staff from all areas of the business the Board and our and strategy.
It is hard We aim to take opportunities to feel free to raise risks and staff about awareness to predict the impact to promote our brand efficiently issues, no matter how small, of social media risks of this, but there could and effectively.
to their managers and teams.
be an impact on each of our Principal Business We also need the right staff and Risk appetite Risks.
At this stage expertise to deliver our strategy, Risk appetite reflects the overall the Board and Audit with adequate succession level of risk acceptable with Committee agreed planning where needed so regards to our principal business that this wouldnt we invest time and effort into risks.
The Board is responsible become a stand-alone our employees.
for deciding the amount of risk risk but something it is willing to take.
which will continue Further details on the Risk to be considered and Committee can be found in High risk, after considering assessed across all our Governance section on the controls we have in place risk areas.
page 81. to mitigate risks, is not generally tolerated.
We work towards a medium to low risk profile, ensuring that we have mitigating actions in place to bring each Areas of focus for 2017 18 risk down to within the agreed We have a rolling plan of risk management objectives and over the risk appetite.
Currently all our coming year plan the following activities: Principal Strategic risks are 1.
3. subject to the same moderate risk appetite.
Ongoing data Implementing risk Continuing to conduct protection review and management third party reviews training across the software to help and audits of key organisation.
Review effectively capture business areas.
of our information findings from our asset register.
internal property site reviews, third party audits and detailed information to show our key controls are operating.
32Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Risk Management Structure Overall, we review risks from Our Risk Management Structure We have an established Risk two angles: Management Structure in place Board and Audit Committee to help us capture, document 1.
Principal Business Strategic and manage risks facing our Risks Executive Committee business, We monitor this These are risks which impact structure to ensure it is achievement of our strategy appropriate for our company and objectives.
First line Second line Third line size, culture and business model.
They are identified, assessed of defence of defence of defence and managed by the Management Financial control Risk Our aim is to manage each Executive Committee.
of our risks and mitigate them Strategic risks are ultimately controls Committee Security and ad hoc so that they fall within the risk owned by the Board.
Policy and review audit appetite level we are prepared The Board and the Audit Risk management procedure to tolerate for each risk area.
Committee receive regular updates on these Principal Quality control The Risk Management Structure Risks three times a year.
is underpinned by close working The Board is satisfied that we Key Performance relationships between the continue to operate within our Indicators Executive Directors, Senior desired risk appetite for our Management and other team Strategic Risks.
Compliance members, which enhances our ability to efficiently capture, Our Strategic Risks are shown communicate and action any in the heat map and in detail on risk issues identified.
Current assessment of Principal Business Risks We have a Risk Committee, 2.
Operational risks which meets monthly and has These are lower level responsibility for co-ordinating risks covering day-to-day risk management activities processes and procedures throughout the Group.
prepares regular reports to the These cover all areas of the Board and Audit Committee.
business, such as Finance, Operations, Investment and The Risk Committee comprises Development.
7 2 the Chief Executive Officer, These risks are assessed, the Operations Director and managed and owned by Company Secretary, alongside the Executive Committee.
4 The Head of Finance and Day-to-day operational risks 9 5 3 other Senior Managers and are closely reviewed and 7 11 representatives from across the managed by the Executive 10 6 1 8 Company.
The Risk Committee Committee and Senior engages with staff throughout Management.
the business and our small Changes in operational risks size helps to ensure good are reported to the Board 4 communication between and Audit Committee as 9 5 3 2 each business area.
11 10 6 1 frequent visits by head office 8 staff to our business centres help to ensure awareness and understanding of any propertyspecific risks and issues.
We also invite Centre Managers to attend Risk Committee meetings on a Insignicant Low Low Medium High High Severe rolling basis.
IMPACT Risk registers for all business Pre-mitigation Post-mitigation areas are maintained and risks are assessed against a defined 1. Financing 5.
London scoring mechanism to ensure 3.
Development 8. Business interruption 33Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 PROBABILITY EXTERNAL AUDIT Rare Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk category: Risk category: Financing Valuation 1.
Principal risk: We have a broad range of Principal risk: Mitigation Reduced availability of funding relationships in place Value of our properties declining Market-related valuation risk is financing options resulting and regularly review our as a result of external market or largely dependent on external in inability to meet business refinancing strategy.
factors which we cannot plans or satisfy liabilities.
However, we continue We also maintain a specific to do the following to ensure we interest rate profile via use of Dashboard: are aware of any market changes, fixed rates and swaps on our and are generating the maximum Dashboard: loan facilities so that our interest Impact value from our portfolio: Impact payment profile is stable.
Severe Monitor the investment Severe market mood.
What we have done in 2016 17 Monitor market yields Probability post-mitigation We continue to review and pricing of property Probability post-mitigation Unlikely and monitor our financing transactions across the Unlikely arrangements to ensure we London market.
have sufficient headroom and Change from last year Alternative use opportunities a good interest rate profile to pursued across the portfolio Change from last year No change No change help ensure we can fund our and continue to drive progress plans to refurbish and acquire made in achieving planning Risk appetite new buildings.
consent for mixed-use Risk appetite Medium development schemes.
Medium We repaid our UK fund debt of 45m in September 2016, What we have done in 2016 17 Link to strategy: reducing our overall interest We have maintained a low LTV Link to strategy: Right markets cost.
ratio, protecting us from any Right markets Right properties potential adverse changes in Right properties Key metrics the market.
Property valuation During the year we have made Inability to fund business 8.
Total property return significant progress with our 123m plans.
programme of refurbishment Restricted ability to invest Risk impact Undrawn facilities including works, enhancing the standard in new opportunities.
cash at 31 March 2017. and desirability of our properties.
Negative reputational impact Key metrics amongst lenders and in the investment community.
2.1% Mitigation We regularly review funding Increase in underlying requirements for business plans property valuation.
and ensure we have a wide range of options to fund our forthcoming plans.
We also prepare a five-year business plan 13% which is reviewed and updated Low loan to value ratio.
There is further detail in the Viability Statement on page 40.
34Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Risk category: Risk category: Customer Development demand 3.
Principal risk: Our extensive marketing Principal risk: Mitigation Demand for our accommodation Impact to underlying income For every potential development programme ensures that declining as a result of social, we are in control of our own and capital performance.
scheme we work hard to gain a economic or competitive factors.
thorough understanding of the customer leads and pipeline of deals.
We also utilise social planning environment and Dashboard: ensure we seek counsel from media, backed up by a busy Dashboard: events programme which has appropriate advisers.
further helped us to engage with Impact Impact customers.
This differentiates us High We undertake a detailed development analysis and Severe as we provide not only space but also an opportunity to network appraisal prior to commencing a Probability post-mitigation development scheme.
Appraisals with other businesses based in Unlikely Probability post-mitigation our portfolio.
are presented for Investment Unlikely Committee approval and We also stress test our business Change from last year sign-off is required for every project.
Change from last year plans to assess the sensitivity we No change could tolerate if demand from No change The Investment Committee reviews our customers reduced.
This can Risk appetite be found in the Viability progress on refurbishments and Risk appetite Medium redevelopments every fortnight, Statement on page 40.
Medium against project timings and cost budgets both during and after What we have done in 2016 17 Link to strategy: We continue to liaise with our the completion of a project.
Right markets Link to strategy: customers at each step of their Right markets Right properties journey with Workspace see What we have done in 2016 17 Right customers Right properties We continue to progress inside front cover.
Right customers Right people our redevelopment pipeline, Right people assessing each new scheme We also continue to increase our Right brand Link to KPIs: social media presence, and run on a fair and consistent basis.
Property valuation We are improving and enhancing our networking business events.
Total property return our progress regarding the 5.
Like-for-like rent roll tracking, forecasting and Key metrics Risk impact monitoring of our major projects.
Failure to deliver expected Risk impact Fall in occupancy levels at returns on developments.
Key metrics 90% Cost over runs.
Falling rent roll and property Delayed delivery of key Like-for-like occupancy.
6 Poor reputation amongst contractors and customers Mitigation Mixed use developments Every week the Executive if projects are delayed.
12,724 Committee meet with Senior Enquiries in the year.
Management to monitor occupancy levels, pricing, demand levels and reasons for customers vacating.
This ensures we react quickly to changes in any of these indicators.
35Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk category: Risk category: Investment Brand and reputation 5.
Principal risk: Mitigation Principal risk: Mitigation Under performance due to Failure to meet customer To ensure we understand We undertake regular monitoring inappropriate strategy on of asset performance and and external stakeholder our customers and their ever acquisitions and disposals.
Joint ventures evolving requirements we positioning of our portfolio with periodic detailed portfolio or other ventures with third undertake twice-yearly customer parties do not deliver the surveys and have a system reviews.
of real-time feedback in place.
We developed a customer For each new acquisition Impact we undertake thorough engagement plan to ensure Dashboard: we are interacting with our High due diligence and detailed appraisals prior to purchase.
customers in a variety of ways, including the use of social media.
Impact Probability post-mitigation We also monitor acquisition High Unlikely We maintain regular performance against target returns.
communication with Probability post-mitigation all stakeholders and key Change from last year Unlikely Property disposals are subject shareholders.
We hold investor No change presentations, roadshows and to detailed review and Board approval.
Change from last year an annual Capital Markets Day.
Risk appetite No change Medium What we have done in 2016 17 What we have done in 2016 17 The use of social media channels, We have acquired 13-17 Fitzroy Risk appetite Street, Fitzrovia, helping to such as Twitter, to engage with Medium Link to strategy: our customers has proved to deliver against our strategic Right markets objectives.
This acquisition was be very successful and helped Right properties to create business communities reviewed and analysed in detail Right customers Link to strategy: prior to exchange so that any within our centres.
We undertake Right customers Right brand detailed monitoring of the use of potential risks were taken into Right people account.
Following acquisition, these social media channels in Right brand Link to KPIs: case of any adverse information.
EPRA NAV per share against expectations are 8.
Total property return Link to KPIs: We also launched our successful provided to the Board.
Like-for-like rent roll the Workspace Advantage 10.
Customer advocacy advertising campaign to further Subsequent to the year-end we Risk impact sold Uplands Business Park, increase our brand awareness Risk impact Poor timing of disposals.
Walthamstow, for 50m, ahead Poor timing of acquisitions.
Damage to brand and of valuation.
perception amongst Failure to achieve expected Key metrics returns.
Adverse publicity impacting Negative reputational impact amongst investors and on demand from new 88% customers.
Worse reputation amongst Customer advocacy.
36Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Risk category: Risk category: Regulatory Business interruption 7.
Principal risk: The Risk Committee provides Principal risk: Risk impact Failure to meet regulatory regular updates to the Board Major events mean that Loss of critical data.
requirements leading to fines or on emerging risks and issues.
Workspace is unable to carry Loss of access for customers tax penalties, or the introduction out its business for a sustained to work at our business of new requirements that inhibit The Company Secretary issues period.
a detailed briefing to the Board Potential loss of income.
Potential negative impact on reputation amongst Dashboard: Dashboard: The Groups Health and Safety customers.
Manager meets regularly with Impact Impact the Chief Executive Officer to High Mitigation keep abreast of any actual or We have robust Business Medium potential Issues.
Continuity Plans and procedures Probability post-mitigation in place which are regularly Probability post-mitigation Unlikely What we have done in 2016 17 tested and updated.
Possible We have been working closely with HMRC and our tax advisers IT controls and safeguards are Change from last year to ensure we are aware of Change from last year No change in place across all our systems, emerging issues and keeping including a specific standalone No change up to date with changes.
Risk appetite We have developed a taxation Risk appetite Medium strategy document to outline What we have done in 2016 17 Medium our overall approach to tax and We have undertaken a further the controls we have in place to review and testing of our Link to strategy: ensure compliance.
Link to strategy: Right properties Right people Right people Training has been given to Right brand Right brand the Board by advisers on new developments and emerging Risk impact Link to KPIs: issues.
Fines or penalties for failure 10.
Customer advocacy to adhere to regulations.
We have undertaken some Failure to identify and respond training of staff on data to the introduction of new protection and other areas requirements.
Negative impact on reputation A Health and Safety Gap Analysis amongst investors and was undertaken during 2016 17 partners suppliers.
showing compliance in all key areas.
Mitigation REIT conditions are monitored Key metrics and tested on a regular basis and reported to the Board.
We work closely with HMRC and our tax 0 advisers to ensure we are aware of emerging issues and keeping RIDDOR Health and Safety up to date with changes.
Close working relationship maintained with appropriate authorities and all relevant issues openly disclosed.
37Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk category: Resourcing 9.
Principal risk: Risk impact Failure to progress with Reduced ability to action strategy due to inability to strategy successfully.
recruit and retain correct staff.
Insufficient resource to manage increased demands as the Company grows.
Dashboard: Mitigation Impact We have a robust recruitment High process in place to ensure that there is an appropriate level of interviewing and scrutiny of Probability post-mitigation new joiners.
Unlikely We have various incentives to Change from last year align staff objectives with those of the Group to help ensure staff No change are working in the best interests of the Group and its stakeholders.
Risk appetite This is supported by a robust Medium appraisal and review process for staff.
Link to strategy: Our HR team run a detailed Right customers training and development Right people programme to ensure staff are Right brand supported and encouraged to progress their learning and study Link to KPIs: opportunities.
Trading profit after interest What we have done in 2016 17 3.
EPRA NAV per share For more information go to 4. Dividend per share Resources and relationships 5.
Like-for-like rent roll on pages 26 to 31.
Total Shareholder Return 38Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Risk category: Risk category: London Cyber security 10.
Principal risk: Risk impact Principal risk: Mitigation Changes in the political, Impact on demand for space if Loss of data or income due to Monitoring information on infrastructure and London adversely affected by cyber security attack on our security threats and targets.
business and on that of our of London lead to reduced customers.
Monitoring guidance and best demand from our customers.
Mitigation practice issued by Government Having been based within the and advisors.
London market for a number of Dashboard: Dashboard: years, we know our markets and Review of IT systems and areas well.
Impact infrastructure in place to ensure Impact High these are as robust as possible.
High We regularly monitor the London economy and What we have done in 2016 17 Probability post-mitigation commission research reports.
We have progressed our work on Probability post-mitigation Unlikely We also hold regular meetings implementing actions from our Unlikely with the GLA and the councils cyber security action plan and in the London boroughs in which started to increase awareness Change from last year Change from last year we operate to ensure that we are No change of threats and risks through aware of any changes coming education and training No change through ahead of time.
Risk appetite Risk appetite Medium What we have done in 2016 17 The Board undertook an update Medium We have undertaken an enhanced and awareness session on cyber review of our five-year plan, security in February 2017.
Link to strategy: aligned to work undertaken on Link to strategy: Right properties the Viability Statement.
This has Right markets Right people included some stress testing of Right customers Right brand key performance measures and covenants, were there to be a Link to KPIs: Risk impact major incident affecting London, 2.
Trading profit after interest Loss of critical data.
or major changes in demand for 5.
Like-for-like rent roll Financial loss due to fraud.
ft. Reputational damage These results show we are well 7.
placed to handle any temporary 9.
Total Shareholder Return Potential loss of income.
drop in occupancy from a major incident.
39Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
