PrinCiPAl riSKS AnD UnCerTAinTieS We manage risk to help us achieve ourstrategic objectives inadequate levels of innovation and protect ourreputation.
risk area and potential impact The Group faces a number of risks which, should they materialise, We operate in markets in which our competitors are continually innovating in order to maintain customer and consumer interest in their products and to attract could affect our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.
The Board customer and consumer interest for new products.
If we do not successfully has overall responsibility for ensuring the effective management innovate we may lose customers and consumers and we may fail to attract new of risk across the Group.
It is supported by the Audit Committee customers and consumers.
That would result in fewer sales, loss of profit and failure to meet growth targets.
which reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management mitigating controls processes and internal controls.
Responsibility for the day-to-day We have a strong new product development and innovation team who are management of risk is delegated to the Executive Committee based at our Innovation Centre on the Harper Adams University campus.
That which reviews the business performance and the risks and threats team works closely with Harper Adams University leveraging the research and being managed at each of its meetings.
Executive Committee other expertise of the University, including taking students on secondment into our innovation team.
The innovation teams brief includes enhancing the meeting minutes are routinely reviewed by the Board.
All functions appeal of existing products, driving product and manufacturing efficiencies of the Group are represented at Executive Committee enabling the and improvements and developing new exciting products and variants of existing products.
Continued investment in innovation enables our business to Committee to manage the Groups risks on an on-going basis.
maintain or outstrip innovation in the rest of the market.
Focusing an element of senior management remuneration on innovation through the use of a balanced risk appetite: The Board believes that the assumption of informed risks enables the delivery of long-term success.
It determines the nature and extent scorecard including an innovation target for the Groups share based long-term of significant risks the Company assumes to achieve its strategic objectives.
The incentive plan helps to ensure continued focus on and drive behind innovation as does the publicly adopted target of achieving 10% of revenue from products Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks which the developed in the last three years.
Company faces including those that would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
input cost volatility risk area and potential impact risk management process: Each key function in the Group is required to prepare a risk register for its area of accountability.
Functional risk registers are Volatile milk and non-milk costs vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and reviewed by the Executive Committee and from them the Group risk register is packaging could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other compiled.
It is formally reviewed by the Board when the Group sets its budget in cost efficiencies elsewhere or increase selling prices.
The Group Internal Audit function reviews the Group risk register at the start Milk prices could remain volatile driven by global and European commodity of each year.
It is a key component of the compilation of its annual audit plan.
market pressures as well as local market and environmental factors.
All Group Internal Audit function reports are provided to the Executive and Audit mitigating controls Committees.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups Internal Audits reports and progress against its work plan.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board Key input cost trends are continually monitored by our experienced procurement after each meeting.
Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance over team and are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee.
Milk and vegetable the management and mitigation mechanisms.
This process explicitly recognises oil are critical inputs for the Group.
Milk price negotiations are conducted following the relationship between Group Internal Audit and risk management.
The Audit careful review with the Executive Committee which provides the procurement Committee is satisfied that the processes are adequate and appropriate.
Further team with a specific mandate.
The use of a balancing contract with direct milk details of the Groups approach to risk management and internal control are set suppliers introduced in the first quarter of the financial year enables better out in the Corporate Governance report at pages 32 to 33. balancing of milk supply and demand thereby reducing the risk of milk oversupply resulting in lower recoveries.
The balancing contract helps to reduce our exposure risks and uncertainties: Details of the principal risks and uncertainties faced to lower value commodity markets thereby supporting the Groups strategy of by the Group and the associated mitigating controls are set out on this page focusing on branded and added value markets.
Vegetable oil is reviewed monthly and on page 17.
Although the Group has an on-going process for identifying, by a risk committee which monitors and hedges forward vegetable oil purchases evaluating and managing the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, as appropriate.
We seek to absorb short-term cost movements through supply additional risks which are not presently known to management could also have an chain efficiencies.
Our procurement and commercial teams have clear lines of adverse effect on the Group.
The risks and uncertainties referred to in this Annual communication between them to ensure customers are kept aware of changes to Report are not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks facing the Group.
our cost base and requests for price increases can be fully justified.
entry into new product areas or territories Commercial risks risk area and potential impact reduced profitability The dynamics of new categories may not be in line with our expectations resulting in lower than anticipated margins, lower than anticipated volumes, longer than risk area and potential impact anticipated payback on investment and higher than expected costs to access We operate in competitive markets.
If we fail adequately to control our cost markets.
base, to compete effectively or are subject to higher input prices that cannot be mitigating controls recovered by raising selling prices without losing volumes, we could lose sales and profits.
We work with commercial partners who are already established in new categories and markets where the Group is not already operating or present.
Contractual mitigating controls relationships with these established commercial partners for the sale and We set ourselves the target of continually reducing our cost base and are able to distribution of products in new categories and markets enable the Group to have invest in our supply chain to help achieve this.
certainty over minimum levels of returns and known costs of accessing new Despite challenging trading conditions we continue to invest in marketing our markets.
Our innovation programme continues to generate new products operational risks that reinforce our appeal to customers.
We recognise the importance of strong customer relationships and the executive team plays an active part in maintaining inability to source milk and developing these.
They are also involved in major customer negotiations.
We conduct customer surveys to benchmark our performance and we continuously risk area and potential impact monitor the service and quality levels provided to our customers and consumers, Without milk we would not have a business.
Restricted milk supply could be and have procedures in place to react quickly to any issues.
Our commitment to caused by economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an epidemic which corporate responsibility is an important part of our overall proposition to some affects dairy cows.
This could lead to lower sales and profits.
confidence in dairy products could also be adversely affected.
reduced demand from consumers mitigating controls risk area and potential impact We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with our milk Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, ethical, suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and pressures that or other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
affect both the farms and our business.
Our milk comes directly from farms on contracts that include a notice period of between three months and one year.
mitigating controls Our experienced milk procurement team understand milk production and are Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor consumer alert to changes in supply.
We aim to pay a fair, market related milk price and trends.
We continue to promote the health benefits provided by dairy products closely monitor the milk price we pay to suppliers.
Significant effort is expended and develop healthier products.
We also continue to maintain our focus on by our team of dedicated Farm Business Managers to make the Group an developing a compelling new product development pipeline, enabling us to react attractive purchaser of milk for our suppliers, including working closely with our to consumer trends, for example with more  packaging, direct supplying farmers providing valuable support to them with their businesses.
and healthier variants of our key brands.
We have a direct involvement with We have contingency plans established for major incidents and work closely with government to understand and influence future legislation that could affect future DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate.
These plans are consumer demand.
regularly tested and reviewed by the Executive Committee.
16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Failure of a key supplier mitigating controls risk area and potential impact Implementation of and strict adherence to manufacturing procedures designed to ensure product meets specification.
Assurance over adherence to those We are dependent on key suppliers and could lose sales and face financial procedures is provided by internal technical audit, customer audit and external penalties from customers if a suppliers failure leaves us unable to supply.
Our contractual relationship with Fonterra, who sell the infant formula of key information technology suppliers could adversely affect our financial ingredients we produce, allows us to utilise its experience in producing product systems.
which conforms to the required specification.
Focus on continual enhancement mitigating controls of site team capabilities through technical training and behavioural programmes coupled with ensuring appropriately experienced and skilled people are recruited Our procurement team regularly monitors suppliers ability to supply and puts into and retained in the team.
We have a short milk supply chain with good in place alternative arrangements, including dual purchasing, if appropriate.
We traceability and strict controls to ensure quality.
Farm audits ensure supplier have taken specific actions to reduce our dependency on information technology compliance with quality requirements.
People risks Disruption to production recruitment and retention risk area and potential impact risk area and potential impact An accident, a fire, product contamination, the failure of equipment or systems, a deliberate malicious act, or industrial action could disrupt production, affect We need to attract and retain high quality employees to provide customers and food safety, cause injury, and or cause reputational damage with adverse consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
We are also reliant on information technology and are exposed to losses in the event that systems fail.
mitigating controls We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits mitigating controls to ensure we can attract and retain the best people.
We have a widely applied Plans are maintained to respond quickly to incidents and minimise any impact bonus scheme and a range of other incentives to reward good performance.
Our business is committed to the health and safety of all our Our share based long-term incentive plan aligns the interest of management to employees and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to work shareholders and helps to retain key senior employees.
All of our manufacturing sites have a trained engineering resource, are review and talent management scheme to identify and develop our own people.
supported by our major equipment suppliers and hold appropriate stocks of We undertake regular surveys to monitor our relationship with our employees and spare parts.
They also all have fire protection systems and regular fire drills.
Our their engagement, communicate with them regularly and encourage them to ask information technology systems are regularly backed up and duplicated in the questions.
Appropriate safeguards such as firewalls are in place to thwart cyber attack and the robustness of those safeguards is regularly and routinely Financial risks tested as part of our cyber security programme.
We are also advised by a Pension scheme reputable insurance broker and maintain insurance cover for public and product liability, product recall and property damage and business interruption risks with risk area and potential impact reputable insurers.
We maintain strong relations and communication with staff Despite the action we have taken to reduce the risks associated with our pension organisations and trade unions including at National Officer level.
Established scheme, including closing the scheme to future accrual in 2010 and buying grievance and disciplinary procedures are well embedded in the business and insurance to meet the liabilities associated with many of our retired members in compliance with them is managed through a strong Employee Relations function.
2008 and 2009, the deficit could continue to increase and we may then have to Pay benchmarking processes and centrally controlled pay negotiations are in increase our contributions.
The risk of a need for higher cash contributions to the place to ensure pay remains competitive against the market and in line with scheme over a longer than anticipated period may be increased by a persisting the Groups stated remuneration aims.
Regular employee engagement surveys low gilt yield environment.
enable us to maintain a good on-going understanding of staff satisfaction and to identify emerging issues or trends and understand the effectiveness of actions mitigating controls undertaken to manage them.
We continue to work closely with the Trustee of the Pension Fund to improve the major projects Funds financial position at an acceptable cash cost to the business.
We have reduced the Funds exposure to equities and other higher-risk asset classes risk area and potential impact and aim to do so further.
The strength of the Companys covenant and ability To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational projects to continue to fund contributions has been improved by the sale of the Dairies following strategic reviews or have to undertake major projects or works in business.
response to the changing condition of our infrastructure.
Successful execution legal and compliance risks of these projects is often key to delivering strategic objectives.
At the same time we have to ensure that major projects do not divert from the on-going day-to-day Compliance with laws delivery of products and services to our customers.
risk area and potential impact mitigating controls Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements.
There is a We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced and risk of fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these.
Supervisory governance structures are also put in place to help successful delivery.
We are aware that mitigating controls too much change concentrated in too short a timescale can be detrimental We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers.
We and manage this by ensuring key project resource is full time with appropriate have undertaken Group-wide training in respect of competition law and actively backfilling and use of third parties.
monitor and adjust to on-going legal and regulatory changes.
We have Business Conduct and Data Protection Policies and programmes designed to ensure Product quality that all relevant employees understand what is and is not permissible under the risk area and potential impact Bribery and Data Protection Acts.
Failure to maintain product quality could lead to reputational damage and loss regulatory change of sales and profits.
As we start to manufacture ingredients for infant formula this risk could increase.
risk area and potential impact Food safety and product specification regulations affecting the UK and other mitigating controls jurisdictions where products are sold impact the products that we manufacture.
We have well-established supply chains and a close working relationship with our Regulatory authorities regularly enact changes to food safety and product milk suppliers.
We have an independent quality team, including experienced cheese specification legislation.
Changes to legislation could result in restrictions on the graders.
Customer and consumer complaints are monitored and acted upon.
movement and sale of the Groups products and raw materials between territories Where possible we have liability caps in our contracts and using the advice or require changes to the production processes or specification of our products.
of a reputable insurance broker we have product recall liability insurance in place with reputable insurers.
Our contractual relationship with Fonterra, who sell the mitigating controls infant formula ingredients we produce, allows us to utilise its experience in this field.
We have a strong technical function which routinely monitors planned and implemented changes to food and ingredients legislation in the UK and other risk area and potential impact relevant jurisdictions which might necessitate changes to our production If we dont meet stringent infant formula specifications for added value ingredients processes or product specifications.
Our product development function works products we will not be able to sell those products for their intended use.
That in tandem with the technical function and key supplier partners and customers could lead to lower than anticipated sales volumes of infant formula grade to respond to anticipated or implemented legislative changes.
The Group products associated with which would be lower than anticipated profits: customer has invested in its technical and product development functions and has its confidence may also be eroded as a result.
technical and innovation centre at Harper Adams University with which we have a cooperation agreement providing access to state of the art academic and technical expertise.
We are a member of recognised industry bodies who represent our interests, along with others in the food and dairy industries and advise and lobby on our behalf.
We have close links with UK government and government representatives to help represent our interests in jurisdictions outside the UK together with commercial partners already established in other jurisdictions.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 17 Strategic report
