Principal risks and uncertainties management of the operational risks within Our risk management approach Risk management structure ourbusinesses and also to provide an We take a bottom up, top down approach Whilst some risks such as treasury risk understanding of the scale of risk exposures torisk management, first building a picture aremanaged at a Group level, all of our and appetite in the context of our strategic ofthe principal risks at divisional level, then businesses own and manage the risks they goals, in both cases helping us to set consolidating those principal risks alongside face with appropriate assistance from the appropriate parameters for risk and assess Group risks into a Group view.
theextent to which our risk mitigations During the year we developed our risk appetite andcontrols are appropriate and in line statement which has been formally approved withappetite.
We will use this to assist in the The current structure is as follows: Responsibility Process The Board has overall responsibility The Board reviews and Board and Audit Committee forthe Groups systems of internal confirms Group and control and their effectiveness.
divisional risks and theAudit Committee The Audit Committee has a specific reviews the Groups risk responsibility to review and validate management process.
thesystems of risk management and internal control.
The Executive Committee reviews the The Executive Groups risk management processes.
Committee and other Internal Audit provides assurance Group management Internal Executive onthe key risk mitigating controls review and challenge Audit Committee andensure that the audit plan is Group and divisional appropriately risk-based.
The divisions and Group functions Divisional and Group risk management have responsibility for champions maintain and Divisions the identification and management update risk registers for ofrisks, developing appropriate their function or division.
mitigating actions and the Risks and mitigating actions are monitored maintenanceof risk registers.
through normal business management processes.
The Groups principal risks are set out in Principal risks and uncertainties thetable on pages 33 onwards.
These risks Our risk management methodology is aimed have been assessed taking into account at identifying the principal risks that could: theirpotential impact both financial and adversely impact the safety or security of the reputational : the likelihood of occurrence, Groups employees, customers and assets: andany change to this compared to the have a material impact on the financial or prioryear and the residual risk after the operational performance of the Group: implementation of controls.
Further information on our risk management processes is impede achievement of the Groups strategic contained in the Corporate Governance objectives and financial targets: and or Reporton pages 54 and 55. adversely impact the Groups reputation or stakeholder expectations.
32 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Strategic objectives To deliver our strategy, it is important that we understand and manage the risks that face the Group.
The table below outlines our principal risks and identifies which of our strategic objectives may be affected by those principal risks.
Driving Responsible growth Continuous partnerships through improvement Prudent with our Focused and attractive in operating investment customers disciplined commercial and financial in our and bidding propositions performance key assets communities Economic conditions Political and regulatory Contract businesses including rail franchising Competition and emerging technologies Information technology Treasury and credit rating Pension scheme funding Compliance, litigation and claims, health and safety Labour costs, employee relations, recruitment and retention Disruption to infrastructure operations Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Economic conditions including Brexit implications To an extent, our First Bus and Greyhound Continued low oil prices have Changing economic conditions affect our different operating companies are able to modify adversely affected our businessesin differentways.
services to react to market changes.
A less positive economic outlook could have a negative impact on our businesses in terms of reduced demand and All of our businesses focus on controlling The UK departure from the reduced opportunities for growth or to retain or secure new costs to ensure they remain competitive.
European Union Brexit may business.
Our First Rail businesses areparticularly sensitive adversely impact the UKs tomovements in key economic indicators.
Thesame factors economic position which in could also affect our key suppliers.
turn may have an adverse impact on theGroups UK An improving economic climate, particularly when combined operations.
with lower fuelprices, may result in reduced demand for publictransportation in our Greyhound and First Bus These factors have increased businesses as alternative modes of transport become the risk during the year.
Improving economic conditions may also result in a tightening oflabour markets resulting in employee shortages, pressure toincrease pay, or affectthe availability of public funding for transport services.
Political and regulatory The political landscape within which the Group operates The Group has dedicated legal teams The Bus Services Act came into isconstantly changing.
Changes to government policy, intheUK and North America who advise force in April 2017 and includes fundingregimes, or the legaland regulatory framework onemerging issues.
devolved powers to regulate bus mayresult in structural market changes or impact the services in local areas, subject The Group actively engages with the Groups operations interms of reduced profitability, to certain criteria being met.
relevantgovernment and transport bodies increased costs and or areduction in operational and policymakers to help ensure that we The risk has increased in .
areproperly positioned to respond to any theyear as Brexit, the new proposed changes.
administration in the USA, andthe shift in the political Our continued focus on service quality and landscape in the UK could delivery helps to mitigate calls for structural bring about changes inboth market change.
how we operate and inthe markets we serve.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Contract businesses including rail franchising Approximately fifty percent of the Groups business is The relevant Divisions have experienced and No material change during contracted, whichisdependent on the ability to renew and dedicated bid teams who undertake careful theyear, although the award of secure newcontract wins on profitable terms.
Failure to do economic modelling of contract bids and, the South Western franchise so wouldresult inreduced revenue and profitability and where possible, seek to negotiate risk sharing will increase the size of our incorrect modelling orbid assumptions could lead to arrangements withthe relevant customer or contracted operations.
greaterthan anticipated costs or losses.
Failure to comply with contract terms could result in The Group also has a comprehensive review termination, litigation andfinancial penalties and failure to process for rail bids as they are developed winnew contracts or non-renewal of existing contracts.
and finalised involving a number of divisional and Group functions as well as final Board Competition for new rail franchises is intense.
againstrail operators from both the UK and other countries.
Failure towin franchises in the future will result Compliance with our rail franchise inalower First Rail division contribution and profitability.
agreements is closely managed and monitored on a monthly basis by senior The GWR, TPE and South Western franchises cover management and procedures are in place aperiodduring which there will be significant change tominimise the risk of non-compliance.
includingmajor infrastructure work, electrification and resignalling as well as the introduction of new trains, whichrequire careful planning and management.
Failure tomanagethese risks adequately in accordance with our planscould result in financial and reputational impacts to theGroup.
Competition and emerging technologies All of the Groups businesses both contract and The Group continues to focus on service No material change during non-contract compete inthe areas of pricing and quality and delivery as priorities in making our theyear.
services attractive to passengers andother customers, across our portfolio of businesses.
Our main competitors include the private car and existing andnew public and private transport operators across In the UK, we have established a dedicated allourmarkets.
Emerging technologies such as Uber, cross-divisional Consumer Experience Team ridesharing apps and price comparison websites make focused on improving our service to customers accessto alternative transport solutions easier.
and improving access to our services.
Increased competition could result in lost business, In our contract businesses, a competitive reducedrevenue and reduced profitability.
bidding strategy and astrong bidding team are key.
In addition, wherever possible, the Group works with local and national bodies to promote measures aimed at increasing demand for public transport and the other services that we offer.
34 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Information technology IT and cyber security The Group relies on IT in all aspects of our businesses.
Any As a result of the continuing threat No material change in the significant disruption or failure, caused byexternal factors, ofcyberattacks, we have implemented year, however, web and mobile denial of service, computer viruses or human error could newthreat detectionsystems but continue sales channels remain of result in a service interruption, accident ormisappropriation toremain vigilant to security improvements increasing importance across of confidential information including creditcard and personal when identified.
Process failure, security breachorother operational The Group has also increased its focus on Cyber security remains difficulties may also lead to revenue loss or increased costs, asset management and further enhanced highrisk.
fines, penalties or additionalinsurance requirements.
itsIT security processes and procedures Prolonged failure of oursales websites could also adversely during the year.
The Group has further strengthened its Continued successful delivery and implementation of the ITproject management capability during Greyhound ITtransformation plan is required to improve theyear, particularly within Greyhound.
yieldmanagement and drive future growth.
Failure to properly manage the implementation of new IT systems mayresult in increased costs and or lost revenue.
Treasury and credit rating As set out in further detail in note 24 to the financial The Groups Treasury Committee manages The reduction in the Groups statements on pages 116 to 118, treasury risks treasury policy, and delegatedauthorities are leverage from 2.3 times net includeliquidity risks, risks arising from changes to reviewed periodically to ensure compliance debt:EBITDA to 1.9 times at foreignexchangeand interest rates and fuel price risk.
with best practice and to control and monitor the end of the financial year, these risks appropriately.
and improved cash generation Foreign currency and interest rate movements may impact has reduced the level of risk.
theprofits, balance sheet and cash flows of the Group.
The Group is continuously focused on improving operating and financial Ineffective hedging arrangements may not fully mitigate performance as part of our strategic lossesor may increase them.
objectives as outlined on page 8.
The Group is credit rated by Standard & Poors and Fitch.
Adowngrade in the Groups credit ratings to below investmentgrade may lead to increased financing costs andother consequences and affect the Groups ability toinvest in its operations.
Pension scheme funding The Group sponsors or participates in a number of Diversification of investments, hedging No material change in the year, significant defined benefitpension schemes, primarily ofliabilities, amendment of the defined however, the Company has intheUK.
benefitpromises and the introduction given notice to the UK First ofdefined contribution benefits for new Bus Pension Scheme to close Future cash contribution requirements may increase or starters in First Bus, FirstGroup corporate to future accrual from April decrease based upon financial markets, notably investment functions and our Canadianbusinesses 2018.
This will further reduce returns and valuations, the ratesused to value the liabilities havereduced theserisks.
the size and volatility of the and through changes to life expectancy andcould result in pension funding risk over the material changes in the accounting cost and cash The Group also seeks to remove liabilities longer term.
from the balance sheet where itcan be achieved cost effectively.
Under the First Rail franchise arrangements, the Groups train operating companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise so there is only short-term cash flow risk within any particular franchise.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Compliance, litigation and claims, health and safety The Groups operations are subject to a wide range of Compliance with Group and divisional There has been no material legislation and regulation.
Failure to comply can lead policies and procedures.
change to the risk environment tolitigation, claims, damages, fines and penalties.
in the year: however, due to the The Group has a very strong focus on safety scale and scope of our The Group has three main insurable risks: third party injury and it is one of our five values.
TheGroup operations, risk mitigation in and other claimsarising from vehicle and general operations, self-insures third party and employee injury this area continues to be an employee injuries and property damage.
claims up to a certain level commensurate area of focus for the Group.
with the historical risk profile.
We purchase The Group is also subject to other litigation, which is not insurance above these limits from reputable insured, particularlyin North America, including contractual global insurance firms.
Claims are managed claims and those relatingto employee wage and hour and by experienced claims handlers.
Non-insured claims are managed by the A higher volume of litigation and claims can lead to Groups dedicated in-house legal teams increasedcosts, reducedavailability of insurance withexternal assistance as appropriate.
cover, and or reputational impact.
A large single claim or a large number of smaller claims maynegatively affectprofitability and cash flow.
Labour costs, employee relations, recruitment andretention Employee costs represent the largest component of the The Group seeks to mitigate these risks No material change during Groups operating costs, and political or union pressure to viaitsrecruitment and retention policies, theyear.
increase wages could increase thesecosts.
Competition trainingschemes and working practices.
foremployees, particularly inan improved economic Our working practices include building climate, canlead to shortages which increase costs communication and engagement with trade .
unions and the wider workforce.
Examples of High employee turnover could lead to higher than expected this engagement include regular leadership increasesin the cost of recruitment, training and employee conferences, employee surveys and the costs andoperational disruption.
presence of Employee Directors who are voted for by the employees to represent them Similarly, industrial action could adversely impact on many ofthe Groups UK divisional boards customerservice and have a financial impact on and the FirstGroup plc Board.
Where increased wages and incentives are necessary to attract and retain employees, those extra costs are factored into our bid models, where possible, to ensure appropriate returns are achieved.
36 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Disruption to infrastructure operations Our operations, and the infrastructure on which they We continue to develop and apply good No material change during depend, can be affected by a number of different external practice, and provide guidance to our theyear.
factors, many of which are not within our control.
These employees to help them identify and respond factors includeterrorism, adverse weather events and, effectively to any potential threat or incident.
potentially, climate change or pandemics.
We maintain close working relationships The threat from terrorism is enduring and continues to withspecialist government agencies, existinall of our markets.
Public transport continues to inrelation to terror threats, in both the UK beregardedas an attractive and viable target, and has andNorth America.
Across our businesses, We employ dedicated security specialists wetake all reasonable steps to help guard against such inthe UK and North America.
activity on the services we operate.
An attack, or threat of The geographic spread of the Groups attack, could lead to reduced public confidence in public businesses offers some protection against transportation, and or specifically in the Groups security specific incidents.
In addition, some of our andsafety record and could reduce demand for our contract-based businesses have force services, increase costs or security requirements and majeure clauses in place.
We have severe weather action plans Greater and more frequent adverse weather could lead andprocedures to manage the impact tointerruptions or disruption to service performance and onouroperations.
reduced customer demand with consequent financial The Group continues to target reductions impact, potential increased costs and accident rates.
inour emissions, including through As a leading transport provider, we face the challenge of behaviourchange initiatives and investment addressingclimate change, both through managing its innew technology.
The risks listed are not all of those highlighted by our risk management processes and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or currently deemed to be less material, may also impact our business.
Indication of a movement in a risk may not indicate a change in the overall net risk position after taking into account risk mitigations.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
