Strategic Report Executing our long-term strategy Risk Management Framework Supporting the achievement of SSEs strategic objectives The Groups objectives are set through the Strategic Framework.
To support the achievement of these over the past 12 months the Board has sought to further mature and embed the Risk Management Framework as detailed below that has been developed over the past three years.
For further information on how SSE manages risk, please see the supplementary Group Risk Report.
The Executive Committee and its suband analysis of relevant and current Following the 2016 17 review process, committees have responsibility for overseeing Management Information.
the number of Principal Risks to the SSEs Principal Risks.
During the third quarter Group was increased from nine to ten of SSEs financial year, a self assessment is Following presentation of the assessment with the pre-existing Cyber and Networks completed for each of SSEs Principal Risks information, the committees discuss and Failure risk being split into two separate by an assigned oversight committee.
This reach a consensus regarding risk trend risks Cyber Security and Resilience and assessment requires committee members more, less or equally material, overall Energy Infrastructure Failure.
In addition, to provide commentary on contextual effectiveness of the risk control and the Human and Relationship Capital changes in the risk and whether they consider monitoring environment, and whether any risk has been expanded and renamed, it to have become more or less material additional actions are required to improve the becoming People and Culture.
during the course of the year.
The outputs from the responses are consolidated into a report, one committee assessments are then presented The diagram below details SSEs wider for each Principal Risk.
The end reports are to the Executive Committee for full review, System of Internal Control and how the then presented back to the committees, along with any material changes resulting from this Risk Management Framework is aligned with the results of provisional viability testing being proposed to the Board for approval.
with the other elements of it.
System of internal control Corporate Governance Strategic Risk Management Assurance Standards and Quality Framework Framework Framework Framework Framework Group Risk Management and Board Internal Control Policy External Audit Group Policies Board Committees Review of the E ectiveness of the Internal Audit System of Internal Control Strategic Objectives Principal Risk Self-Assessment Group Compliance Executive Committee Risk Appetite Statement Governance Financial Group SHE Manuals Objective Viability Assessment Executive Sub-Committees Large Capital Projects Services Key Risk Indicators Responsibility Framework Divisional Risk Approach Divisions Business Divisional Procedures, Assurance Evaluation Processes and Systems Assurance Corporate Support Functions Risk Blueprint SSE plc Annual Report 2017 24 1.
The key elements of SSEs strategic In determining its appetite for specific risks, Risk Appetite Statement framework including the diversity of the Board is guided by three key principles: No business is risk-free and indeed the energy businesses within the SSE Group achievement of SSEs strategic objectives described above, as well as its financial 1.
Risks should be consistent with SSEs necessarily involves taking risk.
SSE will objective are fully reflective of its strategy, financial objective and core however only accept risk where it is riskappetite: values safety is SSEs number one appropriate, well understood, can SSE seeks to avoid over-exposure to value and it has no appetite for risks be effectively managed and offers any single part of the energy sector and brought on by unsafe actions: commensurate reward.
therefore maintains a balanced range of economically regulated and market- 2.
Risks should only be accepted where The markets in which SSE operates are based energy businesses: appropriate reward is achievable on inherently subject to a high degree of production, storage, transmission, the basis of objective evidence: and political, regulatory and legislative risk.
distribution, supply and related services Furthermore each of SSEs business divisions provide a balanced portfolio of business 3.
Risks should be actively controlled has differing levels of exposure to additional activities whilst keeping the depth of and monitored through the appropriate risks.
For example, the Networks business focus on a single sector energy: and allocation of management and is largely regulated and is characterised by Great Britain and Ireland gives SSE otherresources.
stable, inflation linked cashflows whereas a geographic markets focus and a the Wholesale and Retail businesses are clear understanding of the risks and The Board has overall responsibility for heavily exposed to energy market and opportunities in those markets.
determining the nature and extent of the risk commodity risk.
Affordability and industry it is willing to take and for ensuring that risks transformation also particularly affect the In areas where SSE is exposed to risks for are managed effectively across the Group.
Retail business while Enterprise is exposed which it has little or no appetite, even though to the risks that come with growth in a it has implemented high standards of control highly competitive market place.
and mitigation, the nature of these risks mean that they cannot be eliminated completely.
There are five related frameworks which, combined, comprise SSEs system of internalcontrol.
Corporate Governance Strategic Risk Management Assurance Standards and Quality Framework Framework Framework Framework Framework The Corporate Governance Framework is designed to ensure focus on the key components of high quality and effective decision making Group Risk Management and clarity, accountability, transparency and efficiency.
Board Internal Control Policy For further details please see page 58 of the External Audit Group Policies Directors report.
Board Committees Review of the E ectiveness of the Internal Audit The Strategic Framework comprises the Groups System of Internal Control strategic objectives, financial objective and our responsibility framework.
For further details please see page 12 to 23 of the Strategic Report.
The Strategic strategic framework forms the basis for all activity within the Risk Management Framework.
Objectives Principal Risk Self-Assessment Group Compliance The Risk Management Framework is underpinned by the fundamental principle that everyone at SSE Executive Committee Risk Appetite Statement Governance Financial is responsible for the management of risk.
The Risk Group SHE Manuals Objective Viability Assessment Management Framework supports each Division Executive Sub-Committees in managing its risks and helps to ensure that the Large Capital Projects Services Key Risk Indicators Board is able to meet its obligations.
Group Audit, Group Framework Compliance, Group SHE and LCP Services work together to provide an integrated programme of audit and assurance activity that is independent of Divisional Risk Approach the day to day operations of the Divisions and Divisions Corporate Functions.
Business Divisional Procedures, Assurance Evaluation Processes and Systems Assurance The Standards and Quality Framework sets Corporate out the expected standards and guidelines to Support Functions Risk Blueprint be followed in the delivery of the Groups core purpose providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
25 Strategic Report Executing our long-term strategy Risk Management Framework continued Group Principal Risks Commodity Prices Cyber Security and Resilience Oversight: Wholesale Risk Committee Oversight: Information Security and Privacy Committee The risk associated with the Groups exposure to fluctuations in The risk that key infrastructure, networks or core systems are both the physical volumes and price of key commodities, including compromised or are otherwise rendered unavailable.
Key electricity, gas, CO permits, oil and related foreign exchange values.
mitigations include significant longer term Security Programme 2 Key mitigations include the use of VaR monitoring measures and investment and ensuring staff awareness of security issues and daily assessments of commodity positions by a risk management theirimportance.
team which is independent of the trading teams.
Highly interconnected with SSEs other Principal Risks.
Limited level of interconnection with SSEs other Principal Risks.
Development and Change Energy Affordability Oversight: Executive Committee Oversight: Retail Risk Committee The risk of failing to recognise and react appropriately to The risk that the combination of the cost of providing reliable and competition, technological advancements and changes in customer sustainable energy and the level of customers incomes means expectations within the energy industry.
Key mitigations include the that energy becomes unaffordable to a significant number of SSEs implementation of various strategic change programmes which customers.
This risk is directly connected to political interventions are governed by SSEs Transformation and Large Capital Projects and commodity price exposure.
Key mitigations include and Governance Frameworks.
maintenance of a diverse generation fleet limiting exposure to a single commodity, as well as public policy lobbying to try to ensure the fair Moderately interconnected with SSEs other Principal Risks.
allocation of non-commodity costs related to energy provision.
Energy Infrastructure Failure Financial Liabilities Oversight: Executive Committee Oversight: Tax and Treasury Committee The risk of national energy infrastructure failure, whether in respect The risk that funding is not available to meet SSEs financial liabilities, of assets owned by SSE or those owned by others which SSE relies including those to its defined benefit pension schemes, as these fall on, that prevents the Group from meeting its obligations.
Key due under both normal and stressed conditions without incurring mitigations include wide-ranging asset management strategies, unacceptable costs or risking damage to its reputation.
Key mitigations and membership and participation in national security forums such include the mandatory maintenance of minimum borrowings and as the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure CPNI.
committed facilities to support forecast debt requirements, plus the ongoing fide-risking of SSEs defined benefit pension schemes.
Moderately interconnected with SSEs other Principal Risks.
Major Projects Quality People and Culture Oversight: Group Large Capital Projects Committee Oversight: Group Governance, Culture and Controls Committee The risk that major assets that SSE builds do not meet the quality The risk that SSE is unable to attract, develop and retain an standards required to support economic lives of typically 15 to 30 appropriately skilled, diverse and responsible workforce and years.
Key mitigations include the Large Capital Project Governance leadership team, and maintain a healthy business culture which Framework which ensures that all material capital investment encourages and supports ethical behaviours and decision-making.
projects across the Group are governed, developed, approved Key mitigations include clear expectations relating to conduct and and executed in a consistent and effective manner.
accountability, the SSE SET of values, well developed succession and diversity plans, and comprehensive training and learning Moderately interconnected with SSEs other Principal Risks.
Politics, Regulation and Compliance Safety and the Environment Oversight: Group Governance, Culture and Controls Committee Oversight: Group Safety, Health and Environment Committee The risk from changes in obligations arising from operating The risk of harm to people, property or the environment from SSEs in markets which are subject to a high degree of regulatory, legislative operations.
Key mitigations include crisis management and business and political intervention and uncertainty.
Key mitigations include continuity plans that are in place and regularly tested, which are the maintenance of dedicated Corporate Affairs, Regulation, Legal designed for the management of, and recovery from, significant and Compliance functions that provide advice and guidance safety and environmental events.
regarding the interpretation of political, regulatory and legislative Moderately interconnected with SSEs other Principal Risks.
changes to SSEs operating divisions.
Group Principal Risks High SSE operates in fast moving markets that People and are subject to a high degree of political, culture regulatory and legislative intervention.
It is therefore essential that SSEs Risk Politics, regulation and Management Framework is dynamic and compliance flexible, allowing decision makers to focus on material risk information that may have Cyber security an impact, whether positive or negative, and resilience on core objectives.
Development The Board and Executive Committee and change look to assess the Principal Risks that face the Group from a number of different Safety and the perspectives, including both individually environment and collectively.
This graphic illustrates Energy SSEs ten Group Principal Risks positioned infrastructure on a relative basis against two important failure metrics interconnectivity a highly interconnected risk has more ways to Major projects quality manifest than a less interconnected risk, and potential impact on Group viability based on selected critical risk scenarios Energy affordability developed in conjunction with businessexperts.
Financial liabilities In addition, the Principal Risks that were considered by their oversight Committees Commodity to have increased in materiality during the prices year are shown in red, with those whose Low materiality has not significantly changed Less More Potential impact on Group Viability are shown in blue.
No Principal Risk was deemed to have decreased in materiality.
Safety is SSEs most important value, and management of this risk remains SSEs highest priority.
It should be noted that Energy Affordability is particularly closely linked to and therefore impacted by Politics, Regulation and Compliance and Commodity Prices.
stream as well as the operational wind In addition to considering these in isolation, Viability Statement portfolio which provide flexibility of options.
the Directors also consider the cumulative As required within provision C. 2.2 of the This was demonstrated in the successful impact of different combinations of scenarios, UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board sale during the 16 17 financial year of a including those that individually have the has assessed the prospects of the Company 16.7% share of Scotia Gas Networks Ltd. highest impact and those that are most over the next 3 financial years to the period heavily interconnected with SSEs other ending 31 March 2020.
The Directors have To help support this Statement, over the Principal Risks.
determined that as this time horizon aligns course of the year a suite of severe but with the Groups current capital programme plausible scenarios has been developed for Upon the basis of the analysis undertaken, and is within the strategy planning period, each of SSEs Principal Risks.
These scenarios the Directors have a reasonable expectation a greater degree of confidence over the are based on relevant real life events that have that the Group will be able to continue to forecasting assumptions modelled can been observed either in the markets within meet its liabilities as they fall due in the be established.
which the Group operates or related markets period to 31 March 2020. globally.
Examples include persistently low In making this statement the Directors commodity prices for Commodity Prices : have considered the resilience of the changes to key government energy policies Group taking into account its current for Politics, Regulation & Compliance : Long Term Climate position, the Principal Risks facing the and, a major incident that results in the loss Change Risk Exposure Group and the control measures in place of a significant volume of customer data for In response to the 2015 Paris Agreement to mitigate each of them.
In particular the Cyber Security and Resilience.
on Climate Change, and out with the scope Directors recognise the significance of of the Viability Assessment, a number of SSEs strong balance sheet, and committed A formal assessment is carried out to stress scenarios have been assessed to consider lending facilities of 1.5bn which could be test the scenarios that most have the potential SSEs long-term resilience to carbon reductions drawn down in most circumstances.
to adversely affect SSEs ability to deliver its that would be required to prevent global core purpose of providing the energy people average temperatures rising by 1.5 C or The Group also has a number of highly need in a reliable and sustainable way against 2C.
Further detail is disclosed in SSEs attractive and relatively liquid assets forecast available financial headroom.
including a regulated asset base which benefits from a strong regulated revenue 27 Interconnections
