28 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management Effective risk management is crucial  objectives.
Risk management is the We target above market, risk adjusted place.
The Risk Committee reports to returns in our chosen healthcare real the Audit Committee, which regularly responsibility of the Board, estate assets, by developing assets monitors risk management and which sets the risk appetite ourselves as opposed to purchasing internalcontrol systems and reports only completed developments and using tothe Board.
and tolerances for the debt to gear returns up to 50% loan to business, determines the value LTV.
However, we seek to avoid, The Board has carried out a robust trap orheavily mitigate risks in all other assessment of the principal risks facing nature and extent of the areas of the business, including: the business.
These are the risks which principal risks the Company would threaten its business model, future is willing to take in achieving Property event risk by full insurance performance, solvency or liquidity and cover, full due diligence and are summarised on pages 30 to 33. its strategic objectives committed funds for acquisitions andensures that risk Development risk by only undertaking The Board has also considered which developments where there is already of the Groups strategic objectives may management and internal an agreement for lease in place be affected by these risks and its controls are embedded in Control risk by clear management findings are set out in the table below.
controls and Board reporting the businesss operations.
Gearing risk we maintain an During the year the Risk Committee, appropriate range of lenders and debt Audit Committee and the Board maturities with variable rate debt being considered the impact of Brexit on restricted to one third of our loan book, thebasis that the Group is a wholly on gearing up to 50% LTV UKbased operation with no reliance Political risk which could limit future onexports and concluded that it did growth but does not affect the not, in itself, constitute a significant risk current business assets.
Cyber security was investigated and, following an upgrade The Risk Committee met six times in to the IT systems, security and the year, to review the risk register, processes during the year, it was identify emerging risks and conduct considered that an appropriate level deep dives into individual risks to ofrisk mitigation was in place.
ensure thatsound assurance is in Strategic objective Focus Expertise Sustainability Effectiveness Changes to government policy Competitor threat Reduction in investor demand Failure to communicate Reduction in availability and or increase in cost of finance Failure to maintain capital structure and gearing Development overspend Key staff dependency Underperformance of assets Principal risk Operational Financial Strategic Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 29 Viability statement Having made reference to the principal Based on this consideration of In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the risks facing the Company, as laid out on principalrisks and the forecasting UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 pages 30 to 33, sensitivities which are exercise completed, the Board has the Code, the Board has conducted a considered severe but within the realms areasonable expectation that the review of the Companys current position of possibility have been applied to the Company will be able to continue and principal risks to assess the assumptions to review the potential inoperation and meet its liabilities as Companys longer-term viability.
impact on the Companys results and they fall due over the five-year period financial position.
The Board considers that A five-year period is considered applied include increases in interest thelong-term nature of the leases and appropriate for this review as this rates, a prolonged downturn in property financing arrangements in place means corresponds with the Companys investment valuations, an increased that the business model would remain strategic planning timeframe.
In riskof tenant default and a sustained viable in the event that further growth addition, the long-term nature of absence of rent review growth.
This ofthe business was not achieved.
leasesand debt facilities supports assessment has not assumed any anassessment over this period.
significant changes to government policy with respect to NHS estates Company forecasts are prepared using strategies or the GP reimbursement a comprehensive financial model which model, or any specific implications projects the income statement, balance asaresult of Brexit.
sheet, cash flows and key performance indicators over the relevant timeframe.
The model allows various assumptions to be applied and altered in respect offactors such as level of investment, investment yield, availability and cost offinance, rental growth and potential movements in interest rates and property valuations.
