30 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic risks Changes to government policy Movement Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate inyear Reduced funding for The Group proactively The Board monitors primary care premises engages with the Government changes in government expenditure could lead over policy that could impact policy and management toareduction in our the business, both directly reports to the Board at Net risk rating development pipeline andthrough the Healthcare every meeting.
Committee of the British Property Federation.
A change to the reimbursement mechanism for GPs could lead to a change inthe risk profile ofour underlying tenants.
Comment Estates strategies and STPs have recommended increasing investment in the primary care estate.
The reimbursement mechanism is not currently under review.
The Group has recently recruited a head of public affairs with NHS experience to make the case to the Government and the NHS ofthe benefit of investment in primary care infrastructure.
Competitor threat Movement Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate inyear Increased competition from We maintain our The Board receives Continuing use of our new purchasers could lead specialistknowledge, team regularproperty reports, specialist expertise.
to a reduction in our ability structure, and strong brand highlighting wherewehave to acquire new properties recognition with GPs, and lost tocompetitors and Net risk rating and a general increase in focus heavily oncustomer when new entrants are prices across the sector.
The market is increasingly competitive and every proposed transaction is reviewed by our Investment Committee to ensure thatthe prospective returns are adequate.
Comment A further significant increase in asset prices increases the risk of these returns not achieving our required level and our rate of acquisitions slowingsignificantly.
We have made substantial additions to our portfolio during the year.
Reduction in investor demand Movement Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate inyear Reduced investor We are open in The overall economy and The dividend yield and the demandfor UK primary care communicating our strategy itsimpact on the Groups underlying strength ofthe property could lead to a to investors andmaintain operations are regularly cash flows supporting it reduction in asset valuations anLTV range which is assessed and considered remain attractive relative Net risk rating and a fall in future profits.
inreviewing the Groups tootherasset classes.
This could arise from: The Board receives regular Changes in NHS policy reports on investorrelations Health of the UK economy andthedevelopment ofour Availability of finance share register.
Relative attractiveness ofother asset classes.
Comment The fundamentals for our sector remain very strong and the longevity and security of our cash flows have continued to generate strong investor demand for our shares in the past year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 31 Key: New No change Low Medium High Failure to communicate Movement Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate inyear Failure to adequately Strategic priorities areclearly The Board receives regular Investor communication, communicate the articulated incorporate reports on investor attitudes particularly through Companys strategy communications and the and the market.
face-to-face meetings, andexplain performance Groups performance is remains a key priority.
The Group maintains close Net risk rating may result in an increased transparently reported.
links with its two brokers, disconnect between We communicate which communicate investors perceptions regularlywith investors investor thoughts and ofvalue and actual andanalysts.
Comment 95 meetings have been held during the year.
Financial risks Reduction in availability and or increase in cost of finance Movement Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate inyear A reduction in available The Group has The Group regularly The Group actively engages financing could adversely predominantly long-term monitors and manages with a range offunders to affect the Groups ability to facilities which reduce itsrefinancing profile and ensure a breadth of funder source new funding and theserefinancing risks.
Net risk rating refinance existing facilities.
We continue to explore This could delay or prevent financing options with the development of new otherlenders as well premises.
asmaintaining strong relationships with Increasing financing costs existinglenders.
could increase the overall cost of debt to the Group and so reduce underlying profits.
Comment The current appetite for lending into the sector is very strong, given the quality of the underlying cash flows and, during the year, the Group obtained 300 million of unsecured debt at attractive rates.
Failure to maintain capital structure and gearing Movement Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate inyear Property valuations are Valuations and yields are The Group engages two It is possible to dispose inherently uncertain and regularly benchmarked external valuers to review ofproperties to preserve subject to significant against comparable property valuations.
The valuations are formally Net risk rating A fall in property valuesor The Board has established reviewed by the Board twice income couldadversely a target range for a net LTV a year.
ratio over themedium term Covenant headroom of 40% to50%.
All financial Breach of covenants could andgearing are regularly forecasting, including lead to forced asset monitored with reference fornew acquisitions, disposals which could topossible valuation considers gearing and reduce the Groupsnet movements and future covenant headroom.
The Board regularly reviews the capital structure of theGroup.
Comment The level of gearing is currently at 37% and this provides generous covenant headroom.
32 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks Development overspend Movement Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate inyear Development risk could The Group has a dedicated A high level of due diligence We remain confident ofour adversely impact the and experienced is undertaken before works ability to manage this risk performance of the Group as development team.
commence and detailed through our experienced a result of cost overruns and designs are negotiated to team of development The Groups policy is to Net risk rating delays on new projects.
surveyors and reduce engage in developments thepotential risk through that are substantially pre-let Regular reviews are theuse of fixed price with fixed price orcapped conducted of latest cost contracts and the use price buildcontracts.
estimates as each project ofperformance bonds.
A performance bond insures against the risk ofthe main contractor becoming insolvent.
Comment The potential impact of this has not changed during the year as the number of developments remains at a historically low level.
Key staff dependency Movement Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate inyear Failure to recruit, Competitive salary and Succession planning, team developand retain staffand benefit packages are structure and skill sets are Directors withtheright skills aligned with appropriate regularly evaluated and and experience may result peer groups and periodically planned.
The appraisal process acts Professional development as a two way discussion and training are encouraged forum to identify employee and costs aremet by aspirations and any theGroup.
Succession plans are Any employee resignations inplace for each are reported at each department.
Long-term incentive plans span five-year periods to encourage retention of keystaff.
Comment Nine members of staff are currently working towards a professional qualification.
We successfully recruited six qualified surveyors, a qualified accountant and a head of public affairs in the year and staff turnover remains low.
com 33 Key: New No change Low Medium High Underperformance of assets Movement Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate inyear Not all rent reviews The Group engages Leases are carefully The Group targets Retail areupwards only and experienced third parties reviewed on acquisition and Price Index RPI reviews challenges to reviews and toconduct rent reviews.
the Group does not acquire for new leases but ifthis is appeals could lead to lack leases with a tenant right unachievable then open Net risk rating of rental growth.
totrigger a downward market upwards only rentreview.
reviews or open market landlord trigger only reviewsare accepted.
Loss of income could The strategic importance of We are in regular contact We liaise with GPs andNHS Net risk rating arisefrom failing practices a practice to its location is a with GPs to ensure there are commissioning bodies to handing back GP contracts, key investment decision.
ensure continuing provision losing the right to rent of services from that practice.
reimbursement, and GPs remain personally liable becoming unable to meet as named individuals under their financial obligations the lease.
We review financial under the lease.
information provided by the NHS on our tenants and aspart of the acquisition duediligence.
Comment Approximately 28% of leases have fixed uplifts or are linked to RPI.
There are very limited cases of GPs threatening to hand back medical contracts and we are in active discussion with the tenants and NHS commissioning bodies in these cases.
