Risks Managing our risks effectively The Group faces a number of risks which could have a material adverse effect on our strategy, performance, results, financial condition and reputation Risk framework How we manage risks The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and internal control, Tate & Lyles enterprise risk management ERM and for setting the Groups risk appetite.
The programme facilitates a common, Group-wide schedule of matters reserved to the Board ensures approach to the identification, analysis and assessment that the Board makes a robust assessment of, of risks and the way risks are managed, controlled and monitored.
among other matters, the principal risks facing the Group, and determines the nature and extent of risk 1 it is willing to take for the Group to achieve its Identify strategic objectives.
risks Approach Process to identify risks 5 2 The Group-wide risk management and reporting Review and Assess process helps to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor risks risks and mitigate risk.
Principal risks are considered over a interactions time period of three years.
This annual process is both bottom-up and top-down.
The top-down aspect involves the Board assessing what it believes to be the principal risks facing 4 3 Tate & Lyle.
The bottom-up aspect of the process Respond to Prioritise involves a rolling programme of workshops, and mitigate risks facilitated by the risk management team, held risks around the Group.
During these workshops, current and forward-looking risks are identified which are collated and reported through functional and divisional levels to the Executive Committee.
Areas and behaviours which could potentially trigger risk combinations are also considered.
We combine the results of these processes to identify the Groups key business, strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks, and then develop action plans and controls to mitigate them as far as possible, to the extent deemed appropriate taking account of the Groups risk appetite.
These risks are then reviewed again by the Board, which also reviews emerging and black swan risks.
38 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Risk appetite Viability statement As part of the annual risk assessment process, In accordance with the provisions of the UK the Board and Executive Committee undertake an Corporate Governance Code issued in September exercise to consider the nature and extent of the 2014, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Groups risk appetite.
This exercise was refreshed Group, taking into account our current position and during the year with the help of an external risk the potential impact of the principal risks we face.
The results of this exercise are Although the Groups strategic plan, which the used as part of strategic planning activities, and in Board reviews annually, forecasts beyond three setting ongoing mitigating actions.
years, the current planning process provides for Managing risks the preparation of a detailed financial plan over a Individual executives in each division are assigned three-year period, built bottom-up on a divisional responsibility for managing risks and their basis, including anticipated capital and funding associated mitigating controls.
As part of the requirements.
For this reason, the Directors have process, senior executive management formally determined that a three-year period to 31 March confirms once a year that risks are being managed 2020 is an appropriate period over which to appropriately within their operations and that assess viability.
controls have been examined and are effective.
To assess viability, we stress-tested the strategic The confirmations and any exceptions are plan under four downside scenarios.
These were discussed at the Audit Committee and Corporate seen as key outcomes that would stress the Responsibility Committee, and, where appropriate, potential viability of the Group if one or more of reported to the Board.
the principal risks set out in this Annual Report The Executive Committee reviews the principal risks occurred.
The potential impact of these scenarios regularly and formally on a quarterly basis, and was assessed individually, and in combinations, reports any changes in the level or velocity of the on both a gross before mitigation and a net after risks, and associated mitigating actions, to the mitigation basis.
The four downside scenarios Board.
The Board reviews the principal risks at least modelled were a major operational failure causing every six months.
the shutdown of a large manufacturing facility for an extended period of time, a sharp decline in Principal risks sales in one or more of our major product lines, The Board has carefully considered the type and the loss of one or more of our key global customers, extent of the principal risks to the Group achieving and government actions or policies restricting or its objectives.
While the Group seeks to manage risk preventing our ability to operate in key markets.
carefully, at the same time the Board recognises In each case, it was assumed that our ability to that some risk needs to be taken for the Group to acquire financing or re-financing in the capital achieve its strategic goals.
markets remained available in all plausible Over time, the risk profile of the Group evolves and market conditions.
the Boards view of the principal risks is updated The impact of these risks occurring was measured accordingly.
This year, shareholder expectations by quantifying their financial impact on the strategic has been removed as a principal risk following the plan, and on the Groups viability when set against stabilisation and then improvement in the Groups measures including liquidity, credit rating and financial performance over the last two years.
We also Conversely, given increasing geopolitical uncertainty considered operational and commercial impacts.
over the last year in some of the markets we The results of this stress testing showed that the operate in, the Board has decided to add Group would, over the three-year period, be able government regulations and trade policies as a to withstand the impact of the most severe principal risk this year.
combination of the risks modelled by making The Board confirms that a robust assessment of the adjustments to our strategic plan and capital principal risks facing the Company, including those allocation priorities, and other available that would threaten its business model, mitigating actions.
performance, solvency and liquidity, has been Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm carried out.
The principal risks identified as part of that they have a reasonable expectation that the the process undertaken during the year, together Group will be able to continue in operation and meet with examples of the mitigating actions being taken, its liabilities as they fall due over the period to are set out on pages 40 and 41.
It is not possible to 31 March 2020. identify or anticipate every risk that may affect the Group.
com 39 Risks continued Principal risks Examples of how we manage the risk Health and safety policies and procedures at all facilities with Safety dedicated staff to ensure they are embedded and measured Act safely and maintain the safe operation of our facilities Regular review of performance and policies by the Corporate The safety of our employees, contractors, suppliers, and the Responsibility Committee communities in which we operate is paramount.
We must operate Maintenance of suitable insurance programme within local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to Programme of global compliance audits: senior executives also health, safety and the environment, including emissions.
Failure to undertake annual executive audits at most sites act safely, which could lead to loss of life or serious injury, may give Process safety management system in place to manage use of rise to fines or penalties for breach of safety laws, interruptions in hazardous chemicals operations or loss of our licence to operate, liability payments and costs arising from injuries or damage, and damage to our SafeStart behavioural safety training programme rolled out reputation.
across plants, offices and labs Comprehensive review of Group-wide safety protocols, procedures and culture being undertaken with the support of an independent external expert consultancy Investments to increase sales and technical resources, and Strategy infrastructure, particularly in emerging markets Growth in speciality food ingredients New staff recruited and existing staff developed to upgrade skill Tate & Lyles strategy is to become a leading global provider of sets in customer-facing areas and innovation speciality food ingredients and solutions.
Our ability to deliver that Enhancement of internal capabilities to promote growth through strategy may be affected by a number of factors such as delivering acquisition and partnerships, for example the new distribution growth in emerging markets, acquisitions, customers readiness to agreement with Sweet Green Fields for stevia ingredients adopt new ingredients and incorporate them in new product announced during the year launches, competitor actions, and growing key product or product Global programme to increase customer focus in key areas such families.
Failure to deliver our strategy over the longer term would as customer account management, planning and execution negatively affect our credibility, reputation and profitability.
Innovation and Commercial Development team conducts research Innovation and works closely with customers and other external Innovate and commercialise new products organisations to identify emerging consumer trends Failure to identify important consumer trends and provide innovative Open innovation team actively scouts for breakthrough solutions, and the inability to successfully commercialise new technologies and opportunities across industries and universities products, could impact the delivery of our strategy.
This would affect Global marketing organisation provides support for new product our performance and reputation.
launches and consumer and category insight Prioritisation of partnership opportunities with customers to accelerate development cycles and time to market for new ingredients Tate & Lyle Ventures invests in early-stage companies in the areas of food science and technology by partnering with research institutions, entrepreneurs and other venture funds Remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and reward People employees with ability and experience to execute Group strategy Attract, develop, engage and retain key personnel Talent development strategy to provide opportunities for Performance, knowledge and skills of employees are central to our employees, as well as training to close skills gaps success.
We must attract, integrate, engage and retain the talent Single global performance management system and talent required to deliver our strategy, and have the appropriate processes planning processes in place and culture in place.
Being unable to retain key people and Greater focus by the Board on succession planning for businessadequately plan for succession could have a negative impact on our critical roles performance.
Measurement of progress against cultural objectives, for example, global employee surveys Regular monitoring and review of changes in law and regulation Legal and compliance in areas such as health and safety, environment, quality, food Comply with legal or regulatory requirements, and our safety, corporate governance and data protection Code of Ethics Legal teams maintain compliance policies in areas such as We operate in a variety of markets and are therefore exposed to a anti-trust and anti-corruption law: and provide ongoing training wide range of legal and regulatory frameworks.
We must understand to employees and comply with all applicable legislation.
Any breach could have a Ethics training provided to employees financial impact and damage our reputation.
Whistleblowing process in place Speak Up programme Cyber security enhancement programme in place focused on Cyber security strengthening people, process and technology defences Maintain the security of our information systems and data Compulsory cyber security training A cyber security breach, whether as a result of human error, Cyber security breach scenario exercises deliberate action or the failure of technology systems, could result in Advanced perimeter defences in place unauthorised access to or misuse of information systems, Continuous vulnerability detection and defences technology or data.
This could cause harm to our assets, loss of data, business disruption, legal liabilities and damage to our Separation of systems within plant network reputation.
Third-party Security Operations Centre providing 24 7 security monitoring, security event correlation and threat countermeasures 40 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Principal risks Examples of how we manage the risk Preventive maintenance programme across the plant network Operations and supply chain Ongoing programme to improve global supply chain processes Maintain the continuous operation of our plant network and Business continuity capabilities in place to enable supply, as quickly supply chain, including high standards of customer service as practicable, of product to customers from alternative sources in Operating plants involves many risks which could cause temporary the event of a natural disaster or major equipment or plant failure or permanent breaks in production.
We must have a robust sales Dedicated internal resources allocated to key projects in and operations planning process to avoid disruption to the supply conjunction with business teams to ensure business continuity chain and maintain high standards of customer service.
Failure to do is not compromised any of these things could have a material adverse effect on our Customer service managed by Global Operations as part of performance and reputation.
integrated end-to-end supply chain process Strategic relationships with suppliers and trading companies Raw materials including multi-year agreements Fluctuations in prices and availability of raw materials, Balanced portfolio of supply and tolling contracts in operation energy, freight and other operating inputs with customers to manage balance of raw material prices and Our margins may be affected by fluctuations in crop prices due to product sales prices and volume risks factors such as alternative crops, co-product values and the Raw material and energy purchasing policies to provide security variability of local or regional harvests caused by, for example, of supply weather conditions, crop disease, climate change or crop yields.
Network of corn elevators to enhance security of supply In some cases, due to the basis for pricing in sales contracts, or due New or back-up supply sources in place in case primary suppliers to competitive markets, we may not be able to pass on to customers face localised challenges the full increase in raw material prices or higher energy, freight or Use of derivatives and forward contracts where practical, to hedge other operating costs.
Additionally, margins may be affected by and manage our exposure to raw material and co-product prices customers not taking expected volumes.
Strict quality control and product testing procedures to ensure Quality products are released only with full quality control clearance Maintain the quality and safety of our products Quality policies, procedures and performance reviewed regularly The safety of the consumers of our products is critical.
Poor quality by the Corporate Responsibility Committee or sub-standard products could have a negative impact on consumer Immediate response Recall Committee meets promptly if a recall safety and on our reputation and relationships with customers.
event occurs Third-party audit programme supplemented by internal global compliance audits Regular recall simulation exercises Global regulatory team, supported by external consultants, Consumer concerns and food regulation monitors local regulatory requirements affecting our products Changes in consumer, customer or government attitudes Global nutrition team initiates and monitors research and to our products publications concerning the use and functionality of our Our freedom or ability to operate may be affected by changes in ingredients and maintains global network of health and nutrition consumer or customer attitudes, food law and regulatory changes, clinicians, academics and experts political campaigns targeted at specific ingredients or technologies Membership of trade organisations provides access to broader or other factors that may impact the regulatory status or perception sources of information and ensures, where appropriate, a single of our products or of their functionality, efficacy or use.
We must voice for the industry on regulatory and public interest issues ensure that the science behind our ingredients for example, health affecting our ingredients claims, nutritional impact is supported by credible sources, clearly Maintenance of relations with regulatory authorities communicated and understood by relevant regulatory authorities.
Provision of clear information on ingredients provenance Failure to do so may restrict the markets for our products.
and traceability Research Advisory Group, chaired by a non-executive director and comprising leading scientific experts, reviews critical aspects of the Groups innovation activities and provides guidance Programme in place to ensure that we actively engage in Government regulations and trade policies discussions with political parties, influencers and regulatory Changes in government regulations and or trade policies authorities in the main countries we operate in Government actions or policies causing changes in quotas, tariffs or Active member of relevant industry trade associations customs duties, or imposing import export limitations, or other Model in place enabling production across the plant network to be barriers, may lead to our business incurring additional costs, or may adapted or optimised in the event of market restrictions in certain restrict opportunities for growth or prevent our ability to operate in countries certain markets.
Operation of a global plant network means customers can be served from different countries if products from certain markets are restricted or become economically less attractive Continue to invest in resources and infrastructure across different markets and geographies to diversify business mix Financial policies and standards are in place supported by procedures Financial controls for key financial processes, for example, capital expenditure Maintain an effective system of internal financial controls Financial risks are monitored and managed through a number of Without effective internal financial controls, we could be exposed to forums, for example, the regional Control Environment Councils financial irregularities and losses from acts which could have a Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer undertake detailed significant impact on the ability of the business to operate.
We must quarterly business and financial reviews safeguard business assets and ensure the accuracy and reliability of Process controls were reviewed during the year for existence and our records and financial reporting.
effectiveness Automated controls are built into systems where possible Key: new principal risk this year www.
