Financial review, Riskand Corporate responsibility Risk management Effective risk management underpins the Risk appetite successful delivery of our strategy.
Integrity, Our risk appetite is dened by our strategic objectives.
We invest capital in investment opportunities that will rigour and accountability are central to our deliver capital returns and portfolio and fund management values and culture at 3i and are embedded cash income tocover our costs, and increase returns to our investors.
inour approach to risk management.
Investment risk Understanding our risk appetite and culture The substantial majority of the Groups capital is invested in As both an investor and asset manager, 3i is in the business of Private Equity.
Before the Group commits to an investment, taking risk in order to seek to achieve its targeted returns for weassess the opportunity using the following criteria: investors and shareholders.
The Board approves the strategic objectives that determine the level and types of risk that 3i is return objective: individually assessed and subject to prepared to accept.
The Board reviews 3is strategic objectives a minimum target of 2x money multiple over three to and risk appetite at least annually.
five years: geographic focus: core markets of northern Europe and 3is risk appetite policy, which is consistent with previous years, North America: is built on rigorous and comprehensive investment procedures sector expertise: focus on Business Services, Consumer and conservative capital management.
andIndustrials: and Culture vintage: invest up to 750 million per annum in four to seven new investments in companies with an enterprise value Integrity, rigour and accountability are central to our values range of 100 million to 500 million at investment.
and culture and are embedded in our approach to risk management.
Our Investment Committee, which has oversight Investments made by 3iN need to be consistent with of the investment pipeline development and approves new 3iNs overall return target of 8% to 10% over the medium investments, significant portfolio changes and divestments, term and generate a mixof capital and income returns.
isintegral to embedding our institutional approach across the Other infrastructure investments made by the Group should business.
It ensures consistency and compliance with 3is financial be capable of delivering capital growth and fund management and strategic requirements, cultural values and appropriate fees which together generate mid-teens returns.
Members of the Executive Committee have responsibility for their own business or functional areas and Capital management the Group expects individual behaviours to meet the Groups 3i adopts a conservative approach to managing its capital high standards of conduct.
All employees share the responsibility resources as follows: for upholding 3is strong control culture and supporting effective risk management.
Senior managers, typically those who report There is no appetite for structural gearing at the Group to Executive Committee members, are required to confirm their level, but short-term tactical gearing will be used.
individual and business area compliance annually.
In addition, The Group does not hedge its currency exposure but it allstaff are assessed on how they have demonstrated 3is values does match currency realisations with investments where as part of their annual appraisal.
possible and takes out short-term hedges occasionally The following sections explain how we control and manage the to hedge investments and realisations between signing risks in our business.
They outline the key risks, our assessment and completion.
of their potential impact on our business in the context of the We have limited appetite for the dilution of capital returns current environment and how we seek to mitigate them.
as a result of operating and interest expenses.
Both Private Equity and Infrastructure generate cash income to mitigate this risk.
3i Groups Pillar 3 document can be found at www.
com 44 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Approach to risk governance The Board is responsible for risk assessment, the risk management Non-executive oversight is also exercised through the Audit and process and for the protection of the Groups reputation and Compliance Committee which focuses on upholding standards brand integrity.
It considers the most significant risks facing ofintegrity, financial reporting, risk management, going concern the Group and uses quantitative analyses, such as the vintage and internal control.
The Audit and Compliance Committees control which considers the portfolio concentration by revenue, activities are discussed further on pages 69 to 73. geography and sector, and liquidity reporting, where appropriate.
Risk governance structure Overview of risk management framework and governance structure Treasury Transactions Committee Board Audit and Compliance Committee Considers risk implications of specic Determines the Groups risk appetite Receives reports from the Head of treasury transactions as required.
as part of strategy setting.
Internal Audit on the Groups risk management processes and system A quorum of members meet Overall responsibility for maintaining of internal controls.
asystem of internal controls that ensures an effective risk management and Receives reports from the Head oversight process operates across ofGroup Compliance on regulatory the Group.
Considers risks to the Groups brand, Receives reports from the Head values and reputation as required.
ofTaxon the Groups tax position.
Meets at least six times a year.
Updated at each meeting on the outputs of the latest Group Risk Committee meeting with the opportunity to contribute views or raise questions.
Meets at least four times a year.
Chief Executive Investment Committee Executive Committee Group Risk Committee Central body approving all investments, Principal decision-making body in Delegated responsibility for risk divestments and material portfolio respect of managing the business.
management and oversight across the decisions.
Group, reecting the Boards appetite Meets monthly.
for risk and any specic limits set.
Considers risk in the context of individual investments, portfolio Maintains the Group risk review, which management decisions and summarises the Groups risk exposure divestments.
and associated mitigation or response plan based on risks identied.
Meets four times a year to consider the Group risk review, including adequacy of risk mitigation and controls.
Chairman provides an update at each Conicts Committee meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Deals with potential conict issues.
Committees of the Board Committees of the Chief Executive and chaired by the Chief Executive Independent review of potential conict issues Risk reporting to Audit and Compliance Committee 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 45 Financial review, Riskand Corporate responsibility Risk management continued The Board has delegated the responsibility for risk oversight to Risk management framework the Chief Executive.
He is assisted by the Group Risk Committee The Groups risk management framework is designed to support GRC in managing this responsibility, and guided by the the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
Boards appetite for risk and any specic limits set.
The GRC The key principles that underpin risk management in the maintains the Group risk review, which summarises the Groups Group are: principal risks, associated mitigating actions and key risk indicators, and identies any changes to the Groups risk prole.
the Board and the Executive Committee promote a culture in The risk review is updated quarterly and the Chief Executive which risks are identied, assessed and reported in an open, provides quarterly updates to each Audit and Compliance transparent and objective manner: Committee meeting where the Committee members contribute the Investment Committee ensures a centralised process-led views and raise questions.
The last risk review was completed approach to investment: and inMay 2017. the over-riding priority is to protect the Groups long-term The risk framework is augmented by a separate Risk Management viability and reputation and produce sustainable, medium Function which has specic responsibilities under the FCAs tolong-term cash-to-cash returns.
It meets ahead of the GRC meetings to consider the key risks impacting the Group, Managing the Groups Environmental, Social and Governance and any changes in the relevant period where appropriate.
ESG risks is central to how we do business and a key part It also considers the separate risk reports for each Alternative ofour risk management framework.
It also forms part of our Investment Fund AIF managed by the Group, including areas half-yearly portfolio company reviews as described in the such as portfolio composition, portfolio valuation, operational Valuations Committee report on page 74. updates and team changes, which are then considered by In practice, the Group operates a three lines of defence the GRC.
framework for managing and identifying risk.
The first line Assurance over the robustness and effectiveness of the Groups of defence against outcomes outside our risk appetite is overarching risk management processes and compliance with thebusiness function and the respective Managing Partners relevant policies is provided to the Audit and Compliance acrossPrivate Equity and Infrastructure, and Debt Management Committee through the independent assessment by Internal until 3 March 2017.
Audit and the work of Group Compliance on regulatory risks.
Line management is supported by oversight and control Assurance over the robustness of the Groups valuation policy functions such as finance, human resources and legal which is provided by the Valuations Committee, whose report can constitute the second line of defence.
The compliance befound on pages 74 to 76. function is also in the second line of defence: its duties include reviewing the effective operation of our processes in meeting In addition to the above, a number of other committees regulatory requirements.
contribute to the Groups overall risk governance structure, assetout on page 45.
Internal audit provides independent assurance over the operation of controls and is the third line of defence.
The internalaudit programme includes the review of risk management processes and recommendations to improve theinternal control environment.
46 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation A number of focus topics are also agreed in advance of each Risk review process meeting.
In FY2017, the GRC covered the following: The Group risk review process includes the monitoring of key strategic and financial metrics considered to be indicators of a preliminary analysis of the potential impact of the UKs potential changes in the Groups risk prole.
The review includes, decision to leave the EU on the Group: but is not limited to, the following reference data: a refresh of the Groups risk review process and reporting: Group and business line KPIs: an update on ESG issues and themes, especially with respect toits portfolio companies: portfolio analysis: a review of the Groups stress tests to support its Internal risk reports for managed AIFs: and Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and quarterly Group risk log.
Viability Statement: In addition to the above, the GRC considers the impact of any a review of the Groups IT framework including cyber security: changes and developments to its risk prole, strategic delivery the proposed risk disclosures in the 2017 Annual report and and reputation quarterly.
accounts: and The GRC uses the above to identify its principal risks.
It then an overview of the main risk management aspects evaluates the impact and likelihood of each risk, with reference of the Groups remuneration and performance to associated measures and key performance indicators.
The adequacy of the mitigation plans is then assessed and, There were no significant changes to the Groups approach to ifnecessary, additional actions are agreed and then reviewed riskgovernance or its operation in FY2017 but we have continued atthesubsequent meeting.
to rene our framework for risk management where appropriate, including further steps to monitor our investment in Action.
Further details on 3is approach as a responsible investor are available at www.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 47
