62 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 3.
People and Planet Health Performance Contractor Health and Safety Improving Safety with Better Reporting In line with our health and safety The health and safety of contractors principles, we have continued to focus working for Johnson Matthey is as A robust system for reporting and on supporting employees wellbeing.
important to us as that of our staff.
understanding safety incidents will Our specialist occupational physicians Our clear and determined efforts to also help drive improved performance.
were involved in several projects during ensure the safety of contractors was In April 2017, we replaced our existing the year, including a review of our reflected in two projects during the year.
system, which did not have sufficient emergency treatment options for acids.
During the construction of our platinum global consistency, with a new system As new treatments became available group metal refinery in China, we had called Enablon.
we wanted to explore how we might use zero lost time accidents over 700,000 Enablon has powerful reporting them in our own operations.
Our newly built factory for capabilities and formal action guidance to managers on stress, which is assembling battery systems in Poland also management to ensure that corrective a significant cause of occupational illness achieved health and safety excellence action is taken.
The system is globally at Johnson Matthey.
We also reviewed during construction, with zero lost time consistent and will enable us to analyse cases involving chemical exposure so that accidents over 330,000 man hours.
trends, giving clear visibility of incidents we can identify the symptoms more easily Overall, contractor LTIIR dropped and near misses.
This will help us as these cases are often misdiagnosed.
We saw a reduction identify patterns and proactively target 85% of our facilities around the from 11 lost time incidents during areas of concern before they escalate world conducted an annual sustainable 2015 16 to six during 2016 17.
Its analysis functionality health review and improvement planning number of contractor hours worked also provides a root cause analysis of process in 2016 17, which was a slight during 2015 16 and 2016 17 are very incidents and captures behavioural decrease on last year.
The top three issues similar at around four million hours.
identified were ergonomics, wellness There were no contractor fatalities in and chemical exposure management.
2016 17: the last one occurred in Combating Common Causes We use a health scorecard system October 2010. of Injury developed by the UK Chemical We revised our contractor safety Slips, trips and falls are also a common Industries Association to rate the level policy during the year and launched new cause of injury: 24% of our lost time of implementation of preventative guidance to help sites achieve compliance.
injuries come from these incidents.
programmes against our corporate There have been no other formal We have launched a training video in standards.
The scorecard includes changes to our contractor management 11 languages to help employees develop 14 key elements that align with our during 2016 17. positive behaviours to prevent these most significant health risks.
The video is used completed their health scorecard review My Team, My Responsibility at team meetings, inductions and during the year.
We saw a small decrease My Team, My Responsibility training awareness events, so that the risks are in the proportion of sites achieving A and builds on our EHS behaviour awareness front of mind among all employees.
B levels of maturity and a corresponding programme.
It is aligned with our EHS increase in sites reporting C and D grades, Behaviour Standard, which forms part mainly due to new sites self-reporting.
Process Safety Risk Management of our performance review process and We expect these grades to improve We take our responsibility to safeguard sets out expected behaviours around next year.
products and processes that are safety standards, communication, risk Employee occupational illnesses potentially harmful very seriously, management and involvement for all increased slightly from 0.9 cases per beyond simply complying with the law.
1,000 employees in 2015 16 to 1.0 cases One area of special concern for us This training builds on work we have per 1,000 employees in 2016 17.
Our is process safety risk management already done to encourage employees to overall number of occupational illnesses PSRM, which is all about how we safely take personal responsibility for safety.
remains very low and we expect to see manage our most hazardous processes.
Team leaders receive training on how to some annual fluctuations as these are We have implemented our own PSRM deliver the interactive programme.
Back subject to statistical variation.
policy, developed a process safety audit at their local site, team action plans are protocol and audited selected sites.
developed, along with how they will be We have worked with the Chemical tracked.
These are later submitted to a Industries Association in the UK to third party consultancy for audit.
develop national training standards The aim of the programme is to for process safety.
help us identify preventative measures to avoid incidents from happening in the first place.
It will also build the skills and confidence of team leaders, remove employee reluctance to speak up and make the right behaviours second nature.
