Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Like all businesses, our Group faces risks and uncertainties that monitor new risks and all mitigating actions to ensure that the Groups could impact the achievement of the Groups strategy.
These appetite for risk is not exceeded.
The Board recognises that each of risks are accepted as being a part of doing business.
The Board its strategic pillars could be compromised by any of the risks set out recognises that the nature and scope of these risks can change and below.
Individual Moving Up A Gear initiatives are reliant on some of so regularly reviews them as well as the systems and processes to the mitigations identified.
For example, Service in Our DNA delivery is mitigate them.
reliant on full utilisation of our online training system and on our ability to attract and retain good colleagues.
Better Shopping Experience is Our corporate risk register is maintained by the Head of Internal Audit reliant on our continuing investment in modernisation of our stores.
and Risk and is regularly updated following discussions with executives and senior management.
It is subject to an annual in-depth review The Group has discussed its risk register with its insurance broker by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is also alerted to any and ensures that it has cover to help to mitigate significant risks material changes to the register at each of its meetings.
The Board is where practicable and cost-effective.
regularly updated on Audit Committee proceedings.
Specific financial risks e. g. liquidity, foreign currency are detailed in The Directors have therefore carried out a robust assessment of note 21 to the Financial Statements on page 133. the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency or Key Risk and Uncertainty 1.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 58 to 69 further and Political discusses the Boards responsibilities in relation to risk management 3 9 2. Business Strategy and internal control systems.
Compliance Senior management colleagues assess risks on a department-by- 5.
Supply Chain Disruption 1 2 6 7 department basis using a variety of techniques to identify risk.
Product and Service likelihood and impact of these risks are considered and scored against a 4 5 Quality and Brand Reputation recognised framework dependent upon their effect on the achievement 7.
Information Technology of our corporate objectives.
Responsibility for taking the necessary IT Systems and actions to manage risk is delegated to appropriate colleagues in the Infrastructure business, with executive manager sponsor involvement.
Dependence on Key 8 Management Personnel Mindful of corporate strategy, executive management and the Board 9.
Financial Risk Low High consider the risks reported within the risk register and review and Probability Risk Management Framework Board and Audit Committee Overall oversight of risk management and internal control framework Full annual review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems, corporate risk register, and risk appetite undertaken by Audit Committee with assessment delivered to Board for approval Update on changes to risk and internal control environment presented by Internal Audit to Audit Committee at each meeting Whistleblowing Regular management Internal Audit Reports process presentations to Corporate Risk Board and Audit Regular KPI reporting Register Committee Shops, Workshops, DCs and Corporate Functions Internal Audit Customer Facing Businesses First Line of Assurance Second Line of Assurance Third Line of Assurance Operate within agreed policies and Identify developments in risk and Independently review quality procedures e. g. : internal control environment of key internal controls and mangement assessment of risk Delegated Authorities How We Develop and implement strategy, Do Business policies and procedures to Challenge management to drive Regular Internal manage risk up quality Quality Standards oversight Audits Maintain corporate risk register Performance Risk and Retail Guidelines Retail Basics monitoring internal control Health and Safety Policies analysis Colleague Handbooks Internal Audits Risk and internal control analysis 42 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 42 07 06 2017 16:37:21 Impact Low High STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Primary Links to Moving Up A Gear Risk Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Strategy Pillar Movement 1.
Economic, Environmental and Political The economy is a major influence The Group mitigates these risks by maintaining a focus on on consumer spending.
Trends the defensive characteristics of its needs driven product in employment, inflation, groups.
A firm focus is maintained on cost control.
Targeted taxation, consumer debt levels, promotions and excellent service are designed to attract and weather and interest rates retain customers.
Advanced econometric modelling is used to impact consumer expenditure understand the effect of weather conditions on our business in discretionary areas.
Changes and we ensure that marketing and merchandising can be in Government policies e. g. revised quickly.
Cycle to Work may also affect We also ensure that we have representation with our customers ability to benefit Governmental decision-makers in the areas supporting our from our products and services.
core categories, both directly and through membership of Withdrawal from the EU may trade bodies.
have an impact on consumer spending, please refer to page 41 for further information.
2. Business Strategy The aim of the Groups business The Group has set out its Moving Up A Gear strategy.
strategy is to deliver long-term Strategic issues are regularly reviewed at Board meetings.
Regular assessment is made to ensure that strategy remains The Board understands that appropriate, and that the business is making progress in if the strategy and vision are meeting its strategic objectives.
KPIs relating to strategy have inappropriately formulated, been communicated clearly, both within the business and to communicated, or executed then the market.
These KPIs are regularly discussed by the Board.
Our budget process recognises the importance of strategic initiatives.
Key investments and acquisitions could fail to deliver sufficient The Group has delegated authorities processes to approve returns.
The Autocentres and significant investments, including review by an Investment Cycle Republic businesses, and Committee and the Board.
We have recently created the our new acquisitions, could fail to post of Business Transformation Director, an executive level meet growth expectations.
role with a Group-wide remit to oversee strategic project management.
Autocentres, Cycle Republic and our new acquisitions have dedicated, experienced management teams supported by appropriate infrastructure and allocated resources.
The businesses have their own websites.
The performances of these businesses are closely monitored by the Board.
Key to strategic pillars Key to risk movement Risk increasing Putting Customers in the Driving Seat No risk movement Service in Our DNA Building on Our Uniqueness Risk decreasing Better Shopping Experience Fit for the Future Infrastructure STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 43 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 43 07 06 2017 16:37:22 Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Primary Links to Moving Up A Gear Risk Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Strategy Pillar Movement 3.
Competition The retail industry is highly The Board is aware of the risks faced from UK retailers both incompetitive and dynamic.
The shop and online, and from the national car-servicing networks Group competes with a wide and smaller independents.
variety of retailers of varying We have a significant investment programme to support sizes and faces competition from Moving up A Gear.
The investment programme is allowing us UK retailers, in both shops and to improve the service we provide to customers by improving online, as well as international the quality of our shops, IT infrastructure, training and website operators.
The car servicing including optimisation for mobile and tablet devices.
Excellent market is a service-based market service is fundamental to differentiating ourselves from our with a number of different-sized competitors.
We are increasing the number of sales that we are providers where trust is extremely able to associate with individual customers.
Failure to compete with competitors on The national geographical coverage of our shops underpins our areas including price, product Click & Collect offering.
Our WeFit service is a key differentiator.
range, quality, service and Our Cycle Repair and extended Parts, Accessories and Clothing trustworthiness could have an range offer confirm our credibility within the Cycling market.
adverse effect on the Groups The Group seeks to continually strengthen its own-brand retail financial results.
offer and develop opportunities to differentiate the Halfords brand, including TV, radio, press and social media advertising.
We also have high profile partnerships to market brands like Pendleton, Wiggins, Boardman and Orla Kiely.
Our Autocentres business continually seeks to provide innovative solutions for their customers, such as brakes4life.
Particular attention is given to the changes to our marketplace that are driven by the connected car.
The retail motoring team, digital team, and Autocentres management are working collaboratively to respond to opportunities and threats.
Compliance The Group operates in an Regulatory requirements are closely monitored by our Company environment governed by Secretarial team which includes colleagues with relevant legislation and codes in areas professional qualifications and experience.
The Group has including, but not limited to, Quality Assurance and Compliance teams working in both Listing Rules, trading standards, the Retail and Autocentres businesses.
Specialist Health and advertising, product quality, health Safety teams ensure that the Group has adequate policies and and safety, hazardous substances, risk assessments.
Retail margin erosions are minimised by a Bribery Act and data protection.
The Group recognises that failure Colleagues and management are trained to identify and handle to comply with ethical standards in-shop regulatory issues using Gears training modules on our could expose the business to online Learning Management System.
We have a Whistleblowing reputational risk and loss of hotline that allows colleagues to raise concerns in confidence.
We operate a Code of Conduct that clearly sets out our expectations of suppliers.
We have a corporate delegated authorities framework How We Do Business setting out key authorisation levels.
Anti-bribery and corruption training, and training on anti-competitive behaviours have been delivered through face-to-face and online training sessions.
The Group has a dedicated Investor Relations Team which ensures that there is frequent and appropriate communication with investors and the wider financial community.
The Group has a dedicated Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, which calls upon cross-functional support as required.
The Group has a comprehensive record of community engagement through events such as childrens bike workshops, and support of the Re Cycle charity.
Our training programme at HMP Onley was judged CSR Initiative of the Year at the 2017 Retail Week awards.
44 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 44 07 06 2017 16:37:23 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Primary Links to Moving Up A Gear Risk Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Strategy Pillar Movement 5.
Supply Chain Disruption Halfords sources a significant Extensive research is conducted into quality and ethics before proportion of the merchandise it the Group procures products from any new country or supplier.
sells in its shops from outside of The Groups strong management team in the Far East blends the UK, either directly or via thirdexpatriate and local colleagues.
It understands the local culture, party suppliers.
Consequently, market regulations and risks and we maintain very close the Group is subject to the risks relationships with both our suppliers and shippers to ensure that associated with international disruption to production and supply are managed appropriately.
trade particularly those which We work with suppliers in a number of territories to reduce are common in the import of the risks of disruption, and we monitor sourcing opportunities goods from developing countries nearer to the UK.
including, but not limited to, inflation, currency fluctuation, We maintain firm security and protection measures at our the imposition of taxes or other distribution centres.
We have business continuity plans charges on imports, the exposure to manage any incidents that may occur.
Our logistics are to different legal standards, the overseen by an experienced, dedicated warehouse and burden of complying with a variety logistics team who maintain contacts with a range of logistics of foreign laws and changing businesses who could be utilised if necessary.
We are closely foreign government policies and monitoring Brexit developments and preparing contingency natural disasters.
UK withdrawal plans for any changes in the nature of the border between the from the EU is likely to impact UK and the Republic of Ireland.
on our supply chain, although it is currently very difficult to predict how, pending ongoing .
The Group could also be impacted in the event of disruption to domestic logistic arrangements: for example, unavailability of distribution centres or road transport problems.
com 45 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 45 07 06 2017 16:37:24 Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Primary Links to Moving Up A Gear Risk Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Strategy Pillar Movement 6.
Product and Service Quality and Brand Reputation The Board recognises that the The Group constantly seeks to enhance its position as the shop quality and safety of both our or centre of first choice in each of the markets that it serves.
products and services in our Our 3-Gears training programme uses online modules to shops and Autocentres are of ensure that colleagues are consistently knowledgeable about critical importance and that any our products and able to deliver quality services to customers.
major failure will affect consumer This online training is reinforced by face-to-face learning and confidence and our reputation.
Shops use an accreditation matrix to ensure that Failure to protect the Groups all building and fitting is undertaken by competent colleagues.
reputation and brand could lead Product knowledge among colleagues is promoted through to a loss of trust and confidence.
specialist conferences for selected staff e. g. BikeHut managers.
This could result in a decline in We have also implemented measures to ensure that we attract the customer base and affect the and retain the best colleagues: for example, engagement surveys ability to recruit and retain good aim to identify opportunities to reduce colleague turnover, which people.
There is also the risk that is at its lowest for several years.
We have again been recognised our service proposition fails due as one of the Sunday Times 30 Best Big Companies to Work to inconsistent levels of service For.
Our recruitment processes are now centralised to improve at individual shops and individual efficiency and consistency.
Our products are risk assessed and rigorously tested for quality and safety by qualified engineers in our dedicated quality team.
We monitor customer comments and complaints and, when necessary, we have established recall processes.
We work closely with suppliers and frequently visit factories to ensure manufacturing standards are maintained.
Our Autocentres utilise a comprehensive quality assurance process with checks by centre managers.
Technicians are regularly checked to ensure quality of workmanship, and the priority status allocated to individual jobs is reviewed to ensure safety and prevent overselling.
There is a dedicated Operations Quality team.
We have recently adopted extended opening hours and implemented a new technician pay grading scheme to drive quality.
46 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 46 07 06 2017 16:37:27 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Primary Links to Moving Up A Gear Risk Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Strategy Pillar Movement 7.
Information Technology IT Systems and Infrastructure In common with most businesses, Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity of our Halfords is dependent on the systems and to ensure that systems changes are implemented reliability and suitability of a in a controlled manner.
Halfords key trading systems are number of important IT systems hosted within a secure data centre operated by a specialist where any sustained performance company remote from our support centre.
These systems are problems including those caused also supported by a number of disaster recovery arrangements by cyberattack could potentially including a comprehensive backup and patching strategy, and compromise our operational a hotlink secure data centre hosted in a different location.
IT capability for a period of time, recovery processes are tested regularly.
impacting on shops, centres We review our IT security processes and risk assessments on or warehouse, multi-channel an ongoing basis and our IT team has dedicated IT security and and distribution systems.
We utilise appropriate firewalls, and physical ambitious growth plans for our and logical system access controls.
We have undertaken multi-channel offer, our trading network penetration testing.
capacity could be affected by internal and external systems The Audit Committee is briefed by the Chief Information Officer resilience and interdependencies.
on the business IT security framework and continues to closely monitor this area.
Commercial data could be lost or stolen through cyberattack, sabotage, or other security breaches.
Press reports and professional advisors indicate that cyberattacks are becoming more sophisticated and common.
Dependence on Key Management Personnel The success of the Groups Our Remuneration Policy outlined on pages 78 to 88 details business depends upon its senior the strategies in place to ensure that high calibre executives management closely supervising are attracted and retained.
The Group looks to improve its all aspects of its business, in senior manager cadre through operating a talent management particular, the operation of the process to help individuals achieve their full potential within shops and Autocentres, including Halfords and to ensure that appropriate succession plans are the appropriate training of inin place to meet the future needs of the business.
On 3 May shop and centre colleagues, and 2017 the Chief Executive Officer, Jill McDonald, tendered her the design, procurement and resignation.
She will continue to work her 6 month contractual allocation of merchandise.
The search for her successor is underway.
Crucially, we have a talented group of engaged colleagues and a strong executive team who remain fully focused on the implementation of the Groups strategy.
At a junior level, the Group continues to invest in graduate and apprenticeship programmes and shop and Autocentre colleague training and development.
Dennis Millard Chairman 24 May 2017 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 47 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 47 07 06 2017 16:37:28 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 48 07 06 2017 16:37:31 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our Governance Board of Directors 50 Directors Report 52 Corporate Governance Report 58 Nomination Committee Report 70 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Report 72 Audit Committee Report 74 Remuneration Committee Report 78 Remuneration Policy Report 80 Annual Remuneration Report 89 Directors Responsibilities 98 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 49 07 06 2017 16:37:33
