Big Yellow has a five year management contract in place in each Partnership.
For the year to 31 March 2017, the Group earned management fees of 0.8 million.
The Groups share of the declared dividend for the year is 0.4 million, representing an 11% yield on our investment for the year.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The section below details the principal risks and uncertainties that are considered to have the most material impact on the Groups strategy and objectives.
These key risks are monitored on an ongoing basis by the Executive Directors, and considered fully by the Board in its annual risk review.
Change during Risk and impact Mitigation the year and outlook Self storage Self storage is a relatively immature market in the UK compared to other self storage markets The UK economy is projected to market risk such as the United States and Australia, and we believe has further opportunity for growth.
grow at approximately 1.6% in 2017, There is a risk to the The sector have slowed significantly over the past few years.
and is ahead of the level of output business that the self last achieved in 2007 before the Our performance during the downturn was relatively resilient, although not immune.
storage market does not global financial crisis.
Self storage We believe that the resilience of our performance is due to a combination of factors including: grow in line with our proved relatively resilient through a prime portfolio of freehold properties: projections, and that the crisis, with our revenue and economic growth in the earnings increasing over the last a focus on London and the South East and other large metropolitan cities, which have UK is below expectations, seven years.
As the economy has proved more resilient during the downturn and where the drivers in the self storage which could result in recovered in the past few years, market are at their strongest and the barriers to competition are at their highest: falling demand and a the market risk has fallen in line the strength of operational and sales management: loss of income.
continuing innovation to deliver the highest levels of customer service: There is increased macroeconomic uncertainty associated with the the UKs leading self storage brand, with high public awareness and online strength: and UKs future exit from the EU, and strong cash flow generation and high operating margins, from a secure this has resulted in a broad range capital structure.
of opinions on the UKs future We have a large current storage customer base of approximately 52,500 spread across economic performance.
the portfolio of stores and many thousands more who have used Big Yellow over the The Groups like-for-like occupancy years.
In any month, customers move in and out at the margin resulting in changes in has increased by 2.8 percentage occupancy.
This is a seasonal business and typically we see growth over the spring and points in the year from 75.3 % the summer months, with the seasonally weaker periods being the winter months.
Our management has significant experience in the property industry generated over many The planning process remains Property risk years and in particular in acquiring property on main roads in high profile locations and difficult and to achieve a There is a risk that we will obtaining planning consents.
We do take planning risk where necessary, although the planning consent can take be unable to acquire new availability of land, and competition for it makes acquiring new sites challenging.
anything from eighteen months development sites which to three years.
Local planning meet managements criteria.
Our in-house development team and our professional advisers have significant experience policy is increasingly favouring This would impact on our in obtaining planning consents for self storage centres.
residential development over ability to grow the overall We manage the construction of our properties very tightly.
The building of each site is other uses, and we dont expect store platform.
handled through a design and build contract, with the fit out project managed in-house this to change given the using an established professional team of external advisers and sub-contractors who have shortage of housing in the UK.
worked with us for many years to our Big Yellow specification.
We carried out an external benchmarking of our construction costs and tendering programme in the prior year, which had satisfactory results.
The valuations are carried out by independent, qualified external valuers who value a The revaluation surplus on the Valuation risk significant proportion of the UK self storage industry.
Groups open stores investment The valuations of the Groups properties was 44.4 million in investment properties The portfolio is diverse with approximately 52,500 customers currently using our stores the year an uplift of 4%.
may fall due to external for a wide variety of reasons.
pressures or the impact There has been an increase There is significant headroom on our loan to value banking covenants.
in transactional evidence in the year, with the Groups Lack of transactional acquisition of Lock and Leave, evidence in the self storage and the acquisition of the Big sector leads to more Box portfolio by Storage Mart.
37 Strategic Report continued Financial Review continued Change during Risk and impact Mitigation the year and outlook Treasury risk Our financing policy is to fund our current needs through a mix of debt, equity and cash Interest rates are forecast The Group may face flow to allow us to selectively build out the remaining development pipeline and achieve to remain low for the foreseeable increased costs from our strategic growth objectives, which we believe improve returns for shareholders.
future, although following the adverse interest rate We have made it clear that we believe optimal leverage for a business such as ours should reduction in the sterling movements.
be LTV in the range 20% to 30% and this informs our management of treasury risk.
exchange rates following the Brexit referendum, UK inflation We aim to ensure that there are sufficient medium-term facilities in place to finance our is forecast to increase in 2017. committed development programme, secured against the freehold portfolio, with debt serviced by our strong operational cash flows.
Debt providers currently remain supportive to companies with a We have a fixed rate loan in place from Aviva Commercial Finance Limited, with 10 years strong capital structure.
In the prior year, the Group drew down on a seven year 70 million loan from a weaker macro-economic M&G Investments, which is 50% fixed and 50% floating.
For our bank debt, we borrow at performance by the UK economy floating rates of interest and use swaps to hedge our interest rate exposure.
Our policy could adversely affect liquidity is to have at least 45% of our total borrowings fixed, with the balance floating.
At 31 March 2017 51% of the Groups total borrowings were fixed or subject to interest rate derivatives.
The Group reviews its current and forecast projections of cash flow, The Groups interest cover ratio for borrowing and interest cover as part of its monthly management accounts.
In addition, the year to 31 March 2017 was an analysis of the impact of significant transactions is carried out regularly, as well as 6.2 times, comfortably ahead of a sensitivity analysis assuming movements in interest rates and store occupancy our internal target of 5 times.
on gearing and interest cover.
This sensitivity testing underpins the viability statement below.
The Group regularly monitors its counterparty risk.
The Group monitors compliance with its banking covenants closely.
During the year it complied with all its covenants, and is forecast to do so for the foreseeable future.
We regularly monitor proposed and actual changes in legislation with the help of our In addition to the regulatory and Tax and professional advisers, through direct liaison with HMRC, and through trade bodies to tax uncertainty linked to the UKs regulatory risk understand and, if possible, mitigate or benefit from their impact.
future exit from the EU, the Group The Group is exposed to has experienced an increase in changes in the tax regime HMRC have designated the Group as having a low-risk tax status, and we hold regular cost of 0.9 million for the year affecting the cost of meetings with them.
We carry out detailed planning ahead of any future regulatory ending March 2018 following corporation tax, VAT and and tax changes using our expert advisors.
the Governments review of Stamp Duty Land Tax The Group has internal monitoring procedures in place to ensure that the appropriate business rates.
SDLT, for example REIT rules and legislation are complied with.
To date all REIT regulations have been the imposition of VAT complied with, including projected tests.
on self storage from 1 October 2012.
The UKs future exit from the EU creates uncertainty over the future UK tax and regulatory environment.
The Group is exposed to potential tax penalties or loss of its REIT status by failing to comply with the REIT legislation.
Human We have developed a professional, lively and enjoyable working environment and During the year, an employee resources risk believe our success stems from attracting and retaining the right people.
We encourage consultancy conducted an Our people are key to our all our staff to build on their skills through appropriate training and regular performance engagement survey of our success and as such we are reviews.
We believe in an accessible and open culture and everyone at all levels is employees.
The survey results exposed to a risk of high encouraged to review and challenge accepted norms, so as to contribute to the showed very high levels of staff turnover, and a risk of performance of the Group.
employee engagement 90%, the loss of key personnel.
which was an increase from We were ranked 80th in the Sunday Times Best 100 Companies to Work For survey 86% from our previous survey in February 2016.
With unemployment in 2014. falling, and a risk of higher staff turnover, difficulty in finding the right employees increases.
38 Change during the year Risk and impact Mitigation and outlook The safety and security of our customers, their belongings, and stores remains a key priority.
We have continued to run courses Security risk To achieve this we invest in state of the art access control systems, individual room alarms, for all our staff to enhance the The Group is exposed to digital CCTV systems, intruder and fire alarm systems and the remote monitoring of all our awareness and effectiveness of our the risk of the damage or stores outside of our trading hours.
We are the only major operator in the UK self storage procedures in relation to security.
loss of store due to industry that has every room in every store individually alarmed.
vandalism, fire, or natural We regularly review and implement incidents such as flooding.
We have implemented customer security procedures in line with advice from the Police improvements to our security This may also cause and continue to work with the regulatory authorities on issues of security, reviewing our processes and procedures.
The importance of security and the need for vigilance is communicated to all store staff and reinforced through training and routine operational procedures.
The Group receives specialist advice and consultancy in respect of cyber security and we We dont consider the risk to Cyber risk have dedicated in-house monitoring and regular review of our security systems, we also have increased any faster for the High profile cyber-attacks limit the retention of customer data to the minimum requirement.
Group than anyone else: however and data breaches are a we consider that the threats in the regular staple in todays Policies and procedures are under regular review and benchmarked against industry entire digital landscape do continue news.
The results of any best practice by our consultants.
These also include defend, detect and response policies.
breach may result in We have also instigated a new working group for compliance with the new EU General reputational damage, or During the year we have continued Data Protection Regulation GDPR which comes into effect on 25 May 2018. customer compensation, to invest in digital security.
Some causing a loss of market of the changes include more share and income.
frequent penetration testing of internet facing systems, adding components such as anti-ransomware as well as the maintenance replacement of components such as firewalls to the latest technology and specification.
Internal audit After reviewing Group and Company cash balances, borrowing facilities, The Group does not have a formal internal audit function because the forecast valuation movements and projected cash flows, the Directors Board has concluded that the internal controls systems are sufficient for believe that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue the Group at this time.
However, the Group employs a Store Compliance operations for the foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion the Manager responsible for reviewing store operational and financial Directors have had regard to the Groups operating plan and budget for controls.
He reports to the Chief Financial Officer, and also meets with the the year ending 31 March 2018 and projections contained in the longerAudit Committee at least once a year.
This role is supported by an term business plan which covers the period to March 2021.
The Directors Assistant Store Compliance Manager, enabling additional work and have carefully considered the Groups trading performance and cash support to be carried out across the Groups store portfolio.
The Store flows as a result of the uncertain global economic environment and the Compliance team visit each operational store at least once a year to carry other principal risks to the Groups performance and are satisfied with out a detailed store audit.
These audits are unannounced and the Store the Groups positioning.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going Compliance team carry out detailed tests on financial management, concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
administrative standards, and operational standards within the stores.
VIABILITY STATEMENT Part of the store staffs bonus is based on the scores they achieve in The Directors have assessed the Groups viability over a four year period to these audits.
The results of each audit are reviewed by the Chief Financial March 2021.
This period is selected based on the Groups long term strategic Officer, the Financial Controller and the Head of Store Operations.
plan to give greater certainty over the forecasting assumptions used.
GOING CONCERN In making their assessment, the Directors took account of the Groups A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely current financial position, including committed capital expenditure.
to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in The Directors also assessed the potential financial impact of the the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, various risks and uncertainties set out in the report above on the liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, Groups cash flows, REIT compliance and financial covenants and the cash flow statement and accompanying notes in the financial likely effectiveness of the mitigating options detailed.
Further information concerning the Groups objectives, have assumed that funding for the business in the form of equity, bank policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk and insurance debt will be available in all plausible market conditions.
management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging Based on this assessment the Directors have a reasonable expectation activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found that the Company and the Group will be able to continue operating and in this Report and in the notes to the financial statements.
meeting all their liabilities as they fall due to March 2021.
