18 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 1.
Building a Sustainable Business The internal aspect of this risk in meeting our customers Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties evolving technology needs coupled with ongoing process Understanding why and how our principal risks change efficiencies to maintain our competitive advantage is reflected in this new risk risk 3.
The ongoing review of our principal risks ensures that we Product quality.
This new risk was previously managed at reflect on the challenges facing our business and the changes business and divisional level.
With our continuing emphasis we have made to our business in response to those challenges.
on quality and brand we have elevated this risk to ensure In April 2017, we announced a change in our group structure.
As a consequence of a strategic review, the group moved to managing and reporting the business as four sectors: Clean Air, Sourcing of strategic materials.
This risk previously covered a wide range of supply chain aspects.
We have refocused Efficient Natural Resources, Health and New Markets.
These are aligned to the global priorities of cleaner air, the efficient use of this risk to consider sourcing of our strategic raw materials, the supply of which is vital to our manufacturing processes.
natural resources and improved health.
This focus provided us with a refreshed framework to consider the identification of People.
This risk has been reassessed in the context of our new risks, evolution of existing risks and evaluation of control recent strategic review, which has identified some areas effectiveness.
During this exercise we concluded that while where we need to build additional capability.
many of our risks remain largely unchanged we could describe them more precisely, to ensure focus is on the most important Business transition.
We are evolving the way we run our mitigating activities.
As a result of this process we have made business.
Historically, we have operated as a decentralised the following changes to our principal risks and uncertainties: organisation and, to drive efficiency, we are in the process Existing market outlook previously described as growth of standardising some activities across the group.
Directed within our existing business and global economic, political by strong functional leaders, our business transition will and regulatory uncertainty.
This risk was broadly defined position the group for future growth.
The risk has been across both external influences on our business as well as amended to reflect our current business transition plans.
We have refocused this risk on external We also considered the risk landscape for cyber and influences and will use refined key risk indicators to information systems resilience and determined that this was monitor any movement in the most important underlying included within our failure of significant sites risk and as assumptions associated with our business plans.
The such did not need to be included as a separate principal risk internal factors are picked up in a new risk risk 3. and uncertainty.
Future revenue growth previously described as innovation and new business.
Our risk associated with growing our Managing Through Brexit business, both through the identification of opportunities and Brexit, whilst not a separate risk, is included within the scope acting on new opportunities, was predominately focused on of our existing market outlook risk.
As a major manufacturing potential merger and acquisition activities.
We have now and exporting business, we have been monitoring developments amended this to consider the risks associated with investment through a dedicated working group, giving careful consideration decisions, including significant capital investment, mergers as to how best to navigate the situation.
There is still a great deal and acquisitions and research and development activities.
of uncertainty as to what Brexit will mean for Johnson Matthey.
The Brexit working group is focused on ensuring that Johnson Maintaining our competitive advantage in existing markets.
Matthey is prepared to navigate through and deliver the best This risk was previously captured under the very wide outcome for our people, our business and our customers.
In ranging growth within our existing business.
addition, we plan to work closely with the UK Government to make the most of the opportunities that Brexit offers, and ensure that our industry can continue to succeed.
The following table sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, the mitigating actions for each and an update on any change in the profile of each risk during the course of the year.
The net risk rating after mitigating controls is also shown.
Existing Market Outlook 1 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report The risk of a change to the outlook for Understanding the key drivers and the This risk partially replaces growth our key markets is either unplanned or range of possible scenarios.
unforeseen and as a result we are poorly This risk is specifically focused on Building plans against those scenarios.
understanding the external influences Monitoring changes to those drivers and which may impact our business.
This risk would include legislative change, adjusting business plans accordingly.
It is rated as high as a result of the for example as a result of Brexit or uncertainty of Brexit and the evolving changes in customer or consumer pace of change in the BEV European behaviour impacting our business.
diesel market, making scenario planning essential.
Risk 3 focuses on the related internal factors.
Risk rating n High unchanged from risk 1 last year 19 Future Revenue Growth 2 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report Failure to grow through new opportunities Monitoring and understanding market New growth opportunities may be either as a result of failing to identify the evolution as part of our strategic realised through different combinations opportunity, fund or execute successfully.
planning process resulting in of investment including acquisition, opportunity identification.
As the approach may change based on the Growth opportunities are executed circumstances, we believe the risk is through targeted acquisitions, better expressed by focusing on the capital investment and research and missed opportunity irrespective of the development.
Progress is monitored investment type.
and tracked against specific key performance indicators KPIs.
Risk rating n Medium unchanged from the innovation risk rating last year Maintaining our Competitive Advantage 3 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report Failure to maintain our competitive Investment in understanding our This risk was previously captured under advantage in existing markets, and as a customers.
the very wide ranging growth within result, not meeting customers evolving our existing business.
The external R&D and capital investment processes needs as efficiently as our competitors.
aspect of this risk is captured in risk 1 ensure resource is prioritised against the and the internal risk of failing to run areas of greatest opportunity.
our business to sustain our competitive Benchmarking business processes advantage is captured here.
a strong track record of meeting our customers evolving technology needs, our capability coupled with ongoing process efficiency activity means we have rated this risk as medium.
New risk Risk rating n Medium Environment, Health and Safety 4 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report In common with similar manufacturing Understanding of our business risk profile.
Health and safety is our priority and companies, the group operates in a we take our responsibility for Systems and processes to facilitate challenging safety environment that environmental impact very seriously.
adherence to corporate policies, is subject to numerous health, safety Over the past 12 months we have procedures and standards.
and environmental laws, regulations worked to refine our mitigating activities.
Risk, audit activities and safety checks.
If we fail to operate safely and respond Risk rating Safety culture programme and to changes made to applicable laws, n Medium behavioural standards.
regulations or standards we could adversely impact our employees, we may Investigations to determine the cause lose production time and could attract of incidents and accidents and the negative media and regulator interest.
An independent hotline for employees to report concerns.
Sourcing of Strategic Materials 5 Risk and impact Mitigating activities Changes since 2016 annual report As Johnson Matthey has limited suppliers Supplier key performance indicators, The prior year risk rating was from which to source certain strategic raw audits and quality management.
principally driven by the risks materials, any breakdown in the supply associated with sourcing of strategic Sourcing from multiple suppliers.
of these materials would lead to an materials.
During the year, we have Research and development alternatives inability to manufacture and satisfy focused on building expertise in supply to consider use of non-strategic materials.
chain and procurement and as such Expertise in supply chain, logistics, have assessed the risk as reducing.
procurement and trade export controls.
Business continuity management, Risk rating identification of critical failure risks n Medium and plans in place to manage these.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 20 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 1.
Building a Sustainable Business People 6 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report To achieve our strategic objectives, Assessment of skills and capability This risk has been reassessed in the we continually assess the skills and requirements.
context of our recent strategic review, capabilities that will enable us to deliver which has identified some areas Robust talent management processes.
An inability to recruit and where we need to build additional Remuneration strategy with clarity retain key skills may result in a slower capability.
We have therefore increased around market best practice and growth trajectory.
Johnson Mattheys position on base pay, annual and long term incentives, pensions and regional benefits.
Risk rating n Transparency of policies.
Medium Security of Metal and Highly Regulated Substances 7 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report On any given day, the group has Security management systems and Unchanged from 2016 although we significant quantities of high value site security systems.
have amended the title to reflect the precious metals or highly regulated specific risks.
Assay and other process controls.
substances on site and in transit: loss Security awareness campaigns or theft due to a failure of the security and training.
Risk rating management systems associated with Audits of site security systems.
n Low the protection of metal or highly regulated substances may result in Stock takes to check inventories.
performance impact, reduced customer Use of approved carriers for transit.
confidence and potential legal action.
Insurance coverage for losses from theft or fraud.
Liaison with local law enforcement for high risk sites.
Intellectual Capital Management 8 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report Failure to identify and protect the groups Business intellectual capital strategy Decreased to reflect our increasingly intellectual capital or failure to identify and new product introduction process.
third party intellectual capital rights could Portfolio management of lead to a loss in business advantage, loss intellectual capital.
of freedom to operate and reputational Risk rating Monitoring of third party damage associated with litigation.
Use of intellectual capital lawyers to provide specialist guidance.
Failure of Significant Sites 9 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report Potential risks include a disruptive event Assessment of critical sites.
No change such as fire, flood or earthquake, a major Business continuity plans in place and incident at site level, such as an explosion, annual programme of testing in place.
Risk rating IT systems failure, cyber attack or other Cyber awareness and monitoring.
n Medium events such as geopolitical instability.
The consequences associated with this Inventory management to provide risk include the impact on our ability critical spares and inventories.
to manufacture goods and satisfy customer demands.
Use of external suppliers for key activities and services including generators and utilities.
21 Ethics and Compliance 10 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report Failure to comply with ethical and Code of ethics in place supported by This risk is reassessed on an ongoing regulatory compliance standards leading training and formal acknowledgement.
basis in the light of the evolving to reputational damage, to civil or regulatory and business background.
Understanding of key ethics and criminal legal exposure for the There is significant mitigation in place compliance risks.
company or for individuals or to risk but the risk rating remains unchanged Use of subject matter experts, internal of contractual breach.
this year as we embed upgraded third and external, on legal compliance and party intermediary processes.
Group and local policies and procedures in place including full integration with Risk rating business processes.
n High Group control requirements such as supplier on-boarding, counterparty due diligence and payments approval.
Independent confidential speak up hotline for employees, contractors and third parties.
Oversight on contractual provisions and commercial arrangements by legal teams.
Global network of ethics ambassadors.
Emergency response procedures for events such as dawn raids.
Investigation of incidents and allegations of misconduct.
Business Transition 11 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report To position the group for future growth Communication and employee Risk reflects our business transition and maximise available efficiencies, we engagement plans are in place for all that will position the group for future are evolving the way we run our business.
programmes with support from the growth.
The risk rating remains Historically we have operated as a GMC as appropriate.
unchanged from the business transition decentralised organisation but to drive risk rating last year.
efficiency we are in the process of Programme management and standardising some activities across the governance activities with KPIs and red, Risk rating group, directed by strong functional amber, green RAG review reports.
n Medium leaders in order to ensure best practice Capital allocation decision making is used and maintained across the group.
The risk is that we fail to achieve the benefits of these efficiencies, lose our business agility and or fail to maintain a very high level of customer responsiveness.
Product Quality 12 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2016 annual report Our products are used in a wide range Quality management systems in place We considered whether quality of applications, processes and systems.
supported by accreditation and audit.
management should be a principal risk The safety and quality of these products in 2016.
At that time we concluded that Robust manufacturing processes.
is crucial to ensuring that they operate while important, it was not significant Monitoring and reporting of quality as intended.
enough to be considered as a principal performance, taking corrective action risk as the impact and likelihood varied We may be exposed to liability claims where required.
by sector according to the product should a product fail to perform as Robust contract terms and conditions.
produced, customer and contractual expected.
This could lead to loss of future risk.
With our continued emphasis on business and reputational damage.
quality and brand we have elevated this risk to ensure greater board visibility.
New risk Risk rating n Medium Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
