How we manage our risks In common with many businesses, AO faces a broad range of risks Board due to the scale and nature of our operations.
These risks have varying Overall responsibility for effectiveness of AOs internal control likelihoods and impacts and range from operational risks in our and risk management process day-to-day activities: strategic risks due to our high growth and Approves risk appetite and risk capacity international expansion strategy: and external risks such as the market Agrees principal risks and mitigation strategy environment and the regulatory frameworks to which we are subject.
Effective risk management allows us to identify, appropriately monitor Audit Committee and mitigate, to the extent possible, these risks in line with our risk appetite so that we can deliver our strategic objectives and protect Delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk value for our key stakeholders.
management and internal controls Reviews internal financial controls and risk management How we manage risks systems and assesses their effectiveness by having regard to We have developed a risk management framework with policies in the risks elevated to the corporate risk register place for identifying and addressing risks and with clearly defined Reviews and oversees Corporate Risk Register and advises lines of responsibility, accountability and delegation of authority.
Board on risk appetite During the year under review, we have focused on enhancing our risk governance processes and ensuring it is truly embedded throughout Internal Audit the business, ensuring a more holistic approach to risk management.
Facilitates Risk Management Committee process Shares risk management information and best practice across the AO Group AO World Plc Board Compliance checking: identifies gaps and improvements: recommends corrective action Audit Committee Risk Management Committee RMC Ensures robust risk management procedures are implemented and complied with Develops strategies and programmes to embed risk management as a core management skill Promotes a culture to encourage risk awareness and integrity Attended by each Group Executive Team member plus relevant members from their teams to ensure engagement in risk management practice RMC Critically reviews risk register: assesses materiality measurement of risk and monitors mitigation and controls Supports AO teams in assessing risk Insurance Committee Internal Insurance Ensures that appropriate insurance is in place over property Audit Committee and other assets, to help mitigate risks in addition to meeting legal and contractual obligations AO Teams AO Teams Continuous identification and assessment of daytoday risks and mitigation Communicates significant risks to Risk Management Committee Risk identification and assessment Our risk register covers many risks that could affect our business, customers, supply chain and communities.
We have a formal risk identification and management process to ensure that risks from our day-to-day operations and from the general economy and our sector, are continually identified, evaluated and, where possible, mitigated throughout all of our operations.
Our Internal Audit function meets with AO team representatives on a bi-monthly basis to assess new and existing risks, how these are being mitigated and how changes from within the business or the wider corporate landscape may impact them.
It is this risk assurance process which forms the basis of our Group Corporate Risk Register CRR.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 40 40 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n Our Risk Management Committee, in which our Executives The Risk Appetite Statement is reviewed annually, in line with participate, meets regularly to review the status of the existing CRR the strategic direction of the Group, recent experience and the and whether all risks are still current and relevant, and to appraise regulatory environment.
newly identified risks to determine whether these impact existing risks or require inclusion on the CRR in their own right.
The review includes This years achievement and future actions an assessment of how each risk is being mitigated, its inherent and This year we have continued to embed our Risk Management residual risk and any changes.
The likelihood and impact of each risk Framework across the Group, ensuring that all areas of the business is assessed against the Groups Risk Assessment matrix which understand our risk appetite and risk management processes and determines its risk factor and resulting risk category which ranges that there is a consistent approach to risk.
This process allows us to regularly understand the strength and performance of the controls in place Risks on our risk register and new risks identified through our and to address any potential gaps and weaknesses.
processes have been reviewed together with the controls we have in place to mitigate the impact should these risks develop.
The CRR is reviewed by the Audit Committee at least annually and it We have seen a number of risk factors decrease over the year is notified of any significant changes in perceived risk as appropriate.
for example, the opening of the second distribution centre in Crewe, Individual risks which are considered to be AOs principal risks are reduced our reliance on the main and previously sole distribution reviewed by the Board annually and assessed against the Groups risk centre and provided us with extra capacity for peak trade and the appetite and capacity.
The Audit Committee annually appraises the migration of our IT systems to a virtual platform has helped our Groups Risk Management and Internal Control Framework and systems become more agile whilst at the same time helping them to makes a recommendation to the Board as to its effectiveness.
be robust against failure or attack.
Conversely, we have seen some risks on our register increase: the gross risk to the Group of Health and Safety failures has increased now that the recycling facility in Telford is operational: we recognise that the employment status of our drivers is subject to increasing political pressure and media scrutiny and the risks of a data breach are considered to be increasing as hackers continually develop new ways to commit cybercrime.
We have also Assurance spent some time considering the risks that have arisen and may arise Framework following the UKs decision to leave the EU.
Overall our scoring methodology has yielded a slightly lower overall risk factor score this year compared to last.
For movements in our Corporate Risk individual principal risk scores, please see the following pages.
Internal Register Risk Audit Management In addition to our risk analysis work, a number of specific projects Plan Committee have stemmed from the work of the RMC, either to address new risks or improve our ability to mitigate risks.
These include: The establishment of an Insurance committee to ensure appropriate insurance is in place and to help address additional The Board requirement on the Group arising from the Insurance Act 2015.
Audit Enhanced business continuity planning to also include an Committee assessment of the BCP procedures of some of our key suppliers.
Modern slavery due diligence improvements.
These projects will continue in the year ahead and we will continue to embed our risk culture throughout our Group, in all territories and Whilst our risk management processes work well, the programme areas in which we operate.
can only provide reasonable, not absolute assurance that key risks are managed at an acceptable level.
Principal risks Our principal risk categories have been defined as: Culture and Risk appetite People: Failure of European Expansion, Brand Recognition and Overall, the Group has a balanced approach to risk taking: we will Damage: IT Systems Resilience: Compliance with Laws and not be unduly aggressive with our risk taking but we may accept a Regulation, Business Interruption and the UK Economy.
limited number of significant risks at any one time in order to foster innovation and to facilitate growth.
We recognise that it is not possible The table overleaf summarises our assessment of these risks and how or necessarily desirable to eliminate some of the risks inherent in our we seek to mitigate them.
However, these must be reviewed against the assessment of other principal risks to ensure that the level of net risk remains within the overall accepted risk appetite.
For example, where it has already accepted an aggressive or material risk, this would then limit the acceptance of additional material risks.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 4 41 1 How we manage our risks continued Key risk Nature of the risk Mitigating activities Overall change during the year Culture and People Culture is a key ingredient in the AO culture is supported by a success of the business and a wide range of tools, workshops Risk decrease Impact on strategic unique differentiator from our and events with a dedicated objectives: competitors.
If we fail to maintain employee events team the culture in conjunction with Group Executive Team and Our European businesses are Culture & Brand our growth this could affect all now more established and senior management have a Customers areas of the business from our shared responsibility to drive have well developed teams Categories ability to attract customers, our who understand the culture culture throughout the business Countries dealings with suppliers and the on the basis of AOs values and values and are able to way we deliver.
nurture the culture amongst Senior employees continue to Impact on business model: receive attractive remuneration new recruits.
People We rely on members of our packages including long-term Group Executive Team and share options to encourage A restructure below Board Senior Management Team to into defined business units is retention provide strategic direction to the Strengthened operational allowing for greater room for business.
The loss of key career progression and also management teams in each member s of the team would territory give the benefit of improvements in succession have a significant impact on our planning, although this still localised decision making and strategy being realised.
reduce reliance on individuals remains a significant risk.
Succession planning is in place Failure of European Expanding into new territories Expansion into new territories Expansion is a key part of our strategy.
is only undertaken after Risk decrease Failure in these territories extensive research Impact on strategic would limit our long-term Expansion leverages AOs objectives: growth and negatively impact existing UK online retailing Our German business is the Groups finances.
expertise and experience now approaching three years Countries that has been built up over old and our business in the many years Netherlands is just over year Capital requirements are old.
Whilst there is still much relatively low and investment to do, the building blocks are is managed in stages in place: our teams are now Specific targets are in place for well established, the new territories to enable focus infrastructure to sustain on objectives and measurement growth is now built, the of performance trajectory of progress with manufacturers is good and we have more confidence that the model can be replicated.
Brand Recognition and Damage to our brand or failing There is a dedicated social No change Damage to achieve growing recognition media team in place to increase would lead to a reduction in brand awareness and generate Impact on strategic customer loyalty, a failure to consumer interest in AO.
com Brand awareness in the UK has objectives: attract new customers or Ongoing marketing campaigns increased slightly over the suppliers or affect existing to raise brand awareness reporting period and customer Customers relationships.
through different mediums NPS and trustpilot trusted-shop Rigorous monitoring of scores show that our proposition Impact on business model: customer feedback through resonates and customers People quality processes continue to love our brand.
In-house PR teams established to deal with press and events We still need to be vigilant and protect the brand at all times and increase our efforts to drive brand awareness and instil trust and confidence.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 42 42 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n Further risks in relation to significant financial accounting matters are discussed in the Corporate Governance section on page 64.
Key risk Nature of the risk Mitigating activities Overall change during the year IT Systems Resilience AOs main IT systems are Physical and system controls in No change interlinked and critical for ongoing place to minimise data breaches Impact on strategic operations.
Therefore failure of There is a continual improvement objectives: one system may disrupt others.
The risk of failure of IT systems cycle in respect of access levels, housing of critical data, was generally thought to have Customers The majority of customer orders decreased with the migration encryption and penetration Categories are taken through our website testing for customer data to the virtual platform and new Countries AO.
com and therefore significant fail-over systems in place.
Software is rigorously tested and downtime as a result of a follows a robust release process However, the risk of cyber-crime Impact on business model: successful systems breach or is thought to have increased before being deployed in live Infrastructure failure would affect the ability to environment given recent attacks on other accept customer orders and may businesses over the year.
Operation of the IT environment affect customer loyalty, AOs is continuously monitored and reputation or our competitive disaster recovery plans are in advantage and result in reduced place to ensure business can growth.
recover from any interruptions with minimal impacts The loss of sensitive information The AO website and internal relating to strategic direction or network are protected by a business performance may firewall, a holistic view of routers compromise our future strategies and switches with potential for or the loss of data relating to individual configuration change, individuals may result in an ICO frequently updated anti-virus complaint and negative publicity.
and penetration testing Compliance with Laws Changes in regulations or Regulatory developments are and Regulation compliance failures may affect routinely monitored both in the Risk increase our strategy or operations, in UK and in Europe to ensure that Impact on strategic particular to the following areas: potential changes are identified, objectives: Health and Safety assessed and appropriate action Whilst Health and Safety is a Driver employment status is taken key priority of the Board and Customers Data protection AO are supported by a Legal robust processes and Categories The basis upon which the team who promote awareness procedures are in place, the Countries Company offers and sells and best practice and an Internal commencement of operations product protection plans or Audit team who provide at the Groups new recycling Impact on business model: the basis upon which revenue assurance on compliance facility in Telford has Proposition from the sale of such plans is Third-party legal advice is increased the overall Health People accounted for.
sought were necessary and any and Safety risk to the Group.
recommendations are implemented and subject to Recent first tier tribunal ongoing monitoring decisions and increased AOs business is supported by a scrutiny of the gig economy qualified Health and Safety team has increased the risk of Changes to the macro legislation changing in this area.
environment and legislation are monitored and implemented The forthcoming GPDR poses promptly potential challenges to working and marketing practices.
Business Interruption A disastrous event occurring at Two NDCs in the UK reduce or around one or more of the reliance on any one distribution Risk decreased Impact on strategic Groups sites, including our main centre and in Germany the objectives: distribution centre in each of the distribution centre is separated UK and Germany, may affect the into chambers to reduce the In the UK we have added a Customers ongoing performance of our impact of fire or damage second NDC and increased Countries operations and negatively impact Dedicated engineering teams the number of outbases.
the Groups finances and our on-site with daily maintenance Impact on business model: customers.
programmes to support the Proposition continued operation of the NDCs People A number of standalone controls Infrastructure are in place to mitigate a major event occurring at one of the Groups sites Enhanced business continuity planning continues Insurance policies are also in place to further mitigate this risk A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 43 43 How we manage our risks continued Key risk Nature of the risk Mitigating activities Overall change during the year UK Economy Brexit Uncertainty in the UK economy Customer proposition remains New stand-alone risk following the outcome of the EU strong and continued migration Impact on strategic Referendum Brexit, the risk of to online shopping should soften objectives: inflation and the dampening of macro-economic impacts consumer confidence may affect Robust relationships with Customers the ability of the Group to suppliers and improved stock Culture maintain sales growth.
holding could mitigate impacts on lead times Impact on business model: Controls on the freedom of Long-term recruitment planning Proposition movement of people could add underway to reduce potential for People friction in to the supply chain.
gaps in worker availability Controls on the freedom of movement of people may impact the availability of workers in the UK or the ability of our people to move freely between our UK business and our mainland Europe operations.
Potential for an online sales tax once no longer a member of the EU.
Currency risk from profit and loss translation from Europe to the UK adds uncertainty.
Assessment of Groups prospects Going concern statement Viability assessment The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely In accordance with Code C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code to affect its future development, performance and position are set out 2014 the Code the Directors are required to assess the longerterm in the Strategic Report on pages 16 to 51.
The financial position of the viability of the Company taking into account the principal risks facing Company and its cash flows are described in the Chief Financial Officers the Company.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include the Companys policies and processes for The Directors have considered whether the Group will be able to managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its threeyear period ending 31March 2020.
This period was considered exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
appropriate due to: the rapid growth plans of the Group and changes in its strategic opportunities: changes in the economic environment In making their assessment of going concern, the Directors considered which may alter consumer demand patterns and the Groups business the Boardapproved budget, the threeyear business plan, cash flow planning processes which cover this period and help to support the forecast, the availability of a 30m Revolving Credit Facility, the proceeds Boards assessment.
raised from the placing of new shares in the Company completed in April 2017 and the Principal Risks set out on pages 42 to 44.
In making its assessment of the longer-term viability of the Group, the Board have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue in operational model, future performance, solvency, or liquidity.
These risks and existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months how they are mitigated are set out above on pages 42 to 44 and in the from the date of this Report.
Accordingly, the financial statements have Corporate Governance Statement on page 64.
The Directors have also been prepared on a going concern basis.
reviewed the Groups annual and longerterm financial forecasts and have considered the resilience of the Group using sensitivity analysis The external auditors have reviewed these statements and have to test these metrics over the three-year period.
This analysis involves nothing to report see the Independent Auditors Report on pages varying a number of main assumptions underlying the forecasts 85 to 87. including, without limitation revenue, margin and working capital, and evaluating the monetary impact of severe but plausible risk combinations and the likely degree of mitigating actions available to the Company over the three-year period if such risks did arise.
Based on the Companys current position and principal risks, together with the results of the assessment detailed above and the Groups enhanced risk management processes see pages 40 to 41 and internal controls see page 62, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 44 44
