Strategy and Business Model continued Principal Risks The principal risks facing the Company, as determined by your Board, are summarised in the table below.
A more detailed explanation of the monitoring of risk and uncertainties is covered within the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 55 and 56.
Further information on the risks that TEMIT is subject to, including additional financial and valuation risks, are also detailed in Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Risk Mitigation Investment and concentration The Board regularly reviews the portfolio composition The portfolio will diverge significantly from the MSCI asset allocation and discusses related developments Emerging Markets Index and may be concentrated in a with the Manager.
The Investment Compliance team of more limited number of sectors, geographical areas or the Manager monitors concentration limits and potential countries.
This is consistent with the stated investment breaches are signalled to portfolio management for approach of long-term value investing.
Where possible, investment will generally be made directly in the stock markets of emerging countries.
Emerging markets can be subject to greater price volatility and more rapid and more exaggerated re-rating than developed markets.
Market The Board regularly reviews and discusses with the Market risk arises from volatility in the prices of the Investment Manager the portfolio and investment Companys investments, from the risk of volatility performance of the Company and the execution of the in global markets arising from macroeconomic and investment policy against the long-term objectives of geopolitical circumstances and conditions as well as from the Company.
The Board also reviews regularly risk the leverage utilised by the fund.
Many of the companies management reports from the Managers independent risk in which TEMIT invests are, by reason of the locations team.
in which they operate, exposed to the risk of political or economic change.
In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests may affect its income and the value and marketability of its investments.
Foreign currency The Board monitors currency risk as part of the regular Currency movements may affect TEMITs performance.
In portfolio and risk management oversight.
TEMIT does not general, if the value of sterling increases compared with hedge currency risk.
a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign currency will decrease in value because it will be worth less in sterling.
This can have a negative effect on the Companys performance.
Political The Board keeps a watching brief and examines significant Changes in the political landscape may impact the political events as they arise.
They may also seek regulatory and fiscal environment in which TEMIT independent legal advice where appropriate.
With regard operates as well as negatively influencing investor to Brexit the Board continue to monitor developments and confidence in global markets.
are also mindful of the increased likelihood of a second Scottish independence referendum.
Political risks are also reviewed and discussed with the AIFMs risk team.
Credit The Board receives regular reporting and reviews the Certain transactions in securities that the Company approved counterparty list of the Manager on an annual enters into expose it to the risk that the counterparty will basis.
not deliver an investment purchase or cash in relation to a sale or declared dividend after the Company has fulfilled its responsibilities.
12 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk TEMIT ANNUREP 05 p08-15 Chairman's Statement.
indd 12 6 29 17 7:07 PM Risk Mitigation Operational and custody The Managers systems are regularly tested and monitored Like many other investment trust companies, TEMIT has and an internal controls report, which includes an no employees.
The Company therefore relies upon the assessment of risks together with an overview of procedures services provided by third parties and is dependent upon to mitigate such risks, is prepared by the Manager and the control systems of the Manager and the Companys reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
The security, for example, of J. P. Morgan Europe Limited is the Companys depositary.
the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting Its responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe keeping of records and maintenance of regulatory and legal the Companys financial instruments, verifying ownership requirements depends on the effective operation of these and maintaining a record of other assets and monitoring systems.
the Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage requirements.
The depositary is liable for any loss of financial instruments held in custody and will ensure that the custodian and any sub-custodian segregate the assets of the Company.
The depositary has delegated the custody function to JPMorgan Chase Bank.
The custodian provides a report on its key controls and safeguards SOC 1 SSAE 16 ISAE 3402 which is independently reported on by its auditor PwC.
The Board reviews regular operational risk management reporting provided by the Manager.
Key personnel The Manager endeavours to ensure that the principal The ability of the Company to achieve its investment members of its management teams are suitably objective is significantly dependent upon the expertise incentivised, participate in strategic leader programmes of the Investment Manager and its ability to attract and and monitor key succession planning metrics.
The Board retain suitable staff.
regularly discusses this risk with the Manager.
Regulatory The Board is active in ensuring that the Company complies The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF with all applicable laws and regulation and its internal risk under the European Unions Alternative Investment and control framework reduces the likelihood of breaches Fund Managers directive.
The Company operates in an happening.
As appropriate the Board is assisted by the increasingly complex regulatory environment and faces Manager in doing this.
Breaches of regulations could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
The Company benefits from Franklin Templetons Cyber framework designed to mitigate the risk of a cyber security Failure or breach of information technology systems breach.
of the Companys service providers may entail risk of financial loss, disruption to operations or damage to the For key third party providers, the Audit Committee receives reputation of the Company.
regular independent certifications of their controls environment.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 13 TEMIT ANNUREP 05 p08-15 Chairman's Statement.
indd 13 6 29 17 7:07 PM Strategy and Business Model continued Environmental and Other Matters As an Investment Trust, TEMIT has no direct social, community or employee responsibilities and does not undertake activities in the field of research and development.
More information can be found in the Directors Report on pages 44 and 45.
TEMIT has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, as all of its activities are outsourced to third parties, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
On 26 March 2015, the Modern Slavery Act 2015 the Act came into force.
TEMIT is not an organisation which provides goods or services as defined in the Act and thus the Company considers that the Act does not apply.
Diversity The Board supports the principle of diversity.
The selection policy of the Board is to appoint the best qualified person for the job, by considering factors such as diversity of gender, thought, experience and qualification.
The Board currently comprises eight Directors, seven male and one female.
Viability Statement The Directors consider viability as part of their continuing programme of monitoring risk.
In preparing the Viability Statement, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code provision C. 2.2, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
The Directors have considered the Companys business and investment cycles and are of the view that three years is a suitable time horizon to consider the continuing viability of the Company, balancing the uncertainties of investing in listed emerging market securities against having due regard to viability over the longer term.
In their assessment of the Companys viability, the Directors consider, on an ongoing basis, each of the principal risks as noted above and set out in Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Financial measures, including the ability of the Company to meet its ongoing liabilities, are also reviewed.
The Directors monitor income and expense projections for the Company, with the majority of the expenses being predictable and modest in comparison with the assets of the Company.
The Company sees no issues with meeting the obligations of the new gearing facility.
A significant proportion of the Companys expenses are in ad valorem investment management fees, which would naturally reduce if the market value of the Companys assets were to fall.
Taking into account the above considerations the Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that, assuming there will be a successful continuation vote at the 2019 AGM, the Company will be able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
14 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
indd 14 6 29 17 7:07 PM Future Strategy The Company was founded, and continues to be managed, on the basis of a long term investment strategy which seeks to generate superior returns from investments, principally in the shares of carefully selected companies in emerging markets.
The Companys results will be affected by many factors including political decisions, economic factors, the performance of investee companies and the ability of the Investment Manager to choose investments successfully.
The Board and the Investment Manager continue to believe in investment with a long term horizon in companies that are undervalued by stock markets but which are fundamentally strong and growing.
It is recognised that, at times, extraneous political, economic and company-specific factors will affect the performance of investments, but the Company will continue to take a long term view in the belief that patience will be rewarded.
The Companys overall strategy remains unchanged and is expected to remain consistent with these aims for the foreseeable future.
By order of the Board Paul Manduca 7 June 2017 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 15 TEMIT ANNUREP 05 p08-15 Chairman's Statement.
