Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic report Governance Financial statements Identify, evaluate and manage the Groups risks Operating priorities relevant toour risks The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would Increase consumer audience, advert 1 threaten its business model, future performance, solvency views and use of our valuation tools or liquidity.
Promote trust and fairness in the 2 marketplace This included an assessment of the likelihood and impact of each risk identified, and the mitigating actions being taken.
Grow ARPR in a balanced, sustainable 3 way by creating value for our customers Risk levels were modified to reflect the current view of the relative significance of each risk.
Extend the penetration of products 4 outside of our core classified proposition The principal risks and uncertainties identified are detailed Enhance our relevance and value to 5 below.
Additional risks and uncertainties to the Group, manufacturers including those that are not currently known or that the Operate a simpler, leaner and more 6 Group currently deems immaterial, may individually or data-oriented business cumulatively also have a material effect on the Groups business, results of operations and or financial condition.
Principal risk Description Key mitigations Operating Change priorities Macroeconomic risks If the UK car market contracts this Regular review of 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.
Economy, could result in a reduction in new and market conditions.
market and used car transactions which could result business Resilient business model.
in a reduction in the number of retailers environment Ability to reduce costs.
or reduce retailers desire to advertise Diversification into other their vehicles on the marketplace.
addition, a contraction in the UK car market could reduce manufacturers spend on advertising.
The result of the EU Referendum has increased the level of uncertainty around customer and consumer spending power.
Although there are no short-term indicators of a downturn, in the longer term the industry now expects new car registrations to plateau or decline from recent record highs, and so this risk level has been slightly increased.
In considering the potential implications of the Referendum result on the business the Directors considered the time lag between the registration of new cars and the entry of cars into the used car marketplace: the resilience of our business model: the strength of our value proposition: and the Groups ability to reduce costs.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 33 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risk Description Key mitigations Operating Change priorities Competitive risks Increased competition could impact the Demonstration of value 1 2 3 4 5 6 2.
Increased Groups ability to grow revenue due to to customers.
competition the potential loss of audience, trade and Regular review of consumer advertisers, or demand for audience data.
Maintenance of investment in products and in marketing campaigns.
Failure to maintain and protect the brand Maintenance of 1 2 3 4 5 6 3.
Brand or negative publicity surrounding the investment in marketing Groups products or services could campaigns.
impede the Groups ability to retain or Clear and open culture expand its base of retailers, consumers with focus on trust and and advertisers or could diminish transparency.
confidence in and the use of the Groups services.
Failure to innovate and develop new Monitoring of emerging 1 2 3 4 5 6 4.
New or technologies or products, to execute trends in automotive and disruptive product launches and improvements other verticals worldwide.
technologies or toadapt to changing consumer and changing Monitoring of audience behaviour towards car buying or consumer figures and consumer ownership could lead tothe Groups behaviours functionality relative business being adversely impacted.
34 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risk Description Key mitigations Operating Change priorities Operational risks Failure in one system as a result of Adherence to strict 1 2 3 4 5 6 5.
IT systems malicious attack, our own failures or industry standards.
those of third-party suppliers, could Internal team focused on disrupt others and could impact the mitigating security threat.
availability or performance of Group Maintenance of a platforms and could cause reputational business continuity plan.
damage with consumers and or customers.
Our continued success and growth is Long-term incentive 6.
Employee 1 2 3 4 5 6 dependent on our ability to attract, plans for key senior staff.
retention recruit, retain and motivate our highly Active succession skilled workforce, with a particular focus planning and career on specialist technological and data development plans to skills.
Failure to do so could result in the retain and develop the loss of key talent.
Strong value-led culture embedded throughout recruitment, induction and training.
Employee engagement surveys and other activities.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 35
