Risk management Understanding and managing our principal risks and uncertainties Risk management process We recognise that effective risk management is critical to enable us to meet our strategic objectives and to achieve sustainable long-term growth.
A four-step process has been adopted to identify, monitor and manage the risks to which the Group is exposed: 1 Identify risks 2 4 Assess Monitor and quantify and review risks 3 Respond to, manage and mitigate risks 1 2 3 4 Identify risks Assess and quantify risks Respond to, manage Monitor and review and mitigate risks A top-down and bottom-up Risks and controls are analysed The OLT is responsible for approach is used to identify and evaluated to establish the The effectiveness and monitoring progress against principal risks across the root causes, financial impact adequacy of controls in place principal risks in a continual business.
Whilst the Board and likelihood of occurrence.
They are assisted by hasoverall responsibility for The Group categorises risks controls are required to the Groups internal audit theeffectiveness of internal intosix areas: mitigateidentified risks then programme run in conjunction control and risk management, these are implemented and with Deloitte.
economy, market and business the detailed work is delegated responsibilities assigned.
environment: The Board reviews the Groups to the Operational Leadership financial and compliance risk: risk register and assesses the Team OLT.
adequacy of the principal risks asset risk: identified and the mitigating operational risk: controls and procedures competitive risk: and adopted.
30 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Internal auditor Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our framework Risks are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are captured in a risk register, identifying the risk area, the likelihood of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk to the desired level.
The Boards role is to consider whether, given the risk appetite of the Group, the level of risk is acceptable within its strategy.
The roles and responsibilities of each level of this framework are as follows: Board Audit Committee Operational Leadership Team Risk register and risk review Operational management Risk governance and responsibilities The Boards responsibilities Operational Leadership Operational management Oversight functions and Overall responsibility for risk Team responsibilities and internal controls internal audit management.
identify, assess, monitor, Embed and manage internal Aid in setting appropriate manage and mitigate risks controls and risk management policies, provide guidance, The Audit Committees and exploit opportunities: day to day as part of business advice and direction on responsibilities as usual.
implementation of those ensure appropriate internal Assess the scope and policies and monitor the first controls are in place: effectiveness of risk line of defence.
management processes and ensure the risk register is internal control systems.
properly maintained: and Additional line of defence External auditor.
embed risk management as business as usual.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 31 External auditor Risk management continued Viability statement In accordance with Provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed the prospects and viability of the Group.
Assessment of prospects The output of the annual review process is a Given the Groups significant free cash AutoTrader is the UKs leading digital set of operational priorities, an analysis of flow, and the Boards ability to adjust the automotive marketplace and it is the Groups the risks that could prevent the plan being discretionary share buyback programme, clear focus to maintain this position by delivered, and the annual financial budget.
there is long-term comfort around viability relentlessly focusing on improving the process in the face of adverse economic or Detailed financial forecasts that consider of buying and selling vehicles.
During the year competitive conditions.
customer numbers, ARPR growth, revenue, ended 31 March 2017 the Group generated a profit, cash flow, funding arrangements and Based on their assessment of prospects and profit before tax of 193.4m and was highly key financial ratios have been prepared for viability above, the Directors confirm that cash generative with cash generated from the three-year period to March 2020.
The they have a reasonable expectation that the operations of 212.9m.
Taking into account the first year of the financial forecasts forms Group will be able to continue in operation Groups current position and its principal risks the basis for the Groups 2018 budget and and meet its liabilities as they fall due over and uncertainties as described on pages is subject to a re-forecast process at the the three-year period ending March 2020.
33 to 35, the Directors have assessed the half-year.
The second and third years are Groups prospects and viability.
Going concern prepared in detail, and are flexed based The Directors also considered it appropriate The business model and strategy as set out on the actual results in year one.
to prepare the financial statements on the on pages 10 and 13 are a core part of Assessment of viability going concern basis, as explained in the Basis understanding its prospects.
These factors The Boards assessment of the Groups of preparation paragraph in note 1 to the provide a framework for the rolling three-year prospects, as described above, has been financial statements.
plan which is developed as part of the annual made with reference to current market budget process and reviewed by the Board to conditions and known risk factors.
The assess the Groups prospects.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the The Directors have adopted a three-year Group are outlined on pages 33 to 35. timeframe for assessing both prospects and viability, which is considered to be Given the Groups financial performance in appropriate due to the following: 2017 and over recent years, the Board continues to believe that the key factor it is consistent with the Groups rolling which would prejudice the delivery of the three-year strategic planning process: Groups financial objectives is a severe the Group operates within a digital online weakening of AutoTraders marketplace marketplace where the market can be proposition and its leading market position.
fast moving, so looking out beyond this This could be caused by a loss of audience timeframe yields little benefit: which results in a reduction in retailers and it reflects reasonable expectations in the level of stock listed on the marketplace terms of the reliability and accuracy of or by a reduction in the number of retailers operational forecasting models: and and stock which could then result in a loss of audience.
it incorporates the period in which we expect to refinance our existing term loan Using the current strategic plan as a base and therefore includes an assessment case, alternative forecasts have been on our ability to refinance.
produced to model the effect on the Groups liquidity and solvency of very severe The Groups prospects are assessed primarily combinations of the principal risks and through its strategic planning process.
This process includes an annual review of the ongoing plan, led by the CEO through the The viability model assumed a rapid Operational Leadership Team, and all relevant deterioration in stock and audience over functions are involved.
The Board participates a short period of time.
The number of fully in the annual process and has the task of customer retailer forecourts and the ARPR considering whether the plan continues to generated were significantly degraded in take appropriate account of the external the model, but expenditure in the areas of environment including technological, social marketing, payroll and technology were held and macroeconomic changes.
Revenue and profitability are clearly affected in this scenario, but the business remains cash generative.
32 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017
