Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS External risks Risks and How we monitor Change in impacts and manage the risk the year The UK economic climate The Risk Committee reviews the economic The UK economy has remained robust and Economic and future movements in environment in which we operate quarterly to fared better than many expected following the EU outlook interest rates present risks assess whether any changes to the economic referendum, with economic activity improving in and opportunities in property outlook justify a re-assessment of the risk the second half of 2016, albeit we have seen some and financing markets and the appetite of the business evidence of softening retail spend in the first part businesses of our occupiers of 2017.
There is continuing uncertainty associated Key Indicators include forecast GDP growth, which can impact both the with the UKs future exit from the EU and other employment rates, business and consumer delivery of our strategy and geopolitical changes, with a wide spectrum of confidence, interest rates and inflation deflation our financial performance.
views about future economic performance.
Equity are considered, as well as central bank guidance and foreign exchange markets have been volatile.
and government policy updates Interest rates have remained low: but UK inflation We stress test our business plan against is increasing, partly driven by the devaluation a downturn in economic outlook to ensure of sterling.
our financial position is sufficiently flexible and resilient We remain mindful of potential headwinds and Our resilient business model focuses on a high have the flexibility to scale our development activity quality portfolio, with secure income streams and risk exposures up or down to respond to market and robust finances conditions, to ensure the business remains both resilient and well positioned to capture upside in the future.
Significant political events and Whilst we are not able to influence the outcome There remains uncertainty about the nature of Political and regulatory changes, including of significant political events, we do take the Britains exit from and future relations with the EU, regulatory the decision to leave the EU, uncertainty related to such events and the range alongside how this could impact the UK economy.
outlook brings risks principally in of possible outcomes into account when making Furthermore, the global geopolitical and trade two areas: strategic investment and financing decisions environment remains uncertain.
reluctance of investors Internally we review and monitor proposals and We are confident that the natural resilience of our and businesses to make emerging policy and legislation to ensure that we business, with its long leases, high occupancy and investment and occupational take the necessary steps to ensure compliance.
robust financial position, together with the actions decisions whilst the outcome Additionally we engage public affairs consultants we have taken, leaves our business well positioned.
remains uncertain and to ensure that we are properly briefed on the potential policy and regulatory implications on determination of the of political events.
Where appropriate, we outcome, the impact on the act with other industry participants and case for investment in the representative bodies to contribute to the UK, and on specific policies debate on regulatory changes and regulation introduced, particularly those which directly impact real estate or our customers Reduction in investor demand The Risk Committee reviews the property market Investment volumes were lower in 2016, although Commercial for UK real estate may result quarterly to assess whether any changes to the there has been a pick-up in activity more recently, property in falls in asset valuations and market outlook present risks and opportunities particularly in central London offices.
UK property investor could arise from variations in: which should be reflected in the execution of continues to appeal to certain investors underpinned demand our strategy and our capital allocation plan.
The by the relatively wide yield gap between property the health of the UK economy Committee considers indicators such as margin yields and long term interest rates, further the attractiveness of between property yields and borrowing costs supported by currency movements.
investment in the UK and property capital growth forecasts which are availability of finance and considered alongside the Committee members The market for the most attractive assets remains knowledge and experience of market activity liquid and in the central London office market there relative attractiveness and trends have been a number of high profile transactions of other asset classes including our sale of The Leadenhall Building.
We focus on prime assets and sectors which we believe will be less susceptible over the Prime yields have remained broadly stable, medium term to a reduction in occupier and although market pricing is becoming increasingly investor demand polarised with some softening in demand for more Strong relationships with agents and direct secondary assets.
We have continued to be active investors active in the market and successfully exchanged on the sale of 1.5 billion We stress test our business plan for the of assets, overall 9% ahead of valuation.
effect of a change in property yields Key Change from last year Our principal Key Risk Indicators are highlighted within How we monitor and manage the risk.
Risk exposure has increased N o significant change in risk exposure Risk exposure has reduced 50 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risks and How we monitor Change in impacts and manage the risk the year Underlying income, rental The Risk Committee reviews indicators of In retail, demand remained firm in the year, despite Occupier growth and capital performance occupier demand quarterly including consumer wider uncertainty from consumers and retailers alike.
demand could be adversely affected confidence surveys, and employment and ERV However, retailers are facing a more challenging and tenant by weakening occupier growth forecasts, alongside the Committee environment with cost pressures from a number default demand and occupier failures members knowledge and experience of occupier of sources including the National Living Wage, the resulting from variations in plans, trading performance and leasing activity recent business rates revaluation, import cost the health of the UK economy in guiding execution of our strategy inflation due to the weakening pound and from the and corresponding weakening requirements of establishing omni-channel platforms.
We have a high quality, diversified occupier base of consumer confidence, These pressures mean that retailers are increasingly and monitor concentration of exposure to individual business activity and focusing on the most profitable stores, where they can occupiers or sectors.
We perform rigorous occupier investment.
grow sales with lower occupancy costs.
Our continued covenant checks ahead of approving deals and on upgrading of environments at our retail properties Changing consumer and an ongoing basis so that we can be proactive in and targeted engagement with occupiers, positions business practices including managing exposure to weaker occupiers us well to benefit from increasing polarisation.
the growth of internet retailing, Ongoing engagement with our occupiers.
Through flexible working practices, and our Key Occupier Account programme we work While occupier demand in the London office market demand for energy efficient together with our occupiers to find ways to best has been more cautious post-referendum, take-up buildings, new technologies, meet their evolving requirements has picked up with overall take-up over the year in line new legislation and alternative Our sustainability strategy links action on occupier with the ten year average.
Londons broad appeal locations may result in earlier health and wellbeing, energy efficiency, community means that demand has continued to originate from than anticipated obsolescence and sustainable design to our business strategy.
a range of industries including strong demand from of our buildings if evolving Our social and environmental targets help us the creative and technology sectors.
We have seen occupier and regulatory comply with new legislation and respond to vacancy rates rising in both the City and West End requirements are not met.
customer demands: for example, we expect all following recent development completions and expect office developments to be BREEAM Excellent this to apply downward pressure on market rents: however accelerating polarisation towards higher quality places will provide support for rents in the best locations.
As well as policy and regulatory changes arising from the UKs departure from the EU, such as migration controls and passporting, office occupiers also face challenges as they adapt to economic, social and technology changes.
Our focus is on London campuses which provide attractive and engaging environments and are increasingly flexible to suit the changing requirements and scale of central London office occupiers.
These position us well to benefit from any shift in demand.
Reduced availability of finance Market borrowing rates and real estate credit There has been market volatility reacting Availability may adversely impact ability to availability are monitored by the Risk Committee to macro-economic and political uncertainties.
and cost refinance debt and or drive up quarterly and reviewed regularly in order to guide However, there remains good availability of finance of finance cost.
These factors may also our financing actions in executing our strategy in debt and capital markets secured and unsecured result in weaker investor to UK REITs and other good quality real estate We monitor our projected LTV and our debt demand for real estate.
Development finance without pre-lets requirements using several internally generated is more difficult to obtain.
Regulation and capital costs reports focused on borrowing levels, debt maturity, of lenders may increase cost available facilities and interest rate exposure We have continued to achieve attractive financings and of finance.
We maintain good long term relationships with agreed one year extensions on a total of 1.4 billion of our key financing partners our unsecured facilities and agreed a new 100 million The scale and quality of our business enables bilateral facility in the year.
us to access a diverse range of sources of finance with a spread of repayment dates.
We aim always to have a good level of undrawn, committed, unsecured revolving facilities to ensure we have adequate financing availability to support business requirements and opportunities We work with industry bodies and other relevant organisations to participate in any debate on emerging finance regulations where our interests and those of our industry are affected An external event such as We maintain a comprehensive crisis response The Home Office threat level from international Catastrophic a civil emergency, including a plan across all business units as well as a terrorism remains Severe.
Our business continuity business large-scale terrorist attack, head office business continuity plan plans and asset emergency procedures have been event cyber crime, extreme weather reviewed and enhanced where appropriate.
The Risk Committee monitors the Home Office occurrence, environmental terrorism threat levels and we have access disaster or power shortage We are mindful of cyber security risks and have to security threat information services could severely disrupt global enhanced our security position as well as rolling Asset emergency procedures are regularly markets including property out cyber awareness training across both British reviewed and scenario tested.
Physical and finance and cause Land and Broadgate Estates.
We continue to security measures are in place at properties significant damage and monitor the cyber threat landscape including and development sites disruption to British Lands the impact on our supply chain and any portfolio and operations.
Our Sustainability Committee monitors implications of new regulations.
environmental and climate change risks.
Asset risk assessments are carried out to assess a range of risks including security, flood, environmental, health and safety We have implemented corporate cyber security systems which are supplemented by incident management, disaster recovery and business continuity plans, all of which are regularly reviewed to be able to respond to changes in the threat landscape and organisational requirements We also have appropriate insurance in place across the portfolio British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Internal risks Risks and How we monitor Change in impacts and manage the risk the year In order to meet our strategic Our investment strategy is determined to be Whilst the outlook in our markets will remain Investment objectives we aim to invest consistent with our target risk appetite and is based uncertain for some time, we have an enduring strategy in and exit from the right on the evaluation of the external environment strategy which is based on long term trends and Responsible properties at the right time.
this positions our high quality portfolio to benefit Progress against the strategy and continuing executives: Underperformance could from increasing polarisation and to attract a alignment with our risk appetite is discussed Chris Grigg, result from changes in broader range of occupiers.
In line with our at each Risk Committee with reference to the Charles market sentiment as well as strategic priorities, we have accelerated our property markets and the external economic inappropriate determination focus on lifestyle oriented real estate: we have Maudsley, environment and execution of our property recycled capital to maximise returns and we Tim Roberts The Board carries out an annual strategic review investment strategy, including: are getting closer to our customers.
of the overall corporate strategy including the sector selection Groups current and prospective asset portfolio During the year we have exchanged on 1.5 billion of and weighting Individual investment decisions are subject to asset disposals at 9% above valuation.
We have been timing of investment and robust risk evaluation overseen by our Investment disciplined in our investment activity, with 195 million divestment decisions Committee including consideration of returns of acquisitions, primarily of properties which are exposure to developments relative to risk adjusted hurdle rates complementary to existing assets and 292 million capital spend on developments and placemaking.
asset, tenant, region Review of prospective performance of individual concentration assets and their business plans co-investment arrangements We foster collaborative relationships with our co-investors and enter into ownership agreements which balance the interests of the parties Development provides an We manage our levels of total and speculative Development has been an important driver of returns Development opportunity for outperformance development exposure as a proportion of the and we have assembled a pipeline of development strategy but usually brings with it investment portfolio value within a target range opportunities with the optionality to progress when Responsible elevated risk.
taking into account associated risks and the the time is right.
In a more uncertain environment, we executives: impact on key financial metrics.
This is monitored have moderated our current speculative development This is reflected in our Chris Grigg, quarterly by the Risk Committee along with exposure to only 4% of the portfolio.
We are progressing decision-making process Charles progress of developments against plan planning and pre-let discussions across the pipeline around which schemes to Maudsley, and positioned ourselves to make timely decisions develop, the timing of the Prior to committing to a development, the Group on our developments going forward.
Tim Roberts development, as well as the undertakes a detailed appraisal overseen by our execution of these projects.
Investment Committee including consideration For more on our development programme, of returns relative to risk adjusted hurdle rates Development strategy see pages 29 to 31. addresses several development Pre-lets are used to reduce development letting risks that could adversely impact risk where considered appropriate underlying income and capital Competitive tendering of construction contracts performance including: and, where appropriate, fixed price contracts development letting exposure entered into construction timing Detailed selection and close monitoring of and costs including contractors including covenant reviews construction cost inflation Experienced development management team major contractor failure closely monitors design, construction and overall delivery process adverse planning judgements Early engagement and strong relationships with planning authorities We also actively engage with the communities in which we operate, as detailed in our Local Charter, to ensure that our development activities consider the interests of all stakeholders We manage environmental and social risks across our development supply chain by engaging with our suppliers, including through our Supply Chain Charter, Sustainability Brief for Developments and Health and Safety Policy Key Change from last year Our principal Key Risk Indicators are highlighted within How we monitor and manage the risk.
Risk exposure has increased N o significant change in risk exposure Risk exposure has reduced 52 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risks and How we monitor Change in impacts and manage the risk the year A number of critical business Our HR strategy is designed to minimise Expert People is one of the four core focus areas People processes and decisions lie risk through: of our strategy.
We empower our people to make Responsible in the hands of a few people.
the most of their potential.
During the year, we informed and skilled recruitment processes executives: have introduced a number of initiatives to improve Failure to recruit, develop talent, performance management and Chris Grigg organisational effectiveness across the business and retain staff and Directors succession planning for key roles and to promote wellbeing and health, including with the right skills and highly competitive compensation and benefits offering enhanced Shared Parental Pay experience may result in to employees.
people development and training significant underperformance or impact the effectiveness The risk is measured through employee Also, we are focused on creating a culture which of operations and decisionengagement surveys including the Best encourages diversity and inclusion and are working making, in turn impacting Companies' survey, employee turnover and towards the National Equality Standard.
We monitor this through the number of unplanned executive departures For more on our Expert People, in addition to conducting exit interviews see pages 24 and 25.
We engage with our suppliers to make clear our requirements in managing key risks including health and safety, fraud and bribery and other social and environmental risks, as detailed in our Supply Chain Charter Our capital structure We manage our use of debt and equity finance to Balance sheet metrics remain strong.
Our LTV and Capital recognises the balance balance the benefits of leverage against the risks, weighted average interest rate on drawn debt have structure between performance, including a magnification of the impact of property reduced and interest cover has improved.
The impact leverage risk and flexibility.
valuation movements of investment activity in the year was a net decrease Responsible in debt of 0.5 billion.
The strength of the Groups Leverage magnifies We aim to manage our LTV through the property balance sheet is reflected in our senior unsecured executives: capital returns, both cycle such that our financial position would remain credit rating which was reaffirmed by Fitch at Lucinda Bell positive and negative robust in the event of a significant fall in property Aand outlook was upgraded to Positive.
This means we do not adjust our approach An increase in leverage to leverage based on changes in property increases the risk of For more on our financial policies, market yields a breach of covenants see pages 43 to 45. on borrowing facilities We manage our investment activity, the size and and may increase timing of which can be uneven, as well as our finance costs development commitments to ensure that our LTV level remains appropriate We leverage our equity and achieve benefits of scale while spreading risk through joint ventures and funds which are typically partly financed by debt without recourse to British Land Finance strategy We have five key principles guiding our financing Given the quality of our business, we have continued Finance addresses risks both to which are employed together to manage the risks to achieve attractive financings which improve strategy continuing solvency and in this area: diversify our sources of finance, phase earnings and liquidity.
As well as being well priced, Responsible profits generated.
maturity of debt portfolio, maintain liquidity, our financing is robust with an average term of eight executives: maintain flexibility, and maintain strong balance years on drawn debt and no requirement for the Failure to manage refinancing Lucinda Bell sheet metrics Group to refinance until early 2021.
Our committed requirements may result in a bank facilities total 1.8 billion of which 1.3 billion shortage of funds to sustain We monitor the period until refinancing is required, was undrawn at 31 March 2017. the operations of the business which is a key determinant of financing activity, and or repay facilities as they regularly evaluate the financial covenant headroom For more on our financial policies, fall due.
We are committed to maintaining and enhancing see pages 43 to 45. relationships with our key financing partners We are mindful of relevant emerging regulation which has the potential to impact the way that we finance the Group We are mindful of maintaining We undertake comprehensive profit and cash Despite the uncertainty, the quality of our portfolio Income sustainable income streams flow forecasting incorporating scenario analysis and environments has continued to attract strong sustainability which underpin a stable and to model the impact of proposed transactions occupier interest with good leasing performance.
Responsible growing dividend and provide Our income streams are secure: underpinned Pro-active asset management approach to executives: the platform from which to by a high quality, diverse occupier base with 98% maintain strong occupier line-up.
We monitor Lucinda Bell, grow the business.
occupancy and an average lease length of 8.3 years.
our market letting exposure including vacancies, Charles We consider sustainability upcoming expiries and breaks and speculative Maudsley, We actively manage the impact of our investment of our income streams in: development as well as our weighted average strategy and office lease expiries on our income Tim Roberts unexpired lease term execution of investment profile.
Looking forward, were conscious of potential strategy and capital We have a high quality and diversified occupier headwinds for our occupiers, however we continue recycling, notably timing base and monitor concentration of exposure to expect our high quality portfolio to benefit from of reinvestment of sale to individual occupiers or sectors increasing polarisation.
proceeds We are proactive in addressing key lease breaks nature and structure and expiries to minimise periods of vacancy of leasing activity We actively engage with the communities nature and timing of in which we operate, as detailed in our Local asset management and Charter, to ensure we provide buildings that development activity meet the needs of all relevant stakeholders British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Governance Governance and remuneration Board of Directors 56 Chairmans governance review 60 Our governance structure 61 Governance review 62 Report of the Audit Committee 67 Report of the Nomination Committee 71 Remuneration Report Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 73 At a Glance 75 Annual Report on Remuneration 76 Directors Report and additional disclosures 89 Directors responsibility statement 91 SouthGate, Bath right 54 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55
