Strategic Report MANAGING RISK IN DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY Effective risk management is integral to our objective of delivering sustainable long term value Lucinda Bell Chair of the Risk Committee For British Land, effective risk management The Audit Committee takes responsibility for is a cornerstone of delivering our strategy overseeing the effectiveness of risk management British Land core strengths and integral to the achievement of our objective and internal control systems on behalf of the of delivering sustainable long term value.
We Board, and also advises the Board on the High quality portfolio focused on maintain a comprehensive risk management principal risks facing the Group including those multi-let retail across the UK and process which serves to identify, assess and that would threaten its solvency or liquidity.
office-led campuses in London respond to the principal risks facing our Placemaking to create Places business, including those risks that could The Executive Directors are responsible for People Prefer threaten the Groups solvency and liquidity, as delivering the Companys strategy and managing Customer orientation to respond well as identifying emerging risks.
Our risk management framework to changing lifestyles is not intended to eliminate risk entirely, but categorises our risks into external, strategic Diverse and high quality occupier base instead to manage our risk exposures across and operational risks and the Risk Committee High occupancy and long lease the business, whilst at the same time making comprising the Executive Directors and chaired lengths provides secure cash flows the most of our opportunities.
by the Chief Financial Officer is responsible for Mixed use development expertise managing the principal risks in each category in Ability to source and execute Our risk management framework order to achieve the Groups performance goals.
attractive investment deals Our integrated approach combines a top Efficient capital structure with good down strategic view with a complementary Whilst responsibility for oversight of risk access to capital and debt markets bottom up operational process outlined in management rests with the Board, the effective Sustainability embedded in the diagram on page 47. day-to-day management of risk is embedded our strategy within our operational business units and The Board is responsible for the overall forms an integral part of how we work.
This To read more about Our business approach to risk management with a particular bottom up approach ensures potential risks model, go to pages 10 and 11. focus on determining the nature and extent are identified at an early stage and escalated of exposure to principal risks it is willing to as appropriate with mitigations put in place take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Each business unit This is assessed in the context of the core maintains a comprehensive risk register which strengths of our business as summarised on is reviewed quarterly by the Risk Committee, the right and the external environment in with significant and emerging risks escalated which we operate this is our risk appetite.
To read more about the Board and Audit Committees risk oversight, go to pages 65 and 70.
46 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our risk appetite Our risk appetite The Groups risk appetite is reviewed annually as part of the annual strategy review process Change in Principal Key risk indicators risk appetite and approved by the Board.
This evaluation internal risks including current optimal thresholds in the year guides the actions we take in executing our strategy.
We have identified a suite of Key Risk Investment Execution of targeted acquisitions and disposals in 1 Indicators KRIs to monitor the Groups risk strategy line with plan overseen by Investment Committee profile as summarised on the left, which Review of overall portfolio prospective performance IRRs are reviewed quarterly by the Risk Committee, Percentage of portfolio in non-core sectors to ensure that the activities of the business Development Total development exposure 15% of portfolio 2 remain within our risk appetite and that our strategy Speculative development exposure 8% of portfolio risk exposure is well matched to changes in 2016: 10% our business and our markets.
These include Progress on execution of key development projects the most significant judgements affecting against plan our risk exposure, including our asset People Unplanned executive departures 3 selection and investment strategy: the level Employee engagement Best Companies survey of occupational and development exposure and our financial leverage.
Capital LTV should not exceed a maximum threshold in an 4 structure economic downturn if market yields were to rise to previous peak levels The Board has considered the Groups risk Covenant headroom appetite in light of the outcome of the UKs referendum on continued membership of Finance Period until refinancing is required of not less than 5 the EU.
Our strategy, which is based on strategy two years Percentage of debt at fixed interest rates over next long term trends, endures: we had already five years positioned the business for a range of outcomes with modest development exposure, high Income Market letting risk including vacancies, upcoming 6 occupancy and robust finances.
However, we sustainability expiries, and breaks and speculative development have a range of tactical levers to address the Weighted average unexpired lease term Concentration of exposure to individual occupiers evolving political and economic uncertainties.
or sectors We have moderated our development activity, reflecting increased uncertainty.
We reduced our internal risk metric for the maximum we will develop speculatively from 10% of the portfolio to 8%, although our current Our risk management framework exposure is much lower at 4%.
Top down Bottom up Our financial position is strong: our Strategic risk management Operational risk management proportionally consolidated LTV has reduced to 29.9% reflecting asset sales and our financing Review external environment has an average term of eight years on drawn debt with no requirement to refinance until Robust assessment of principal risks early 2021.
BOARD Assess effectiveness of risk AUDIT Set risk appetite and parameters management systems The Board considers that the Groups COMMITTEE risk appetite is appropriate to achieve Determine strategic action points Report on principal risks our strategic objectives.
Our business is and uncertainties both resilient and well placed to capture value in the long term.
Identify principal risks Direct delivery of strategic actions RISK Consider completeness of COMMITTEE in line with risk appetite identified risks and adequacy EXECUTIVE of mitigating actions DIRECTORS Monitor key risk indicators Consider aggregation of risk exposures across the business Execute strategic actions Report on key risk indicators Report current and BUSINESS emerging risks UNITS Identify, evaluate and mitigate operational risks recorded in risk register British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Strategic Report MANAGING RISK IN DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Our risk assessment Change Key strategic in risk Principal priorities assessment risks affected in year External risks Economic 1 outlook 2 Political and 2 regulatory 1 outlook 3 3 Commercial property investor 4 demand 5 Occupier 4 12 demand and 6 7 tenant default 10 5 Availability and 11 cost of finance 9 8 6 Catastrophic business event Internal risks 7 Investment strategy 8 Development strategy Impact 9 People Note: The above illustrates principal risks which by their nature are those which have the potential to significantly impact the Groups strategic objectives, financial position or reputation.
Capital 10 Key structure Strategic priorities Change year on year Finance 11 Customer Orientation Unchanged strategy Right Places Increased Income 12 Capital Efficiency Reduced sustainability Expert People Our changing risks and focus Also, several of our principal risks have evolved supports the effective management The Board has undertaken a robust assessment in nature: the regulatory environment is now of risks, whilst maintaining a practical of the principal risks and uncertainties that the recognised within a broader Political and approach and meeting the requirements Group is exposed to in light of the long term Regulatory Outlook risk: and the Development of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
trends we are facing see pages 12 and 13 and Strategy risk has been expanded to include in light of the EU referendum result.
Several of development cost inflation.
We have built on our existing process by our principal risks are elevated as a result of the embedding risk management discussions increased political and economic uncertainty in the relevant business unit management as shown by the risk heat map above.
Other areas of focus for the Risk committees and provided training for our Committee during the year included: risk specialists across the business.
Looking forward, risks that also could be Culture impacted while the terms and timing of exit are Cyber security This year we hosted a major civil contingencies negotiated, and potentially beyond are: investor Asset level crisis plan exercise simulating a large scale critical and occupier demand, availability of finance, Fraud and whistleblowing incident at one of our multi-let retail assets.
execution of investment strategy and income Effectiveness review of our risk process This was undertaken with support from several sustainability.
We remain mindful of potential police forces, fire and ambulance and other headwinds going forward and our risk appetite national agencies and enabled us to test our and tactical decisions will reflect the evolving During the year, we have undertaken an capabilities and preparedness in the event environment to ensure the business remains effectiveness review of our risk management of a significant emergency.
both resilient and well positioned to capture process, as well as an internal audit.
Our risk upside in the future.
management process appropriately 48 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Likelihood The principal risks facing British Land are summarised on pages 50 to 53, including Viability statement The sensitivities performed were designed an assessment of the potential impact and to be severe but plausible: and to take full likelihood and how the risks have changed Assessment of prospects account of the availability of mitigating actions in the year, together with how they relate The Groups annual corporate planning that could be taken to avoid or reduce the to our strategic priorities.
process includes the completion of a strategic impact or occurrence of the underlying risks review, reassessing the Groups risk appetite relating to a single downturn scenario: and updating the Groups forecasts.
Downturn in economic outlook: Key The Groups strategy provides the focus for assumptions including occupancy, void our annual priorities and is formally reviewed periods, rental growth and yields were annually.
This process is led by the Chief sensitised in the downturn scenario to Executive through the Executive Committee and reflect reasonably likely levels associated includes the active engagement of the Board.
with an economic downturn, including: Part of the Boards role is to consider whether a reduction in occupier demand, with the strategy takes appropriate account of the a fall in occupancy rate of 5% and Groups principal risks.
The latest updates Offices and Retail ERV declines of to the strategic plan and Group's risk appetite 25% and 5% respectively were approved by the Board in March 2017. a reduction in investment property demand to the level seen in the last The strategy and risk appetite drive the severe downturn in 2008 2009, with Groups forecasts.
These cover a five year outward yield shift to 8% net initial yield period and consist of a base case forecast which includes committed transactions only, Restricted availability of finance: based and a forecast which also includes nonon the Groups current commitments and committed transactions the Board expects available facilities there is no requirement the Group to make in line with the Groups to refinance until early 2021.
A five year forecast is considered to course of business, financing is arranged in be the optimal balance between the Groups advance of expected requirements and the long term business model to create Places Directors have reasonable confidence that People Prefer and the fact that property additional or replacement debt facilities will investment is a long term business with be put in place.
In the downturn scenario, weighted average lease lengths and debt the following sensitivity of this assumption maturities in excess of five years, offset by the was conducted: progressively unreliable nature of forecasting a reduction in the availability of in later years, particularly given the historically finance, for the final two years of the cyclical nature of the UK property industry.
five year assessment in tandem with the Groups refinancing date Assessment of viability For the reasons outlined above, the period over The outcome of the downturn scenario which the Directors consider it feasible and was that the Groups covenant headroom appropriate to report on the Groups viability based on existing debt i. e. the level by which is the five year period to 31 March 2022. investment property values would have to fall before a financial covenant breach occurs The assumptions underpinning these forecast decreases from the current 58% to, at its cash flows and covenant compliance forecasts lowest level, 11%, indicating covenants on were sensitised to explore the resilience existing facilities would not be breached.
of the Group to the potential impact of the Groups significant risks, or a combination In the downturn scenario, mitigating of those risks.
actions would be required to enable the Group to meet its future liabilities at the refinancing The principal risks table which follows on date, principally through asset sales, which pages 50 to 53 summarises those matters would allow the Group to continue to meet that could prevent the Group from delivering its liabilities over the assessment period.
A number of these principal risks, because of their nature or potential Viability statement impact, could also threaten the Groups Having considered the forecast cash flows ability to continue in business in its current and covenant compliance and the impact of the form if they were to occur.
sensitivities in combination in the downturn scenario, the Directors confirm that they have The Directors paid particular attention to the a reasonable expectation that the Group will risk of a deterioration in economic outlook be able to continue in operation and meet its which could impact property fundamentals, liabilities as they fall due over the period The Strategic Report was approved by including investor and occupier demand which to 31 March 2022. the Board on 16 May 2017 and signed would have a negative impact on valuations, on its behalf by: and give rise to a reduction in the availability of Going concern finance.
The remaining principal risks, whilst The Directors also considered it appropriate having an impact on the Groups business to prepare the financial statements on the model, are not considered by the Directors going concern basis, as explained in the to have a reasonable likelihood of impacting Governance review.
Lucinda Bell the Groups viability over the five year period To read more information on going Chief Financial Officer to 31 March 2022. concern, go to page 65.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49
