Our approach to risk management How we manage risk Like any business, we face a number To meet our objectives, build shareholder value and promote our stakeholders interests, its essential we manage risk.
To help us weve of risks and uncertainties.
Some developed a group-wide risk management process with four stages: come from outside our organisation, others from within.
Some we cant Identification control, some we can.
Many of our risks are similar to those felt by similar Monitoring Evaluation Business activities businesses.
Response Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties that affect us could have an impact on our business, brand, assets, revenue, profits, liquidity or Changes over the year capital resources.
The principal risks we described last year have In 2015 16 we improved the way we manage risk through our evolved, and so has our response to them.
response to the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, trialling the use of risk modelling software, and providing risk Our Enterprise Risk Management framework gives reasonable but management training to colleagues.
Specific improvements for cannot give absolute assurance that weve identified and addressed 2016 17 included: our biggest risks.
However, there may be some risks that are either currently unknown, or currently seen as less important but with the Investment cases potential to become more so in the future.
Weve been helping our colleagues understand the risks linked to their investment cases.
In doing so, were helping our investment Events outside BT present both risks and opportunities.
We focus committees make better decisions on where to invest and how we our efforts on predicting and reducing risks while aiming to take can keep any risks linked to those investments to a minimum.
advantage of any opportunities that may emerge.
Root cause analysis This year weve trialled a new way of learning from incidents and Weve also seen more interaction between our risks.
We believe it will help us learn some important risk increased costs of regulation, coupled with the risk of increased management lessons, which we can then use to stop other risks pension deficit payments, could impact our ability to invest to improve materialising in the future.
customer experience and drive revenue growth.
Weve also seen a growing interplay between our regulation and political risks.
Sharing good practice In May we held a conference for everybody involved in the BT In the section below, we explain what were doing to prevent our main risk management process, introduced by Gavin Patterson.
risks from materialising, or to limit their impact if theyre unavoidable.
Were now exploring other ways of sharing good practice Our biggest risks and uncertainties should be considered alongside across our risk community.
the risk management process, the forward-looking statements in this document and the associated cautionary statement see page 260.
Enterprise risk framework Line of business and TSO Audit and Risk audit and risk committees Committee Line of business and Group Risk Panel Operating Committee Board TSO leadership teams The Group Risk Panel supports the The Operating Committee identifies, The Board has overall responsibility Our lines of business and TSO follow Board and the Operating Committee.
evaluates, responds to and monitors for making sure we manage risks our process for managing risk as part Every three months it reviews the risks.
Significant risks are reported and appropriately.
It regularly reviews, of our Enterprise Risk Management Group Risk Register which summarises monitored through the Group Risk either directly or through the Audit framework.
That means identifying those risks of greatest significance Register.
The Operating Committee & Risk Committee, how were doing and responding to the key risks across our business, considers the assigns a management owner to take across the group, in our lines of affecting their business.
They record inclusion of new or emerging risks, and charge of monitoring and managing business and in TSO.
the risks for their leadership teams recommends ways to tackle them.
It monitors risks through to review.
Audit & risk committees also oversees the work of the group risk regular, detailed reviews as well in each line of business, TSO and management function.
Geo-political as six-monthly reviews of the our group functions, make sure this risks are reviewed by a sub-committee Group Risk Register.
44 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 45
