THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Trend indicates our perception Increasing worsening of pre-mitigation risk Lessening improving Our principal risks At a similar level Compliance risks Whats changed over the last year?
Ethical culture and controls During the year we identified inappropriate behaviour in our Italian business.
Our investigation identified collusion and override of Link to strategy 1 controls within our Italian business and that our monitoring controls Deliver great customer experience 2 did not identify the circumvention and override, resulting in the Transform our costs Trend misstatement of results going undetected for a number of years.
As a result of our US listing we are required to make certain assessments Link to business model of our controls as of 31 March 2017 for the purposes of SarbanesFinancial capital Oxley.
Despite the remediation steps we took, the controls had not Human capital operated for sufficient time to allow assurance testing to confirm Social capital their effectiveness under Sarbanes-Oxley.
We have therefore concluded for these purposes that our controls were ineffective as Its crucial that we maintain high ethical standards.
We dont tolerate of 31 March 2017 due to a material control weakness with regard fraud, bribery, any form of corruption or any illegal or unethical to our Italian business.
For further details of what we found, how weve responded, and We follow local and international law, including anti-corruption and what our ongoing plans are, see page 6. bribery laws.
The UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA have extraterritorial reach, so cover our global operations.
Our acquisition of EE has grown our UK business, and weve made As we expand globally, were increasingly operating in countries seen EE a part of our ACB compliance programme and financial and as having a higher risk of bribery and corruption.
We also have to disclosure control environment.
In terms of ACB enforcement make sure we follow trade sanctions and import and export controls.
generally, weve seen the first significant cases stemming from the UK Bribery Act, and in the US 27 companies paid about $2.5 billion We also face the risks associated with inappropriate and unethical to resolve FCPA cases.
2016 was the biggest enforcement year in behaviour in local and other markets by our people or associates, FCPA history both the number of enforcement actions and the such as suppliers or agents, which can be difficult to detect as well overall amounts paid to resolve them.
as facing the risks that our controls are designed to prevent, detect and correct such behaviour may be circumvented.
Controls and How were mitigating the risks procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide Weve put a number of controls in place to address risk in this area.
only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and there can These include the steps we have taken to improve our controls within be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated Italy.
We have also taken steps to enhance our wider controls that goals under all potential conditions, regardless of how remote.
monitor our overseas operations in our shared service centres, Global Services and at a group level.
While we have taken steps to improve Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial our control environment, we recognise we have more to do.
Further reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Therefore activities will include increasing and improving the capabilities of even those systems determined to be effective can provide only the controlling function and the audit function outside the UK, reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and further developing our integrated risk and assurance reporting and presentation.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness processes.
We are also enhancing our controls and compliance to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become programme to strengthen awareness of the standards we expect, inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of the capabilities of our people, and to reinforce the importance of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
doing business in an ethical, disciplined and standardised way.
Impact Our relevant controls include an anti-corruption and bribery If our people, or associates like suppliers or agents, breach antiprogramme and The Way We Work, our ethical code, available in 14 corruption, bribery, sanctions or other legislation there could languages.
We ask all our people to complete training and sign up to be significant penalties, criminal prosecution and damage to our The Way We Work which includes our zero tolerance to bribery and brand.
This could have an impact on future revenue and cash flow corruption.
We have policies covering gifts, hospitality, charitable depending on the nature of the breach, the legislation concerned donations and sponsorship.
We run tailored training for people in and any penalties.
If we were accused of corruption, bribery, higher-risk roles like procurement and sales.
violating sanctions regulations or other laws, that could lead to reputational damage with investors, regulators and customers.
If We regularly weigh up our business integrity risks to make sure weve fraud is committed, there is a risk of financial misstatement which got the right mitigation in place.
All Speak Up reports are passed if undetected can have a material financial impact and potential to the director of ethics and compliance for action.
Our confidential litigation and regulatory consequences.
hotline is operated by a third party and is available to employees and third-party contractors who can remain anonymous if they Financial and other controls play an important part in our ability choose to.
Any reports received direct by BT are also dealt with in to prevent and detect inappropriate and unethical behaviour.
This accordance with our Speak Up procedures.
includes fraud, deliberate financial misstatement and improper accounting practices, as well as breaches of anti-corruption, bribery, Our internal audit team regularly runs checks on our business.
If the design, operation or the assurance providers also assess areas we think are higher risk such as the use of over these controls is ineffective or they are circumvented, there is agents, to make sure people understand our policies and that controls a greater risk that the impacts described above may materialise, as are working.
We do due diligence checks on third parties like suppliers, they did this year with respect to our Italian business.
Our policy is that procurement contracts include anti-corruption and bribery clauses.
44 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 45
