Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties HomeServe has a risk management framework which provides a structured and consistent process for identifying, assessing and responding to risks.
These risks are assessed in relation to the Groups strategy, business performance and financial condition and a formal risk mitigation plan is agreed with clear ownership and accountability.
Risk management operates at all levels throughout the Group, across geographies and business lines.
Risks to HomeServes business are either specific to HomeServes business model, such as affinity partner relationships and underwriting, or more general, such as the impact of competition and regulatory compliance.
The table opposite sets out what the Board believes to be the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, the mitigating actions for each, and an update on any change in the profile of each risk during the past year.
These should be read in conjunction with the Chief Executives review and the Financial review.
Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not currently aware or which we currently believe are not significant may also adversely affect our strategy, business performance or financial condition in the future.
The Board believes that all identified risks carry equal importance and weighting as in the prior year with updates to the nature of those risks detailed below.
42 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2016 Annual Report Commercial relationships Underpinning the success in We have regular contact and reviews We have continued to sign and renew our chosen markets are close with the senior management of affinity partnerships with utilities commercial relationships our affinity partners to ensure we across the businesses.
affinity partner relationships respond to their needs and deliver principally with utility the service that they expect.
In the UK, there were no agreements companies, municipals and due for renewal in FY17.
The loss Across the Group we are not one utility partner agreement early of one of these relationships dependent on any one single due to renew in FY18 on substantially could impact our future partnership, which mitigates, in similar terms.
We signed an additional customer and policy growth part, the impact of losing any single utility partner Dee Valley Water and plans and retention rates.
extended our relationship with Aviva.
While the majority of these In North America, we signed 100 partnerships are secured new partners during the year and in under long-term contracts, France, while continuing to work with which increase the security the two largest water utilities we also of these relationships over have a good pipeline of opportunities.
the medium-term, they can In Spain, we continue to work closely be terminated in certain with Endesa, though ceased activity circumstances.
In Italy, following the cessation of the test agreement with Enel, we entered a joint venture with Edison Energia.
Competition There are a number of The market and the activities of There has been no significant change businesses that provide other participants are regularly in the competitive landscape in any of services that are similar to reviewed to ensure that the the countries in which we operate.
those of the Group and could strategies and offerings of current therefore compete in one or and potential competitors are fully In North America, we participate in more of our chosen markets.
Both qualitative and RFPs requests for proposal that Increased competition could quantitative research is undertaken are issued by utilities when they seek affect our ability to meet our to ensure that our products and to start a programme.
While we see expectations and objectives services continue to meet the needs some other parties participating in for the business in terms of of our customers whilst retaining a these tenders, we win the majority the number of customers, competitive position in the market.
and we believe that, overall, the RFP policies or the financial process is positive for our business returns achieved.
We believe we have a compelling as it demonstrates an increased proposition, providing customers awareness of our products and with real value and helping services in the North American reduce the impact of increased market.
43 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2016 Annual Report Customer loyalty retention A key element of our Policy retention rate is one of our Policy retention remains high in all business model is customer Key Performance Indicators.
Any reduction in the significant movement is therefore proportion of customers carefully investigated to assess the In the UK, the policy retention rate renewing their policies could change in customer behaviour and decreased by 2 percentage points significantly impact our to implement corrective action to 80% compared to the prior year, revenue.
principally due to the higher number of customers in early renewal cycles.
We have a wide range of tools In the UK, we also closely monitor the available to manage retention customer retention rate, which has rates, including specific retention been maintained at 82%.
In North America, the policy retention There are dedicated retention rate has been maintained at 82%, the teams, trained and experienced in same as the prior year.
talking to those customers who are considering not renewing their In France, we have maintained a policy.
We regularly review our products In Spain, policy retention increased by ensuring they provide the coverage 1 percentage point to 78%.
that our customers demand and need.
We also regularly review the methods by which we interact with our customers ensuring their needs are met and providing them with updated tools to purchase, renew and review their policy holdings for example through our latest digital initiatives.
Marketing effectiveness A significant reduction The performance of each marketing During the year, our marketing in the response rates campaign and channel is regularly channels performed as we expected on our marketing could reviewed, with any significant with direct mail response rates have a significant impact deviation to the expected response continuing to perform well.
on customer and policy rate quickly identified and remedial We continue to develop our digital numbers.
action taken for subsequent channels and work with our partners campaigns.
We record and review a to offer our products in their call number of telephone calls across all centres.
Development of these two of our businesses.
channels is serving to reduce our reliance on direct mail activity.
44 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2016 Annual Report Exposure to legislation or regulatory requirements We are subject to a broad We have regulatory specialists, All of our businesses have dedicated spectrum of regulatory compliance teams and Nonexperienced compliance specialists requirements in each of Executive Directors in each of our including independent Non-Executive the markets in which we businesses to help ensure that all Directors to chair the compliance operate, particularly relating aspects of the legislative regime in committees in each of our businesses, to product design, marketing each territory are fully understood with regular reporting to the local materials, sales processes and and adopted as required.
Specifically in the UK, we maintain We have maintained appropriate Failure to comply with the regular dialogue with the FCA, while dialogue with all relevant regulatory regulatory requirements in the USA we have regular dialogue bodies that govern or influence in any of our countries with the Attorneys General.
In our our businesses and have sought to could result in us having to other businesses, we maintain a engage, where possible, in regulatory suspend, either temporarily dialogue with local regulators.
and compliance discussions around or permanently, certain the development of the markets in activities.
We keep up to date with changes which we operate.
in government and regulatory In addition, legislative policy, which ensures that our In the UK the primary regulator, the changes related to our products and services are designed, Financial Conduct Authority, has partners may change their marketed and sold in accordance recognised the risk that we pose to obligations with regard to the with all relevant legal and regulatory their objectives has decreased and infrastructure they currently requirements and that their terms therefore they have reduced the manage and hence the and conditions remain appropriate intensity of their supervision.
products and services we can and meet the needs of customers.
It is possible such legislative changes could reduce, or even remove, the need for some of our products and services.
45 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2016 Annual Report Quality of customer service Our reputation is heavily We monitor customer service In FY17, we continued to monitor dependent on the quality of standards at a number of different customer satisfaction across all our our customer service.
customer contact points in each of operations at a number of different our operations, using both internal customer contact points, with Any failure to meet our data and an independent third party.
improvements in all the businesses.
service standards or negative media coverage The results of these are reviewed of poor service could on a regular basis and action plans have a detrimental impact produced to address the key issues.
on customer and policy numbers.
Processes have been established to ensure that all directly employed engineers and sub-contractors meet minimum standards.
These include criminal record checks and minimum qualification requirements.
Reflecting the importance of customer service to our business, all senior managers have customer satisfaction as a significant component of their annual bonus opportunity.
Availability of underwriters The policies that we market We use a number of underwriters, We continue to review our and administer are each with the main provider in the UK underwriting relationships on a individually underwritten separate to those in the rest of regular basis to ensure they provide by third party underwriters, Europe and North America.
the best returns for customers and independent of HomeServe.
We have regular contact and reviews We act as an insurance with the senior management of the In the UK, Aviva continues to be intermediary and do not take underwriters to ensure that claims our principal underwriter, and on any material insurance frequencies, repair costs and service commenced underwriting new risk.
standards are in line with their business in November 2015. expectations.
If these underwriters were Having secured a second underwriter unable or unwilling to The principal underwriters in North America last year, during underwrite these risks and are subject to medium-term FY17 we agreed terms with second we were unable to find agreements, with the rates subject underwriters in France and Spain.
alternative underwriters it to regular review.
would require us to insure In addition, we maintain these risks directly, thereby relationships with a number of exposing the business to underwriters who are willing and material insurance risk, which able to underwrite our business is contrary to our preferred and regularly review the market operating model.
In addition, to ensure we understand current it would take time to obtain market conditions, how these the relevant regulatory apply to our policies and how we approvals.
can mitigate the loss of an existing underwriter.
46 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2016 Annual Report Dependence on recruitment and retention of skilled personnel Our ability to meet growth Our employment policies, A People Committee, comprised expectations and compete remuneration and benefits of a number of the Non-Executive effectively is, in part, packages, and long-term incentives Directors and senior management dependent on the skills, are regularly reviewed and designed of the Group, has been created experience and performance to be competitive with other with a mandate to promote the of our personnel.
development and recruitment of key to attract, motivate or retain talent.
Employee surveys, performance key talent could impact reviews and regular communication on our overall business We have continued to strengthen our of business activities are just some performance.
management teams across all our of the methods used to understand operations particularly in the areas and respond to employees views of IT, Digital, Commercial and M&A.
During the year we completed the Processes are in place to identify rollout of our People Promises high performing individuals and which are now live in each of our to ensure that they have fulfilling businesses and an integral part careers, and we are managing of our recruitment, selection and succession planning effectively.
Exposure to country and regional risk and Brexit risk In line with other businesses The criteria for entering a new We have recommenced reviewing we are subject to economic, country include a full assessment potential new territories and have political and other risks of the stability of its economic and appointed a dedicated team with associated with operating in political situation, together with a significant experience of working in overseas territories.
review of the manner and way in an international environment to lead which business is conducted.
A variety of factors, including changes in a specific When entering a new country, we We continue to monitor the countrys political, economic generally do so on a small scale test economic, political and regulatory or regulatory requirements, basis.
This low risk entry strategy environments where we operate.
as well as the potential minimises the likelihood of any The Group is well positioned to meet for geographical turmoil significant loss.
the challenges of the UKs exit from including terrorism and war, Our businesses each operate in their the European Union and our growth could result in the loss of own territories, buying goods and prospects remain strong.
services from local businesses and Following the UKs decision supplying local consumers within to leave the European Union those territories, almost exclusively there may be implications in local currencies.
for how we operate with our overseas businesses.
47 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2016 Annual Report Our IT systems become a constraint to growth and drive inefficiency instead of efficiency improvements The Groups core IT system The Group reviews its systems We are replacing our core customer is used in each of our and processes on a regular basis.
IT system, the development of which businesses.
The system is As part of these reviews we look has progressed well and is expected now around 20 years old at the future plans of each of the to go-live in the UK during FY18.
and has had a number of businesses in terms of customer in house developments.
and policy growth, product and We have agreed plans to upgrade The system is dependent process design and development our claims and deployment systems, on internal development requirements and the potential enhancing the customer journey resource and knowledge.
and improving interactions with our network.
All system developments and enhancements undergo a rigorous We have continued to invest in other financial review and the proposed new technologies that will allow us benefits are monitored and subject to improve the products and service to post implementation reviews.
These have included an innovative leak Our IT developments are subject to detection device and initial funding of a prioritisation process, which takes a platform-based home repairs and into account the availability of both improvement model.
internal and external resource and the proposed benefits of the project.
Information security including cyber risk In line with other businesses We have a number of defensive Following a detailed review of our we are subject to the and proactive practices across the information policy, practices and increased prevalence and Group to mitigate this risk.
procedures by a third party in FY16, sophistication of cyberwe have now engaged a Group attacks which could result We have a detailed information Chief Information Security Officer to in unauthorised access to security policy, which is oversee information security across customer and other data that communicated across the Group the Group.
We have a dedicated we hold or cause business and training provided as required.
information security officer in each disruption to our services.
business and undertake regular We continue to invest in IT security This could result in a loss reviews and penetration testing at all ensuring a secure configuration, of customers, legal liability, of our businesses.
During the year, we access controls and data centre regulatory action or harm to continued to complete cyber audits security.
as part of our annual assurance plan and will continue to do so in FY18.
48 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2016 Annual Report Financial strategy and treasury risk The main financial risks are Interest rate risk During the year, we have obtained the availability of short-term Our policy is to manage our interest a four year 50m amortising term and long-term funding to cost using a mix of fixed and variable loan repayable in 2020 and 60m meet business needs, the rate debts.
Where necessary, this is of fixed rate medium-term funding risk of policyholders not achieved by entering into interest repayable in 2024.
In addition, we paying monies owed, and rate swaps for certain periods, in have continued to build relationships fluctuations in interest rates which we agree to exchange, at with a number of financial institutions and exchange rates.
specified intervals, the difference that wish to provide debt finance to between fixed and variable rate the Group.
Following the UKs decision interest amounts calculated by to leave the European Union reference to an agreed notional Following the increase in the the Group could be subject principal amount.
These swaps are Groups leverage we have continued to higher exchange rate designated to economically hedge to monitor the need to fix the fluctuations underlying debt obligations.
interest rate on some element of our borrowings.
However, given Credit risk the relatively stable interest rate The risk associated with cash and environment, combined with the fixed cash equivalents is managed by only rate debt secured during the past two depositing funds with reputable and years, we have not entered into any creditworthy banking institutions.
The risk of a policyholder defaulting Cash and cash equivalents continue is mitigated as any policy cover will to be deposited with reputable and cease as and when any premium creditworthy banking institutions.
There has been no significant change Liquidity risk in the level of mid-term policy We manage liquidity risk by cancellations.
maintaining adequate reserves and Our banking facility was renewed in banking facilities and continuously July 2014.
Our net debt at 31 March monitoring forecast and actual cash 2017 was 261.4m, well within our flows.
committed facilities and loans, on Foreign exchange risk which all conditions precedent have A clear treasury policy exists to been met.
address short term risk and this works with the natural hedging During the year, our adjusted provided by the geographical operating profit benefited from the spread of the businesses.
While this translation benefit on Euro and USA will protect against some of the Dollar profits by 10.3m.
transaction exposure, our reported results would still be impacted by the translation of our non-UK operations.
49 Strategic report Financial review continued Viability statement In accordance with provision c. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period to 31 March 2020.
The Directors believe that a three year forward looking period is appropriate as it is aligned to the timeframe that management focus upon, the performance period in respect of the long-term incentive scheme for senior management and it is the period of assessment for recoverable values of cash generating units.
The Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review along with procedures to forecast its profitability, capital position, funding requirement and cash flows.
These plans provide information to the Directors which are used to ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet its business objectives, both on a short-term and strategic basis.
The plans for the period commencing on 1 April 2017 were reviewed by the Executive Committee in February and then approved by the Board in March 2017.
In making this statement, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity as set out in the principal risks and uncertainties.
The Group has an embedded risk management framework and all major risks are scored based on their significance and likelihood and these are reviewed regularly by the Audit & Risk Committee.
Various stress tests have also been performed on scenarios such as the impact of losing an affinity partnership or a lowering of retention in a given country.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to geographical spread of the Group operations and its strong financial position, resulting from a combination of commercial partnerships and high customer retention.
The business is geographically spread across the UK, Continental Europe and North America.
In each established territory, the business has long-term contractual relationships with utility businesses providing access to in excess of 102m households under Affinity Partner brands.
Retention rates are high across all established businesses, resulting in stable and recurring cashflows from a large, diverse customer base.
Considering the Groups current position, the principal risks and the Boards assessment of the Groups future, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a period of at least three years to 31 March 2020.
50 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the strategic report.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups budget, forecast and cash flows for 2018 and beyond, and concluded that they are in line with their expectations with regards to the Groups strategy and future growth plans.
In addition, the directors have reviewed the Groups position in respect of material uncertainties and have concluded that there are no items that would affect going concern or that should be separately disclosed.
The Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
David Bower Chief Financial Officer 23 May 2017 51 Corporate responsibility Develop and encourage great people Our global values Put customers at the heart of everything we do Develop and encourage great people who are passionate about taking responsibility and making things happen Combine relentless innovation with integrity and professionalism Strive to be the best in the world at what we do 52 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Our people promises make sure that we always put our people first.
