47 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Risk management Our approach to risk Severn Trent is less affected than other companies by the decision to leave the European Union EU we operate Managing risk is all about understanding the uncertainties principally in the UK and our supplier base and customers are surrounding the achievement of our aims and objectives.
We are, however, subject to some Therefore, risk management describes the activities performed of the broader developments that flowfrom the decision, within our organisation to identify, assess, and control events such as: which may impact on our ability to achieve our aims and objectives.
We also appreciate that uncertainty can manifest 1.
T he effect on interest rates.
Interest rates fell in the wake itself as both negative and positive impacts, hence our goal of the referendum decision.
Lower rates reduce our cost of is to minimise these threats and maximise the opportunities variable rate debtbut they have an adverse impact on our for the benefit of our customers, people, contractors and pension deficit.
T he impact on our sources of finance.
Where we borrow money fromwill be affected by broader macro-economic The ERM process considerations andwhether we will still have access to the European Investment Bank orits equivalent after leaving the EU see principal risk 10.
F uture changes to environmental regulation.
EU-derived environmental regulation has historically been a major The Board e S ets strategy and determines driver of ourinvestment programmes.
The extent to regulatory outcomes which the UK Governmentwill follow or deviate from EU e S ets business plan objectives environmental legislationinthe future is unclear.
The impact on the domestic economy.
The health of the domestic economy can impact the ability of some of our customers to pay their bills.
We dont consider the uncertainty surrounding the Brexit negotiations asa principal risk in itself, but it will be an ERM team Operational teams influencing factor on the potential causes of some of our e Monitors performance e Identify and assess risks e A ssesses ERM maturity across e Set risk target position principal risks.
Understanding the implications of the Brexit the Group e I dentify risk improvement negotiations will therefore form a key part of future ERM risk e P rovides challenge and insight actions review process and the assessment of our principal risks.
e R eports to Executive Committee, Audit Committee and Board The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is effectively managed across the Group.
The Boards mandate includes defining risk appetite and monitoring risk exposure to ensure significant risks are aligned with the overall strategy of the Group.
The management of risk is embedded in our everyday business activities, with employees encouraged to play their part.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the Groups Enterprise Risk Management ERM process and internal controls to identify, assess, mitigate and manage risk.
Internal Audit supports the Audit Committee in evaluating the design and effectiveness of internal controls and risk mitigation strategies implemented by management.
The Executive Committee reviews strategic objectives and assesses the levels of risk in achieving these objectives.
This top down risk process helps to ensure the bottom up ERM process is aligned to current strategy and objectives.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 48 Risk management continued Across the Group, we manage risks within the overall On a monthly basis, the status of open risk mitigation actions governance framework which includes clear accountabilities, across the Group is reported into the Executive Committee by the delegated authority limits and reward policies.
These are central ERM team.
The level of ERM maturity in each business unit designed to provide employees with a holistic view of effective is assessed half-yearly and reported to the Executive Committee.
Where necessary, improvement plans are agreed to ensure ERM is fully embedded and effective, and during 2017 18 we will integrate Within Severn Trent Water Limited, our approach reflects our Dee Valley into our risk management processes.
An overview of status as a regulated utility providing essential services and accountability for our ERM process is illustrated in the diagram operating as part of the Critical National Infrastructure for onpage 47. the UK.
The nature of our Regulated Water and Waste Water business is such that there are some significant inherent risks, Risk appetite as illustrated on pages 50 to 55.
We aim to have a strong control framework in place to enable us to understand and manage The Board keeps under ongoing review the relationship between these risks in accordance with our risk tolerance and appetite.
our strategic ambitions and the management of risk.
The ERM process establishes target risk positions for each of In our non-regulated businesses we take a more commercial our significant risks.
The Board formally discusses the progress approach to risk.
However, we recognise that we provide towards this position and the mitigating actions being undertaken products and services for clients who operate in regulated every six months.
As a result, for risks that could impact on our clients regulated services, we take a similar approach to risk as Financial risks in our own regulated business.
The risks inherent in our nonregulated business are illustrated on pages 50 to 55.
Like all businesses, we need to plan future funding in line with business need.
This is part of our normal business planning Our Enterprise Risk Managementprocess process see principal risk 2.
The Board receives regular We use an established ERM process across the Group to updates relating to funding, solvency and liquidity matters via the assess and manage our significant risks, which are linked to Treasury Committee so we can respond quickly to any changes in our corporate objectives, core processes, key dependencies, our ability to secure financing see principal risk 10.
The pension stakeholder expectations and legal and regulatory obligations.
fund Trustees and Company regularly monitor our net pension The process is controlled by the central ERM team and deficit, with advice from investment managers and advisers.
underpinned by standardised tools and methodology to ensure An annual pension fund review paper is produced for the Board consistency.
ERM Champions and Co-ordinators operate to apprise them of fund performance and proposed initiatives to throughout the business, with support and challenge from manage down pension liabilities and further improve investment the ERM team, to identify and assess risks in their business returns see principal risk 9. units quarterly against a defined set of criteria considering the The ERM process and relevant risk assessments are factored likelihood of occurrence and potential financial and reputational into the stress testing to assess the Groups prospects as part of impacts.
The potential causes and subsequent impact of the our Viability Statement.
risks are documented to enable the corresponding mitigating controls to reduce the likelihood and impact to be assessed.
This assessment allows us to put in place effective mitigation strategies to remediate defective controls or implement additional controls.
This information is combined to form a consolidated view of risk across the Group and allows the risks to be prioritised.
Our significant risks, in terms of likelihood and impact, form our Group risk profile which is reported to the Executive Committee for review and challenge ahead of final review and approval by the Audit Committee and Board half-yearly.
In addition, individual risks or specific risk topics are also discussed by the Board during the year.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Long Term Viability Statement The Directors assessment of the Groups current financial The Groups debt maturity profile is actively managed by the position is set out in the Chief Financial Officers review on Group Treasury department to spread the timing of refinancing pages 41 to 46 and their assessment of the Groups principal requirements and to enable such requirements to be met under risks is set out in the Principal risks section on pages 50 to 55. most market conditions.
The weighted average maturity of debt at the balance sheet date was 15 years.
The Companys principal operating subsidiary is Severn Trent Water Limited, which is a regulated long term business Bearing in mind the long term nature of the Groups business: characterised by multi-year investment programmes and the enduring demand for its services: the nature of the Groups stable revenues.
The water industry in England and Wales is established planning process and the changing nature of the currently subject to economic regulation rather than market regulation of the water industry in England and Wales, the competition and Ofwat, the economic regulator, has a statutory Directors have determined that three years is an appropriate obligation to secure that water companies are able to finance period over which to assess the Groups prospects and make its their appointed activities.
Ofwat meets this obligation by setting Viability Statement.
price controls for five year Asset Management Periods AMPs.
In making its assessment the Board has made the following This mechanism reduces the potential for variability in revenues key assumptions: from the regulated business.
The current AMP runs until Any period in which the Group is unable to access capital March 2020. markets to raise finance during the period under review will The Group has an established process to assess its prospects.
The Board undertakes a detailed assessment of the Groups There will not be a catastrophic disruption to our drinking strategy on an annual basis and the output from this water supplies arising from external factors during any such assessment sets the framework for the Groups medium term period of market disruption.
plan which is updated annually.
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over The plan assessed the Groups prospects and considered a three year period to 31 March 2020, taking into account the the potential impacts of the principal risks and uncertainties.
Companys current position and principal risks.
Based on that Stress tests were performed to assess the potential impacts assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that of combinations of those risks and uncertainties.
The plan the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its also considered the mitigating actions that might be taken to liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2020. reduce the impact of such risks and uncertainties and their likely effectiveness.
Going Concern Statement The Groups investment programmes are largely funded In preparing the financial statements the Directors considered through access to debt markets.
The Groups strategic funding the Companys ability to meet its debts as they fall due for objectives reflect the long term nature of the Severn Trent a period of one year from the date of this report.
This was Water Limited business and the Group seeks to obtain a carried out in conjunction with the consideration of the Viability balance of long term funding at the best possible economic Statement above.
The Groups Treasury Policy requires that it maintains On this basis the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt sufficient liquidity to cover cash flow requirements for a rolling the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
period of 18 months in order to mitigate the risk of restricted access to capital markets.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
