50 Principal risks The Directors have carried out a robust These have been categorised across: For each risk we state what it means for assessment of the principal risks facing us and what we are doing to manage it.
customer perception: the Company, including those that would legal and regulatory environment: threaten its business model, future operations, assets and people: and performance, solvency or liquidity.
Customer perception What is the risk?
1 We are a regulated utility providing essential services to our customers.
We recognise that our customers We may be unable to improve increasingly expect more from us and demand an improved and more consistent experience.
As other andmaintain our levels of industries improve their levels of service, the bar continues to be raised.
customerservice sufficiently Failure to deliver the service that customers expect will lead to customer dissatisfaction.
This may result in financial penalties under Ofwats Service Incentive Mechanism and associated ODI outturn.
to deliver what our customers tellusthey want.
What are we doing to manage the risk?
The last 12 months have been a continuation of driving a culture to put customers first by improving proactive Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
communication and getting things right first time.
We have launched a new website which makes it easier for customers to self-serve and find the information they want.
In the next year we will be extending this by Regulated Water and Waste Water business launching our new web self-service offering.
We have also seen an increase in usage of webchat, Facebook and Twitter.
Link to how were achieving our strategy We have continued to embed the performance and quality framework and expanded it to all contact centre pages20 and 21 teams driving the quality of the experience and conversation, not just the actions.
An assessment and upskilling activity has taken place across all the contact centres to ensure we have the right capability Embed customers at the heart of all we do when answering customer queries.
The next year this will continue and be supported by a new customer management portal that will allow agents to have information about customers more visible so they can Link to our values page 1 personalise the experience more.
In addition to this we are in the process of multi-skilling a proportion of agents so we can cope with peaks in demand during the year, e. g. when an incident occurs.
We put our customers first Our voice of the customer programme has continued to feed insight to drive improvement.
Over the next We are passionate about what we do 12 months we will be implementing a new solution which will allow us to extend our channels so more We act with integrity customers voices get heard.
It will also give us the capability to develop a customer forum so we can get feedback on broader ideas before implementing them.
ODIs We recognise we need to focus on the full end to end customer journey and have some targeted improvement plans being delivered through the water, waste and retail upper quartile programmes.
This includes a full end ODIs 24-27 to end review of the water processes where we currently experience some customer experience challenges.
Movement in net risk exposure Key: Increase in net risk exposure No change in net risk exposure Decrease in net risk exposure Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Legal and regulatory environment What is the risk?
2 Severn Trent Water operates in a highly regulated environment.
Whilst we are broadly content with the We may be unable to effectively direction of changes proposed for our industry, there remains a risk that future changes could have a anticipate and or influence future significant impact on Severn Trent Water.
developments in the UK water What are we doing to manage the risk?
industry resulting in our business Severn Trent has always contributed to the debate about our industrys future, including through our series of plans becoming unsustainable.
We will continue to be an active participant in these conversations, so we can help shape thinking about how to best serve our customers in the future.
Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
We have contributed to the establishment of Market Operator Services Ltd, the body which will oversee competition in the non-household retail market.
Group-wide We continue to participate in discussions with Ofwat regarding the development of the future regulatory environment and their consultation documents relating to Water 2020.
Engagement with our peers, other Link to how were achieving our strategy regulators, UK Government departments and other stakeholders, including the Welsh Government, helps us pages20 and 21 to influence the direction of regulatory policy where possible and put forward our own case for change in a constructive way.
Change the market for the better Invest responsibly for sustainable growth Movement in net risk exposure Link to our values page 1 We put our customers first ODIs N A What is the risk?
3 Our policies and processes must reflect the current legal and regulatory environment and all relevant The regulatory landscape is complex employees must be kept aware of new requirements.
Due to the spread of our operations, and changes and subject to ongoing change.
in activity and organisational structure, this is not always straightforward.
The Group as a whole may face censure for non-compliance in an individual Group company or a specific region in which we operate.
Thereis a risk that processes may fail or that our processes may not What are we doing to manage the risk?
effectively keep pace with changes Our governance framework and related policies and internal controls are designed to ensure our ongoing inlegislation leading to the risk of compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
The introduction of non-household retail competition meant we needed to refresh our policy framework.
We have developed a control framework to establish the protocols, policies, systems, guidance and training necessary for the operation of separate Wholesale and Retail business units and to ensure ongoing Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
compliance with the relevant legislation including Competition Law.
We will continue to monitor the framework to ensure we remain compliant.
Group-wide Changes to the legal and regulatory environment are captured as emerging risks through our ERM process, with the necessary owners and actions identified to ensure compliance when the changes come into effect.
Link to how were achieving our strategy pages20 and 21 Movement in net risk exposure Drive operational excellence and continuous innovation Change the market for the better Invest responsibly for sustainable growth Link to our values page 1 We act with integrity We protect our environment ODIs ODIs 1-4, 19-23, 30-43 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 52 Principal risks continued Operations, assets and people What is the risk?
4 The risks arising from loss of one or more of our major systems or corruption of data held in those systems We may experience loss of data or could have far reaching effects on our business.
We have recognised the increasing threats posed by the interruptions to our key business possibility of cyber attacks on our systems and data.
Whilst this threat can never be eliminated and will continue to evolve, we are focused on the need to maintain effective mitigation.
systems as a result of cyber threats.
We recognise that the cyber threat to the business is constantly evolving and one which we need to monitor and act on in a timely manner.
Group-wide Using guidance from the National Cyber Security Centre NCSC we added a number of additional cyber Link to how were achieving our strategy security controls during 2016 to improve our capability to prevent, detect and respond to external cyber attacks including greater protection of our customers personal data.
pages20 and 21 IS teams have been working with Wholesale operations at our major water treatment works during 2016 to Embed customers at the heart of all we do ensure that physical security and resilience for the technology is improved.
Drive operational excellence and Whilst progress has been made during the year to ensure we are better prepared, due to the rapidly evolving continuous innovation nature and complexity of the threat this work will continue.
Ongoing monitoring and reviews will ensure that our mitigating controls and plans continue to protect us and our customers.
Link to our values page 1 Movement in net risk exposure We put our customers first ODIs ODIs 1-4, 5-18, 19-23, 24-37 What is the risk?
5 If we are unable to meet operational performance targets, we may be subject to regulatory penalties either We may fail to meet our regulatory within the current price review period, or applied to the next price review.
targets including targets from Regulatory targets apply to all of our water treatment, distribution, sewerage and sewage treatment assets.
Ofwat in relation to operational Measures are in place in relation to water quality, continuous supplies, sewer flooding, sewer collapses and pollution events.
performance of our assets resulting in regulatory penalties.
Our business plan for 2015-2020 includes considerable investment in our assets to improve the resilience of Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
our networks, reduce interruptions and improve the service that our customers receive.
We recognise areas where our performance is not as consistent as we would like and are committed to improving these areas.
Regulated Water and Waste Water business We are continuing our Cleanest Water Plan which drives the delivery of our inspection, cleaning and repair of storage tanks, increasing our capital maintenance interventions, optimising our operation and maintenance Link to how were achieving our strategy tasks and formalising our processes, standards and operating procedures involved in delivering clean water.
pages20 and 21 We target serviceability of our assets through prioritising and targeting our capital maintenance.
Embed customers at the heart of all we do We use asset deterioration models to do this, informed by our operational risk management systems.
Our governance boards also regularly review investment needs against performance and balance the Drive operational excellence and programme accordingly.
continuous innovation We use leading measures on our comm cells and performance meetings to track delivery against customer Invest responsibly for sustainable growth ODIs and performance commitments so that we can intervene in a timely fashion if performance is drifting.
Link to our values page 1 Movement in net risk exposure We put our customers first We are passionate about what we do We protect our environment ODIs ODIs 1-45 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information What is the risk?
6 Some of our assets are critical to the provision of water to large populations for which we require alternative Failure of certain key assets or means of supply.
processes may result in inability Examples include failure of one of our reservoirs or water treatment works.
These assets are regularly toprovide a continuous supply of inspected and maintained and our assessment of the overall condition of these assets is good.
clean water and safely take waste Another example is our IT and telephony systems which are critical to our operations and failure of these systems, for example our remote monitoring system, could have a significant effect.
water away within our area.
Our 2015-2020 business plan includes substantial investment in some of our largest strategic assets such as the Elan Valley and Derwent Valley Aqueducts, one of the major elements of which is the 300 million Group-wide investment in one of our largest ever capital schemes to improve the resilience of our water supply to Birmingham.
Link to how were achieving our strategy We continue to maintain and test our Being prepared framework to ensure our business continuity pages20 and 21 arrangements are fit for purpose and the Group can react quickly to safeguard our critical operations.
Embed customers at the heart of all we do In addition to investing in resilience improvements to our network, we also have assurance plans in place to monitor, inspect and maintain our most critical assets and to ensure clean water is always available to our Drive operational excellence and customers and we will always be able to safely take their waste water away.
continuous innovation Invest responsibly for sustained growth We will continue to make significant investment into our network and processes but we accept there is always a risk of unexpected failures, the recent mains burst in Birmingham being a prime example.
How we respond to these and learn from them is vital in keeping the likelihood of unexpected failures as low as possible.
Link to our values page 1 We put our customers first Movement in net risk exposure We are passionate about what we do ODIs ODIs 1-4, 5-18, 19-23 What is the risk?
7 The nature of our assets, operations and business are such that threats to the safety for our employees, Due to the nature of our operations contractors, customers and the wider public exist.
Operational failures or negligence could result in damage a failure of our procedures could to the environment.
endanger the health and safety of our We are responsible for a large estate of assets and have to secure these from unauthorised access to ensure our operations are not impacted nor the safety of the public compromised.
people, contractors andmembers ofthe public as wellasharm our What are we doing to manage the risk?
Our 2015-2020 business plan includes substantial investment in community schemes to ensure the risk of failure at key points along our Elan Valley Aqueduct, that could cause substantial damage and endanger the safety of the public, is further reduced.
We have a well-established Health, Safety & Wellbeing framework to ensure all of operations and processes Group-wide are conducted in compliance with health and safety legislation and in the interests of the safety of our people and contractors.
Our Goal Zero initiative clearly establishes our target that no one should be injured or made Link to how were achieving our strategy unwell as a result of what we do.
pages20 and 21 There are a number of ODI commitments we have made to protect our local environment, including river water quality, pollution incidents, biodiversity improvements and environmental compliance.
In AMP6 we will Drive operational excellence and be delivering our largest ever environment programme, spending over 300 million to deliver improvements continuous innovation to rivers throughout our region, a programme which is supported by our customers who wanted to see us do Invest responsibly for sustained growth more to improve river water quality.
We have been provisionally rated 3 this year by the Environment Agency in their Environmental Performance Assessment.
Create an awesome place to work We recognise the impact our operations have on the wider environment and we want to reduce our carbon footprint by seeking lower carbon ways of operating our business, driving energy efficiency and generating Link to our values page 1 renewable energy.
We aim to increase the amount of renewable energy we generate and to invest in ways to We protect our environment make our processes more energy efficient, and our target is to generate 50% of Severn Trent Waters energy needs by 2020.
We act with integrity More details can be found in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 57 to 69.
ODIs Movement in net risk exposure ODIs 30-41, 42 & 43 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 54 Principal risks continued What is the risk?
8 Climate change hotter and drier summers, wetter winters and more storms could result in an inability Failure to deal with the impact to meet customer demand, lower river levels, decreased raw water quality, flooding of our water or waste of extreme and unpredictable works, sewer capacity being exceeded and increased land movement.
Climate change could also be a contributing factor for principal risks 1, 5, 6 and 7 detailed above.
weather events on our assets and There are also some potential opportunities that climate change presents for us, including reduced leakage, infrastructure and or changes to aquifer recharge and increased biological treatment.
It is important that we understand these opportunities to future water resource supply and maximise the benefits.
Our climate change adaption report sets out our strategy for coping with future changes to our climate.
Work is now gathering momentum on putting together our next water resources management plan.
Group-wide Understanding the impact of climate change is central to this process.
Our analysis for the National Flood Resilience Review NFRR, that was instigated by Defra the Cabinet Office Link to how were achieving our strategy after the flooding of winter 2015 16, identified our non-infrastructure overground sites that are at risk from pages20 and 21 river or surface water flooding using a new higher standard called the Extreme Flood Outline.
Its important to note that we dont consider climate change risks in isolation and we view them alongside Drive operational excellence and all the challenges we face.
To that effect a large number of our current objectives and targets agreed as continuous innovation part of our ODI commitments will increase our resilience from climate change, including reducing leakage, Invest responsibly for sustained growth improving water efficiency, reducing properties prone to low pressure, protecting prone properties areas from sewer flooding and increasing the resilience of our water supply and water waste works.
Link to our values page 1 We are also adapting to climate change through innovation, with 21 catchment management projects and a doubling of our sustainable urban drainage SUDs projects planned for this AMP.
We protect our environment Our own impact and contribution to climate change cannot be ignored and, as outlined in principal risk 7 ODIs above, there are a number of ways in which we are addressing our impact on the environment.
ODIs 1-4, 5-18, 19-23, 42 & 43 Movement in net risk exposure Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Financial risks What is the risk?
9 We already provide significant funding but could be asked by the Trustee to provide more money to reduce Lower interest rates, higher inflation pension deficits in our defined benefit schemes.
or underperforming equity markets What are we doing to manage the risk?
may require us to increase funding forour pension schemes.
Following the Brexit vote, our main defined benefit pension scheme has seen a significant growth in the accounting value of liabilities due to the fall in long term interest rates.
These financial conditions are likely to remain for the foreseeable future.
The growth in the accounting deficit has adversely impacted the headroom Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
on some of our credit ratios, such as gearing, which are relevant for debt covenant and credit ratings purposes.
It also has a reputational impact that could have a bearing on investment and distribution decisions.
Group-wide We have commenced the process of immunising our financial covenants from adverse movements in the accounting deficit, gaining approval from relevant banks and the European Investment Bank EIB.
We have Link to how were achieving our strategy also clarified with rating agencies that their focus is more on the impact of cash repair payments on credit pages20 and 21 metrics, rather than movements in the accounting value of the deficit.
Importantly we have agreed cash repair payments with the Trustee until the next Triennial Valuation as at 31 March 2019.
We have also commenced Invest responsibly for sustained growth working with the Trustee to implement additional inflation and interest rate hedging and introduce downside protection to the funds equity holdings.
It is planned to complete the new hedging arrangements by the summer of 2017, fromwhich point the potential volatility in terms of valuation will be reduced considerably.
Link to our values page 1 We act with integrity Movement in net risk exposure ODIs N A What is the risk?
10 We must ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet our near term financial commitments.
We have a We are unable to fund the business significant funding requirement in AMP6, to fund our investment programme and refinance maturing debt.
sufficiently in order to meet our This is a well-controlled risk, but it is important that we maintain these high standards to mitigate this risk.
liabilities as they fall due.
Whilst Brexit may impact our access to funding from the EIB, an attractive source of finance, we have Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
other sources of funding we can call upon.
In November 2015 we raised 471 million through a US Private Placement debt issue and in November 2016 we raised 400 million through a sterling bond issue.
Group-wide Despite some initial volatility following the Brexit vote, global debt capital markets continue to deliver substantial levels of liquidity, derived from the continuation of loose monetary policy in the G7.
Link to how were achieving our strategy See our Viability Statement on page 49. pages20 and 21 Invest responsibly for sustained growth Movement in net risk exposure Link to our values page 1 We act with integrity ODIs N A Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 56 Case study Delivering our vision and purpose through our strategy and values PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT Strategic goals Partnership working Our scheme covers 4,000 2 toprotectourwater farmers and 10,000 km Metaldehyde from slug pellets is ofland, showing the scale particularly hard to remove from water, of our efforts to protect sowere working with farmers to prevent this pesticide getting into our regions theenvironment and rivers.
Over the next five years, were keepour water clean.
investing 21 million to help farmers sustainably improve our water quality, Katherine Filby, which protects the environment and Catchment Management Planner reduces our treatment costs.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
