Principal risks and uncertainties Risks PayPoints business, financial condition or operations could be materially and adversely affected by the risks summarised below.
Although management takes steps to mitigate risks where possible or where the cost of doing so is reasonable in relation to the probability and seriousness of the risk, it may not be possible to avoid the occurrence of some or all of such risks.
The Groups level of risk in each area remains broadly the same as last year except for exposure to country and regional risk which has been reduced due to the sale of the Mobile business, together with the risk of acquisitions not meeting expectations and the addition of the risk associated with Brexit.
The Groups risk management policies and procedures are also discussed in the governance statement on page 43.
Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Cyber, technology & process and Fraud Loss or inappropriate The Groups business requires the appropriate The Group has established physical security usage of data and secure use of consumer and other controls at its data centres and rigorous cyber sensitive information.
Electronic commerce security, anti-fraud and whistleblowing requires the secure transmission of standards, procedures, and recruitment and confidential information over public networks.
training schemes, which are embedded Increasingly, internal systems make use of third throughout its business operations.
The party hosted services cloud services and Group also screens new employees carefully.
several of our products are accessed through Continued investments are made in cyber the internet.
Fraudulent activity, cyber-crime security, including the significant use of data or security breaches in connection with and communications encryption technology, improvements in e-mail and web filtering and maintaining data and the delivery of our products and services could harm our testing and removal of system vulnerabilities.
We have also developed plans for responding reputation, business and operating results.
Interruptions in business The Groups ability to provide reliable services Comprehensive business continuity plans and processes or systems largely depends on the efficient and incident management programmes are uninterrupted operation of our computer maintained to minimise business and network systems, financial settlement operational disruptions, including fraudulent systems, data and call centres, as well as activity, system failure or pandemic incidents.
Support arrangements have been established maintaining sufficient staffing levels.
System or network interruptions, recovery from fraud with third party vendors and there are strict standards, procedures and training schemes or security incidents or the unavailability of key staff or management resulting from a for business continuity.
pandemic outbreak could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue.
Clients, agents & other third parties Dependence upon third The Groups business model is dependent The Group selects and negotiates agreements parties to provide data upon third parties to provide operational with strategic suppliers and agents based on and certain operational services, the loss of which could significantly criteria such as delivery assurance and services impact the quality of our services.
Single points of failure are avoided, one of our outsource providers, including third where practicable and economically feasible.
parties with whom we have strategic Controls are regularly reviewed and improved relationships, were to experience financial or to minimise risk of retailer churn caused by operational difficulties, their services to us financial loss to retailers through fraudulent would suffer or they may no longer be able to third party activity.
provide services to us at all, significantly impacting delivery of our products or services.
20 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Consolidation among Consolidation of retailers and clients could The Group monitors client and retailer clients and markets result in reductions in the Groups revenue and concentration risk to ensure that no one client profits through price compression from or retailer accounts for a disproportionate combined service agreements or through a share of the Groups net revenue.
In addition, reduced number of clients.
the Group continues to acquire new clients and retailers to reduce reliance on existing sources of revenue.
Legal, regulatory & compliance Legislation or regulatory The Group is largely unregulated by financial The Groups legal department works closely reforms and risk of non services regulations, although in the UK we with senior management to adopt strategies compliance have Payment Institution status through to educate legislature, regulators, consumer PayPoint Payment Services Limited, which and privacy advocates and other stakeholders enables the provision of regulated payment to support the public policy debate, where services, under the Payment Services appropriate, to ensure regulation does not Regulations 2009, including certain CashOut have unintended consequences over the services.
The Groups agents which offer Groups services.
The Group has in place a money transfer on behalf of third party clients business ethics policy which requires are licensed as Money Service Businesses by compliance with local legislation in all the HMRC.
We are subject to Payment Card territories in which the Group operates.
A Industry Data Security Standards regulated central compliance department co-ordinates by the card schemes.
Regulatory reform could all compliance monitoring and reporting.
increase the cost of the Groups operations or Subsidiary managing and finance directors are deny access to certain territories in the required to sign annual compliance provision of certain services.
A review is underway to ensure that the Group is compliant with the with law, regulation, privacy or information security laws could have serious implications requirements of the General Data Protection Regulations prior to the May 2018 deadline.
in cost and reputational damage to the Group.
Materially adverse The Group contracts with a number of large The Group seeks to limit exposure in its litigation service organisations for which it provides contracts.
Mitigating actions are taken where services essential to their customers.
Failure contractual exposures are above the norm, to perform in accordance with contractual including insurance coverage, where terms could give rise to litigation.
Loss or infringement of The Groups success depends, in part, upon The Group, where appropriate and feasible, intellectual property proprietary technology and related relies upon a combination of patent, rights intellectual property rights.
Some protection copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as can be achieved but in many cases, little well as various contractual restrictions, to protection can be secured.
Third parties may protect our proprietary technology and claim that the Group is infringing their continues to monitor this situation.
The Group intellectual property rights or our intellectual also defends vigorously all third party property rights could be infringed by third infringement claims.
If we do not enforce or defend the Groups intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results.
HR Personnel Dependence on The ability of the Group to meet the demands Effective recruitment programmes are on-going across all business areas, as well as recruitment and retention of the market and compete effectively is, to a of highly skilled personnel large extent, dependent on the skills, personal and career development initiatives.
The executive management reviews talent experience and performance of its personnel.
Demand is high for individuals with potential twice a year and retention plans are put in place for individuals identified at risk of appropriate knowledge and experience in payments, IT and support services.
Compensation and benefits programmes are competitive and also inability to attract, motivate or retain key talent could have a serious consequence on reviewed regularly.
the Groups ability to service client commitments and grow our business.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 21 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Economic Growth Brexit The effect on inter-company transactions and Due to the current uncertainties with the the Groups international expansion plans may Brexit negotiations the Group is still be adversely affected by the outcomes of the considering appropriate mitigation strategies.
negotiations between the UK government and However, the bulk of the Groups operations the other member countries during the UKs and revenues are UK-based.
Romania and exit from the European Union.
Ireland will remain within the EU and are unlikely to be significantly affected by Brexit.
Foreign exchange As the Group operates in Romania and Ireland, The Groups financial risk management seeks fluctuations it is exposed to the risk of currency to minimise potentially adverse effects on the fluctuations and the unpredictability of Groups financial performance.
financial markets in which it operates.
Product project management The Group is committed to continued research Technological changes The Group operates in a number of and increasing geographic, product and service markets that and investment in new data sources, people, technology and products to support its competition are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes, for example the strategic plan.
IT development resource is directed at a Group level and developments are introduction of smart meters, new payment solutions and the movement of UK consumers in hand to ensure the Group has relevant away from cash payments.
Competitors may products in place to meet the demands develop products and services that are brought about by changing technology.
superior to ours or that achieve greater For smart meters, MultiPay has been launched.
market acceptance than our products and services, which could result in the loss of clients, merchants and retailers or a reduction in revenue.
Viability and going concern statements The Directors consider the Groups viability over a three In making the assessment, the Directors have also year period, on an annual basis, as part of their risk considered the Groups robust capital position, the monitoring programme.
The three year period is considered cash-generative nature of the business, the ability of the appropriate as it aligns with the Groups financial planning company to reduce costs and the access to available credit.
In determining the Groups viability its business The financial statements have, therefore, been prepared on activities together with factors likely to affect its future a going concern basis and the Directors have a reasonable development and performance described in the Chief expectation that the Group will remain viable over the three Executives review on pages 10 to 14 in particular, changes year assessment period.
to the Groups structure, strategy and priorities and the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 20 to 22 were considered.
It was determined that none of the individual risks in isolation would compromise the Groups viability and therefore a number of different severe but plausible principal risk combinations were considered.
These included the downside scenario of the loss of a large clients, slower than anticipated growth in retail services and a quicker than expected decline in the cash payments business.
22 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Environmental matters, employees, social, community and human rights PayPoint is committed to dealing fairly and with a high level of integrity with all its stakeholders, including clients, retailers, merchants, consumers, local communities, shareholders and our people.
We comply with statutory obligations in all areas and subject our practices to high levels of scrutiny.
We publish results twice each year and provide two interim management statements, complying with reporting and disclosure obligations.
This report sets out our approach and the way we measure our success in dealing with each group of stakeholders.
Information about the approach we take with our employees can be found on pages 25 to 27.
Clients Retailers and consumers Local communities Shareholders Information on Over 300 clients including Over 40,000 retailers in UK, Where our employees live 601 shareholders at stakeholders those via reselling Ireland and Romania and and work.
provide a service to millions of consumers.
Impact Provision of convenient To provide stable, reliable and Financial support to local Maximise services for consumer a broad range of services to charities.
help generate consumer footfall for retailers who serve their communities.
Engagement Provision of a high We seek to provide an PayPoint has a charity Please see page 39 standard of service to our unparalleled service to our committee made up of clients and open retailers and consumers.
Client which provides support, contracts contain service funded by the Company, level agreements, which to fundraising activities are set to a high standard.
carried out by its Specific performance is employees for charities measured for key which are important to elements, including them.
These include local system availability and file charities in the delivery.
communities in which its employees live and work.
In September 2016 PayPoint was appointed as an Enterprise Advisor to a local secondary school in order to support their students with the transition from school to the workplace.
How we interact Communication - major In the UK, terminal availability During the year, PayPoint Shareholders are invited and support the clients have regular is over 99% and when a donated 25,000 to over to attend the annual stakeholders review meetings with terminal needs to be replaced, 20 local and national general meeting and dedicated Strategic it is achieved within four hours charities, which was executive directors Account Managers across the UK in 98% of supplemented by funds meet with major cases.
The breadth of raised by employees shareholders twice a products offered by PayPoint themselves.
year to discuss the is greater than any other Groups results.
We offer our network to network.
collect for certain An annual retailer survey is charities free of charge, carried out to understand how including the BBCs we can improve our service.
We also invite retailers to 58% of PayPoints ATM attend an annual forum to network is speechdiscuss new products and enabled, the largest obtain regular retailer proportion of an feedback.
independent network in Major multiple retailers have the UK.
regular review meetings with dedicated account managers.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 23 Environmental matters, employees, social, community and human rights continued Environment GHG emissions PayPoints main impact on the environment stems from our In this section we report on all required greenhouse gas use of resources to run offices in the UK, Ireland and Romania.
GHG emissions in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We measure our carbon footprint in accordance using the Green House Gas GHG protocol.
This allows us to monitor, We report using a financial control approach to define our by region, our carbon footprint and implement, where organisational boundary.
A range of approaches can be practical, targets to reduce our carbon footprint.
taken to determine the boundaries of an organisation for the purposes of GHG reporting including financial control, The two primary sources of PayPoints carbon emissions are operational control or equity share.
business travel and energy consumption.
We visit existing and prospective retailers in the UK, Ireland and Romania.
The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based Routes are pre-planned to ensure efficiency where possible.
upon the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including Management regularly visits our businesses to review and mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance improve performance.
We aim to avoid unnecessary travel.
June 2013 issued by DEFRA which make it clear that, Energy consumption arises from our offices in the UK in most cases, whether an operation is controlled by the and Romania.
We have a cycle to work scheme for our UK organisation or not does not vary based on whether the employees.
We encourage employees not to print unless financial control or operational control approach is used.
necessary and our board papers are sent electronically The 2013 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for rather than printed and sent by post.
Company Reporting have been used to calculate our emissions based on data gathered from each of our PayPoints services help consumers to reduce the number business units.
of unnecessary car journeys through the convenience of our outlets which are usually available within a short Global GHG emissions data for the year is as follows: walking distance.
Year ended Year ended Impact Units 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 We recycle wherever possible, including paper, cans, Scope 1 tonnes 373 346 2 plastic cups, cardboard, toners, print cartridges and direct emissions CO e computer equipment.
from fuel combustion Scope 2 tonnes 1,120 1,322 Our approach to waste management remains unchanged 2 indirect emissions CO e year on year.
Reported landfill waste has increased as a from purchased electricity, result of new technology deployed by our waste collection heat and cooling supplier which accurately measures the weight of waste Scope 3 tonnes 680 764 collected.
Previously estimations were made based on 2 business travel, CO e the volume of waste collected.
The total volume of waste waste and water collected in the year was similar to last year.
As a result, the Total 2,173 2,432 total reported waste has increased and the proportion of Intensity measurement: 3.3 3.4 waste recycled has fallen.
Plans are in place to reduce total 2 Total tonnes of CO e waste and increase recycling over the coming year.
We have used the average number of employees to calculate our intensity measure as the majority of our emissions are directly related to business travel and energy consumption Year ended Year ended at our head office locations.
31 March 2017 31 March 2016 tonnes tonnes Change % Waste Landfill 23.0 13.5 70.4% Recycled 17.4 18.6 6.5% Total 40.4 32.1 25.9% % recycled 43.07% 57.94% 24 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Human rights People development PayPoint supports fundamental human rights, such as Performance and talent management processes are in the right to privacy, safety and to be treated fairly, with place to ensure a continued focus on high performance and dignity and respect.
Our employment standard sets out people development.
All employees formally discuss their our commitment to good employment practices and the performance and development with their manager twice principles to govern the practices adopted in each of our a year and individual performance has a direct influence businesses.
All employees have a right to safe conditions on pay review and bonus outcomes.
We hold consistency of work, consideration of their welfare, fair terms of meetings to ensure that employees are rated fairly and employment, reward and treatment, clarity and openness that the overall spread of ratings reflects the performance about what is expected.
Training is undertaken locally based on individual and business needs.
Managers attend a two day People Management Development Workshop to ensure that they PayPoint employed, on average, 660 members of staff develop the skills that they need to manage their people during the period.
We aim to create a positive working effectively, and in 2016 we supplemented this with the environment that enables us to attract and retain a talented introduction of management skills workshops running workforce.
Employee turnover decreased during the year as throughout the year.
50% of our annual training budget changes implemented in the previous year were embedded.
is reserved exclusively for IT training to ensure that our IT One third of UK turnover was instigated by the business as employees continue to develop the technical skills that they part of our programme of transformation and we expect need to develop and maintain PayPoints innovative retail turnover to remain at similar levels as we continue to technology solutions.
transform and ensure that we have the shape and size of organisation needed to deliver our future plans.
PayPoint is committed to supporting the development of entry level talent via apprenticeships.
Three apprentices are Culture currently employed within our IT function and we plan to PayPoints culture of openness, honesty and accountability expand the programme over the course of the next year.
is an essential part of our success.
We communicated a new set of values in 2016 to reinforce the culture and behaviours Diversity that we believe will enable us to continue to deliver innovative PayPoint values diversity and offers an environment where solutions and provide first class service to our customers.
all are treated equally and which is free from discrimination We are actively engaging with our people to bring the values in respect of gender, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, to life in the work that we do.
See our six values on the age or disability.
42% of our employees are female and the representation on Engagement the Executive Board is 43% with three women on a board of PayPoint recognises that all of our employees play a part seven members.
in delivering the Groups performance.
We keep our people PayPoint is committed to treating applicants with informed of company performance and new developments disabilities equally and supporting people who become via formal business update meetings, staff briefings, regular disabled during their career with the Company.
This includes team meetings and company newsletter.
All employees making reasonable adjustments both to the recruitment are invited to participate in two meetings a year where the process for applicants and to the working environment directors present the performance of the Group.
Overseas for employees, in order that they can achieve their full offices participate by webcam.
PayPoint invites all employees to complete an annual engagement survey in order to encourage two way communication and co-create action plans to enable the business to continually improve.
We launched a new survey in 2016 in which 89% of employees participated and we achieved an overall engagement score of 71%.
This is below the 78% achieved in the prior year although the results are not directly comparable due to the change in survey provider.
PayPoint operates a Share Incentive Plan to enable all UK employees to share in the success of the Company.
40% of employees actively participate in this plan, an increase from 36% in the prior year.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 25 Environmental matters, employees, social, community and human rights continued Our values Our mission is to lead the market in the provision of products to consumer service companies and retailers, through innovative solutions and first class service.
We do this by living our six values, which together form the DNA of our culture.
They guide our behaviour and interactions with all of our customers.
Customer Ambitious Passionate focused In addition to our twice yearly appraisal of our people against these values, we also recognise individuals who role model our values via our Annual Awards event and Monthly Values Award programme.
Each month we reward an employee with a trophy, 200 worth of Reece Jones James King vouchers and the use of a premium car parking space.
Retail Operations Finance Operations January 2017 Values November 2016 Award Winner Values Award Winner Reece was nominated for the James was nominated for the Customer Customer focused value for his focused value for the excellent work he positive, helpful attitude and support delivers on reconciling and processing given to many different people in the client settlement payments.
In particular, Reece guides area requires exemplary customer our Territory Development Managers communications and an ability to work through contract completion and once under pressure, which James constantly took contracts home on a Friday delivers.
He has received excellent evening, for a TDM to collect on feedback from internal and external Saturday in order to secure sales clients for his work to ensure payments first thing on Monday.
are delivered accurately and on time.
26 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UK Rest of the world PayPoint has the following policies in place: Year Year Year Year PayPoints employees ended ended ended ended equal opportunities - we treat job applicants, employees Numbers are average unless 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March and temporary staff equally, regardless of their sex, sexual otherwise stated 2017 2016 2017 2016 orientation, age, race, ethnic origin or disability.
It is also the General Groups policy to retain employees who may become Number of staff employed 469 507 191 206 disabled while in service and provide appropriate training during the period as necessary.
Length of service 5 years 5 years 4 years 4 years Staff turnover 29% 33% 27% 30% whistleblowing - we are committed to ensuring that during period malpractice is prevented and immediately dealt with, should Sickness absence rate 2.5% 2.4% 2.0% 1.0% it arise.
We encourage employees to raise their concerns % working part-time 10% 10% 6% 7% about any malpractice promptly and we have an established procedure for raising any such concerns.
Gender diversity health and safety - we recognise that effective health and Number of women employed 198 214 87 84 safety management is fundamental to running a successful % of all employees 42% 42% 46% 41% business.
We are committed to operating high standards, Number of men employed 271 293 104 122 designed to minimise the risk of injuries and ill health to % of all employees 58% 58% 54% 59% employees, contractors, visitors and others who come into PayPoint plc directors contact with the business, so far as is reasonably practicable.
Number of women employed 2 1 - disciplinary and grievance procedures - we provide a fair at 31 March 2017 and consistent method of dealing with disciplinary problems % of PayPoint plc directors 22% 10% 0% 0% and treat misconduct with appropriate action.
We ensure Number of men employed at 7 7 - that we treat any grievance an employee may have relating to 31 March 2017 their employment in a fair and reasonable manner.
% of PayPoint plc directors 78% 90% 0% 0% bullying and harassment - we promote a working 1 Senior management environment free of harassment and individuals who believe Number of women employed 2 2 - that they are being subjected to any form of harassment are % of senior management 27% 26% 0% 0% encouraged to come forward to have the issue resolved.
Number of men employed 6 6 1 1 business ethics - we set out clear standards for ethical % of senior management 73% 74% 100% 100% relationships and conduct to be maintained by employees and sub-contractors and conduct our business in Ethnic minorities accordance with the highest ethical standards.
We do not % of all employees 31% 29% 11% 13% offer or accept any bribes.
% of management grades 18% 24% 5% 7% training and development - all employees meet twice a Disabled employees year with their line manager to discuss performance and any % of all employees 1% 1% 0% 0% development needs.
Training is provided either in-house or externally.
We also sponsor employees through further Age profile professional and technical qualifications.
We promote Employees under 25 47 43 22 23 internally, where appropriate.
Senior management includes the Group Executives and managing director Approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf of the board.
Dominic Taylor Chief Executive 25 May 2017 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 27
