40 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management As an income focused REIT our strategic priorities continue to be the delivery of sustainable, progressive earnings and long term capital growth.
Every business faces inherent risk The Executive Committee is The gross risk rating and strength of and uncertainty.
Whilst risk cannot be responsible for the identication of safeguards against that risk are then completely eliminated we recognise risk and the design, implementation combined to produce a resultant that effective risk management and maintenance of the systems of overall net risk.
Consideration is given reduces the negative impact of internal controls, assisted by senior to the implementation of further action risk on our business and improves management.
Appropriate mitigation to reduce risk where it is considered our prospects for achieving our plans are developed based on necessary.
Finally, each risk is allocated strategic objectives.
an assessment of the impact an owner and details of how the and likelihood of a risk occurring.
safeguards are evidenced is noted.
Our risk management process Members of the Executive Committee The Board has limited control over The Board operates a culture of are closely involved in day to day certain external factors such as the embedding risk consideration matters and the Company has a heightened level of uncertainty into its decision making processes.
relatively low number of personnel associated with major political events It recognises its responsibility to alloperating from one office location.
such as the EU Referendum and the undertake a robust assessment of the This and the at management structure triggering of Article 50, the UK election principal risks facing the Company enable risks to be quickly identied outcome and the cyclical nature of the and the extent to which it is willing to so appropriate responses can be put property market.
The Boards strategy accept some level of risk in achieving in place.
over the last few years has however its strategy.
Risk appetite is low where The risk register rates the signicance been to reshape its UK only portfolio it prejudices strategic objectives and and probability of each risk identied into more resilient asset classes closely controls are in place to minimise the by management as having either aligned to rapidly changing consumer level of residual risk.
a high, medium or low impact.
The Board considers risk at a high level Greater weighting is applied the at each meeting via a risk dashboard.
higher the signicance and probability The dashboard monitors material issues of a risk.
These weightings are then so that key risks can be managed mathematically combined to produce appropriately and new risks identied an overall gross risk rating which is early enabling action to be taken to colour coded using a traffic light remove or reduce the risk and any system.
Specic risk management potential negative impact.
The Board safeguards for each risk are identied, also considers the long term viability detailed and rated as strong, medium of the Company in the context of the or weak with greater weighting principal risks it faces and its Viability applied the stronger the safeguard.
statement is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The responsibility for detailed assurance Risk management framework on the risk management process has been delegated by the Board to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee Processes carries out a detailed review of the Reporting to Board risk register and internal controls at Board least once a year to consider the Ongoing monitoring effectiveness of the risk management and internal control processes and Audit Committee Mitigation action plan reports its findings to the Board.
The risk register was last presented to and Executive considered by the Audit Committee Risk identication Committee inMarch 2017.
Assessment and Senior Managers quantication
