28 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS MANAGING RISK TO DELIVER OUR CONTINUED The Group considers its principal risks SETTING RISK APPETITE AND TOLERANCES across three categories: The Board acknowledges and recognises that in the normal course of business the Strategic and business risks Group is exposed to risk and that it is willing to accept a level of risk in managing the The risk of failing to deliver on our business to achieve its strategic priorities.
As part of its risk management processes, strategic objectives resulting in a negative the Board considers its risk appetite in terms of the tolerance it is willing to accept in impact on investment performance and relation to each principal risk based on key risk indicators.
Market, credit and liquidity risks RELATIVE WILLINGNESS TO TOLERATE RISK RISK APPETITE The risk of an adverse impact on the Group LOWER HIGHER Strategic and business risk due to market fluctuations, counterparty failure or having insufficient resources 1 L oss or missed opportunity as a result of major external change to meet financial obligations.
2 F ailure to maintain acceptable relative investment performance Operational risks 3 F ailure to raise new third party funds The risk of loss or missed opportunity, 4 F ailure to deploy committed capital resulting from a regulatory or legislative in a timely manner failure or inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems.
LOWER HIGHER Market, credit and liquidity risk Reputational risk is seen as an outcome of the 5 L oss as a result of adverse market fluctuations principal risks materialising.
Reputation and brand risk is carefully managed as part 6 L oss as a result of exposure to a failed counterparty of the risk management framework.
7 F ailure to meet financial obligations LOWER HIGHER Operational risk 8 L oss of a key person and inability to recruit into key roles 9 N egative financial or reputational impact arising from regulatory or legislative failing 10 T echnology and information security risks 11 Failure of key business processes ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 29 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Group operates a risk governance framework consistent with the principles of the three lines of defence model.
st nd rd 1 2 3 INVESTMENT, INFRASTRUCTURE CONTROL AND INTERNAL INDEPENDENT AND DISTRIBUTION OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS ASSURANCE Business operations and support owns and The control and oversight functions monitor the Internal audit provides independent assurance is responsible and accountable for directly activities of the first line and support the business to the Audit Committee that the Groups risk assessing, controlling and mitigating risks.
in identifying and managing risks.
management, governance and internal control processes are operating effectively.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEES, THE BOARD The Board is provided with a number of risk Monitoring the effectiveness reports which it uses to review the Groups of controls risk management arrangements and internal During the year, the Group further controls.
The reports enable the Board enhanced its processes for monitoring to make a cumulative assessment of the the effectiveness of material controls.
effectiveness with which internal controls Material controls have been defined as those Managements continuous are being managed or mitigated.
As part of critical to the management of the principal its review the Board considered whether the monitoring of the risks of the business.
Additional reporting processes in place were sufficient to identify on the effectiveness of material controls is effectiveness of material all material controls and confirmed that provided to the Board and Risk Committee controls ensures the this was the case.
The Board confirms that to support the review of the effectiveness principal risks are managed the Groups risk management and internal of controls in managing the principal risks.
control systems are operating effectively and supports the delivery and material controls operated effectively of our strategic objectives.
PHILIP KELLER Executive Director 30 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS MANAGING OUR PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISKS 1 L oss or missed opportunity as a result Adverse macroeconomic conditions could reduce the Deterioration of Group performance of major external change including opportunity to deploy capital and impair the ability of the Group compared to plan.
macroeconomic, regulatory, political to effectively manage its portfolios, reducing the value of future Impairment rate as a percentage and or competitive impact management fees, investment income and performance fees.
Adverse macroeconomic conditions could also reduce demand See pages 17 and 88 from investors for the Groups funds.
Adverse regulatory change could impact on the ability of the Group to deploy capital or could reduce the demand from investors for the Groups funds.
2 F ailure to maintain acceptable relative Failure to maintain acceptable relative performance in the funds Performance of fund portfolio companies.
investment performance may result in a failure to raise new funds, reducing the Groups Performance of certain funds compared long term income and ability to invest in future growth.
in open ended funds may reduce or cancel their commitments, reducing AUM and fund management fees.
Impairment rate as a percentage of the opening loan book.
In the short term, fund underperformance may result in lower performance fees in the FMC.
For the IC this may result in a lower See pages 17 and 88 return on assets as the IC is exposed to credit risk through its co-investments with, and its investments in, funds.
3 F ailure to raise new third party funds A failure to raise new funds would reduce the Groups long term Forecast fund inflows.
income and ability to launch new strategies.
See pages 15 and 88 4 F ailure to deploy committed capital Failure to deploy capital reduces the value of future management The proportion of a funds capital forecast in a timely manner fees, investment income and performance fees.
to be available for investment in the final year of the investment period.
See pages 16 and 88 MARKET, CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISKS 5 L oss as a result of adverse market Volatility in currency and interest rates leads to changes in the Value of net unhedged assets.
fluctuations arising primarily from value of the assets and liabilities of the Group and, to the extent Percentage of loan book unhedged.
exposure to interest rates and foreign that these are unhedged, will impact on the financial performance exchange rates of the Group.
Volatility in currency and interest rates may impact on fund performance which may result in a failure to raise new funds, reducing the Groups long term income and ability to invest in future growth.
6 L oss as a result of exposure The Group uses derivatives to hedge market risk on its balance Counterparty exposure relative to a failed counterparty sheet.
By entering into these derivatives the Group is exposed to trading limits.
The Groups counterparties are national or multinational banks.
Should a financial counterparty of the Group fail, the Group would be exposed to loss.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 31 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LINK TO STRATEGY Grow assets under management Invest selectively Manage portfolios to maximise value KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY18 The Board regularly receives detailed market reports, reviewing During the year this risk has Political uncertainty in the latest developments in the Groups key markets.
remained elevated due to ongoing Europe as a result of the political uncertainty.
negotiations over the The Investment Committees receive ongoing detailed and specific UKs departure from market reviews for each investment.
To mitigate the risk associated with the the European Union UKs decision to leave the European Union The Board receives regular updates on regulatory developments.
the Board approved the establishment of a Luxembourg licensed entity to ensure the Group maintains access to European Union investors.
The Group has disciplined investment policies, and all investments There have been no material changes Maintaining are selected and regularly monitored by the Groups Investment in the Groups investment markets during investment discipline Committees.
Disciplined credit procedures are applied both the year which would lead the Board Managing conflict of before and during the period of investment.
The Group limits the to consider that this risk has changed.
interests resulting from extent of credit risk by diversifying its portfolio assets by sector, funds structured to pay size and geography.
fees on invested capital Continued focus by senior management and executives ensures maximum recovery is achieved.
The Group has built dedicated fundraising and scalable infrastructure Investor sentiment remains supportive of Maintaining discipline teams to grow and diversify its institutional client base by geography the Groups strategies but the fundraising on fees and terms and type.
Diversification of risk The Group has expanded its product portfolio to address a D uring the year the Group has delivered by selectively expanding range of investor requirements and continues to build a strong on its target for raising third party funds.
the portfolio of product pipeline.
investment strategies The rate of investment is kept under review by the Investment Competition for new investment Maintaining Committees and senior management to ensure acceptable levels opportunities is high and this, together investment discipline are maintained in current market conditions.
with sustained high asset prices, puts the deployment of funds in line with expectations at risk.
The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that any non Sterling During the year the Group has applied Market volatility as a result income, expenditure, assets and liabilities are appropriately hedged its hedging policy consistently.
of political uncertainties, and that the residual exposure to market risk is managed to minimise including the impact of short term volatility in the financial results of the Group.
This is the negotiations over the reviewed annually.
Currency and interest rate exposures are reported UKs departure from the monthly and reviewed by the Groups Treasury Committee.
European Union The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that any counterparty During the year the Group has applied Ongoing monitoring of exposures are managed within levels agreed with the Board.
This its policy to manage counterparty credit counterparty exposures is reviewed annually.
Actual counterparty exposures are reported risk consistently.
monthly and reviewed by the Groups Treasury Committee.
32 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS MANAGING OUR CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR MARKET, CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISKS CONTINUED 7 F ailure to meet the Groups financial An ongoing failure to refinance its liabilities could result in the Forecast breach of financing principles.
obligations as they fall due Group failing to meet its payment obligations as they fall due.
As a result the Group would not be a going concern.
OPERATIONAL RISKS 8 L oss of a key person and inability Breach of any Key Man clause could result in the Group having Loss of a Key Man on a material fund.
to recruit into key roles to stop making investments for the relevant fund or may impair the ability of the Group to raise new funds if not resolved in a timely manner.
Loss of a key employee to the Groups fund management business or a critical infrastructure role could impair the Groups ability to deliver its strategic objectives as planned if that role is not filled in a timely manner.
9 N egative financial or reputational The Groups ability to raise new funds and operate its Any material breach of regulations.
impact arising from regulatory fund management business would be impaired as a result Other legislative failure.
or legislative failing of a regulatory or legislative failing.
10 Technology information security The Groups ability to deliver on its strategic objectives Any material breach or severe disruption inadequate or fails to adapt to changing relies on technology and information security which adapts due to systems failure.
business requirements and or to changing business demands and external threats.
Failure Any material loss or reputational damage external threats to deliver an appropriate technology platform may impact arising from external threats.
the Groups reputation, and its ability to raise new funds and operate its fund management business.
11 Loss or missed opportunities The Groups ability to raise new funds and operate its fund Any failure of business process resulting arising from failure of key business management business would be impaired as a result of the in significant business disruption, financial processes, including third party failure of key business processes.
supplier management, valuation and external reporting
