Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Principal risks The Governance section describes in detail how the Group manages its risk from the Group Board level, its respective sub-committees and throughout the organisation.
Further details can be found on pages 48 87.
The table below details each principal business risk, those aspects that would be impacted were the risk to materialise, our assessment of the current status of the risk, and how the Group mitigates it.
Key Link to strategy Relative severity Change during the year Speed at which the risk could impact Winning in parcels High Increasing risk Fast: 6 months Defending letters Medium Decreasing risk Medium: 6-12 months Growing in new areas Low Stable Slow: 12 months Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk New arrangements and the risk of industrial action There is extensive trade union recognition in respect of our workforce in the UK with a strong and active trade union.
As Royal Mail Group continues to pursue the necessary efficiency programmes in order to remain competitive in the letters and parcels markets and implements the new pension arrangements, there is an even greater risk of industrial action.
Industrial action There is a risk that one or more material disagreements The Agenda for Growth agreement developed jointly Our Agenda for Growth agreement with the or disputes between the Group and its trade unions with the Communications Workers Union CWU CWU provides a joint commitment to improved could result in widespread localised or national represented a fundamental change in our relationship industrial relations, and to resolving disputes industrial action.
with the CWU, and continues to promote stability in at pace and in a way that is beneficial to both industrial relations.
Widespread localised or national industrial action would cause material disruption to our business in the Industrial relations is an inherent risk within our A resolution process for local disputes uses UK and would be likely to result in an immediate and business.
We are negotiating a new pay deal for trained mediators nominated by and representing potentially ongoing significant loss of revenue for the 2017-18 onwards and have completed a consultation both the CWU and the business.
It may also cause Royal Mail to fail to meet the of the future of the Royal Mail Pension Plan RMPP.
The Agenda for Growth agreement has legally Quality of Service targets prescribed by Ofcom, leading This, in combination with the continued pressure on binding protections for the workforce in respect to enforcement action and fines.
costs and efficiencies in an increasingly competitive of future job security and our employment model, market, may put additional strain on the stability of but which can be rescinded in the event of national our industrial relations.
Pension arrangements We recognise that pension benefits are important to In 2013, we committed to keeping the RMPP We are exploring a range of options with our people.
open until at least March 2018, subject to certain our people, unions and advisers regarding conditions.
The RMPP Trustee put in place a hedging future pension benefits.
We have a clear set of There is a risk that we are unable to continue strategy for that period of accrual which means affordability and capital allocation criteria for to provide sustainable and affordable pension we will be able to meet this commitment despite assessing any future pension arrangements.
arrangements which are acceptable to our people significant reductions in real interest rates.
and unions, leading to industrial action.
The March 2015 Royal Mail Pension Plan valuation While the RMPP is currently in surplus, we expect this was agreed on 8May 2017 with the RMPP Trustee.
The Group is exposed to financial market conditions, surplus will run out in 2018.
On 8May 2017, the Company This is based on a prudent set of assumptions, changes in life expectancy and regulatory changes and the Trustee agreed the March 2015 actuarial valuation appropriate to the Companys circumstances.
for defined benefits already accrued.
Benefits and revised Schedule of Contributions following the accrued in the Royal Mail Pension Plan before April After the RMPP closes to accrual, we will continue decision to close the RMPP to future accrual from 2012 have been transferred to Government.
to work closely with the Trustee to limit the risk 31March 2018.
Closing the RMPP now avoids an of any deficit recovery payments being required unaffordable increase in pension costs for the Group.
from the Company in future.
As noted, the RMPP is hedged against future interest rate and inflation rate exposures, arising on commitments made until March 2018, so we are confident that this will enable us to meet our commitment to keep the RMPP open to accrual up to 31March 2018.
We remain in discussions with our unions regarding the provision of future pension benefits from April2018.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 37 Royal Mail plc | Principal risks Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Efficiency Royal Mail must continuously become more efficient We are continuing to see the positive impact of our We have ongoing collaborative meetings with and flexible in order to compete effectively in the cost reduction activities across the UK business.
our unions to involve them in the efficiency letter and parcel markets.
This has involved continuous focus on our efficiency improvements and growth opportunities.
performance in all areas, while providing a high The success of our strategy relies on the effective We are delivering efficiencies both in and outside quality service to our customers through our control of costs across all areas and the delivery of of the core operations and have over 200 projects engaged workforce.
and initiatives which underpin the 600million Our productivity improvement is towards the upper cumulative annualised cost avoided target.
In the current industrial relations environment, range of our 2-3per cent target, and we are confident there is a risk we cannot make the required short We continue to scope additional cost saving that we will deliver the 600million cumulative term business as usual and or programme level cost opportunities beyond 2017-18.
However, the annualised cost avoided target, previously reductions in a timely way: nor can we trial, with a present trend of cost savings may not be announced.
view to broader roll out, more fundamental changes sustainable and the need to deliver operational efficiencies will become greater.
in methods required to meet customer requirements As we negotiate fundamental changes to our pension and to underpin future cost reductions.
and other terms and conditions, there is a risk that our workforce will delay the change we need.
Changes in market conditions and customer behaviour The industry sectors in which we operate remain highly competitive, with customers demanding more and our competitors responding quickly to these changingdemands.
Customer expectations and Royal Mails responsiveness to market changes We use continuous in depth market monitoring Changes in customer expectations, and changes We expect the letters sector to remain in structural in the markets in which the Group operates, could decline, in the medium term, driven by e-substitution and research to track how well we match our customers expectations, including relative to our impact the demand for our products and services.
competitors, and to predict volume trends.
There is a risk that our product offerings and The parcels sector is undergoing rapid change.
customer experience may not adequately meet Competition in the UK domestic and international We continue to invest and introduce, at pace, new evolving customer expectations, or that we are markets continues to intensify, with competitors and improved products and services that: enhance unable to innovate or adapt our commercial and offering innovative solutions that include convenient, customers online and delivery experience: operational activities fast enough to respond to reliable delivery and return options, and improved expand our core offering to small and medium changes in themarket.
sized businesses and marketplace sellers: and extend our product coverage.
We target The UK has one of the most developed e-commerce investments that will extend our value chain offer markets in the world.
Growth available in the and increase our presence in faster growing areas addressable UK parcels market continues to be of the parcelssector.
impacted by Amazon's activities.
Capacity expansion in the sector continues to exert downward pressure We continue to work with Amazon to provide on prices.
enhanced propositions and high quality of service.
In the parcels business, disintermediation in online We promote the value of letters to customers marketplaces may divert traffic to other carriers.
through targeting advertisers and ad agencies, using our Mailmen campaign.
We are also giving There is a continuing requirement to invest in customers incentives to test new ways of using targeted growth and innovation to meet these mail at a discounted rate.
challenges in the marketplace as well as reducing cost to ensure better price competitiveness.
We are investing in our Mail Centre equipment to ensure we get the best out of our machinery.
There are also potential behavioural changes by Tohelp add value to the mail and keep customers customers relating to the upcoming regulatory using it, we invested in Mailmark last year.
developments at the European level around data, Itgives customers visibility of their items in our including marketing mail.
pipeline and data on the effectiveness of their mailings.
Around 80per cent of suitable letters are sent using Mailmark.
Further, we are planning investment to rollout barcodes to unsorted letters next year.
We continue to monitor developments and actively promote the value of marketing mail.
38 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Economic environment Historically, there has been a correlation between While economic conditions in the UK have proved We have a challenging cost avoidance programme economic conditions and the level of letter and resilient, business uncertainty before and after in place to respond to revenue headwinds.
Flat or adverse economic conditions the EU referendum has resulted in a slowdown Net cash investment is expected to be around could impact our ability to maintain and grow in marketing activity.
We continue to monitor the 450 million in 2017-18 and less than 500million revenue, either by reducing volumes or encouraging broader long term economic impact on the UK per annum going forward.
customers to adopt cheaper service options for economy.
In the event of an economic shock, we are able to Economic growth in the Eurozone remains fragile.
reduce investment over the short term to protect Low growth or recession in Europe could impact the cash and indebtedness position of the business.
our international parcel volumes, including those handled by GLS.
Growing in new areas New Our success in growing in new areas of business is Royal Mail Group is well positioned to grow in Our acquisitions are primarily delivered dependent on such factors as our continued ability new markets through its subsidiary, GLS.
It has a through a targeted and focused expansion of to identify new profitable and sustainable areas of replicable and scalable business model founded on GLS geographic footprint, investing behind a business, implementing appropriate investments, the development of strong regional businesses.
proven operating model with a track record of and having in place suitable structures to support identification, integration and optimisation of Through increasing its footprint and focusing on continued transformation of the business.
growth opportunities in the deferred parcels space, with selective growth in the B2C parcels market, We are also developing partnerships with GLS is well positioned to support Royal Mail Groups retailers and network partners to stimulate overallstrategy.
cross-border volumes between the UK and Asia, as well as working with China Post to provide Chinese and UK customers with faster delivery and trackingservices.
We also have a number of small scale initiatives to seek new revenues which leverage our existingassets.
Regulatory and legislative environment The business operates in a regulated environment.
Changes in legal and regulatory requirements could impact our ability to meet our targets and goals.
Absence of a sustainability framework to sustain the USO USO finances are fragile.
The regulatory system Ofcom concluded its Fundamental Review of the We are continuing to lobby BEIS and Ofcom to tackle applies constraints to Royal Mails ability to Regulation of Royal Mail FRR in March 2017.
Itdid emerging issues of USO sustainability.
We are compete for traffic to support the costs of the not re-introduce price controls or add binding arguing for fundamental changes in the regulatory Universal Service network.
It imposes operational efficiency targets.
However, it has not taken environmentincluding: requirements not applied generally to the industry.
forward our proposal for a proactive sustainability greater focus on sustainability, rather than These may impact our revenues and our ability framework.
It has also not taken forward the on competition issues, including through to compete in the highly competitive sectors in opportunity to raise consumer protection standards the prompt introduction of a proactive which we operate.
This could ultimately impact across the industry.
: our ability to deliver the Universal Service on a In terms of follow-up consultations, Ofcom is sustainablebasis.
procedural fairness issues and enforcement: consulting on a new regulatory reporting framework to reflect the outcome of its FRR.
It is also planning a material decrease in the significant regulatory on conducting a cost allocation review.
This will burden: and review the allocation of Royal Mails delivery costs between parcels and letters.
a level playing field across the whole industry, including higher consumer protection standards inparcels.
We will engage fully with Ofcoms regulatory reporting review, to ensure a more targeted regime that reduces the regulatory burden.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 39 Royal Mail plc | Principal risks Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Competition Act investigation In January 2014, Royal Mail issued Contract Change Royal Mail is refuting all of the allegations.
We have robustly defended our conduct in both Notices CCNs under the terms of the access written and oral representations to Ofcom.
Ofcom has stated that their final decision is likely to contractregime.
This reflects our belief that the 2014 CCNs under In February 2014, Ofcom announced that they would investigation, which were never implemented and investigate some of these CCNs.
The opening of the have now been withdrawn, were fully compliant investigation automatically suspended the CCNs that with competition law.
Please refer to our were the subject of the investigation.
These CCNs contingent liabilities disclosure on page130.
We will continue to defend our case.
Ofcom issued a statement of objections in July 2015.
This statement sets out Ofcoms provisional view that Royal Mail breached competition law by engaging in conduct that amounted to unlawful discrimination against postal operators competing with Royal Mail indelivery.
Depending on the outcome of the Ofcom investigation and any appeal, Royal Mail may befined.
Employment legislation and regulation Changes to laws and regulations relating to Recent case law has suggested that, in some We continue to monitor developments in case law relating to the application of the Working Time employment including the interpretation and circumstances, regular overtime and commission enforcement of those laws and regulations could, payments should form part of holiday pay Directive in respect of holiday pay calculations.
Based on our estimates of the potential financial directly or indirectly, increase the Groups labour calculations.
The legal position remains unclear costs.
Given the size of the Groups workforce, this as case law is still evolving in this area.
We have impact, we believe that we have made sufficient provision for any historic liabilities that may arise.
could have an adverse effect on the Group.
commenced discussions with the trade union about the application of holiday pay for part timers We liaise with the CBI, HMRC and HM Treasury but anticipate that this still will take some time to influence employment tax developments toimplement.
and minimise the impacts for Royal Mail as far Other risks to our cost base associated with aspossible.
employment legislation have emerged and were disclosed in our financial results for the half year ended 27September 2016.
These are: The Apprenticeship Levy came into effect in April2017, with an estimated cost to Royal Mail of around 20 million.
Proposed changes to National Insurance NI on termination of employment have been announced, which will increase employers NI costs from April2018.
Changes to tax NI on salary sacrifice benefits came into effect from 1April 2017, although pensions have specifically been excluded from these regulations.
Other Cyber security While no material losses related to cyber security As external threats become more sophisticated, We are subject to a range of regulations, contractual compliance obligations, and customer expectations breaches have been suffered, given the increasing and the potential impact of service disruption sophistication and evolving nature of this threat, and increases, we continue to invest in cyber security.
around the governance and protection of various classes of data.
In common with all major our reliance on technology and data for operational Recognising that this risk cannot be eliminated, and strategic purposes, we consider cyber security a we have implemented significant protective organisations, we are the potential target of cyber attacks that could threaten the confidentiality, principal risk.
measures which will need to be continuously enhanced in light of the changes and threats integrity and availability of data in our systems.
A cyber security incident could also trigger material service interruption.
Either of these outcomes could result in financial and reputation damage, including loss of customerconfidence.
40 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Attracting and retaining senior management and key personnel Our performance, operating results and future Turnover in senior and key personnel has been at The Groups remuneration policy sets out that growth depend on our ability to attract and retain normal levels for the business during the year, but the overall remuneration package should be talent with the appropriate level of expertise.
this remains an inherent business risk.
sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate executives with the commercial experience to run a large, complex business in a highly challengingcontext.
We operate a succession planning process and have in place talent identification and development programmes.
Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the The key assumptions within the projections were Universal Service Obligation in its current form.
Group as part of their ongoing risk management stress-tested with reference to risks set out in Thedownside scenario was tested to determine and monitoring processes.
the Principal Risks section on pages 37-41 but whether the Group would remain solvent.
focused on those that could have a plausible and While the Directors have no reason to believe The Company has decided that the Royal Mail severe financial impact over the plan horizon.
that the Group will not be viable over the longer Pension Plan will close to future accrual on term, they consider the three financial years This year, the Directors considered i the potential 31March 2018.
On 8 May 2017, the Company to March 2020 to be an appropriate planning impact of industrial action: ii deteriorating and the RMPP Trustee agreed the March time horizon to assess Royal Mails viability economic and market conditions which could 2015 actuarial valuation and revised Schedule and to determine the probability and impact of result in letters volume decline greater than of Contributions following this decision.
This is the same time frame our projected four to six per cent range and iii Wecontinue to work closely with our unions of our existing medium term planning cycle increased competition in the UK parcels sector.
on a sustainable and affordable solution for the and therefore a period over which planning In addition we have not assumed any material provision of future pension benefits.
In making assumptions and the impact of strategic impact from our initiatives to grow in new areas.
their assessment of viability, the Directors have initiatives are scrutinised.
This period also aligns assumed that future cash pension contributions These risks were quantified to create a with the performance criteria in our long-term are consistent with those made in 2016-17. downside scenario that took into account the incentive plans LTIP.
levels of committed capital and expenditure, Based on the results of their analysis, the Business divisions prepare detailed annual as well as other short term cost and cash Directors have a reasonable expectation that the forecasts for a 12 month period and project actions which could mitigate the impact of Group will be able to continue in operation and performance over three years with reference to the risks.
Consideration was also given to the meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period economic assumptions and strategic initiatives.
large fixed cost base required to deliver the to March 2020.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 41 Royal Mail plc | Corporate responsibility Responsibility FTSE4Good leader Ranked second globally Royal Mail is a constituent in the Transportation and of the FTSE4Good Index, Transportation Infrastructure ranking in the top 15percent industry in the Dow Jones ofcompanies Sustainability Indices Our 12.3% performance 12.3per cent reduction in 85per cent of people in road traffic collisions the UK think Royal Mail is an important part of local 1 communities Times Top 50 Employer for Winner Women, for the fourth Two awards won for our consecutive partnership with the charity 2 year Missing People 1 Ipsos MORI Corporate Image Survey Winter 2016.
2 During the year, we were listed as a Times Top 50 Employer for Women for the third time.
Shortly after the financial year end, we were included in the list for the fourth time.
42 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17
