Principal risks and management controls Our principal risks and how we manage them Franco Martinelli, Group Finance Director Babcock has an established formal Finance Director and all financing process that aims to identify and evaluate arrangements unless delegated to the risks and how they are to be managed.
Boards Finance Committee must be Arange of internal control processes is approved by the Board.
The Board inplace as part of the risk management considers and reviews the controls and regime.
The Board, principally through mitigation plans in place: these are the Audit and Risk Committee, keeps intended to manage and reduce the under review the risks facing the Group, potential impact of the risks the Company including the appropriateness of the level takes to ensure, so far as possible, that of risk the Group may accept in order to theassets and reputation of the Group achieve its strategic objectives.
ensures that it controls the risk appetite The Groups risk management and ofthe Group through its delegated internal control systems can, however, authorities, which impose strict controls only seek to manage, not eliminate, the on the Group for example, all risk of failure to achieve business acquisitions and disposals, all material objectives, as any system can only provide capital expenditure, all material reasonable, not absolute, assurance nonordinary course tenders material against material misstatement or loss.
ordinary course tenders are approved bythe Chief Executive and the Group Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 68 Internal controls Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Risk management framework Board The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys risk management The Executive Committee considers a and internal control system.
This monthly report from the Chief Executive, is overseen on its behalf by the the Group Finance Director and each Audit and Risk Committee which of the sector Chief Executives on the is currently usually attended by all Executive Committee operational and financial performance Board members.
oftheir respective areas of responsibility.
The Audit and Risk Committee Babcock has a Group Security Committee reviews aspects of the risk made up of senior functional and management and control system operational managers with responsibility at its meetings and at least once for security and information assurance ayear formally reviews the systems at Group and operational level.
They effectiveness as a whole on behalf meet regularly to discuss cyber and Audit and Group Security of the Board see the effectiveness other security and information assurance Risk Committee Committee review statement on pages 139 issues and threats facing the Group.
It also receives indepth The Committee oversees the Groups presentations on individual major security and information assurance risks throughout the year.
management infrastructure and specific security projects.
The Group Finance Director is Chairman The Audit and Risk Committee of the Committee, and each meeting is receives regular reports from Ernst attended by the Groups Chief Information & Young, the internal audit function Officer and Chief Information Security provider, and management reports Officer.
The Board receives regular relating to internal control and reports on security and information risk issues.
Internal Audit Operationally, internal control systemsare monitored by senior Group management with sector ChiefExecutives having responsibility  and risk management in their businesses.
Read more on page 70 Group risk management The Group Risk and Insurance Manager who reports to the Group Finance Director, working with senior operational management teams, keeps the risk register and risk assessment and evaluation process under review Employees undertake a selection and development.
We seek to ensure of compulsory risk management a coherent and consistent Group best training programmes for example: practice approach to risk assessment security, data protection and and risk management.
Risk assessments Company employees antibribery and corruption training made at business unit level are subject appropriate to their roles in order to toregular review and challenge by increase awareness of potential risks.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Principal risks and management controls continued Our internal controls include Budget process Annual budgets and medium-term financial plans are reviewed by Group management before submission to the Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for the year are prepared at least quarterly.
Management and The Board receives details of monthly actual financial performance compared against budget, forecast and financial reporting the prior year, with a written commentary on significant variances from approved plans.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and sector Chief Executives report to each Board meeting on operating performance and matters of potential strategic significance.
Group senior management receives a monthly narrative operating report from all business units.
Security and information There is a formal security and information assurance governance structure in place to oversee and manage governance structure security and similar risks.
Clear delegation The Board regularly reviews and approves a schedule of delegated authorities setting out levels of specific and limits of authority financial decision-making authority delegated by it.
Insurance The Group has a large and comprehensive insurance programme, preferring to place risk in the insurance market, where available on acceptable terms, rather than to self-insure or make significant use of captive insurance.
The Group has a full-time Risk and Insurance Manager who reports annually to the Board on the strategic approach being taken to insurance and on the placing of the programme.
Claims and litigation The Board and the Group Executive Committee receive monthly summaries of material disputes and actual reporting or potential claims, their progress and potential outcomes.
The Group has an internal legal service.
Credit controls, All significant credit risks are reviewed by Group Finance and an Executive Director, and, where appropriate Code of Conduct and and available, risk limitation actions are taken.
ethical, anti-bribery and The Group has a Code of Conduct, summarising ethical and anti-bribery and corruption policies, making clear corruption policies and its commitment to the highest ethical standards and the ethical standards it demands from its employees and procedures those who work for it and with whom it does business.
There is an anti-bribery and corruption governance structure in place and detailed policy and procedures available on the Babcock website, with supporting training programmes, which the Company believes meet the requirements of adequate procedures under the Bribery Act 2010.
Due diligence is carried out on actual or potential business partners as appropriate.
Those working on our behalf or in consortium with us are required to abide by our Code of Conduct or an equivalent and to undertake not to behave corruptly.
Group policies and The Group has written policies and procedures, which are kept under review, covering a range of matters procedures intended to reduce or mitigate risk, such as health, safety and environmental policies, security and information assurance, export controls, contracting requirements and guidelines, and legal, financial and accounting matters.
These policies and procedures are available to employees on the Group intranet and are supplemented at sector level by further business unit specific policies and procedures.
Whistleblowing hotline All employees have access to a confidential whistleblowing hotline with the opportunity to call, email or write letters detailing any area of concern whether financial irregularities, non-compliance with laws, or breaches of our Code of Business Conduct, threats to health and safety, conflicts of interest or improper practices to be brought to the attention of senior management if they feel unable to raise them with line management or if they have raised matters, but are not satisfied with the response.
A report on all whistleblowing cases and the resultant investigations and conclusions is submitted to each Audit and Risk Committee meeting see page 96.
Critical supplier Sectors regularly review the vulnerability of key supply chain partners whose continued ability to supply the reviews Group is considered critical to its business performance, and also consider fall-back plans when first deciding to appoint such suppliers.
Business continuity All sectors, business units and Group functions are required to consider the need for, and put in place, and disaster appropriate plans to minimise the risk of interruption to business and contract performance in the event of recovery plans a major disruption to normal functioning arrangements.
70 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 70 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Principal risks, risk mitigation and controls The risks and uncertainties described below through to page 79 are those that the Board currently considers to be of greatest significance to Babcock in that they have the potential to affect materially and adversely Babcocks business, the delivery of its strategy and or its financial results, condition or prospects.
For each risk there is a short description of the Companys view of the possible impact of the risk on the Group should it occur, and the mitigation and control processes in place to manage the risk which should be read in conjunction with the information above about our risk management approach and general controls.
Babcock is, however, a large and developing group of businesses, and factual circumstances, business and operating environments will change with new risks being identified or the evaluation of the significance of existing risks changing or being better appreciated and understood.
This means that the risks identified below are not and cannot be an exhaustive list of all principal risks that could affect the Group.
Risks and uncertainties which might affect businesses in general and that are not specific to the Group are not included, but Babcock, of course, faces such risks as well.
Our customer profile We rely heavily on winning and retaining large contracts with a relatively limited number of major customers, whether in the UK or overseas.
Many of our major customers are directly or indirectly owned or controlled by government national or local and or are wholly or partly publicly funded.
Our single biggest customer is currently the UK Ministry of Defence MOD.
These customers are affected by political and public spending decisions.
Commercial customers are also affected by conditions in their market sector which affect their levels of, and priorities for, spending.
Risk description Potential impact favouring of small or mediumPolicy changes following a change of Periods of uncertainty as to the course political administration or otherwise and of customer policy and spending can sized suppliers or adopting a more transactional rather than spending constraints on customers are result in the delay, suspension or material factors for the Groups business withdrawal of tendering processes cooperative, partnering approach to customer supplier relationships: and and outlook.
and the award of contracts.
imposing new or extra eligibility Whilst the Board believes that policy Whilst customer policy changes or requirements as a condition of doing changes, spending reviews and restraints spending constraints can potentially offer business with the customer that we can offer significant opportunities to the more outsourcing opportunities for us to may not be able readily to comply with Group to assist in the delivery of services pursue, they can also be a risk in that they or that might involve significant extra to customers more efficiently and at could lead to changes in customer costs, thereby impacting the lower cost, these factors inevitably also outsourcing strategy and spend, which profitability of doing business carry risk.
Large customers, whether public or reductions in the number, frequency, private sector, have significant bargaining size, scope, profitability and or Mitigation power and the ability contractual or duration of future contract We have extensive and regular dialogue otherwise to cancel contracts without, opportunities: with key customers, involving, as or on short, notice, often without cause, in the case of existing contracts, early appropriate, our Chief Executive, sector or they can exert pressure to renegotiate termination, non-extension or nonChief Executives and or other members them in their favour.
renewal or lower contract spend than of the senior management team.
anticipated and pressure to The consequences for the Groups We actively monitor actual and potential renegotiate contract terms in the business of the UK vote to leave the political and other developments and customers favour: European Union are difficult to predict, spending constraints that might affect as there is likely to be a period of favouring the retention or return of our customers demand for our services.
uncertainty over the effects on the in-house service provision, either We aim to be innovative and responsive nature, timing and scope of the policies generally or in the sectors in which in helping customers meet their needs and procurement plans of both our we operate: and challenges.
current and potential customers in the UK and overseas.
71 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Principal risks and management controls continued The nature of our contracts, bid processes and markets We seek to win relatively long-term contracts for the provision of complex and integrated services to our customers.
Bidding for these contracts typically involves a protracted and detailed tendering process, often under public procurement rules.
There are typically only a relatively limited number of customers in each of the market sectors we serve.
The contracts we bid for often entail a substantial transfer of risk from the customer to the supplier.
Failure to realise the pipeline of opportunities and to secure rebids can mean missed opportunities for growth and loss of revenue.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Bidding requires a substantial investment If we lose a bid or a bid process is aborted We have a clear business strategy to in terms of manpower resource and is by the customer or we withdraw due to target a large bid pipeline, both in the UK very expensive.
Bids can be subject to scope changes as it progresses, this is a and internationally, and will only tender cancellation, delays or changes in scope.
significant waste of limited resource and bids for contracts we consider have a substantial expenditure that has to be clear alignment with the Group strategy Contract award decisions made under written off.
and where we believe we stand a realistic public procurement rules can be subject chance of success, both in the UK to legal challenge by losing bidders.
If we win a public procurement bid and and overseas.
this is challenged, this could lead to delay Given the size and often long-term in contract award, expensive legal There are formal and rigorous reviews nature of the contracts we bid for and proceedings or the competition having and gating processes.
These at key stages the relatively limited numbers of to be re-run.
of each material bid are intended to customers in the markets we serve, reduce the risk of underestimating risks significant contracting opportunities tend Not winning a new bid can be a and costs and ensure that limited bid not to arise on a regular or frequent basis.
significant missed opportunity for resources are targeted at opportunities growth which may not soon be replaced When we are bidding for such contracts where we consider that we have the by another.
we have to price for the long term and best prospects of winning or for risk transfer, and the scope for later Not winning rebids could mean the loss retaining business.
price adjustment may be limited or of significant existing revenue and Group policies and procedures set not exist.
a commercial, financial and legal Our contracts typically impose strict If we underestimate or under-price actual framework for all bids.
performance conditions and use key risk exposure or the cost of performance, Contractual performance is continuously performance indicators KPI that if not this could significantly and adversely under review at a business unit, sector complied with trigger compensation for affect our future profitability, cash and or senior Group executive level as the customer and or may result in loss generation and growth.
appropriate with a view to highlighting of the contract.
Compensation to the customer for poor at an early stage risks to delivery Bid and rebid success rates determine KPI performance, could significantly and profitability.
how much of the pipeline of impair profitability under the contract opportunities is realised and turned and damages following termination into profitable business and how could be substantial.
much existing business is retained.
Unsuccessful bids or rebids may adversely impact the strategic development and growth plans of the Group.
A lack of success in exporting the Groups business model outside the UK and its current core markets could adversely impact the growth prospects and strategic development of the Group.
72 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 72 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Reputation Given the nature of our customers and the markets in which we operate, our reputation is a fundamental business asset.
Our businesses include activities that have a high public profile and or if they were to involve adverse incidents or accidents, they could attract a high level of publicity.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation We have a relatively limited number of Given our dependence on individual Senior management at Group and sector customers and potential customers in our major customers and the relatively level are keenly aware of reputational market sectors and they typically have narrow customer base in the markets in risks, which can come from many high public profiles.
which we currently operate, loss of our sources.
Our risk control procedures reputation whether justified or not with relating to contract performance, antiWe are involved in the direct delivery to a major customer or more generally bribery and corruption, health and safety the public on behalf of our customers of could put at risk substantial existing performance and other matters that high-profile and sensitive services.
We business streams and the prospect of could impact our reputation are also provide services which are critical to securing future business from that or described elsewhere on pages 58 to 67. our customers ability to discharge their other customers in that or other sectors.
See also health, safety and own public responsibilities or delivery environmental risks on page 75. critical services to their customers.
Non-compliance with anti-bribery and corruption laws could result in Failings or misconduct perceived or real debarment from bidding as well as in dealing with a customer or in providing criminal penalties.
services to them or on their behalf could substantially damage our reputation with that customer or more generally.
The same would be true of high-profile incidents or accidents.
Attitudes to the outsourcing of services generally or in a particular sector can also be adversely affected by the poor performance or behaviour of other service providers or incidents in which we are not involved.
As well as our reputation for service delivery, our ethical reputation is key.
73 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Principal risks and management controls continued Regulatory and compliance burden Our major businesses are dependent on being able to comply with applicable customer or industry-specific requirements or regulations.
Following the UK vote to leave the European Union, the terms of British exit will have implications on the requirements or regulations that are applicable to the business of the Group, including where a licence to operate in the European Union is required.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The cost of compliance can be high.
Failure to maintain compliance with We seek to maintain a clear Requirements can change.
applicable requirements could result in understanding of ongoing regulatory the loss of substantial business streams requirements and to maintain good Compliance with some regulatory and possible damages claims and working relationships with regulators.
requirements is a precondition for being opportunities for future business.
able to carry on a business activity at all.
We have suitably qualified and For example: A change in requirements could entail experienced employees and or expert substantial expenditure which may not external advisers to advise and assist Our Mission Critical Services business is be recoverable either fully or at all on regulatory compliance.
subject to a high degree of regulation under customer contracts.
relating to aircraft airworthiness and We have management systems involving certification and also to ownership competent personnel with clear and control requirements for example, accountabilities for operational European air operators must be regulatory compliance.
majority-owned and controlled by Our Articles of Association empower us European Economic Area nationals to take steps to protect our European air see page 137 for more information.
operating licences, if necessary, by Our civil and defence-related nuclear controlling the level and or limiting the businesses operate in a highly rights of non-European Economic Area regulated environment.
For example, owners of our shares see pages 137 to as part of Brexit, the UK may leave the 138 for more information.
However Euratom treaty and it is unclear what we will be taking steps to structure our agreements will replace the existing Mission Critical Services business such arrangements and what the impact that it continues to satisfy the of those new agreements will be.
requirements of the relevant regulation.
74 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 74 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Health, safety and environmental Some of our operations entail the potential risk of significant harm to people, property or the environment.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Many of our businesses involve working Serious accidents can have a major Health, safety and environmental in potentially hazardous operations or impact on the lives of those directly performance receives close and environments, which need to be properly involved and on their families, friends, continuous attention and oversight managed and controlled to minimise the colleagues and community, as can from the senior management team.
We have specific health, safety and Some, for example the mission critical To the extent that we have caused or environmental governance structures operations of our helicopter services, contributed to an incident as a result in place and extensive and ongoing involve an inherent degree of risk that of failings on our part, or because as education and training programmes is compounded by the nature of the a matter of law we would be strictly for staff.
services provided offshore oil and gas liable without fault, the Group could The Board receives half-yearly reviews crew change services, firefighting, be exposed to substantial damages of health and safety and environmental search and rescue, air ambulance and claims, not all of which exposure may performance and the management emergency services or the environments be insured against, and also to criminal reports tabled at each of its meetings in which they operate low-altitude flying proceedings which could result in also address health, safety and in adverse weather, terrains or substantial penalties.
environmental issues on an ongoing operational conditions.
Such incidents which may have a high basis.
public profile given the nature of our We believe we have appropriate operations may also seriously and insurance cover against civil adversely affect the reputation of the liability exposures.
Group or its brand whether that would Nuclear risks: we believe having regard be justified or not, which could lead to to the statutory regime for nuclear a significant loss of business or future liability in the UK, the terms on which we business opportunities.
do nuclear engineering business and the terms of indemnities given to us by the UK Nuclear Decommissioning Authority and the UK MOD in respect of the nuclear site licensee companies in which we are interested that the Group would have adequate protection against risk of liability for injury or damage caused by nuclear contamination or incidents, but a reputational risk as a result of any serious incident would remain.
75 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Principal risks and management controls continued People Our business delivery and future growth depend on our ability adequately and successfully to plan for management succession and for our continuing and future need to recruit, develop and retain experienced senior managers, business development teams and highly skilled employees such as suitably qualified and experienced engineers, technicians, pilots and other specialist skills groups.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Competition for the skilled and Losing experienced senior managers We give a high priority and devote experienced personnel we need is intense for any reason without plans for their significant resources to recruiting and they are likely to remain in limited replacement could have a material skilled professionals, training and supply for the foreseeable future.
This adverse effect on the prospects for, development, succession planning poses risks in both recruiting and or performance of, the Group and the and talent management.
The Board, the Nominations If we have insufficient experienced Committee and the Group Executive business development or bidding Committee regularly receive reports personnel, this could impair our ability on and or discuss these matters.
to achieve strategic aims and financial Apprentice and graduate targets or to pursue business in recruitment programmes are run new areas.
If we have insufficient qualified and Further information about this subject experienced employees, this could impair and how we address it is on pages 63 to our service delivery to customers or our 65 of this Annual Report.
ability to pursue new business, with consequent risks to our financial results, growth, strategy and reputation and the risk of contract claims.
The cost of recruiting or retaining the suitably qualified and experienced employees we need might increase significantly depending on market conditions, and this could impact our contract profitability.
76 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 76 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Pensions The Group has significant defined benefit pension schemes.
These provide for a specified level of pension benefits to scheme members, the cost of which is met from both member and employer contributions paid into pension scheme funds and the investment returns made in those funds over time.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The level of our contributions is based on Should the assets in the pension schemes Continuous strategic monitoring and various assumptions, which are subject to be judged insufficient to meet pension evaluation is undertaken by Group senior change, such as life expectancy of liabilities, we may be required to make management of the assets and liabilities members, investment returns, inflation, increased contributions and or lump sum of the pension scheme and, as etc.
Based on the assumptions used at cash payments into the schemes.
This appropriate, the execution of any time, there is always a risk of a may reduce the cash available to meet mitigation opportunities.
significant shortfall in the schemes the Groups other obligations or business The Company and the scheme trustees assets below the calculated cost of the needs, and may restrict the future growth have agreed a long-term investment pension obligations.
strategy and risk framework intended When accounting for our defined benefit Accounting standards for pension to reduce the impact of the schemes schemes, we have to use corporate liabilities can lead to significant exposure to changes in inflation and bond-related discount rates to value accounting volatility from year to year interest rates.
Variations in bond due to the need to take account of Longevity swaps have been used to yields and inflationary expectations can macro-economic circumstances reduce the impact of the schemes materially affect the pensions charge in beyond the control of the Company.
exposure to increasing life expectancy.
our income statement from year to year There is a risk that future accounting, as well as the value of the net difference regulatory and legislative changes may between the pension assets and liabilities also adversely impact pension valuations shown on our balance sheet.
77 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Principal risks and management controls continued IT and security Our ability to deliver secure IT and other information assurance systems to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive information is a key factor for our customers.
During the coming year the Group expects to continue rolling out a new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP application for our back office operations which also provides some front end functionality.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Despite controls designed to protect A breach or compromise of IT system We have made and will continue to make such information, there can be no security or physical security at a physical significant investment in enhancing IT guarantee that security measures site could lead to loss of reputation, loss security and security awareness generally.
will be sufficient to prevent all risk of business advantage, disruptions in We have formal security and information of security breaches or cyber-attacks business operations and inability to meet assurance governance structures in place being successful in their attempts to contractual obligations.
This could have to oversee and manage cyber-security penetrate our network security and an adverse effect on the Groups ability to and similar risks.
win future contracts and, consequently, The Board receives reports at least The risk of loss of information or data on our results of operations and overall quarterly on security and information by other means is also a risk that cannot financial condition.
Failure adequately to plan and resource The ERP implementation project is Installing major new IT systems carries the the implementation of the new ERP overseen and closely monitored by risk of key system failures and disruption.
systems or difficulties experienced in steering and working groups, is regularly doing so could cause both trading and reported on to the Group Executive financial reporting difficulties that could Committee and will be implemented in be material.
a phased approach with parallel running of old and new systems for a period to what we believe is a realistic timetable.
Currency exchange rates As we expand outside the UK, our financial results are increasingly exposed to the impact of currency exchange rates.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation We prepare our consolidated results in If the currencies in which our non-UK We seek to mitigate exposure to Sterling and translate the value of assets, business is conducted are weak or movements in exchange rates in liabilities and turnover reported or weaken against the value of Sterling, this respect of material foreign currency accounted for in non-Sterling currencies.
will adversely affect our reported results denominated transactions for example, and the value of any dividend income through use of derivative instruments.
Exchange rate movements can therefore received by the Company from non-UK affect the Sterling financial statements Although we do not use these to hedge operations.
If the cost of an operation and results of the Group.
against the currency effect of translating or a contractual commitment is for our financial statements the net assets Expenses or commitments may be denominated or incurred in a currency and income of non-UK subsidiaries and incurred in a currency that is different different from the currency of the income long-term equity accounted investments, from the related turnover or income received from that operation or that is we maintain foreign currency borrowings needed to discharge them.
being relied on to discharge that to limit, in part, the net foreign commitment, movements in exchange Non-Sterling currencies to which we are currency exposure.
rates can reduce the profitability of the currently most exposed are the Euro and operation and increase the effective cost South African Rand.
78 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 78
