Principal risks and uncertainties Mitie faces many risks and opportunities which are managed and mitigated through our risk management framework.
Our Group risk register contains those risks and uncertainties that the Board believes to be the most significant, following consideration of our business and functional risk registers, with the potential to impact materially upon our strategy, our financial and operational performance, and ultimately our reputation.
We also recognise that there are additional external pressures that we know will impact our risk profile, such as political and economic risk, commodity price increases and new legislation.
Our risk management programme does, and will, flex to accommodate those additional external influences.
In response to the challenges that we have faced in FY17, which have resulted in an operating loss for the year, significant write downs and prior year adjustments, we have made significant changes to the way we manage risk across the business.
We have made structural and personnel changes that will improve the evaluation of risks and uncertainties and how the organisation responds to them.
The Board has conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks and the risk management framework now covers 13 high-level risk areas that affect Mitie.
These will be embedded into the risk registers across the business.
In addition to the changes made as a result of what has happened during this financial year, we recognise that we have a significant transformation programme underway, adding an additional internal dimension to our risk and control environment.
A specific risk has been added to our register this year covering the management of risk around our transformation programme.
The challenging environment in which we operate requires a risk management framework in which we can confidently identify, assess, mitigate and manage our risks and take advantage of opportunities presented.
This framework enables the Board to make more informed decisions.
Our key risk categories, continue to be: strategic, financial, operational and regulatory.
In a Board context, the increasingly complex risks associated with these themes require careful consideration and anticipation.
The principal risks and uncertainties listed here promote an informed discussion and debate on matters that could affect the long-term viability of the business.
As a result of changes in management and comments from shareholders, Mitie conducted a comprehensive Accounting Review this year.
The work was complemented by KPMG's review, which covered certain aspects of the material balances of accrued income, mobilisation costs, percentage of completion accounting and the recoverability of trade receivables, as well as the carrying value of certain other assets.
KPMG confirmed that the customer contract related methodologies and policies used by Mitie comply with all relevant accounting standards.
However, KPMG commented that our application of percentage of completion accounting is less conservative, albeit still justifiable, than others in the market.
In addition, the review has identified a number of prior year material errors.
The outcomes of the Accounting Review are summarised on page 53 of this report.
This year we have continued to embed our risk management system through the continuing use of our risk management tool and we started to introduce audit and risk committees at a business unit level.
Progress has been made with the risk management tool and risk registers, including the development of active mitigation plans, which are now in place for all our businesses.
Next year we will expand these meetings to all of our businesses and have an increased focus on the effectiveness of our mitigation plans and controls.
We expect to see the control environment change during FY18 as a consequence of changes to our management team, the operational structure and investment in technology.
The heat map below shows the relative importance of the risks that Mitie currently faces.
12 13 8, 10 9 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 5 11 Impact 30 30 Mitie Gr Mitie Gro oup plc | up plc | A Annual nnual Repor Report t an and d Accounts Accounts 2017 2017 Likelihood Risk no Category Risk 1 Strategic Poor contract negotiations, mobilisation and management leading to poor contractual terms inappropriate risk transfer, operational and financial loss 2 Strategic Continuing uncertainty of company performance and resourcing requirements through changes positive and negative to economic conditions 3 Strategic Inability to maintain competitive market offering 4 Strategic Failure in delivery of our significant change agenda 5 Operational Failure of critical IT infrastructure leading to performance and back office support issues 6 Operational Cyber risk and or customer data theft and compliance with data protection regulations 7 Operational Inability to maintain high health, safety and environmental management standards 8 Operational Termination or loss at re-bid of a major contract 9 Operational Inability to attract or retain the right talent in the right place impacting performance capability 10 Financial Poor operational cash flows and insufficient access to sources of capital leading to the inability to maintain a strong liquidity position 11 Financial Failure of material counterparty customer, banker, supplier, insurer etc.
to fulfil its obligations leading to significant contractual or financial exposure 12 Financial Inability to pass on inflationary pressure on wages and input costs 13 Regulatory Non-compliance with legal and regulatory requirements e. g. employment, governance, anti-bribery, modern slavery etc.
As a result of this review a number of Strategic risks adjustments and provisions have been made which are Risk number: 1 detailed on page 26.
The adjustments and provisions made Poor contract negotiations, mobilisation and management were based on managements best judgement at the time of leading to poor contractual terms inappropriate risk the review.
transfer, operational and financial loss We have performed a review of sales and tender approval Impact on our objectives processes, the procedures for agreeing commercial contract terms and the mobilisation and management of contracts.
1 Putting customers at the heart of our business These will all be updated over the course of FY18 and management reporting will be enhanced to provide greater 2 Transforming our cost base control over contract performance.
Our value proposition is to deliver support services to our Management mechanisms customers at a lower cost and higher quality than they can provide themselves.
Critical to this is our ability to bid, Executive management approval of complex tenders mobilise and deliver large-scale, complex contracts Commercial review by legal team competitively.
We have to negotiate and agree contracts with our customers that balance risk and reward, with Delegated authority register contractual requirements that are fair, having appropriate Client relationship programme contract performance mechanisms to ensure that this is Use of specialist mobilisation teams for complex contracts achieved.
Incorrectly evaluating the risks involved and entering into contracts with onerous conditions, penalties KPI SLA formal reviews with customers and one-sided termination clauses would be detrimental to Risk registers in place for large-scale contracts the Groups performance.
We have to ensure that the risk Certified quality management systems to ISO 9001 profile of contracted services is capable of being properly managed by Mitie and that we have the appropriate skills Future plans and resources in the business or in our supply chain to Continue to standardise our processes across Mitie, operate contracts successfully.
Failure to do so could result with regard to the sales process, tender approvals in contract termination, penalties and reputational damage.
and commercial and legal reviews, mobilisation and Failure to properly mobilise a contract creates a high risk of contract management as well as embedding risk not meeting the performance and financial profile expected.
management accountability and responsibility for Having a dedicated resource to deal with the mobilisation our complex contracts.
and the transfer of people to Mitie under TUPE Transfer of Undertakings and Protection of Employment is necessary to mitigate that risk.
In FY17 we have conducted reviews into all of our material contracts to assess whether they are operating in accordance with the contractual conditions and are meeting financial performance expectations.
The accounting methodology, judgements and assumptions made were also considered.
This review has been supported by KPMG as www.
c coom m 31 31 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk number: 2 Risk number: 3 Continuing uncertainty of company performance and Inability to maintain a competitive market offering resourcing requirements through changes positive and Impact on our objectives negative to economic conditions 1 Putting customers at the heart of our business Impact on our objectives 2 Transforming our cost base 1 Putting customers at the heart of our business 4 Developing our technology-led professional services 2 Transforming our cost base Our changing environment requires us to have a clear and 3 Developing and retaining our talent appropriate market offering, which provides a competitive advantage and is attractive to our customers.
We recognise 4 Developing our technology-led professional services that cost and margin pressure is an ever present factor in The success of Mitie is dependent upon both our private our industry.
This creates an imperative to have a low cost base and a differentiated customer proposition.
and public sector clients continuing to outsource the services that we provide.
This will continue as long as we are able to Failure to maintain a compelling and competitive offering will deliver quality services that save our customers money lead to revenue declines and margin reductions.
The during all phases of the economic cycle.
Company strategic review has identified four key areas of focus for performance is impacted by changes in economic Mities customers, costs, people and technology.
Putting our conditions largely through the volume of project works customers at the heart of our business, increasing the use of and discretionary expenditure from our customers.
High technology to provide insights into managing our clients levels of work improve company performance and demand workspaces more efficiently, reducing our cost base and for resources, with the opposite for low levels.
making Mitie the easiest company to do business with will Our principal macro-economic exposure remains in the UK, help to ensure a competitive and attractive market with limited exposure to the wider global economy.
Failure to achieve those two things would closely monitoring the outcomes of the EU exit negotiations impact Mities ability to retain its clients and to secure new and any resulting policy changes to determine the impact on contracts, impacting future financial performance.
Our new future contract opportunities and availability of resources.
Connected Workspace strategy is key to improving our Regulatory changes such as increases to the National Living competitive position.
Wage and other labour costs, such as the Apprenticeship Management mechanisms Levy, provide further challenge.
Project Helix transformation programme The UK economy is going through a period of uncertainty, Enhanced capability within Professional Services with lower than average growth levels and increasing costs of materials due to the devaluation of the pound.
How we Development of Connected Workspace solutions recognise and respond to variations in particular sectors Strategic concentration on UK by designing service solutions that reduce costs for our Executive approval for investment in new sectors customers may impact the Groups ability to win or infrastructure technologies retain contracts.
Strategic account management Resilience is provided by our diverse business portfolio with customers having varying demands on our resources Continued pursuit of innovation and best practice depending on how they are impacted by the economic cycle.
Future plans Management mechanisms A strategic review of technological opportunities in our markets to develop new technology-led offers for Maintaining mix of long-term contract portfolio in both the our customers public and private sector Additional sales and marketing capability.
Focus on higher margin growth areas Increasing spread of client base, reducing reliance on individual customers Customer retention programme Development of Connected Workspace solutions Employee engagement programme Frequent sales pipeline review Targeted and considered acquisition divestment strategy Future plans Our strategic review, focus on our cost base and the continuation of our strategy of diversification across cyclical markets will support Mities resilience to these external factors 32 32 Mitie Gr Mitie Gro oup plc | up plc | A Annual nnual Repor Report t an and d Accounts Accounts 2017 2017 Risk number: 4 Operational risks Failure in delivery of our significant change agenda Risk number: 5 Impact on our objectives Failure of critical IT infrastructure leading to performance and back office support issues 1 Putting customers at the heart of our business Impact on our objectives 2 Transforming our cost base 1 Putting customers at the heart of our business 3 Developing and retaining our talent 2 Transforming our cost base 4 Developing our technology-led professional services 4 Developing our technology-led professional services We recognise the challenging environment we are operating Our operations are increasingly dependent upon technology in today and are responding to this with a transformation with a significant increase in both the quantity of data we programme Project Helix to ensure sustainable changes hold and the number of pieces of critical infrastructure we are made to support our new operating model.
We are look after on behalf of our customers.
Failure of our IT implementing a number of transformational projects, such systems would impact our ability to operate and in some as business operational efficiency and transformations in cases our customers ability to operate.
our Finance, IT, Procurement and HR.
Depending on its severity an IT failure may also impact our The intensity and volume of the change programmes, the ability to pay our people, our supply chain partners and to complex interdependencies, poor programme and solution submit invoices to our customers.
This could have a design, poor implementation or failing to make these significant impact on the business.
changes permanent and sustainable could impact on the delivery of the change agenda.
Constraints on our ability to We continue to expand on the use of technology for our invest may impact on the resources needed to deliver the customers and with this we have an increased reliance on transformational programmes which could delay or systems and controls throughout the business.
prevent some of them and place our positive return on investment at risk.
Our clients expect greater connectivity of FM services and with that there is an increased requirement on Mitie to Management mechanisms provide services data, with performance measurement Executive sponsorship of the transformation programme increasingly dependent on technological solutions.
Programme management, design and governance, Failure to invest in the right technology could impact on our supported by an experienced third party, to support and potential to provide the operational support needed to shape our transformation programme and to establish enable our contract delivery.
effective governance with clear roles and responsibilities across the programme.
This will enable us to have Management mechanisms effective supervision, decision making and the necessary Investment strategy and support for technology controls and management development Appointing both internal and external people with the right Budgetary control and oversight over IT investments technical and change management skills to drive our transformational projects Standardisation of operational and ERP platforms and software Communication and awareness programmes to ensure our people are engaged and ready for business change Expert consultancy advice sought to support new contract and systems requirements Focused business assurance activities to ensure we maintain adequate controls Internal teams of experts trained to support new systems Future plans Future plans Ongoing oversight for each of the transformation streams Ongoing monitoring of investment strategy for by the Executive Leadership Team technical solutions Managing delivery of our transformation to minimise Sharing of learning across both customer facing and disruption to the business.
c coom m 33 33 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk number: 6 Risk number: 7 Cyber risk and or customer data theft and compliance with Inability to maintain high health, safety and environmental data protection regulations management standards Impact on our objectives Impact on our objectives 1 1 Putting customers at the heart of our business Putting customers at the heart of our business 4 3 Developing our technology-led professional services Developing and retaining our talent Organisations of all types are at an increased risk of We undertake a broad and diverse range of services for our cyber-attacks, hacking and ransomware.
This has the customers, some of which are potentially hazardous and potential to affect our ability to operate and could have the potential to cause harm to our employees, our damage our reputation.
business partners or members of the public, or to damage the environment.
Failure to maintain high health, safety There is also the risk of reputational damage and financial and environmental HS&E standards may cause death, penalties for failing to adequately protect the data we hold disability or injury or cause environmental damage.
for our customers, end-users, suppliers and our own people.
Failure could also lead to regulatory action, financial Information is an important asset for the business and needs impact or damage to our reputation.
to be protected at all times from disclosure or misuse.
We handle information in many forms and have formal secure We maintain an unwavering commitment to safeguarding technical and procedural controls in place to mitigate risks our people, others who potentially could be affected by to the information.
The secure processing, maintenance and our activities, and protecting the environment wherever we operate.
transmission of sensitive and confidential data is achieved through the integrity of our systems.
Appropriately applied Management mechanisms information security helps to ensure business continuity and minimise disruption by preventing or minimising the impact Work Safe Home Safe programme of security breaches.
Failure to do this would raise questions Certified HS&E management systems to OHSAS 18001 about how we handle information with care, and reduce and ISO 14001 confidence in our abilities.
Operations supported by professional HS&E teams Data protection regulations are undergoing a HS&E performance reviews at all business and Board transformation with the introduction of the General Data meetings Protection Regulation GDPR and we have launched our Best practice sharing at HS&E performance meetings preparation activities to be ready by the enforcement date in May 2018.
Legal registers in place together with biannual evaluation of compliance to legal requirements Failure to implement and maintain suitable security controls will have an adverse effect on the confidentiality, integrity Future plans and availability of both our and our customers information.
Enhancing Work Safe Home Safe programme Certification of businesses remaining outside of Management mechanisms group umbrella certification to the QHSE 9001, 18001 Centralised information security team in place and 14001 standards Information Security Management System ISMS in Developing clear and standardised KPIs to monitor place and certified to ISO IEC27001:2013 for key progress and improvements information assets Reviewing our operating model for the delivery of IT security controls including resources, tools and HS&E services and making changes to ensure that it is fit processes to proactively test, monitor, identify and for purpose.
respond to cyber threats Risk number: 8 Cyber essentials accreditation Termination or loss at re-bid of a major contract Ongoing Security Awareness For Everyone SAFE programme Impact on our objectives Cyber insurance policy 1 Putting customers at the heart of our business Future plans 2 Transforming our cost base Reviewing and revising data protection methodologies and procedures in line with the General Data 4 Developing our technology-led professional services Protection Regulation Continuing development of technical security controls and capabilities Information security a consideration for all new activities and products.
34 34 Mitie Gr Mitie Gro oup plc | up plc | A Annual nnual Repor Report t an and d Accounts Accounts 2017 2017 We have a number of large integrated contracts and major Future plans service specific contracts, and the risk of termination or loss Development of a winning Mitie culture incorporating a at re-bid could affect our financial performance and impact review of corporate culture and behaviours our reputation in the market, reducing the number of Employee engagement programme reference sites.
We recognise that termination or loss could be a result of external factors outside our control, such as a Aligned incentives based on a balanced scorecard change in the strategic priorities of our private sector and Mitie Way of performance management government customers.
However, we can mitigate the risks by ensuring we have the right business propositions, Improved on-boarding.
supported by the right people and the right technology.
Financial risks Management mechanisms Risk number: 10 Poor operational cash flows and insufficient access to Improved CRM capabilities with active relationship management sources of capital leading to the inability to maintain a strong liquidity position Strategic account management teams Impact on our objectives Net Promoter Score Professional services & Connected Workspace solutions 1 Putting customers at the heart of our business Innovations and best practice 4 Developing our technology-led professional services Future plans Mities balance sheet strength has deteriorated in FY17 Developing process for exiting contracts successfully and this could limit our ability to grow either organically or Launch of Beyond FM putting customers at the through acquisition.
heart of the business, with a focus on improving Given that staff costs remain our most significant customer satisfaction.
expenditure, the availability of funding from a variety of Risk number: 9 sources, strong cash flow and working capital management Inability to attract or retain the right talent in the right place remain central to our ability to pay our people on time.
We impacting performance capability also require sufficient working capital to pay suppliers and subcontractors and to invest in our transformational Impact on our objectives programme.
Funding is therefore critical to the ongoing success and continuity of our business.
Failure to maintain 1 Putting customers at the heart of our business adequate sources of finance ranging from banking facilities and private placements to supply chain finance and invoice 3 Developing and retaining our talent discounting could result in insufficient funding to maintain a Failure to retain our existing talent and attract new talent will strong liquidity position.
result in the business being uncompetitive in the market and Management mechanisms impact customer satisfaction and financial performance.
We must continue to retain our most skilled people at all levels Committed long-term funding facilities of the organisation, as well as attracting new people to join Strong debt and equity relationships us, especially during periods of change.
We recognise the need to have access to a diverse range of views and Supply chain finance and invoice discounting experience and to attract specific technical expertise Daily monitoring of bank balances where the market is highly competitive.
Regular forecasting of cash flow Failure to identify and recruit the right talent, and motivate Regular financial performance and balance sheet reviews our people could lead to sub-optimal decision making and Monthly monitoring of working capital poor business performance.
Disputes and escalation process Failure to have the right culture in the business with weak controls, a lack of checks and balances and management Future plans processes could lead to contract management and Implement appropriate incentive schemes for accounting errors.
management to ensure a focus on cash collection Ensure appropriate payment terms with customers and Management mechanisms supply chain Succession planning and talent management Change of policy to ensure provisions are made for Competitive remuneration, terms and conditions doubtful debts.
Talent management and personal development plans related to annual appraisals Employee communications Business management system Mentoring programme www.
c coom m 35 35 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Management mechanisms Risk number: 11 Failure of material counterparty customer, banker, supplier, Commercial review of contracts insurer etc.
to fulfil its obligations leading to significant Protective contractual clauses contractual or financial exposure Executive review of material tenders Impact on our objectives Annual increase processes 1 Putting customers at the heart of our business Delegated authority register We are reliant on several counterparties such as insurers, Customer account management programme banks, clients and suppliers to maintain our business Future plans activities.
Our ability to trade and the operational and Extending customer management programmes and financial effectiveness of our business could be materially enhanced focus on contract terms.
affected by a failure of one of these key counterparties.
The need to maintain effective ongoing relationships with our Regulatory risks material counterparties is therefore critical if the Group is to meet its strategic objectives.
Risk number: 13 Non-compliance with legal and regulatory requirements e. g. Management mechanisms employment, governance, antibribery, modern slavery etc.
Annual material counterparty risk reviews and Board Impact on our objectives approval 1 Putting customers at the heart of our business Maintain sufficient committed debt facilities to cope with adverse financial conditions 3 Developing and retaining our talent Ongoing credit monitoring of material counterparties and exposures Failure to adhere to legal and regulatory requirements could lead to fines, prosecutions, loss of our reputation and impact Active contact with external financial and our ability to attract and retain our people.
commercial markets Future plans As a major employer, we have to comply with the complex and developing legal and regulatory frameworks in areas Exercise continued vigilance in monitoring and managing such as taxation, the National Minimum Wage and National key counterparty relationships.
Living Wage, the Apprenticeship Levy and the Modern Slavery Act.
It is essential that we can demonstrate Risk number: 12 compliance to avoid the material financial and reputational Inability to pass on inflationary pressures on wages and impacts associated with non-compliance.
input costs Management mechanisms Impact on our objectives Management oversight for legal compliance at audit and 2 Transforming our cost base risk committee meetings Group departments Tax, Company Secretariat, Finance, 3 Developing and retaining our talent QHSE, Legal, HR, Pension keep fully up to date with regulations In our contracts there are two principal ways of addressing the risk of inflation.
The first is to link the price of the Specialist advice sought from external experts contract to an index such as the Consumer Price Index, Compliance systems and statements of compliance the second is to build an assumption about inflation into the pricing for later years of a contract.
The risk to Mitie is Training provided and guidance for ongoing and that the assumption we make about future inflationary new legislation levels is incorrect.
Compliance monitoring by Finance, Tax, Enterprise Risk and Payroll functions Since the decision to exit the EU the fall in value of sterling against major currencies has caused commodity price Tax reporting framework in place to meet Senior increases and a subsequent increase in the prices we have Accounting Officer requirement to pay for many of our materials, especially food.
Code of conduct We have contractual protection from increases in costs Certified business management systems BMS to ISO either through regulatory change or inflationary pressure in 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO IEC 27001 the majority of our contracts.
The ability to pass through as per statement of applicability cost increases is an important element of all contracts.
QHSE legal register Future plans Reviews to assess the impact of the existing and changing wage framework Further action plans for compliance with the Modern Slavery Act in the supply chain.
36 36 Mitie Gr Mitie Gro oup plc | up plc | A Annual nnual Repor Report t an and d Accounts Accounts 2017 2017
