STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 29 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Identified Board monitoring and mitigation include the general economic and financial environment in which their tenants operate, interest rates, availability of investment and development finance and regulations issued by governments and authorities.
The UK property market may be adversely affected by Brexit.
The market will respond as the negotiations unfold and the impact on occupation across each sector and geographical location becomes clear.
l The Board receives and considers regular income The Company is unable to maintain its forecasts.
progressive policy on dividends l Income forecast sensitivity to changes in FX rates is Lower earnings in the underlying portfolio may put also monitored.
pressure on the Companys ability to maintain a progressive dividend could result from a number of factors: l The Company has revenue reserves which can be drawn upon when required.
l lower earnings and distributions in investee companies l prolonged vacancies in the direct property portfolio l strengthening sterling reducing the value of overseas dividend receipts in sterling terms l adverse changes in the tax treatment of dividends or other income received by the company l changes in the timing of dividend receipts from investee companies.
The Company has seen a material increase in the level of earnings in the current year and a significant factor in this has been the weakening of sterling following the Brexit decision.
This may reverse in the near or medium term as the negotiations progress, leading to a fall in earnings.
l Third party service providers produce periodic reports Accounting and operational risks to the Board on their control environments and Disruption or failure of systems and processes business continuation provisions on a regular basis.
underpinning the services provided by third parties and l the risk that these suppliers provide a sub-standard The Management Engagement Committee considers the performance of each of the service providers on service.
a regular basis and considers their ongoing appointment.
l The Custodian and Depository are responsible for the safeguarding of assets.
In the event of a loss of assets the Depository must return assets of an identical type or corresponding amount unless able to demonstrate that the loss was the result of an event beyond their reasonable control.
TR Property Investment Trust 29 TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 30 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Identified Board monitoring and mitigation l Details of these risks together with the policies for Financial risks managing these risks are found in the Notes to the The Companys investment activities expose it to a variety Financial Statements on pages 74 to 81. of financial risks which include counterparty credit risk, liquidity risk and the valuation of financial instruments.
l The Investment Manager monitors the investment Loss of Investment Trust Status portfolio, income and proposed dividend levels to The Company has been accepted by HM Revenue & ensure that the provisions of CTA 2010 are not Customs as an investment trust, subject to continuing to breached.
The results are reported to the Board meet the relevant eligibility conditions.
As such the at each meeting.
Company is exempt from capital gains tax on the profits realised from the sale of investments.
l The income forecasts are reviewed by the Companys tax advisor through the year who also reports to the Any breach of the relevant eligibility conditions could lead Board on the year-end tax position and on CTA 2010 to the Company losing investment trust status and being compliance.
subject to corporation tax on capital gains realised within the Companys portfolio.
l The Board receives regular regulatory updates from Legal, regulatory and reporting risks the Manager, Company Secretary, legal advisors and Failure to comply with the London Stock Exchange Listing Auditors.
The Board considers these reports and Rules and Transparency and Disclosure rules: failure to recommendations and takes action accordingly.
meet the requirements under the Alternative Investment Funds Directive, the provisions of the Companies Act l The Board receives an annual report and update from 2006 and other UK, European and overseas legislation the Depository.
Failure to meet the required l Internal checklists and review procedures are in place accounting standards or make appropriate disclosures in at service providers.
the Interim and Annual Reports.
l External auditors review Interim & Annual Reports and audit year end Financial Statements.
l The Board receives regular reports from the Manager Inappropriate use of gearing on the levels of gearing in the portfolio.
These are Gearing, either through the use of bank debt or through considered against the gearing limits set in the the use of derivatives may be utilised from time to time.
Investment Guidelines and also in the context of Whilst the use of gearing is intended to enhance the NAV current market conditions and sentiment.
total return, it will have the opposite effect when the return of the Companys investment portfolio is negative.
l The Chairman conducts regular meetings with the Personnel changes at Investment Manager Fund Management team.
Loss of portfolio manager or other key staff.
l The fee basis protects the core infrastructure and depth and quality of resources.
The fee structure incentivises good performance and is fundamental in the ability to retain key staff.
TR Property Investment Trust 30 STRATEGIC REPORT
