Strategic Report Managing our Risks Managing our risks effectively Viability statement The Group has risk management and internal control processes The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that to identify, assess and manage the risks likely to affect the the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they achievement of its corporate objectives and business performance.
fall due, for the next three years to 31 March 2020.
The risk management process The assessment period of three years has been chosen in line with the Groups strategic plan, which has a three-year horizon The risk management process is co-ordinated by the Groups risk team.
The principal elements of the process are: and is updated annually.
The Group has few contracts with either customers or suppliers extending beyond three years and, in the Identification: risks are identified through a variety of sources main, contracts are within one year.
The business operates with a within the Group, including senior, regional and country minimal forward order book, generally taking orders and shipping management teams.
The focus of the risk identification is on them on the same day.
Pensions those risks which, if they occurred, would have a material quantitative or reputation impact on the Group.
2017 2016 The assessment considered the Group operating profit, revenue, Assessment: management identifies the controls for each risk cash flows, net debt and key operating measures over the threeRepublic Republic m UK Germany of Ireland Other Total UK Germany of Ireland Other Total and assesses using consistent measures the impact and year period.
These metrics were subject to material but plausible likelihood of the risk occurring taking into account the effects of downside stress analysis, taking account of the principal risks set Fair value of plan the existing controls the net risk.
This assessment is compared assets 500.0 6.5 506.5 438.0 5.5 443.5 out on pages 26 and 27, with a focus on the possible effects on with the Groups risk appetite to determine whether further the Group as the UK government negotiates the UKs exit from the Funded defined mitigating actions are required.
This process is supplemented benefit obligations 590.9 6.9 597.8 468.4 6.1 474.5 EU, how the Group responds to market shifts such as changes in by an annual risk and controls assessment, which all operating customer demands and or competitor activity, and the potential Status of funded plans 90.9 0.4 91.3 30.4 0.6 31.0 locations and functions are required to complete.
impact of volatility in foreign currency earnings.
These risks Unfunded plans 8.8 4.5 13.3 7.5 4.8 12.3 could lead to a downturn in revenue or weakened margins or a Total net liabilities 90.9 8.8 0.4 4.5 104.6 30.4 7.5 0.6 4.8 43.3 Ownership: the Groups principal risks are owned by the Groups combination of revenue decline and weaker margins.
In assessing Executive Management Team EMT with specific mitigating the potential impact of these scenarios, we considered our current actions controls owned by individual members of the team.
As a result, the total proposed dividend robust capital position and ability to flex our cost base and working The EMT collectively reviews the risk register, the controls and for the 2017 financial year will be 12.3p per share, representing capital position and other actions to protect viability in adverse mitigating actions.
an increase of 4.7% over the 2016 full year dividend, resulting economic conditions.
in headline earnings dividend cover of 1.7.
The increase in the The Board: undertakes a robust review of the Groups Principal In considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, the dividend reflects the Boards confidence in the future prospects of Risks including those that could threaten its business model, conclusions of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk the Group and the Groups strengthened balance sheet.
The Board future performance, solvency or liquidity and assesses them management internal control systems, as described on page 47, intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy whilst remaining against the Groups risk appetite.
For a number of the principal were taken into account.
In addition to the risk mitigation plans, our committed to further improving dividend cover over time by driving risks, the Board requires management to present its analysis to business model is structured so that the Group is not reliant on one improved results and stronger cash flow.
The Company has the Board, including the gross risk, the mitigating controls and particular group of customers or geography, and has a very diverse sufficient distributable reserves to pay dividends for a number of the assessment of the net risk after controls.
This allows the customer base across our several geographies.
years and when required the Company can receive dividends from Board to determine whether the actions taken by management its subsidiaries to further increase distributable reserves.
Our current robust capital position is supported by a review of the Groups funding facilities and banking covenants headroom, Foreign exchange risk Risk appetite through the Boards Treasury Committee.
The Groups financial The Group does not hedge translation exposure on the income In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board position, in particular cash flow, is also reviewed through monthly statements of overseas subsidiaries.
Based on 2017 mix of nondefined its risk appetite across three risk categories: strategic, management accounts and regular updates from the Group pound sterling denominated revenue and adjusted profit, a one operating and regulatory compliance.
These three categories use Finance Director and CEO to the Board.
Details of the Groups cent movement in euro would impact profits by 1.0 million and both quantitative and qualitative criteria.
During the year ended sources of finance are outlined on page 118 with the earliest date a one cent movement in US dollars would impact profits by 31 March 2017, the Board reviewed again its risk appetite across the of our facilities expiring being June 2017 in respect of $85 million 0.3 million.
three categories with no significant changes being made.
of the Groups Private Placement loan notes.
In making this The Group is also exposed to foreign currency transactional risk Going concern statement regarding viability, the Directors have also made the key because most operating companies have some level of payables The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a assumption that the remaining sources of funding will continue to in currencies other than their functional currency.
Some operating reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to be available throughout the three-year period to 31 March 2020. companies also have receivables in currencies other than their continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
These enquiries Audit Committee functional currency.
We maintain three to six months hedging included a review of going concern assumptions half yearly through The Board has overall responsibility for the risk management against freely tradeable currencies to smooth the impact of the Audit Committee.
For this reason, the Directors believe that process, with the effectiveness of the process being reviewed fluctuations in currency.
The Groups largest exposures relate to it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in annually by the Audit Committee.
com Stock Code: ECM 25  Proof 2. indd 25 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two 24 05 2017 16:57:58 Managing our Risks Principal risks and uncertainties Risk direction definition The Group has identified ten principal risks, which are similar to those disclosed last year, with the only changes being the developing of The risk is likely to increase within the next 12 months some already identified risks, e. g. the risk associated with the UK exit from the EU following the UK referendum result on 23 June 2016.
The Groups principal risks are categorised under one of three headings: strategic see the Groups Strategy on page 8, compliance and The risk is likely to remain stable within the next 12 months operating risks see the Business Model on page 6.
These categories mirror those used by the Group to assess its risk appetite.
Risk description Risk direction Mitigating activities Risk description Risk direction Mitigating activities Strategic risks Operating risks Z Business continuity plans in place at operating locations.
Consequences on the organisation of Z A Group risk assessment was undertaken in advance of the UK Failure in supply chain infrastructure A D E referendum, which led to reviews across business areas that would the UK exit from the EU An unplanned event disrupting the Z Annual tests undertaken at key warehouse, sales and back office be affected by a UK exit and any subsequent changes to the UK businesss supply chain, impacting the locations.
This includes the risk to the Groups supply EU and UK worldwide trading agreements.
Possible implications No changes to the Groups ability to maintain customer chain activities across the UK and the EU Groups supply chain not fully defined and Z Across Electrocomponents these reviews include: understanding service.
including possible changes to customs dependent on national infrastructure the potential impacts on the Groups global supply chain duties and tariffs around 80% of our negotiations with infrastructure, including the transport of products between the purchases for the global RS brand are effects from 2019 Prolonged system outage Z Resilient IT systems infrastructure featuring operating UK and EU: and group purchasing arrangements both within and routed through the UK to serve our global onwards E F redundancies and off-site disaster recovery.
The loss of a core transactional system outside the EU.
Other areas that are being, and will be, considered customer base.
Other related risks include resulting in the business being unable to Z Strict control over upgrades to core transaction systems and other in the future include: employee mobility, treasury management migration of employees and potential No significant changes applications.
impact with changes to existing legislation.
to the Groups IT Z Recent migration of core transaction systems to an upgraded data Z A specific team, headed by the Group Finance Director, will infrastructure centre.
continue to monitor the possible effects on, and mitigating actions open to, the Group as the UK government negotiates the UKs exit Z Anti-virus software to protect business PCs and laptops.
Information loss cyber breach F G An attack on the businesss systems data Z Procedures to update supplier security patches to servers and could lead to potential loss of confidential clients.
Fail to respond to strategic market Z Monitoring of market developments.
Increasing frequency information and disrupt the businesss A B shifts e. g. changes in customer Z Software scanning of incoming emails for known viruses.
Z Ongoing strategic and market reviews by the Board and EMT.
and sophistication transactions with customers including the demands and or competitor activity of cyberattacks on Z Firewalls to protect against malicious attempts to penetrate the Z Annual strategic planning process including the assessment of transactional website and transactions No significant highbusinesses business IT environment.
Unforeseen changes in customer and external market changes.
service level competitor with suppliers.
market assumptions that the Group Z IT control reviews to consider the security implications of IT Z Ongoing review of the competitive environment.
changes anticipated performance plans are based upon.
Z Security reviews with selected third-party vendors.
Performance Improvement Plan PIP Z Prioritised set of proposals and projects, including sales growth Z Computer emergency readiness team CERT to track software B C does not deliver anticipated revenue initiatives and supporting activities across shared business vulnerabilities.
services and our supply chain infrastructure, focussed on getting growth and cost savings the basics right for our customers.
Current plans and This risk could lead to lower than forecast UK Defined Benefit pension scheme Z Quarterly reviews of the pension scheme funding position.
actions delivering sales Z Governance structure with accountabilities designed to support G H financial performance both in terms of cash requirements are in excess of Z Regular interaction with the pension scheme trustees.
and reduced costs delivery on time and budget, within our resources and capabilities.
revenue growth and cost savings with cash available Z Joint trustee company working group to review investment strategy.
changes required to Group plans.
No significant changes The company is required to contribute Z Consultation with scheme members on future individual funding to related financial increased cash sums to the UK Defined options for defined benefit scheme.
and other assumptions Compliance risks Benefit pension scheme.
anticipated Z Employment of internal specialist expertise, supported, where Failure to comply with international People resources unable to support Z Development of existing employee competencies, and the C D needed, by suitably qualified experienced external partners.
and local legal regulatory H I introduction of external expertise where appropriate.
the existing and future growth of the requirements Z Ongoing reviews of relevant national and international compliance business Z Annual employee appraisal processes to align personal objectives No significant changes Failure to manage these collective risks requirements.
to new or existing No significant changes with the Groups PIP.
adequately could lead to: The business is not able to attract and Z Training and awareness programmes in place focussing on to the supply and legislation retain the necessary high-performing anti-bribery, competition and data protection legislation.
retention of quality death or serious injury of an employees to ensure that the business employees Z Global whilstleblowing hotline managed by an independent third employee or third party, and or achieves its targeted performance.
party providing employees with a process to raise non-compliance penalties for non-compliance issues.
Macroeconomic environment Z Strong cash generative business.
in health and safety or other Z Operational Audit reviews of capabilities to ensure compliance with I J deteriorates compliance areas Z Strong balance sheet.
The Groups sales and hence profits are Z Significant headroom maintained on banking covenants and Z Global Health and Safety policy, Target Zero accidents initiative Economic indicators adversely affected by any decline in the facilities.
with regular reviews undertaken by the EMT and Board.
currently showing no global macroeconomic environment with Z Relevant cash flow foreign exchange hedging for business significant change in Z Local health and safety forums in place with the Head of Global other associated effects such as foreign the global outlook trading purposes.
Health and Safety and Environment.
Z Tight cost management and control of stock.
Z Real-time monitoring of customer orders to ensure compliance with international trade control regulations.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 26  Proof 2. indd 26 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two 24 05 2017 16:58:02 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk direction definition The Group has identified ten principal risks, which are similar to those disclosed last year, with the only changes being the developing of The risk is likely to reduce within the next 12 months The risk is likely to increase within the next 12 months some already identified risks, e. g. the risk associated with the UK exit from the EU following the UK referendum result on 23 June 2016.
