18 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Internal control and risk management The National Grid Gas Board is committed to protecting and independent assessments of the effectiveness of our risk enhancing our reputation and assets, while safeguarding the management and internal control systems the third line of interests of our stakeholders.
It has overall responsibility for the defence.
Companys system of risk management and internal control.
Regional senior management regularly reviews and debates the outputs of the bottom-up risk management process.
This helps Managing our risks ensure the business is aligned to the Companys strategic objectives and that the prioritisation of the principal risks is National Grid Gas is exposed to a variety of uncertainties that discussed regularly.
The most significant risks for business are could have a material adverse effect on the Companys highlighted in risk profiles and reported to the CEO of National financial condition, our operational results and our reputation.
The National Grid Gas Board oversees the Companys risk We develop our main strategic uncertainties or principal risks management and internal control systems.
As part of this role, for the Company through input from National Grid plcs Board the Board sets and monitors the amount of risk the Company is and the UK Executive Committee and they are determined by prepared to seek or accept in pursuing our strategic objectives the National Grid Gas plc Board.
Our risk profile is reported and our risk appetite.
The Board assesses the Companys debated with the UK Executive Committee and National Grid principal risks and monitors the risk management process Gas Board every six months.
Workshops are held with business through risk review and challenge sessions twice a year.
leadership teams so we can make sure the principal risks remain closely aligned to our strategic aims and that no Risk management process significant risks or combination of risks are overlooked.
Overall risk strategy, policy and process are set at the Group The National Grid Gas Board and leadership teams also level by National Grid plc with implementation owned by discuss the results of testing our principal risks.
The aim of this National Grid Gas.
Our enterprise risk management process testing is to establish the impact of the principal risks on the provides a framework through which we can consistently Companys ability to continue operating and meet its liabilities identify, assess and prioritise, manage, monitor and report risks.
We test the impact of these risks The process is designed to support the delivery of our purpose, on a reasonable worst case basis, alone and in clusters, over a vision, strategy and values, as described on page 10. five-year assessment period.
This work informs the viability statement see page 23.
Risk management activities occur through all levels of National Grid plc, including National Grid Gas.
Through a top down, The outcomes from each level of the risk review process are fed back to the relevant teams and incorporated as appropriate into bottom up approach, all business functions identify the main risks to our business model and to achieving their business the next cycle of our ongoing risk process.
They assess each risk by considering the financial The National Grid Gas Audit Committee reviews and reports to and reputational impacts, and how likely the risk is to the Board on the adequacy and effectiveness of the procedures materialise.
They identify and implement actions to manage and for the identification, assessment and reporting of business monitor those risks and assess the adequacy of our existing risks, as well as wider internal control, risk management and risk controls.
The identified risks and actions are collated in risk ethics and compliance matters.
As part of its review, the Audit registers and reported at functional and regional levels of both Committee also considers the annual corporate audit plan and the Company and the National Grid Group.
any findings raised by the corporate audit function.
An important feature of our risk management process is our three lines of defence model.
Each business function owns and Our principal risks is responsible for managing its own particular risks the first line Accepting that it is not possible to identify, anticipate or of defence.
A central risk management team the second line eliminate every risk that may arise and that risk is an inherent of defence acts as an advisory function on implementing the part of doing business, our risk management process aims to risk process and also provides independent challenge of the provide reasonable assurance that we understand, monitor and principal risk assessments and actions taken to mitigate and manage the main uncertainties that we face in delivering our manage those risks.
This team partners with the business objectives.
This includes consideration of inherent risks, which functions through nominated risk liaison staff members and exist because of the nature of day-to-day operations in our collaborates with assurance teams and specialists, such as the industry, and financial risks, which exist because of our safety and compliance management teams to evaluate gaps in financing activities.
Our principal risks and a summary of controls, identify performance trends and provide management and mitigation actions are provided in the table on recommendations for improvements.
National Grid plc's internal the following page.
audit function then audits selected controls to provide National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 19 Our corporate risk profile contains the principal risks that the that boards must consider the nature and extent of risks and National Grid Gas Board considers to be the main uncertainties uncertainties arising from the result of the referendum and the currently facing the Group as we endeavour to achieve our impact on the future performance and position of the business.
Following the referendum vote for the UK Consequently, risk owners have considered Brexit in their to leave the EU and the consequential uncertainties in the assessments of the principal risks.
These assessments political and economic environment, the Financial Reporting continue as we gain more clarity on the likely impact of Brexit Council FRC has highlighted certain specific matters for on our business.
Our principal risks are shown in the table Boards to consider.
In relation to principal risks, the FRC states below.
Risk area Risk description Example of mitigations Growth Failure to identify and execute the right opportunities to Processes and resources are in place to review, deliver our growth strategy.
undertake due diligence and progress new investment opportunities, dispose of existing businesses and Failure to grow our core business and have viable identify and execute on opportunities that provide options for new business over the longer term would organic growth.
These processes, along with twiceadversely affect the Companys credibility and yearly Board strategy offsite discussions, are reviewed jeopardise the achievement of intended financial returns.
regularly to ensure they remain supportive of our shortand long-term strategy.
Our ability to achieve our ambition for growth is subject to a wide range of external uncertainties, including the We regularly monitor and analyse market conditions, availability of potential investment targets and attractive competitors and their potential strategies, the financing and the impact of competition for onshore advancement and proliferation of new energy transmission: and internal uncertainties, such as the technologies, and the performance of our portfolio.
performance of our operating businesses and our business planning model assumptions.
While good progress has been made this past year, we must remain focused on increasing development opportunities in our core business and emerging opportunities.
Mitigating actions focus on building our business development pipeline and our capability to pursue non-organic growth options.
Energy policy Failure to secure satisfactory regulatory outcomes and We strive to maintain a good understanding of the to influence future energy policy.
regulatory agenda and emerging issues, so that robust, Policy decisions by regulators, governments and others public interest aligned responses can be selected and directly affect our business.
We must engage widely in developed in good time.
Our reputation as a competent the energy policy debate, making sure our position and operator of important national infrastructure is critical to perspective help to shape future policy direction.
As part of our new business strategy, we have renewed our stakeholder engagement strategy to improve focus on business objectives.
The new strategy incorporates senior executive ownership of each priority, and the development of key positions and engagement plans by cross-functional teams.
20 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Risk area Risk description Example of mitigations Emerging Failure to effectively respond to the threats and We created a technology team within our Strategy technology opportunities presented by emerging technologies, function to develop relationships with emerging and particularly adapting our networks to meet the challenge technology-centric organisations, to monitor disruptive of increasing distributed energy sources.
technology and business model trends and to act as a Technology developments in areas such as solar bridge for emerging technology into the core regulated energy, energy storage and distributed generation have businesses and business development teams.
developed at a faster pace than many anticipated.
We face the challenge of adapting our networks to meet new demands as well as ensuring we act on the opportunities that will benefit our customers and stakeholders.
Safety Catastrophic asset failure resulting in a significant safety We continue to commit significant resources and event.
financial investment to maintain the integrity of our assets and we strive to continuously improve our key Safety is a fundamental priority.
Some of the assets process safety controls.
Our Company-wide process owned and operated by National Grid Gas are inherently safety management system is in place to ensure a hazardous and process safety incidents, while extremely robust and consistent framework of risk management unlikely, can occur.
Our objective is to be an industry exists across our higher hazard asset portfolio.
leader in managing the process safety risks from our assets to protect our employees, contractors and the We have a mature insurance strategy that uses a mix of communities in which we operate.
We operate in self-insurance, captives and direct re insurance compliance with regional legislation and regulation.
This provides some financial protection in addition, we identify and adopt good practices for safety respect of property damage, business interruption and management.
Periodically, independent surveys of key assets are undertaken, which provide risk engineering knowledge and best practices to the Company with the aim of further reducing our exposure to hazard risks.
Data Failure to operate with a sufficiently mature business We have developed data management principles and management data management capability.
minimum standards with supporting guidelines.
These documents provide clarity around what is expected, with The need for accurate, timely, and meaningful data lies a strong focus on what we need in place to keep us throughout the organisation and is critical to our core safe, secure and legally compliant.
processes and our ability to grow the business.
We must rely upon the performance of our systems and data to These standards have been launched in the business demonstrate the value of our business to our and will form part of the Business Management System stakeholders, meet our obligations under our regulatory that will be developed in the coming year.
In support of agreements and comply with agreements with providers this, we are also developing a capability framework, to of finance.
make sure our people have the appropriate skills and expertise in data management.
The businesses will continue to develop their own implementation plans against these new standards and capabilities.
The aim of these plans will be to ensure we can demonstrate we are compliant with the minimum standards and have the core capabilities in place for all of our business critical data.
To support these efforts, we are establishing a regional centre of excellence for data management.
Their role will be to provide expertise to the businesses and to help provide assurance around the effectiveness of the data management standards.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 21 Risk area Risk description Example of mitigations Cyber breach We experience a major cyber security breach of We use industry best practices as part of our cyber business and Critical National Infrastructure CNI security policies, processes and technologies.
Due to the nature of our business we cyber security programme is a global programme of recognise that our CNI systems may be a potential work which started in 2010 and continues to be target for cyber threats.
We must protect our business modified and updated to this day.
This programme is assets and infrastructure and be prepared for any intended to reduce the risk that a cyber-threat could malicious attack.
adversely affect the Companys business resilience.
We continually invest in cyber strategies that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security landscape.
This includes collaborative working with BEIS and the Centre for Protection of National Infrastructure on key cyber risks and development of an enhanced CNI security strategy.
We also collaborate with a number of regulatory agencies focused on protection of CNI.
Leadership Failure to build skills and leadership capacity including Strategic workforce planning allows us to effectively capacity effective succession planning required to deliver our inform our strategic resourcing plans.
Our entry level vision and strategy.
talent development schemes graduate training and apprenticeships are a potential source of competitive It is through the high-quality work of our employees that advantage in the market place.
We are involved in a we will achieve our vision, respond to the changing number of initiatives to help secure the future needs of our stakeholders and create a competitive engineering talent required.
Improvements to our talent advantage.
Obtaining and fostering an engaged and processes mean we continue to improve in identifying talented team that has the knowledge, training, skills talent and in accelerating development of future leaders and experience to deliver on our strategic objectives is e. g. our Accelerated Development Programme.
We must attract, integrate and retain the talent we need at all levels of the business.
The rigour of our succession planning and development planning process has been improved, particularly at senior levels and is now being applied deeper into the organisation.
In all strategies and programmes we continue to promote inclusion and diversity.
To help understand our workforce, we formally solicit employee opinions via a Company-wide employee survey that is conducted annually.
22 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Our internal control process We have a number of processes to support our internal control Overall compliance strategy, policy and frameworks are set at environment.
These processes are managed by dedicated the National Grid plc Group-level with implementation owned by specialist teams, including risk management, ethics and National Grid Gas.
The business is responsible for identifying compliance management, corporate audit and internal controls, compliance issues, continuous monitoring, and developing and safety, environment and health.
Oversight of these actions to improve compliance performance.
We monitor and activities is provided through regular review and reporting to the address compliance issues through several means including Board and appropriate Board committees as outlined in the reviews at leadership meetings and a biannual review by the Corporate Governance section on pages 29 to 36.
Monitoring internal control is conducted through established The Certificate of Assurance CoA from the CEO to the Board boards and committees at different levels of the National Grid provides overall assurance around the effectiveness of our risk plc organisation.
Deficiencies are reported and corrected at the management and internal controls systems.
The CoA process appropriate entity-level.
The most significant risk and internal operates via a cascade system and takes place twice-yearly in controls issues are monitored at the Senior Executive and support of the financial end of year review and half-year review.
National Grid plc Board level.
The Audit Committee is The periodic reports on managements opinion on the responsible for keeping under review and reporting to the Board effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting are on effectiveness of reporting, internal control policies, Bribery received by the National Grid Gas Audit Committee and Board Act legislation, appropriateness of financial disclosures and in advance of the halfand full-year results.
procedures for risk and compliance management, business conduct and internal audit.
The National Grid Gas Board evaluated the effectiveness of managements processes for monitoring and reviewing internal Reviewing the effectiveness of our internal control and risk management.
It noted that no material failings control or weaknesses had been identified by the review and confirmed Each year the National Grid Gas Board reviews the that it was satisfied the systems and processes were effectiveness of our internal control systems and risk functioning effectively.
management processes covering all material systems, including Our internal control and risk management processes comply financial, operational and compliance controls, to make sure with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The latest review covered the financial year to 31 March 2017 Internal control over financial reporting and the period to the approval of this Annual Report and We have specific internal mechanisms that govern the financial Accounts.
In this review, the National Grid Gas Board reporting process and the preparation of the Annual Report and considered the effectiveness of areas such as the control Accounts.
Our financial controls guidance sets out the environment, risk management and internal control activities, fundamentals of internal control over financial reporting, which including those described below.
are applied across the Company.
Fostering a culture of integrity is an important element of our Our financial processes include a range of system, risk management and internal controls system.
National Grid transactional and management oversight controls.
In addition, Gass values do the right thing and find a better way - our businesses prepare detailed monthly management reports provide a framework for reporting business conduct issues, that include analysis of their results, along with comparisons to educating employees and promoting a culture of integrity at all relevant budgets, forecasts and prior year results.
These are levels of the business.
We have policies and procedures in presented to, and reviewed by, senior management within our place to communicate behaviour expected from employees and Finance function.
third parties, and to prevent and investigate fraud and bribery These reviews are supplemented by quarterly performance and other business conduct issues.
We monitor and address reviews, attended by the CEO and CFO.
The reviews consider business conduct issues through several means, including a historical results and expected future performance and involve biannual review by the Audit Committee.
senior management from both operational and financial areas of the business.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 23 Viability statement The Boards consideration of the longer-term viability of the also models various KPIs used by lenders in assessing a Company is an extension of our group wide business planning companys credit worthiness.
These models indicate that we process, which includes financial forecasting, a robust risk should continue to have access to capital markets at management assessment, regular budget reviews and scenario commercially acceptable interest rates throughout the five year planning.
Our business strategy aims to make sure that our period.
operations and finances are sustainable.
No principal risk or cluster of principal risks was found to impact National Grid Gas plc NGG is a wholly owned subsidiary of upon the viability of the Company.
Preventative and mitigating National Grid Plc which performed a group wide business plan controls in place to minimise the likelihood of occurrence and or that was reviewed and approved by the National Grid plc Board financial and reputation impact are embedded within our robust and which included sufficient detail of the NGG operating assurance system.
In assessing the impact of the principal risks on the Company, the Board has considered the fact that we operate in stable Given our business model, current regulatory clarity, other markets and the robust financial position of the Company, factors impacting our operating environment, and the including the ability to sell assets, raise capital and suspend or robustness of our business planning process, the Board have reduce the payment of dividends.
It has also considered concluded that five years is the most appropriate timeframe Ofgems legal duty to have regard to the need to fund licenced over which to assess the long-term viability of the Company.
National Grid Gas plc activities.
This is in line with our five year business plan and one year budget which are reviewed and approved by the National Grid Each Director was satisfied that they had sufficient information plc Board.
to judge the viability of the Company.
Based on the assessment described above and on page 38, the Directors have a The business plan considers the significant solvency and reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to liquidity risks involved in delivering our business model in light continue operating and meet its liabilities over the period to of our strategic priorities.
The business plan models upside and June 2022. downside scenarios derived from the risks and opportunities identified, and determines the impact these would have on our The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors results and financial position over the five year period.
We have on 30 June 2017 and signed on its behalf by: set out the details of the principal risks facing our Company on pages 18 to 21, described in relation to our ability to deliver our strategic objectives.
We identify our principal risks through a roust assessment that includes a continuous cycle of bottom up reporting and review, and top down feedback.
Alan Foster Director Our business model calls for continued capital investment to maintain and expand our network infrastructure.
To deliver this, our business plan highlights that we may need to access capital markets to raise additional funds from time to time.
We have a long and successful history in this regard.
