34 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.
At each INTERNAL CONTROL AND operating platform, the effectiveness of the system of ASSURANCE internal financial control is independently evaluated through the internal and external audit programmes.
In The Group upholds an effective control environment, addition to these audits, the effectiveness of operational including a comprehensive system of internal controls procedures is examined internally through various peer which is designed to ensure that risks are mitigated review and control self-assessment processes.
The and that the Groups objectives are attained.
The results of these assurance processes are monitored by system includes monitoring mechanisms and the Groups risk management function and reported to ensures that appropriate actions are taken to correct each operating platforms management teams.
deficiencies when they are identified.
During the year, Each of the operating platforms has, in addition to the each operating platform executed its assurance plans.
above-mentioned assurance processes, implemented These plans comprise various assurance processes, further independent assurance processes with including internal and external audit processes in place professional organisations which are summarised in to evaluate the effectiveness of key controls designed the table below.
to mitigate the significant risks identified in each operating platform.
The company secretaries at Group and operating platform level and the internal legal advisors are The Group makes use of an outsourced internal audit responsible for providing guidance in respect of function which is closely aligned with the Group risk compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
management function and reports independently to BUSINESS PROCESSES ASSURANCE OUTPUT ASSURED PROVIDER External calculation of carbon footprint based on Carbon footprint Carbon Calculated carbon emissions data of Mediclinic Southern Africa calculation ISO 14001:2004 certification of 41 of Mediclinic Environmental British Standard Institute, Southern Africas 52 hospitals management system as accredited by UKAS United Kingdom Accreditation Service COHSASA accreditation of 31 of Mediclinic Southern Quality standards of Council for Health Service Africas participating hospitals, with the remaining healthcare facilities Accreditation of Southern eight hospitals undergoing the renewal process Africa COHSASA, which is accredited by the International Society for Quality in Health Care ISQua ISO 9001:2008 certification of all 16 Hirslanden Process and Swiss Association for hospitals and Hirslanden corporate office quality management Quality and Management Systems SQS Self-assessment against European Foundation for Assessment against EFQM Excellence Model Quality Management EFQM Excellence Model by all 16 the EFQM Excellence Hirslanden hospitals and Hirslanden Corporate Office Model, a framework for organisational management systems aimed at promoting sustainable excellence within organisations ISO 14001:2015 certification of Hirslanden Klinik Aarau Environmental Swiss Association for and Hirslanden Clinique La Colline management system Quality and Management Systems SQS JCI re-accreditation of Mediclinic Middle East hospitals Quality and safety of Joint Commission and clinics in Dubai as well as accreditation of patient care International Mediclinic Corniche and Mediclinic Al Hili Accreditation JCIA Reaccreditation of Al Noor Hospital Al Ain branch JCI reaccreditation of Mediclinic Al Noor Hospital in 2017, with accreditation of all Mediclinic Middle East facilities by 2019 ISO 15189:2009 certification of the laboratories of Pathology laboratories International Organization Mediclinic Middle East hospitals in Dubai and all clinics of Mediclinic Middle East for Standardization ISO in Dubai with in-house laboratories hospitals and clinics in Dubai College of American Pathologists CAP rePathology laboratory of College of American accreditation of the pathology laboratory of Mediclinic City Hospital Pathologists Mediclinic City Hospital The flags indicate the operating platform where the assurance process is in place.
Mediclinic Southern Africa Hirslanden Mediclinic Middle East RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 35 VIABILITY STATEMENT existing levels of debt and the forecast headroom in The assessment of viability is an extension of the respect of debt covenants, the assumption is that these risk management, budget and forecast process borrowings would be refinanced broadly in line with which translates into each of the Groups operating the terms and conditions of the existing facilities.
The business plans reflect Group successfully refinanced CHF1.9bn and ZAR4.2bn the current Group strategies and their associated risks in 2012: CHF1.7bn in 2015: and in 2016 refinanced the and the Directors best estimations of their prospects.
UK bridge facility of 266m with facilities amounting Fundamental to the assessment of the Groups to ZAR2.7bn in South Africa and US$155m in the prospects, is the long-term business model which has Middle East.
resulted in quality service delivery and revenue growth under manageable risk tolerance.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the Groups robust risk management process and system of internal The budget and forecast process includes a detailed control via a mandate from the Board see pages 118 to bottom-up approach per platform for the budget 119.
The principal risks as detailed on pages 31 to 33 AR year performed by each clinic and hospital and were identified by these systems and, for the purposes the extension of the key assumptions to the forecast of the viability assessment, severe but plausible period.
The budgets are subject to review and, scenarios reflecting the risks that could impair the if necessary, re-budgeting.
The five-year plans, including viability of the Group were identified for each of the the strategic Group goals and objectives, are reviewed operating platforms to form the basis for stress testing.
and approved by the platform Executive Committees, Mediclinic International Executive Committee and On a platform level the potential impact of each Mediclinic International Board.
scenario and certain scenarios in combination were The Board has adopted a five-year time frame for the modelled and assessed on EBITDA or profit after tax assessment, in line with the Groups business planning as appropriate, net debt and debt covenants over the period which reflects the impact of investments made five-year forecast period.
The five-year period extends The principal risks and related key assumptions beyond the maturities of a material portion of the underlying each of the operating platforms business Groups borrowings in each platform.
Under current plans that were flexed in the stress testing are set operating and market circumstances, as well as the out in the table below.
KEY ASSUMPTION PRINCIPAL RISK STRESS TESTED PLATFORM STRESS TESTED Economic and business Reductions in tariffs and fees Southern Africa: Switzerland: UAE environment: Regulatory risk Competition: Economic Reduction in volumes Southern Africa: UAE and business environment: Regulatory risk Regulatory risk Change in insurance patient mix UAE Availability and cost of capital: A downturn in the macroSouthern Africa Economic and business economic and business environment environment Availability, recruitment and The shortage and availability Southern Africa retention of skilled resources and of qualified and experienced medical practitioners healthcare staff Regulatory risk Adverse regulatory and tax Switzerland: UAE changes Economic and business Outmigration of care Switzerland environment Information systems security The investment in group Switzerland and availability risk initiatives not being successfully implemented Information systems security Delays in expansion projects UAE and availability risk 36 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES This analysis showed that the business, in its EFFECTIVENESS OF RISK geographically diverse portfolio, would be able to MANAGEMENT PROCESS AND withstand any individual and certain combinations of the severe but plausible scenarios by taking SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL management action, ceteris paribus, with the key mitigating step being a reduction in discretionary The Board, via the Audit and Risk Committee, regularly investment.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable receives reports on and considers the activities of the expectation that the Group will be able to continue internal and external auditors of Mediclinic Southern in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due Africa, Hirslanden and Mediclinic Middle East, and the over the fi five-year period of their detailed assessment, Groups risk management function.
The Board, via the ending in 31 March 2022.
In making their assessment, Audit and Risk Committee, is satisfi ed that there is an the Directors have assumed that there will be no eff ective risk management process in place and that material change in the business environment as such there is an adequate and eff ective system of internal assumptions are subject to a level of uncertainty and control in place to appropriately mitigate the signifi cant judgment for which outcomes cannot be projected risks faced by the Group.
Having considered the principal risks and the viability assessment, the Board also considers it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the fi financial statements.
CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 37 CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW INTRODUCTION Mediclinic provides a wide range of clinical services throughout its operating platforms.
The services include acute care inpatient services, and highly specialised services, day case surgery, hospital-based emergency centres, pre-hospital emergency services and outpatient consultation services.
Support services include laboratory, radiology and nuclear medicine.
Mediclinic strives to ensure that the clinical services provided throughout the Group are effi cient, eff ective, appropriate, evidence-based and in line with modern technological advances.
To this end we have developed a strong focus on measuring and improving clinical performance throughout our organisation.
A comprehensive set of clinical performance indicators are collected, measured, analysed and reported on monthly.
These clinical performance reports outline and track the performance of healthcare facilities, inform operational decisions, identify opportunities for clinical quality improvement initiatives and inform strategic direction.
During the year under review the clinical performance of the business was satisfactory across all operating platforms.
In addition, considerable progress had been made in the further development of underlying structures and processes to enable improvements in clinical performance.
Much of the progress can be attributed to a strong collaborative eff ort between the clinical services teams of the platforms.
All indicators included in this Clinical Services Overview are reported per calendar year to ensure completeness and consistency, as a signifi cant time lag needs to be provided for in the collection of clinical data.
This report gives a brief overview of the Groups clinical performance for the year under review.
For a more Dr Ronnie van der Merwe in-depth description we recommend that the detailed CSR Chief Clinical O cer Clinical Services Report, available on the Companys website at www.
38 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW Antimicrobial stewardship MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA Antimicrobial stewardship is an important activity in the management of HAI and antimicrobial resistance.
CLINICAL PERFORMANCE Good progress has been made and all indicators showed a downward trend.
PATIENT SAFETY Mediclinic Southern Africa has a reasonably high case mix and a high case load of infectious diseases and CLINICAL EFFECTIVENESS trauma.
The continuous improvement of patient safety remains a priority for Mediclinic Southern Africa and Clinical performance measurement of critical care adverse events, as illustrated in Figure 1, are reported units CCUs has been refined by implementing and tracked as a barometer of safe patient care.
the Simplified Acute Physiology Score SAPS 3 physiological mortality prediction model instead of A significant increase of 37.2% in the medication error APACHEIV previously used.
SAPS3 is statistically rate was reported in 2016, which is mainly attributed better suited to the Mediclinic population and gives a to an initiative undertaken by pharmacy to improve more accurate prediction of mortality.
During 2016, the the identification and reporting of medication errors.
average mortality rate for patients admitted to CCUs An initiative is underway by pharmacy services to was 16.74% compared to the expected mortality rate of identify, report and reduce the number of medication 17.18%.
The resultant SAPS3 mortality index was 0.974. dispensing errors.
The 30-day all-cause re-admission rate increased The fall rate decreased by 6.1% in 2016, while the by 1.9% in 2016.
Re-admissions within seven days of in-hospital pressure ulcer rate increased by 3.8%.
The discharge accounts for half of these re-admissions and fall rate and in-hospital pressure ulcer rate are regarded remains a focus area for improvement.
The extended as nursing sensitive indicators and correlate with the stay rate is now expressed as an index, and although number and skills of available nursing staff.
Nursing this has remained stable over the last 12 months 1.13 in skills levels in Southern Africa have been a challenge 2015 and 2016, it has shown a decreasing trend over for a few years, and the Mediclinic Southern Africa the second half of 2016. nursing department is strongly focused on improving the situation.
INFECTION PREVENTION AND CONTROL  infections  infections HAI remain one of the highest risks to hospitalised patients.
The HAI rate reduced by 15.5% during 2016 due to numerous interventions over the last few years.
Hand hygiene compliance is an important measure in the prevention of HAI and remains stable at 75.3% and a focus area for improvement.
FIGURE 2:  INFECTIONS FIGURE 1: ADVERSE EVENTS MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA 2016' 2015' 2014' Calendar year Adverse event type 2014 2015 2016 Rate per 1 000 patient days 1.02 Medication 0.86 errors 1.18 1.05 Falls 1.14 1.07 0.25 In-hospital pressure 0.26 ulcers 0.27 Rate per 1 000 patient days 2014 2.72 2015 2.19 2016 1.85 CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 39 PROGRESS AGAINST OBJECTIVES FUTURE OBJECTIVES Patients First at Mediclinic Patients First at Mediclinic Updated its patient safety strategy to incorporate Complete the implementation of specific clinical risk management.
patient safety initiatives aimed at preventing adverse events.
Developed and implemented specific training initiatives in the areas of operating theatre Implement specific training initiatives that obstetrics and infection control.
will further enable staff to drive quality improvement continuously.
Reviewed the current nursing management model.
Develop and implement action plans that will Improved the measurement of clinical performance improve hand hygiene compliance.
Develop action plans to improve medication safety.
Shared clinical information with doctors.
Refine clinical performance measures further.
Further reduced infection rates through continuous compliance and improvement initiatives.
Share more detailed clinical information with doctors.
Further reduce infection rates through the Integrated care implementation of a comprehensive infection Appointed an additional seven hospital clinical prevention and control strategy.
Implemented two clinical pathways in orthopaedic Integrated care surgery led by doctors.
Phase in further hospital clinical manager Developed a comprehensive and integrated appointments.
Implement a new clinical performance oversight and governance model in collaboration with Clinical information systems supporting doctors.
Collaborated with Mediclinic Middle East and Develop in collaboration with supporting Hirslanden to obtain a clear understanding of doctors and implement more clinical pathways detailed requirements for an electronic health led by doctors.
record EHR system along with platforms Develop a comprehensive and integrated critical readiness as part of the preparation work for the care strategy.
Implement a national stroke management strategy.
Clinical information systems Develop a clinical information readiness strategy along with an implementation roadmap.
FIGURE 2:  INFECTIONS MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA 40 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW PROGRESS AGAINST OBJECTIVES HIRSLANDEN Patients First at Mediclinic CLINICAL PERFORMANCE Reviewed the compliance of the hospitals with the patient safety policy the majority of the hospitals PATIENT SAFETY implemented every item of the policy or was busy Hirslanden has the highest case mix in the Group with the implementation of the remaining items.
reflecting the complexity of cases treated.
However, Checked the adherence to safe surgery checklist clinical outcomes remain excellent as is demonstrated during unannounced inspections compared to by low infection rates and other outcome measures.
the previous inspection, further improvement The fall rate increased by 10.5% in 2016.
The increase in was noted.
the rate is believed to be due to an increased awareness Initiated a pilot project on patient-related outcome and better reporting, however, the prevention of falls measurement patients were surveyed on quality and a reduction in the reported rate remain focus areas.
of life before and after joint replacement.
The The in-hospital pressure ulcer rate decreased by 5%.
results show a significant improvement of pain and movement after the procedure.
INFECTION PREVENTION AND CONTROL Integrated care  infections Compiled a policy on indication quality and During 2016, all device-associated and surgical site introduction of indication boards infection rates declined with significant reduction in the implementation is planned for 2017. the rates of all three reported indicators.
The reduction is partly related to definition changes, however, Successfully started the project on the introduction a sustained focus on the prevention of infections of fast track orthopaedics in one of the supports the lower rates.
Figure 3 illustrates the orthopaedic hospitals of the group.
Introduced a common structure for highly specialised medicine services.
The catheter-associated urinary tract infections CAUTI rate decreased by 63.6% while the central line-associated bloodstream infections CLABSI Clinical information systems rate decreased by 76.5%.
Over the last three years Compiled the definition of the future the  pneumonia rate VAP documentation in catheterisation laboratories decreased by 55.8%.
and emergency departments the manufacturer is busy with the implementation thereof in our CLINICAL EFFECTIVENESS electronic patient record.
Completed the re-evaluation of the radiology The SAPS II is used to measure clinical outcomes of information system and selected a new system CCUs.
The SAPS II mortality index remains well below the pilot project has started.
the Swiss benchmark of 0.33 at 0.20.
Reviewed the integration of medical source The unscheduled re-admission rate decreased by data and decided to connect this project to the 3.9%, which is in line with improvement noticed in Hirslanden transformation exercise.
FIGURE 3: DEVICE-ASSOCIATED INFECTIONS HIRSLANDEN 2016' 2015' 2014' Deviceassociated infection type 2015 2016 2014 Rate per 1 000 device days 1.2 Catheterassociated urinary 1.1 tract infections 0.4 0.2 Central line-associated 1.7 bloodstream infections 0.4 5.2 Ventilatorassociated 4.3 pneumonia 2.3
