Change in the year Our principal Increased Reduced risks and No change New uncertainties Risk Mitigation Opportunity Strategic Change in objective the year Customers Large and diversified customer base no single Enhance and maintain Shareholder value Structural changes in customer and customer represents more than 5.2% of rents our position as the Investment portfolio consumer behaviours leading to an Of our total income, 68.0% is derived from partner of choice for Customer satisfaction adverse change in demand for office occupiers who individually make less than a 1% our customers.
and retail space and the consequent contribution to rent roll KPI impact on rental growth.
Clear retail strategy focused on Everything Total shareholder return is experience Total property return Executives responsible: Development programme has delivered a Customer satisfaction Colette OShea Scott Parsons modern office portfolio well suited to occupier rates requirements Experienced asset management team Strong relationships with occupiers.
Market cyclicality Large multi-asset portfolio Acquisition or Shareholder value Market and political uncertainty or Monitor asset concentration our largest asset is development Investment portfolio change in legislation leading to a 5.5% of the total portfolio opportunities could arise KPI reduction in demand or deferral of Average investment property lot size of 120m out of the uncertainty.
Total shareholder return decisions by occupiers, impacting real Average unexpired lease term of 9.1 years with a Total property return estate values, the ability to sell assets maximum of 10.4% of gross rental income expiring and to raise further funding.
or subject to break clauses in any single year.
Executive responsible: Robert Noel Disruption Regular Board and Executive Committee Recognising and Shareholder value Failure to react effectively to new discussion item managing change Investment portfolio disruptors within our sectors, including Dedicated resources focused on innovation.
effectively will enable Development Advances in technological advances, innovation, us to maintain our Customer satisfaction emerging resulting in asset obsolescence and loss competitive advantage High performance technologies, of competitive advantage.
and increase the individuals such as the attractiveness of our Executive responsible: merging of KPI assets to customers.
Robert Noel the virtual Total shareholder return and physical Total property return environments, Lettings and sales threaten Customer satisfaction todisrupt rates organisations New ways of working core business assumptions.
New entrants focused on disrupting existing business models arelikely toimpact most sectors, including oursand those of our customers.
44 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Risk Mitigation Opportunity Strategic Change in objective the year People and skills Strong employee brand and dynamic, proactive Build further expertise, Shareholder value Inability to attract, retain and develop resourcing strategy knowledge and High performance the right people and skills required to Competitive remuneration plans capability in the business.
individuals deliver the business objectives.
Appropriate mix of insourcing and outsourcing KPI Clear employee objectives and development Executive responsible: Total shareholder return plans Diana Breeze New ways of working Clear organisation and individual accountabilities Annual employee engagement survey to identify issues early Succession planning and talent management High profile, market leading developments and assets to manage.
Major health and safety incident CEO chairs Group Health, Safety and Security Customer satisfaction Lead the industry in Committee Accident causing injury or loss of life to health and safety to KPI Regular Board reporting employees, contractors, occupiers or reduce incident levels.
Customer satisfaction Dedicated specialist personnel visitors to our properties, leading to: rates Sharing of best practice across the business and criminal civil proceedings and industry through our One Best Way approach resultant reputational damage Annual cycle of health and safety audits across delays to building projects and access the portfolio restrictions to shopping centres.
Established policy and procedures including ISO 18001 certification Executive responsible: Engagement with the enforcing authorities Robert Noel Security threat or attack Dedicated property security teams, supported Enhance our reputation Customer satisfaction Failure to identify or prevent a major by CCTV and other physical security measures as a trusted and security related threat or attack or react Experienced property management teams responsible partner.
KPI immediately and effectively, resulting in Regular on-site and national security training Customer satisfaction injury, loss of life, damage to buildings Group insurance programme protects against rates and a loss of consumer confidence and losses of rent and service charge due to terrorism the consequent impact on rental growth Business continuity and crisis management and loss of income.
practice Sharing of best practice with our external Executive responsible: customers through our Customer Robert Noel Improvement Groups Engagement with the National Counter Terrorism Security Office NaCTSO.
Cyber threat or attack Dedicated Information Security team, which Enhance our reputation Customer satisfaction External and internal threat to corporate monitors information security risk as a trusted and and building management systems and Regular review of Information Security policy responsible partner.
KPI data resulting in a negative reputational Independent information security audit and Customer satisfaction impact and adverse operational and penetration testing rates financial impact.
Executive responsible: Martin Greenslade Sustainability ISO accredited environmental and energy Consolidate our Customer satisfaction Increasing environmental pressure and management systems position as a leader Sustainability or properties that do not comply with Active involvement in legislative working parties in sustainability and performance Refer to our legislation, meet customer expectations Active environmental programme addressing an environmentally sustainability KPI or are unable to withstand the expected key areas of carbon, energy, waste and responsible partner.
report for Customer satisfaction challenges of climate change resulting biodiversity moredetails.
rates in an increased cost base: an inability to Energy reduction plan for every key asset Sustainability matters attract or retain occupiers, premature Scenarios to determine how climate change will Energy reduction plans obsolescence and loss of asset value.
affect the existing portfolio and future developments.
Executive responsible: Miles Webber Development Amount of speculative development restricted Maximise returns by Shareholder value Unable to deliver capex programme to so that the impact of failing to lease the un-let delivering developments Development agreed returns and or occupiers element of our development programme does at the right point in the performance As we have reluctant to commit to take new space not exceed the Groups retained earnings cycle.
less capital KPI in our developments leading to negative Proportion of capital employed in development invested our Total shareholder return valuation movements and a reduction programme based on total costs to Enhance and maintain risk is Lettings and sales in income.
completion will not exceed 20% of our total our position as the considered to capital employed, save that where a material partner of choice for Executives responsible: be lower.
part of the development programme is pre-let, our customers.
Colette OShea Scott Parsons this proportion can rise to 25% Monitor market cycle and likely occupier demand before committing to new developments and secure pre-lets where appropriate Assessment of developments against hurdle rates Pre-let targets set for Retail developments.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 45 As a result of our actions, the portfolio is in great shape.
Its occupied by a broad customer base and we now have our longest ever weighted average lease term.
Colette OShea Managing Director, London Portfolio 46 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report London Portfolio review Actions and outcomes Our results Focus for 2016 17 Progress in 2016 17 Focus for 2017 18 1 Outperform IPD The total return of Outperforming IPD 1.3% sector benchmark the London Portfolio sector benchmark Valuation deficit was 3.1% Growing like-for-like underperforming net rental income itsIPD sector benchmark at 3.4% Completing the 3.1% letting of The Zig Zag Building, Ungeared total property Complete the letting 1 & 2 New Ludgate 20 Eastbourne returnunderperformed of 1 & 2 New Ludgate, fully let: The Zig Zag Terrace and itsIPD Quarterly Universe EC4: The Zig Zag Building 89% let: Nova, Victoria sectorbenchmark at 3.4% Building, SW1: and and 20 Eastbourne 20 Eastbourne Terrace 90% let Completing the Terrace, W2 construction and letting of Piccadilly 13m Lights Progress Nova, Victoria of investment lettings development 47% let Progressing build lettings at Nova, to grade to time Victoria, SW1 and budget at 21 Moorfields, EC2 9m Submit a planning Planning resolution Growing future of development lettings application at granted at development Southwark Street, Southwark Street pipeline through SE1 and secure and planning acquisitions and planning consent for consent secured 2 1.4 million sq ft new screens at fornew screens at 7.
0% of existing Piccadilly Lights, W1 Piccadilly Lights Like-for-like voids opportunities 31 March 2016: 2.9% within portfolio Progress to revised All achieved except Securing time and to budget Nova, Victoria over 1.
employment for at our committed budget and delayed 2.
Reduces to 3.3% when Piccadilly Lights, a further 95 SW1, which remains in like-for-like during developments the screen replacement, is excluded.
candidates via our Community Secure employment Secured Employment for a further 129 employment for Programme candidates via our 134 candidates Community Improving energy Employment management in Programme support of 2030 corporate commitments Landsec Annual Report 2017 47 Develop station, ready for building 522,000 sq ft in two This year supplyAt 20 Eastbourne Terrace, W2, we completed buildings.
Completing the raft in July 2018 will a major refurbishment during the year, mean we can complete construction of the constrained conditions creating 93,000 sq ft of contemporary space buildings in 24 months, providing an excellent in the occupational in an 18-storey tower overlooking Paddington prospect for the pre-letting market.
The building offers 6,000 In Westminster at 1 Sherwood Street, W1 market gave way to sq ft floorplates and a stunning communal behind Piccadilly Lights, we secured planning weaker demand.
All of the space is now let, on an consent for a 142,000 sq ft mixed use scheme average lease length of more than ten years at and in Southwark, at Sumner Street, SE1, record rents.
resolution to grant planning consent for In the City, we completed 1 New Street 134,000 sq ft.
However, weve been positioning the business Square, EC4.
This 275,000 sq ft scheme was preWe have a further 360,000 sq ft in for these conditions, and so are well-placed.
let in its entirety to Deloitte on a 20 year lease.
feasibility at Red Lion Court, SE1.
Over the past 12 months, weve completed our Nova, Victoria, SW1 completed just after the speculative development programme, focused Manage year end in April a high point in our long-term on letting the remaining space, worked to We were very active asset managers this year, regeneration of Victoria.
The scheme features maximise income and lease length through moving early to address lease expiries and rent two exceptional office buildings, 170 apartments proactive asset management and readied reviews, as well as securing reversions ahead and a fantastic line-up of restaurants, creating the business to start buying when conditions of expectation.
At Dashwood House, EC2, we completed 480,000 sq ft office space and 93% of the retail In addition, weve increased our emphasis rent reviews on 6m 86% of the income, and food-related space is now let.
148 of the on anticipating change to ensure our increasing the rent by 26%.
At One New apartments have now been sold, 10 of them buildings and our service meet our customers Change, EC4, we reviewed 19m 65% of the during the year.
needs, while at the same time enhancing rent increasing the offices by 3% and the retail The complexities of construction together the environment for our communities.
At Cardinal Place, SW1, we reviewed with competition for labour in a busy sector approachwill deliver long-term value for us.
11m 48% of rent increasing the offices by 14% delayed final completion and impacted costs.
As a result of our actions, the portfolio is in and the retail by 23%, as well as letting 113,000 However, the scheme is proving very popular great shape.
Its occupied by a broad customer sq ft of available space.
At 140 Aldersgate Street, and were confident well let the remaining base spanning sectors from finance to fashion EC1, we reviewed 1m 44% of the rent and space in good time.
At Nova East, the second and we now have our longest ever weighted achieved a 33% uplift, as well as letting 25,000 phase of Nova, Victoria, were finalising average unexpired lease term of 10.3 years.
statutory approvals ready to start on site when At Piccadilly Lights, W1, we obtained the time is right.
Buy planning consent to replace the six screens We secured planning consent for 798,000 We made no material acquisitions this year.
with Europes most technically advanced digital sq ft of space in three London boroughs.
In the We have the firepower needed for when the screen, maintaining the heritage of the site while City at 21 Moorfields, EC2, weve completed right opportunities appear, but we will be giving advertisers innovative ways to interact demolition and will shortly commence piling patient and disciplined.
with more than 100 million passers-by each year.
and construction of a raft that will sit above the Coca-Cola committed to continuing its 60 year eastern entrance to Liverpool Street Crossrail residence and will be joined by Samsung and Hyundai.
We have three remaining advertising opportunities and are in discussion with other major brands to complete the line-up.
Well be launching the new screen at this major tourist attraction in November.
48 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Sell Outlook In 2015, to reduce risk, we started a disposal In the current uncertain environment, programme of weaker assets after we had investment demand is likely to be lower for all completed asset management plans to but the very best assets.
In the occupational maximise value.
The majority of these sales market, we expect net effective rental values to were executed last year and we successfully weaken but demand from dynamic businesses completed the programme this year with to continue for high quality, resilient space.
Trading property Were well prepared for these conditions with a disposals of 135m include sales at Nova, portfolio of assets designed to meet the needs Victoria, SW1 following completion of residential of these customers.
units, further disposals at Kings Gate, SW1 Were ready to add to our portfolio and the disposal of our remaining interest when the time is right.
Our team is tracking in the Kodak land at Harrow.
Sales of other around 2bn of opportunities, building up investments totalled 13m.
our intelligence network ready for a future investment phase.
In addition, were preparing Net rental income 1.4 million sq ft of future development Net rental income in the London Portfolio has opportunities for when conditions are right increased by 10m from 275m to 285m, with to proceed.
additional income from recently completed developments largely offset by lost income from properties sold last year.
1 Income from our developments contributed Net rental income Table 26 an additional 28m this year, principally at 31 March 31 March 1 New Street Square, EC4, 20 Eastbourne 2017 2016 Change m m m Terrace, W2 and Nova, Victoria, SW1.
We also Like-for-like investment properties 203 199 4 benefited from a full years income at The ZigZag Building, SW1, 1 & 2 New Ludgate, EC4 Proposed developments and 62 Buckingham Gate, SW1.
The increase in Development programme 16 5 11 the like-for-like portfolio of 4m reflects new Completed developments 62 45 17 lettings and settled rent reviews, partly offset by reduced income at Piccadilly Lights following the Acquisitions since 1 April 2015 2 1 1 start of refurbishment.
Overall, these increases Sales since 1 April 2015 21 21 are largely offset by a 21m reduction in net Non-property related income 2 4 2 rental income from disposals since 1 April 2015, Net rental income 285 275 10 most notably Thomas More Square, E1, Times Square, EC4 and Haymarket House, SW1.
