Risk management An effective risk management process is in place to help the Group achieve its strategic objectives and enjoy long term success Our risk management process Like all businesses, we face risks and uncertainties that could impact the 1 achievement of our strategy.
Key risks by area and any changes since the last review 5 2 This process is then Risk ratings The Board and the Executive reviewed monitored and by evaluating reported to the Board Management Team are collectively each risk and annually and the Audit responsible for managing risk assigning a score and Risk Committee across the Group.
On a department four times a year by department basis, risks are reviewed regularly and risk registers are updated at least three times a year.
The teams meet to discuss and agree: 4 3 Progress in executing Identifying the agreed process required actions improvement and against each risk implementing agreed risk mitigation Principal risk rating matrix Top principal risks 1.
B usiness systems and 10 1 information security 8 4 6.
Extreme weather Low Impact High Pets at Home Group Plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Rare Probability Almost certain Strategic report Performance Risk management responsibilities are allocated as follows: Health and Safety Committee Assists the Board in managing the risk of health, safety and security Holds meetings quarterly with stakeholders from a cross the Group.
Reviews the Groups risk register, health and safety policy and compliance with applicable regulations.
Recommends to the Board and Group appropriate policies and procedures.
Updates the Board o n accidents across the Group.
Audit and Risk Executive Internal Audit Committee Management Team Co-ordinates the risk management process Oversees the risk management Collectively responsible Holds meetings with all Risk process on behalf of the Board for managing risk Owners across the business Receives and reviews detailed risk Key risks are allocated to an three times a year.
reports twice a year with interim Executive Management Team Updates the individual r isk updates on significant changes member for oversight and registers, in cluding actions and twice a year.
progress made, assesses risk Chairman, together w ith the The full Executive Management ratings a nd determines if these committee, completes a detailed Team supported by key members should change up or down and review of the risk reports.
ofthe Operating Board are documents the controls in place responsible for closely managing that help mitigate each risk.
Conducts regular deep dives into the most significant risks.
key risk areas with relevant Executive Board members to Receives regular risk updates understand the nature o f the risks and reports.
and adequacy of the mitigations and controls that are in place.
Operating Board Has line responsibility for managing risks within their areas Members review risk registers periodically with Internal Audit three times per year.
Takes action, a s agreed and documented in t he risk registers.
Identifies new r isks for inclusion in the registers.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39
