Governance Identification, evaluation The Board has overall responsibility for oversight and management of risk Managing of risk and for maintaining a robust risk The identification of risk is a continual process management and internal control system.
It through discussion with management, external risk recognises the importance of identifying and agencies and stakeholders.
A full and detailed actively monitoring the full range of financial review of the risks, the controls and the and non-financial risks, and other longermitigation strategies is undertaken with the By being both risk-agile term threats or challenges potentially facing executive committees of the London and Retail the business.
The Audit Committee supports businesses four times a year.
These form the and risk-resilient, we the Board in the management of risk and is basis for the principal risks and uncertainties, as responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the well as emerging risks, which are challenged and will be in a stronger risk management and internal control systems validated by the Executive Committee.
These position to embrace during the year.
The Executive Committee is are then presented to the Audit Committee to responsible for the day-to-day management of ensure representatives of the Board are aware opportunities, deliver risk, which includes the ongoing identification, of, and contribute to, the latest position.
In sustained success and assessment and mitigation of risk as well as addition, a wholesale and in-depth risk session the design, implementation and evaluation of is held with the Board every two years to ensure enhance shareholder the system of internal control, and for ensuring full Board participation in our risk management its operational effectiveness.
Such a session is next due to be value.
Risk Management and Internal Audit function undertaken in 2017 18. supports the Audit Committee and Executive Senior management from across the Committee in evaluating the design and business will also attend the Executive operating effectiveness of the risk mitigation Committee and the Audit Committee to discuss strategies and internal controls implemented specific risk areas, such as a continuing focus Our key focus areas in 2016 17 bymanagement.
on cyber risk, accompanied by external advisers The Board undertakes an annual where relevant.
Third party review of our risk assessment of the principal risks, taking account The Risk Management function, headed by management processes of those that would threaten our business the Director of Risk Management and Internal Crisis management exercises model, future performance, solvency or liquidity Audit, assists management by facilitating the as well as the Groups strategic objectives.
risk discussions and providing challenge and for the Executive Committee insight where appropriate.
and senior management Risk appetite We evaluate each risk on three factors: The Board is responsible for the level and Third party review of our crisis likelihood: financial impact, both to income and type of risk that the Group is willing to take management processes capital values: and reputational impact, from and ensuring that it remains in line with our the business unit through to Group level.
We also Cyber threats and other strategy.
By regularly reviewing the risk appetite consider the inherent gross risk the impact of security risks, including building of the business and re-assessing the latest the risk before any mitigating action is taken risk related information, the Board seeks to management systems and the residual net risk the risk that remains ensure risk exposure remains appropriate at after the effect of mitigating actions and Disruptors to our key target any point in the cycle.
Our risk appetite is controls are considered.
From this we identify markets cascaded throughout the organisation by being principal risks current risks with relatively embedded within our policies and delegated high impact and certainty and emerging authorities.
risks those risks for which the extent and Our key priorities for 2017 18 implications are not yet fully understood.
This Risk management framework Continue to enhance the risk also informs the business as to those risks that We have an established risk management and management framework have a high dependency on the internal control control framework that enables us to identify, systems, which then directly helps to focus the and further embed the risk evaluate and manage our principal risks.
This is work of the internal audit team.
The business management culture amongst supported by a strong risk management culture considers the full range of external and internal amongst our employees.
Our approach is not all employees risk, including strategic, operational, people intended to eliminate risk entirely but to provide and technology.
A risk scoring matrix is used to Deep dive reviews into specific a structure by which were risk aware and able ensure a consistent approach is followed.
areas of risk to respond effectively and appropriately to Ownership and management of the risks create value for our shareholders.
Enhanced reporting for are assigned to members of the Executive Committee.
They are responsible for ensuring the Board and executive the operating effectiveness of the internal management control systems and for implementing key risk mitigation plans.
Continue to enhance our Internal Audit independently reviews approach to crisis management the internal control systems using a risk Construct scenarios to based approach and, on a quarterly basis, management self-certify that the key controls determine the impact of within their area of responsibility have been climate change on our operating effectively.
existingportfolio and our futuredevelopments 42 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Very high Impact Low Risk management framework Board Risk Top-down Oversight of risk governance Oversight, Set the risk culture identification, Approve risk appetite assessment Annual assessment of the principal risks.
and mitigation of risk at a 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Group level Risk Executive Committee: Risk Management: Audit Committee management Define the risk appetite Assist management Supports the Board in Evaluate proposed with the identification monitoring risk exposure strategies against risk andassessment of against risk appetite appetite principal risks Review the effectiveness of Identify the principal risks Aggregate risk our risk management and Design, implementation information internal control systems.
and evaluation of the Monitor risks and risk system of internal control, response plans Internal Audit: and for ensuring its Create a common risk Provide assurance on operational effectiveness.
framework and language effectiveness of the risk Provide direction on programme, testing of key applying framework Bottom-up controls and risk response Provide guidance and plans for significant risks.
Identification, training assessment Facilitate risk escalations.
and mitigation of risk at Risk Business units: Support functions: business unit ownership Identify and assess risks Provide guidance and functional Respond to risks support to the risk team level Monitor risks and risk and business units.
response Ensure operational effectiveness of key controls.
Risk heat map The risk heat map illustrates the relative positioning of our principal risks before and after mitigating actions.
06 Security threat or attack Failure to 01 Customers Structural changes in identify or prevent a major physical security customer and consumer behaviours.
2 related threat or attack or react immediately 02 Market cyclicality Market and political and effectively.
uncertainty or change in legislation.
3 07 Cyber threat or attack External and 03 Disruption Failure to react effectively to internal intrusion to corporate and building 1 new disruptors within our sectors, including management systems and data.
08 Sustainability Increasing environment 4 04 People and skills Inability to attract, pressure and or properties do not comply 5 retain and develop the right people andskills.
8 6 with legislation, or meet customer 9 05 Major health and safety incident expectations or are unable to withstand Accident causing injury or loss of life to theexpected challenges of climate change.
employees, contractors, occupiers or visitors 09 Development Unable to deliver capex to ourproperties.
programme to agreed returns and or occupiers reluctant to commit to take newspace in our developments.
Unlikely Likelihood Almost certain Key movement of risk after mitigating actions Landsec Annual Report 2017 43
