Risks and uncertainties Key risk Brand and reputation Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Change on The Group places pet welfare as its As a retailer of small pets across a large number of stores, the highest As we continue to prior year highest priority and its number one possible welfare standards must be maintained at all times and we increase our size value, pets before profit, reflects this.
have rigorous processes in place to ensure this.
This also extends into and scale, we must It also recognises the need toprotect the supply chain with our pet suppliers.
We operate a comprehensive work to ensure its brand and reputation.
Failure to do pet welfare audit process, utilising internal and external resources, that pet welfare Strategic priorities so could result in a loss of trust and where all stores receive unannounced visits on a regular basis.
This standards continue Grow like-for-like confidence by both customers and helps ensure our high standards are maintained across the chain.
to be maintained at colleagues.
With our suppliers, we expect the same high standards of welfare and a high level across Grow retail and all suppliers are visited regularly by vets, third party assessors, our the Group.
We will services space field pet team and an animal welfare organisation and are assessed continue to monitor Grow margins against a comprehensive set of welfare and standards criteria.
As an welfare standards example of our prioritising of pet welfare, during Easter each year, we closely and take temporarily halt the sale of rabbits in response to concerns over the appropriate steps welfare of rabbits bought at Easter.
where required to maintain them.
The Group also deals with customers pets on a daily basis through its veterinary practices, Groom Room salons and Support Adoption centres, with a consequent risk of the death or injury of pets whilst in our care.
We have a clear set of operational protocols, with the veterinary practices subject to the professional standards mandated by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
We also have a highly visible field operations team in respect of in-store pets, grooming and veterinary practices.
Each area has specific colleagues focused on ensuring the highest pet welfare standards are maintained.
We operate a confidential Pet Promise Line where colleagues are able to raise concerns about pet care directly with our Head of Pets.
Any calls to this line result in appropriate action to address the concerns raised.
Pet welfare across the Group is overseen by the Pets Before Profit Committee.
This meets regularly to review pet welfare and check that appropriate processes are in place to ensure we maintain our high welfare standards.
Competition Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Change on The Group competes with a wide We continue to evolve our proposition through the ongoing addition Vacancy levels for prior year variety of retailers and vet practices, of vets and groomers into our existing store estate whilst continuing existing store space including other pet specialists, to innovate with the regular introduction of new and exclusive have decreased supermarkets, discounters and vet products into our food and accessory ranges.
We continue to open leading to more groups.
Online competition is also new stores, vet practices and Groom Rooms.
As a specialist retailer, competition for Strategic priorities a risk, as large well-known internet the delivery of friendly expertise through our highly engaged trained physical store space.
Grow like-for-like businesses expand into pet products store colleagues is a key element of our proposition and we continue There has been and the established pet product sites to invest to ensure our service standards are continually improved.
some increase in the Grow retail and improve and expand their offer.
Further enhancements are being made to the Pets at Home website number of pure play services space toensure that it is an optimal experience for customers.
online competitors Failure to keep abreast of, and Grow margins but this is not respond to, developments by our The VIP Very Important Pet club was launched in November 2012 expected to have competition in the areas of price, and has been very successful attracting 3.7m active members at asignificant impact range, quality and service could have financial year-end.
This customer and pet database enables more on our business.
an adverse impact on the Groups targeted marketing, which helps drive up basket values and enables Competitor pricing financial performance and impact us to build a stronger sense of engagement with our customers strategies could opportunities for growth.
become more In January 2017, we launched Switch and Save where customers competitive.
are able to find out if they can save money by switching their dog food brand to either Wainwrights or AVA, both of which are Pets at Home own label high-nutrition complete dog food.
Moving to these Pets at Home products will generate savings for the customer over otherbrands.
We operate a Brand Match process where customers can check their spend on branded products at Pets at Home against Tesco.
com and receive a voucher for the difference.
We also track and respond to competitor pricing movements where appropriate.
Continuous market research is carried out to review the pet market both at home and abroad and understand what our competitors are doing worldwide.
This helps identify further changes initiatives that need to be implemented to help keep Pets at Home ahead of the competition here in the UK and remain a leader in the market.
Pets at Home Group Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance Key risk Stores and services expansion Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Change on A key part of the Groups growth To open a new store successfully, we have to, in the first instance, An increased prior year strategy is to increase the number identify an appropriate location with a store size appropriate to the proportion of our new of stores and to grow its in-store local market and with lease terms that are acceptable.
We have the stores will be located and standalone veterinary practices, ability, with smaller footprint stores, to utilise mezzanine space to on newly developed Groom Room salons and Barkers for deploy vet and Groom Room offerings, maximising the opportunity retail parks and Strategic priorities Dogs stores.
to open the majority of stores with a full service proposition.
Grow like-for-like proposed new store investment has to deliver an appropriate financial Whilst this can If we are unable to deliver the number return after taking into account any financial impact on the existing create greater timing Grow retail and of sites necessary to fulfil the stores store portfolio.
These processes are equally applicable when the uncertainties, we services space and services expansion laid out in Group looks to open a Barkers for Dogs store or a standalone do not expect any our strategy and maintain our existing Grow margins veterinary practice or grooming salon.
However, in common with our challenges in the numbers of sites, our expected in-store veterinary practice-opening programme, we also need to short term.
However, financial performance could be recruit a joint venture veterinary partner with the ability to fund their new developments adversely impacted.
investment into the joint venture and with the ability to provide the are very much personal guarantee to the bank providing the third party financing dependant on tenant tothe joint venture veterinary practice.
demand and the overall economy.
The business maintains new store and new joint venture partner pipelines, which identify potential locations and potential partners at each stage of our process.
This enables the Board to monitor progress in delivering the expected number of new stores, veterinary practices and Groom Rooms.
Certain geographical areas for example, within the M25 require a more innovative approach as space for new stores, groom rooms and vet practices is limited.
For example, we are developing new formats such as small format Groom Rooms to address these opportunities.
Where existing sites are at risk of redevelopment or where leases may not be renewed, specific measures are taken to maximise the opportunity for the Group including considering purchasing the freehold if appropriate.
Our people Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Change on As a specialist retailer, retaining We continue to invest in training to broaden the skill base of The ongoing Brexit prior year highly trained and engaged colleagues across the business.
We also closely monitor colleague negotiations may colleagues is fundamental to our retention rates and engagement, the latter through our annual Were well have an impact continued success and the delivery All Ears engagement survey which is followed up by Were All Action on our employment ofour future growth.
to ensure the business responds appropriately to opportunities for of EU nationals.
Strategic priorities improvement raised by colleagues.
We also have a rolling programme We need to ensure A significant number of colleagues Grow like-for-like of listening groups across the business to ensure we are addressing that the Group in certain areas of our business are issues on an ongoing basis and we are participating in the Great continues to be an Grow retail and EU nationals.
The Brexit vote in June Place to Work programme.
attractive place to services space 2016 has increased the risks around work, particularly if the retention and further recruitment Our remuneration policy, as set out on pages 92 to 104, is designed Grow margins employment levels of EU nationals.
to ensure executives of the necessary calibre are attracted and continue to increase retained and that through our Long-Term Incentive Plans and Company If we do not retain and train our nationally and there Share Option Plan, colleagues across the business can share in colleagues, it is unlikely that we will is more competition our success.
Similarly, we continually review the remuneration and be able to deliver the outstanding in the job market.
benefits packages available to all colleagues to ensure our colleagues customer service, which is a key are appropriately rewarded for the substantial contribution they make element of our proposition.
to our growth and success.
Succession plans are in place for key roles Our growth plans and future success and the Board and senior management regularly review these.
are at risk if we do not recruit and We continue to monitor the ongoing impacts of the Brexit vote on the retain high calibre, talented senior recruitment and retention of colleagues who are EU nationals in those management.
parts of the business most likely to be affected.
We operate flexible recruitment and retention initiatives across the Group.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Business systems and information security Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Change on We are aware of the need to keep In recent years, we have made significant upgrades to our business Our systems stability prior year core business systems up to date, critical systems including the implementation of SAP Financials, and reliability will with the capability to support the HR and payroll along with SAP HANA and BPC.
Our warehouse continue to improve Groups growth plans.
management system was upgraded to JDA last year and our main as upgrades and retail website has been enhanced.
A single practice management enhancements are If our investments in both systems Strategic priorities system has been implemented across our vet practices.
implemented and and infrastructure do not keep pace Grow like-for-like new systems are with the growth of the business We continue to monitor the level of activity within the Business adopted.
there may be a consequent limitation Systems function and will respond appropriately should IT project to our ability to trade and expand.
orservice delivery be at risk.
Information security In addition, the scale of ongoing risks are likely to Disaster recovery is a key part of our systems strategy, enabling system and infrastructure change continue to increase.
us to continue to trade in the event of a system outage.
Disaster issignificant and this may affect We monitor this risk recovery plans are in place and are regularly rested.
The business our ability to deliver IT services and will strengthen also undertakes regular system penetration testing.
our controls as An information security project is ongoing to ensure that we have required.
We hold a significant amount a good understanding of information security threats and that we ofcustomer data and recognise have appropriate measures in place to mitigate the associated risks.
theneed to keep this secure.
Any Our customer loyalty scheme data is held by a specialist third party information security breach could who has industry standard information security accreditations and adversely affect our reputation is regularly audited.
Encryption is used to protect the transmission andthe take up of our customer ofcustomer data.
Supply chain sourcing Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Change on During the financial year, Having Pets at Home colleagues on the ground working collaboratively We continue prior year approximately 60m of the Groups with suppliers enables us to monitor closely compliance with to develop our merchandise cost of goods was the Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct policy, as well quality assurance globally sourced, and therefore we are as compliance with our Supplier Quality Manual.
In addition, an processes and exposed to the risks associated with independent third party undertakes unannounced visits to further to ensure the Strategic priorities international trade, such as inflation, monitor compliance with Group policies.
During the year we have effectiveness of our Grow like-for-like changing regulatory frameworks and undertaken a Group wide risk assessment to highlight any areas Far East sourcing currency exposure.
The impact of where we may be vulnerable to the risk of modern slavery and will office in mitigating Grow margins Brexit on our overseas supply chain strengthen our processes in the areas highlighted.
our sourcing risks is unclear but may be significant, inthe region.
We will monitor Brexit developments and respond proportionately.
particularly in view of probable Exposure to foreign currency movements is mitigated through our changes to the UKs trading terms hedging strategy, see the Treasury and financial risk.
with the rest of the world.
We are also Business continuity plans are in place and tested for the distribution exposed to the risks associated with centres and plans are in place to mitigate the impact of any disaster the quality and safety of products by servicing all stores from a single distribution centre.
produced globally on behalf of the Group, many of which are own branded or exclusive private labels.
A failure to manage this risk adequately could lead to reputational damage, reflected in a lack of confidence by customers and colleagues in the Group brands.
We have two national distribution centres covering the north and south of the UK respectively.
A disaster at one of the DCs may result in a significant interruption to the supply of stock for a large number of stores and in the fulfilment of internet orders.
Pets at Home Group Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance Key risk Liquidity and credit risk Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Change on The business requires adequate The Groups finances are continually monitored in the context of its We will continue prior year cash resources to enable it to fund growth plans and a re-financing arrangement was made during the to monitor our its growth plans through its capital year.
As a result, the Group is confident that it has adequate revolving finances and build projects and or an expansion of the facilities in place, with a broad syndicate of ten banks.
relationships with our Groups working capital requirement.
The Groups growth plans in respect of joint venture veterinary Strategic priorities We do not anticipate Without adequate cash resources, practices is predicated on the availability of finance for new joint Grow retail and any significant the Group may be unable to venture veterinary partners to fund both the capital cost and working services space macroeconomic deliver its growth plans, with a capital requirement for each new practice opening.
The Group has changes in the short consequent impact on future two revolving and two non-revolving facilities in place with major high to medium term financialperformance.
street lenders that give us confidence that our medium term growth that may affect this plans are financed adequately.
risk area although The Group ensures that all cash surpluses are invested with banks the outcome of the that have credit ratings and investment criteria that meet the EU referendum may requirements set out in the Group Treasury policy, which has been have some bearing.
The Groups key suppliers are exposed to credit risk and as part of the Groups overall risk management programme, the business has identified alternative suppliers where appropriate and developed contingency plans, particularly in respect of own label and private label food products.
Treasury and financial risk Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Change on The Group has an exposure to This exposure to FX fluctuation is managed via forward foreign Ongoing currency prior year exchange rate risk in respect of currency contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges.
movements between the US dollar that is the principal The Group has borrowings with floating interest rates linked to the US dollar and purchase currency for goods sourced LIBOR, thereby exposing the Group to fluctuations in LIBOR and GBP may result in from the Far East.
The Brexit vote in the consequent impact on interest cost.
To manage this risk the further exchange Strategic priorities June 2016 has increased currency Group has interest rate swaps in place that fix the interest rate on risk, particularly in Grow margins pressures and we may see this asignificant proportion of the Group borrowings.
Further details can light of the ongoing continue for some time as the Brexit be found on page 153.
The Group also We will continue All hedging activity is undertaken by the Group Treasury function in faces risks from changes to interest tomonitor this and accordance with the Group Treasury policy that sets out the criteria rates and compliance with taxation adjust our approach forcounterparties with whom the Group can transact and clearly legislation.
If we do not adequately to hedging where states that all hedging activities are undertaken in the context manage this exposure there could necessary.
of known and forecast cash flows, with speculative transactions bean impact on the Groups financial specifically prohibited.
Dedicated tax resource is in place and performance with a consequential specialist tax advisors are retained to assist in this area.
impact on operational and growth plans.
Regulatory and compliance Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Change on Many of the Groups activities are We actively monitor compliance with our existing obligations and we We welcome the prior year regulated by legislation and standards have internal policies and standards to ensure compliance where Governments including, but not limited to, trading, appropriate.
We also provide training for colleagues where required recent proposals advertising, product quality, health and operate a confidential hotline for colleagues to raise concerns around animal and safety, pet shop licensing, carbon inconfidence.
establishments Strategic priorities emission reporting, bribery act and licensing.
We Our suppliers commit to adhering to relevant regulations and Grow like-for-like data protection.
Failure to comply continue to standards as outlined in our Quality Manual.
We carry out a rolling with these may result in financial monitor this and programme of supplier audits to check for compliance with our orreputational damage.
developments such as the new European General Data Protection Regulation and to plan accordingly.
Extreme weather Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Change on Prolonged extreme or unseasonal We actively monitor and forecast demand and, should this risk occur, Further prior year weather conditions may reduce we would review planned and tactical promotional activity to determine improvements to footfall in our stores, resulting in whether strengthening this would drive sales.
our omnichannel weak sales, leading to adverse offering will continue impacts on profit and inventory.
to improve our Strategic priorities resilience to reduced Grow like-for-like store footfall during periods of extreme weather.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43
