e s l e e n o y n a n a h t r e t t e b 42 Strategic Report Mitigations in place supporting the management of the risk to a net Our principal risks risk position are also described for each principal risk and uncertainty.
Where principal risks have been included in the risk modelling and uncertainties undertaken as part of the preparation of the viability statement see page 45, this has been indicated with the following symbol The risk management process is aligned to our strategy.
Risk is Key risk movements an inherent part of doing business.
The management of these The principal and emerging risks are discussed and monitored risks is based on a balance of risk and reward determined through throughout the year to identify changes to the risk landscape.
careful assessment of both the potential likelihood and impact as Risks are reviewed in line with the Companys strategic objectives.
Consideration is given to both reputational as A new principal risk was disclosed in 2016 regarding the political and well as financial impact, recognising the significant commercial regulatory environment.
Following the UKs decision to leave the value attributable to the Sainsburys Brand.
Each principal risk and European Union EU in June 2016, Sainsburys believe that this risk uncertainty is considered in the context of how it relates to the has increased due to the ongoing uncertainty which may adversely achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
As outlined on impact trading performance across the sector.
page 11, the current business strategy and objectives are categorised All principal risks were reviewed following the acquisition of Home into the following areas: Retail Group to ensure that they reflect the risk across the Sainsburys Group, including the acquired Argos business.
It is considered that all of the risks are incorporated within the principal risks and uncertainties disclosed below, with no material change required.
It was considered however that Sainsburys Groups risk exposure to political and regulatory risks and business continuity incidents may be greater due to the increased size and complexity of the business.
Great Colleagues The most significant principal risks identified by the Board and the products making the and services corresponding mitigating controls are set out below in no order of difference at fair prices priority.
Our values make us different Business continuity and major incidents response Risk There for our A major incident or catastrophic event could impact on the customers Groups ability to trade.
Following the acquisition of Home Retail Group, Sainsburys exposure to business continuity and major incident risks may be greater due to the increased size and complexity of the business.
Mitigation The Sainsburys Operating Board formally reviews the corporate risk map twice a year, which captures the principal risks to achieving The Group has detailed plans in place, supported by senior Sainsburys business objectives.
The risk discussion includes representatives who are trained in dealing with major incidents assessment of both gross and net risk, where gross risk reflects the and have the authority levels to make decisions in the event of a risk exposure and risk landscape before considering the mitigations in potentially disruptive incident.
place, and net risk the residual risk after mitigations.
The risk appetite The business continuity strategy, including incident management, for each key risk is also discussed and assessed with a target risk resilience exercises and testing, has been aligned across the position agreed to reflect the level of risk that the business is willing Group.
The Business Continuity Steering Group, which includes to accept.
The Sainsburys Operating Board reviews risk dashboards representatives from Sainsburys Bank, Argos and Habitat, meets during the year, comprised of key risk indicators, to ensure they quarterly to ensure that the business continuity BC policy and identify any potential risk movement towards or away from their strategy is fit for purpose.
In addition, it oversees the mitigation of risk appetite.
This enables the Operating Board to agree and monitor all risks associated with BC and IT disaster recovery.
In the event appropriate actions as required.
of any unplanned or unforeseen events, the Business Continuity The gross risk movement from prior year for each principal risk and Management Team is convened at short notice to manage the uncertainty has been assessed and is presented as follows: response and any associated risk to the business.
Increased gross Reduced gross Group wide business continuity resilience exercises are undertaken No change risk exposure risk exposure to imitate real life business continuity scenarios and test the Groups ability to respond effectively.
Key strategic locations have secondary backup sites which would be made available within pre-defined timescales and are regularly tested.
s r e m o t s u c r u o w o n k e W Strategic Report 43 Colleague surveys, performance reviews, listening groups, Business strategy and change communications with trade unions, regular communication of business activities and colleague networking forums such as Yammer, Risk the updated colleague portal Our Sainsburys and colleague learning portal are some of the methods the Group uses to understand and If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not respond to colleagues needs.
As change initiatives are implemented, communicate or implement its strategies effectively, the the methods described above will continue to be employed to business may be negatively impacted.
Risks to delivering the understand and maintain colleague trust and engagement.
strategy, change initiatives forming part of the strategy and other significant supporting change such as the integration with Argos need to be properly understood and managed to Data security deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all stakeholders alongside management of business as usual.
Risk It is essential that the security of customer, colleague and Mitigation company confidential data is maintained.
A major breach of information security could have a major negative financial The business strategy is focused on the following: and reputational impact on the business.
The risk landscape We know our customers better than anyone else: is increasingly challenging with deliberate acts of cybercrime We will be there wherever and whenever they need us: on the rise, targeting all markets and heightening the risk We will offer great products and services at fair prices: exposure.
Our colleagues make the difference: and Mitigation Our values make us different.
A Data Governance Committee is established and is supported by The progress against strategic programmes and any risks to delivery, focused working groups looking at the management of colleague such as the ability to implement and deliver change and new business data, customer data, information security, commercial data and initiatives, are regularly reviewed by the Board and the overall awareness and training.
Senior appointments have been made strategy is reviewed at the annual two-day Strategy Conference.
into roles specifically focused on data governance and information The Operating Board also holds regular sessions to discuss strategy.
The Chief Information Security Officer continues to develop This activity is supported by a dedicated strategy team.
To the Information Security Strategy and build the necessary capability ensure the strategy is communicated and understood, the Group to deliver against that strategy.
The Head of Data Governance focuses engages with a wide range of stakeholders including shareholders, on improving how we handle data across the organisation.
Various colleagues, customers and suppliers on a continual basis.
In information security policies and standards are in place which focus addition, management performs ongoing monitoring of business on encryption, network security, access controls, system security, as usual performance to determine indicators of potential negative data protection and information handling.
A review of key third performance as a result of change initiatives.
parties who hold sensitive customer or colleague data continues to take place, and progress is monitored by the Data Governance Colleague engagement, retention and capability Committee.
A risk based security testing approach across Group IT infrastructure and applications is in place to identify ongoing Risk vulnerabilities.
The Group employs 195,000 colleagues who are critical to the success of our business.
Attracting and maintaining good Environment and sustainability relations with talented colleagues and investing in their training and development are essential to the efficiency Risk and sustainability of the Groups operations.
Delivery of the Environment and sustainability are core to Sainsburys values.
strategic objectives, including integration with Argos and The key risk facing the Group in this area relates to reducing progress on multi-channel and digital, increases the risk impact the environmental impact of the business with a focus on of an inability to attract, motivate and retain talent, specific reducing packaging and new ways of reducing waste and skill sets and capability.
In addition, the challenging trading energy usage across stores, depots and offices.
environment requires a focus on efficient operations which may include change initiatives impacting colleagues, therefore Mitigation presenting a risk of loss of colleague trust or engagement.
A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led by the Mitigation Environmental Action Team and the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, to reduce our environmental impact and to meet our The Groups employment policies and remuneration and benefits customers expectations in this area.
packages are regularly reviewed and are designed to be competitive with other companies, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling Further details are included in the Our values make us different career opportunities.
In addition to strong leadership and nurturing of section on pages 24 to 39. talent by line managers, processes are also in place to identify talent and actively manage succession planning throughout the business.
Ongoing reviews are performed to understand the nature of capability and specific skill sets required to deliver objectives.
This is supported by embracing new ways of attracting talent and our corporate value Great Place to Work reinforces our commitment to giving people the opportunity to be the best they can be.
44 Strategic Report Financial and treasury risk Political and regulatory environment Risk Risk The main financial risks are the availability of short and longThere remain heightened levels of political and regulatory term funding to meet business needs and fluctuations in uncertainty in the UK following the referendum vote to leave interest, commodity and foreign currency rates.
The business the EU in June 2016, the triggering of Article 50 in March 2017, has acquired full ownership of Sainsburys Bank which presents and the general election in June 2017.
This uncertainty is a risk that the Groups financial performance and position may expected to continue for the foreseeable future until EU exit be negatively impacted if the Bank transition and performance negotiations have been completed and alternative trade deals are not delivered as planned.
In addition, there remains a risk have been put in place.
This situation may adversely impact around pensions as the Group operates two defined benefit trading performance across the sector.
An increasing focus pension arrangements that are subject to risks in relation to on localism to drive and deliver policy and current legislative liabilities as a result of changes in interest rates, life expectancy requirements including Business Rates, Workplace Pensions, and inflation and their alignment to the value of investments the National Living Wage and Apprenticeship Levy place a and the returns derived from such investments.
Mitigation Mitigation The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Groups We continue to engage actively with governments, administrations liquid resources, funding requirements, interest rate and currency and regulatory bodies.
We publically communicate matters where exposures and the associated risks as set out in note 23 on page we believe industry change is required with a view to enabling fair 139.
The Group Treasury function has clear policies and operating competition that is beneficial to our customers.
We communicate procedures which are regularly reviewed and audited.
our views, and those of our customers and colleagues, regarding geopolitical issues with the aim of informing the debate and Sainsburys Bank operates an enterprise wide risk management ensuring our opinions are represented in the policy and decision framework.
The principal financial risks relating to the Bank making processes.
and associated mitigations are set out in note 23 to the financial statements on page 139.
Trading environment and competitive landscape With regard to pensions, investment strategies are in place which have been developed by the pension trustees, in consultation with Risk the Company, to manage the volatility risk of liabilities, to diversify Effective management of the trading account is key to the investment risk and to manage cash.
Both Group defined benefit achievement of performance targets.
The sector outlook schemes are closed to future accrual.
has been and is set to remain challenging.
The challenging trading environment, driven by ongoing competitive retail Health and safety people and product pricing combined with growing inflationary cost pressures, may adversely impact performance.
There is also an ongoing Risk risk of supplier failure, with possible operational or financial consequences for the Group.
Prevention of injury or loss of life for both colleagues and customers is of utmost importance.
In addition, it is paramount Mitigation to maintaining the confidence our customers have in our business.
We adopt a differentiated strategy with a continued focus on delivering quality products and services with universal appeal, at Mitigation fair prices, helping our customers Live Well for Less.
This is achieved through the continuous review of our product quality, key customer Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls metrics, monitoring of current market trends and price points across required to manage health and safety and product safety risks competitors, active management of price positions, development of across the business and comply with all applicable regulations.
These sales propositions and increased promotion and marketing activity.
cover the end-to-end operation, from the auditing and vetting of We continue with our commitment to provide customers even better construction contractors, to the health and safety processes in place value with lower regular prices.
In delivering our strategic plan, in our depots, stores and offices to the controls in place to ensure including our price investment, we will maintain the strength of our people and product safety and integrity.
balance sheet and have therefore identified a series of measures to conserve cash in the business.
Through these measures we will In addition, established product testing programmes are also in place deliver sustainable operating cost savings.
With regards to supplier to support rigorous monitoring of product traceability and provide continuity, Sainsburys maintains regular, open dialogue with key assurance over product safety and integrity.
Supplier terms and suppliers concerning their ability to trade.
conditions and product specifications set clear standards for product raw material safety and quality which suppliers are expected to comply with.
Process compliance is supported by external accreditation and internal training programmes, which are aligned to both health and safety laws and Sainsburys internal policies.
In addition, resource is dedicated to manage the risk effectively, in the form of the Group Safety Committee and specialist safety teams.
Strategic Report 45 2 The assessment period Statement of viability The Directors have determined that the three years to March 2020 is 1 How Sainsburys assesses its prospects an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
The Groups business activities and strategy are central to assessing This period is consistent to that used for the Groups corporate its future prospects.
These, together with factors likely to affect its planning process as detailed above, and reflects the Directors best future development, performance and position, are set out in the estimate of the future prospects of the business.
Strategic Report on pages 01 to 53.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity are highlighted in the Financial Review 3 Assessment of viability on pages 46 to 53.
The Group manages its financing by diversifying To make the assessment of viability, additional scenarios have funding sources, structuring core borrowings with long-term been tested over and above those in the corporate plan, based maturities and maintaining sufficient levels of standby liquidity.
upon a number of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as documented on pages 42 to 44.
The scenarios were overlaid into the The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through its corporate corporate plan to quantify the potential impact of one or more of planning process.
This includes an annual review which considers these crystallising over the assessment period.
profitability, the Groups cash flows, committed funding and liquidity positions and forecast future funding requirements over three years, Whilst each of the risks on pages 42 to 44 has a potential impact with a further two years of indicative movements.
The most recent and has been considered as part of the assessment, only those that was signed off in November 2016, and refreshed in March 2017 as part represent severe but plausible scenarios were selected for modelling of the normal budgeting process.
This is reviewed by the Operating through the corporate plan.
These were: Board and ultimately by the PLC Board with involvement throughout from both the CFO and CEO.
Part of the Boards role is to consider the appropriateness of any key assumptions, taking into account the external environment and business strategy.
Link to principal risks and Scenario modelled uncertainties Scenario 1 Forecast savings targets are not achieved Business strategy and change The Group Corporate Plan currently assumes 160 million of synergies as a result of the HRG acquisition in the third full-year post acquisition, along with 500 million of cost savings to offset inflationary pressures by the end of 2017 18.
A scenario has therefore been modelled in which all planned savings synergies are not realised in the years planned and are delayed by one year during the assessment period.
Scenario 2 Data breaches Data security The impact of any regulatory fines has been considered.
The biggest of these is the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR fine for data breaches, which will be enacted in May 2018.
This was considered both in isolation and in conjunction with a fall in sales volumes as a result of any reputational brand damage.
Scenario 3 Legal breaches Health and safety, people and product Similar to the above, we considered the reputational impact of any legal or health and safety incidents, modelling a fall in sales volumes in the year of occurrence.
We also considered regulatory fines such as those levied by the Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP.
Political and regulatory environment Scenario 4 Brexit Political and regulatory environment The impact of the UKs decision to leave the EU was considered.
Scenarios were modelled assessing potential impacts of weakening sterling foreign exchange rates in all years, as well as World Trade Organisation WTO tariffs being applied to inventory purchases in year three of the Trading environment and competitive assessment period.
landscape Scenario 5 Bank transition Financial and treasury risk It was considered what level of sustained loss would be required in Sainsburys Bank before its capital ratios were breached, leading to additional material funding requirements from the Group.
In performing the above analysis, the Directors have made certain The results of the above stress testing showed that the Group would assumptions around the availability of future funding options, be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios occurring over the including the ability to raise future finance.
The scenarios above are hypothetical and severe for the purpose of 4 Viability statement creating outcomes that have the ability to threaten the viability of Taking into account the Groups current position and principal risks the Group: however, multiple control measures are in place to prevent and uncertainties, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable and mitigate any such occurrences from taking place.
In the case expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and of these scenarios arising, various options are available to the Group meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three years to March 2020. in order to maintain liquidity so as to continue in operation.
These 5 Going concern include reducing any non-essential capital expenditure and operating The Directors also considered it appropriate to adopt the going expenditure on projects, as well as not paying dividends.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements, which are shown on pages 99 to 185.
