Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report P MA A G NE A TI GE TL ME ENT OF RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Internal Controls and Risk Management The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges its responsibility for, the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and receives regular reports on such matters.
The Boards policy is to have systems in place which optimise the Groups ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee detailed responsibility for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding how these are to be managed.
In addition to formal reviews of risk management by the Executive Committee, members are expected to report to the Executive Committee as necessary the occurrence of any material internal control issues, serious accidents or events that have had a major commercial impact, or any significant new risks which have been identified.
Such matters are reported to the next Board meeting and or Audit Committee meeting as appropriate.
The Group also has in place systems and procedures for exercising control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated accounts which are monitored by the Audit Committee on the Boards behalf and reviewed annually by the Board.
These include: the formulation and deployment of Group accounting policies and procedures: Group policies governing the maintenance of accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial control procedures: monthly operational review meetings which include, as necessary, reviews of internal financial reporting issues and financial control monitoring: and ongoing training and development of financial reporting personnel.
The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board formally reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls on an annual basis.
The latest review covered the financial year to 24 March 2017.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from this review.
The Board has a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group and the resources that our business devotes to them.
This process is continual and has been in place for the year under review up to the date of this report, and is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with relevant guidance.
There is an established framework of internal controls, which is set out in procedures approved by the Board and which include financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
These procedures are readily accessible to staff, who follow their guidance.
The most important elements of this framework are described below: Management Structure The Board has overall responsibility for the Company and the Executive Committee has responsibility for specic aspects of the Groups affairs.
The Board and each of its committees operate under a schedule of matters or terms of reference and the Board determines how the Chief Executive and the Executive Committee may operate within a framework of delegated authorities and reserved powers which seek to ensure that certain transactions which are significant in terms of their size or type, are undertaken only after Board review.
The Executive Committee is chaired by Charles Wilson Chief Executive and comprises Jonathan Prentis Group Finance Director, Guy Farrant Chief Operating Officer, Mark Chilton Company Secretary and General Counsel and other senior executives representing the operational functions within the Group.
It meets every two weeks to discuss operational matters, compliance, health and safety and trading performance.
Corporate Accounting and Procedures Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the corporate communication procedure.
Accounting, delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures, together with the general ethos of the Group are included in these communications, and standardised accounting policies are in place reflecting this policy.
These procedures are subject to review to ensure that improvements to enhance controls can be made.
Quality and Integrity of Personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training.
Quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the ethical standards expected are communicated through senior members of staff.
Three Year Business Plan Each year the Group produces a three year business plan which covers development of profits and cash flow generation over that period.
14 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report PAGE TITLE Budgetary Process Each year the Board approves the annual budget, which includes an assessment of key risk areas.
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year by regular reporting to the Board of updated forecasts together with information on key risk areas.
Risk Management The Board assesses risk management throughout the Group aided by detailed reviews of internal controls and risk management procedures.
The Groups risk register is reviewed by the Board as part of annual strategic planning and budgetary cycles.
Investment Appraisal Capital expenditure is regulated by the use of authorisation levels.
For all expenditure beyond specified levels, Board approval is required.
Internal Audit The Groups internal audit function, which reports to the Group Finance Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, monitors the effectiveness of key internal controls and the adequacy of these controls to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets and resources, in accordance with a work plan approved and monitored by the Audit Committee.
Its conclusions are communicated to the relevant level of management and the function has a direct reporting responsibility to the Audit Committee.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties During the year the Board carried out a robust assessment of the prinicipal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks and corresponding mitigation set out below represent the principal uncertainties that the Board believes may impact the Groups ability to deliver effectively its strategy in the future.
The list does not include all risks that the Group faces and it does not list the risks in any order of priority.
Risk Impact Mitigating factors Failure to respond The industry is extremely competitive We compete by closely monitoring the activities of our competitors to competition with the market being served by numerous and ensuring we continue to improve the choice, price and service competitors, ranging from national to our customers.
multiple retailers to regional independent wholesalers.
Failure to respond to competition could have an adverse impact on the Groups sales, operating profits and cashflow.
Changes in The Group operates in an environment In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities seriously, and regulation governed by strict regulations to ensure recognises that any breach of regulation could cause reputational the safety and protection of customers, and financial damage to the Group.
Accordingly the Group seeks shareholders, employees and other to operate in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and stakeholders and the operation of an open to monitor proposed changes.
These regulations include food hygiene, health and safety, tobacco, data protection, the rules of the London Stock Exchange and competition law.
Changing laws and regulation may impact our ability to market or sell certain products or could cause the Group to incur additional costs or liabilities that could adversely affect its business.
Economic Our operations and earnings may be The Group remains vigilant to any changes and events in the and political adversely affected by political or economic economic and political environment.
The Group maintains an environment instability.
on-going dialogue with relevant authorities institutions through its respective trade associations.
15 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report P MA A G NE A TI GE TL ME ENT OF RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Impact Mitigating factors Product quality The quality and safety of our products is We work with our suppliers to ensure the integrity of the products and safety of critical importance and any failure in this supplied.
Food hygiene practices are taken seriously throughout the regard would affect the confidence of our Group, and are monitored both through internal audit procedures customers in us.
This could have an adverse and by external bodies, such as environmental health departments, impact on the Groups reputation, sales, within local authorities.
We have well prepared procedures for operating profits and cashflow.
crisis management in order to act quickly when required.
We are aware that if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to deliver to our customers satisfaction the expected standards of quality and safety in our products, their loyalty to us may be impacted.
This in turn could adversely impact our financial results.
Health and safety A health and safety related incident could The Group has developed an effective health and safety risks result in serious injury to the Groups management system to ensure compliance with all legal duties employees, contractors, customers and placed on the organisation by law.
All systems are subject to visitors, which could adversely affect regular review with training provided as appropriate.
our operations and result in reputational damage, criminal prosecution and civil The Group employs a Health and Safety manager to maintain litigation.
This could affect the Groups the management system, along with the identification and operating profits and cashflow.
remediation of specific risks, and ensuring employees are aware of .
Failure of The maintenance and development of The Group has appropriate controls in place to mitigate the risk the Groups information technology systems may result of systems failure, including systems back up procedures and information in system failures, including cyber security disaster recovery plans, and also has appropriate virus protection technology breaches which may adversely impact the and network security controls.
systems Groups ability to operate, which could affect the Groups sales, operating profits and cashflow.
Employee The continued success of the Group The Groups employment policies, remuneration and benefits engagement and relies on investment in the training and packages are designed to be competitive, as well as providing retention development of our employees.
colleagues with fulfilling career opportunities.
The Group continually engages with employees across the business to ensure that we keep strengthening our team at every level.
Supplier credit Availability of supplier credit is essential for The Group Finance Director meets the key credit insurers to the Groups financial performance.
If the ensure that they have an up to date understanding of the Groups providers of credit insurance withdraw or financial position.
Likewise, we keep suppliers updated of key materially reduce the levels of cover they developments in the Group, through amongst other things, key provide to the Groups trade creditors in supplier conferences, and aim to be the suppliers' preferred route respect of the Group, this might affect the to market.
Groups ability to obtain products from those suppliers on existing credit terms and could worsen the Groups cashflow.
Pension funding A worsening funding position may require The Group seeks to agree appropriate investment policies with the the Group to pay cash contributions Trustees and closely monitors the funding position of the Pension or provide further assurance to cover Schemes with the Trustees.
Both the Company and the Trustees future liabilities.
This could worsen the take advice from independent qualified actuaries.
Resource A long term increase in energy prices could The Group has a continual focus on reducing our environmental management and have an adverse effect on the Groups impact and implementing changes to our operations to maximise energy efficiency operating profits and cashflow with an opportunities such as recycling more waste and using more increasing cost to operations to adapt to renewable sources of fuel.
climate change and mitigate impact.
Substantial investment is made to improve environmental risk management, with a focus on energy efficiency when investing in new capital projects.
16 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report PAGE TITLE Assessment of the Groups Prospects Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least twelve months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups and Companys financial statements.
Further information in relation to the Directors assessment of going concern is contained in note 1f to the financial statements.
Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the Groups viability over a three year period to March 2020.
This period has been considered for the following reasons: The business model can be evolved for significant changes in market structure or government policy over the three year period: For major investment projects three years is considered by the Board to be a reasonable time horizon for an assessment of the outcome: and The Groups strategic planning cycle covers a three year period.
The Group produces a forecast three year business plan which incorporates projections for income and cash flow.
An analysis has been completed to evaluate the financial impact including on sales, profitability and liquidity of the Groups principal risks, set out on pages 15 to 16, occurring whether individually or in unison over the period, including in a number of severe but plausible scenarios.
Whilst each of the principal risks has a potential impact, the sensitvity analysis has been focussed on those considered to have the most significant impact.
The analysis also assesses the potential impact on the Groups available sources of funding and the range of mitigating actions that would be available to offset the effect of those risks, should they arise.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of their assessment.
Strategic Report Approval The Strategic Report, outlined on pages 1 to 17, including the assessment of the Groups prospects as set out above incorporates the Highlights, the Business Profile and Key Performance Indicators, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Group Finance Directors Report, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report and the Management of Risks and Uncertainties sections of this document.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2017.
