Strategic report Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Understanding and responding to risks Understanding and responding to risks in our operations means we can make informed decisions that enhance our capacity to build value.
Risk management Risks and uncertainties robust assessment of the principal risks Risk arises from the operations of, The Directors have reconsidered the and uncertainties facing the Group, and strategic decisions taken by, every principal risks and uncertainties of including those that would threaten business.
It is not something that can the Group and added two new risks the business model, future performance, be avoided but should be harnessed reflecting the risks around the solvency and liquidity.
Scenario in pursuit of business objectives.
extensive programme of change we modelling and sensitivity analysis was have embarked upon and business applied to forecasted cash flows to The Board has ultimate responsibility interruption risks for services managed model the potential effects should for risk management throughout the by third parties.
The risk of a wider the principal risks actually occur Group and determines the nature and macro-economic effect as a result of and consideration was given to the extent of the risks Whitbread is willing the UK leaving the EU, including foreign availability and likely effectiveness of to take to achieve its objectives to exchange and interest rate fluctuations, mitigating actions that could be taken determine its risk appetite.
Risk is is addressed by the Groups existing to avoid or reduce the impact or managed proactively by the Executive economic climate risk.
Going forward, occurrence of the identified risk.
Certain responsibilities, we will closely monitor and evaluate any In particular, it should be noted that the such as overseeing the systems of risk potential areas of risk.
Group is currently spending a substantial management and internal control, have Viability statement part of its cash from operations on been delegated to the Audit Committee, The Corporate Governance Code discretionary growth capital c. 30% which completes an annual review of the requires that the directors have on average which allows the Group effectiveness of these processes.
considered the viability of the Group considerable flexibility to manage cash The structure and governance of the risk over an appropriate period of time flows and would provide significant management process at Whitbread is selected by them, in this case a mitigation if required.
shown on page 59 and, during the year, threeyear period.
In making this a robust bottomup assessment of risks Based upon this assessment, the assessment, the directors took into was completed.
directors confirm that they have account the current financial and reasonable expectation that the Group operational positions of the Group Both the Premier Inn & Restaurants will be able to continue in operation and the potential impact of the risks and the Costa businesses complete and to meet its liabilities as they fall due and uncertainties as outlined on pages an annual review of the risks to the over the threeyear assessment period.
60 and 61. achievement of their strategic goals, whilst also taking into account the key The business planning process reviewed operational risks, which are updated by the Board, as part of the annual regularly.
A topdown risk assessment strategic planning process, is over is also completed to capture the Boards a fiveyear timeline, with the Board views on the principal risks facing acknowledging that there is significantly Whitbread, considering risk appetite.
more certainty over the first three years Actions required to manage these of the plan in light of fluctuations in risks are monitored and reviewed the global economy, the entry of new on a regular basis.
The principal risks competitors and customer preferences.
identified, together with a summary Therefore the directors have determined of key mitigations, are summarised a threeyear period is an appropriate on pages 60 and 61. period over which to provide its viability statement.
In making the viability statement, the Board carried out a Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 58 Strategic report Group risk framework Board Audit Committee Accountable for strategic risk Oversight and challenge of the management, including the assessment effectiveness of risk management of risk appetite, and ensuring a sound and mitigating controls system of internal control and risk management is in place Executive Committee Internal Audit Review, challenge and Coordination and analysis approval of Group risks Group Premier Inn & Costa Functions Restaurants Accountable for risk management in the respective business and risk submissions to the Executive Committee Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 59 Risk management reporting and escalation Governance, strategy, oversight and communications Strategic report Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal Risks Risks Key mitigations Change Cyber and data security We have a series of IT security controls in place, including up-to-date Cyber and data security remains antivirus software across the estate, network system monitoring and a key risk as it could reduce the regular penetration testing to identify vulnerabilities.
A continuous effectiveness of our systems or security improvement programme is in place improving security and result in a loss of data.
Specifically, during the year we have strengthened our turn could result in loss of income perimeter protection with improved firewall and denial of service and or reputational damage.
protection and have moved significant systems to new, more secure, datacentres.
IT Infrastructure A strong IT leadership team is in place together, with Group governance IT infrastructure is unable to structures, to help prioritise, coordinate and deliver our business plans adequately support our business and the IT investment in an efficient way so as to minimise disruption.
Although We are also significantly increasing our investment in the upgrade of our improvements have been made systems infrastructure, increasing the capacity, resilience and stability in our infrastructure.
of our core systems and our digital proposition.
Innovation and brand strength To ensure we maintain and improve the strength of our brands, we A longterm decline in the continually complete market research and monitor opinion with focus customer perception of our groups and net guest scores to ensure we maintain the right levels of brands would impact our ability investment and innovation in our customer offerings.
We are also to grow and achieve appropriate increasing the rate and level of investment in the refurbishments of our levels of return.
Premier Inn and Costa stores to help improve our net promoter scores.
Change We have embarked on an extensive programme of change to replace New Our ability to execute the our legacy systems and infrastructure, upgrade our digital capability unprecedented volume of and improve our customer propositions, enabling Whitbread to deliver change is recognised as its growth plans over the coming years.
To help ensure the successful a new risk this year.
delivery of these change projects, we have significantly enhanced our internal project delivery expertise and capability and put in place a robust assurance management framework coupled with regular reporting to the Executive Committee for all major projects.
Economic Climate There is a rigorous business planning process in place which considers Uncertain volatile economic many scenarios with responses to these.
We also have strong site climate results in GDP decline fall selection teams with well-established processes in place based on market in RevPAR and inflation impacting and economic fundamentals, both at a macro and micro level.
are supported by sensitivity analysis and a robust investment appraisal process to help deliver good levels of return.
We have also embarked on an efficiency programme that aims to deliver 150 million of savings over five years.
Engagement and retention The success of our businesses would not be possible without the passion Failure to maintain staff and commitment of our teams.
We engagement and retention in monitor this closely through our annual engagement survey Your Say, a tightening labour market.
the results of which are reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board, with trends analysed and appropriate actions reviewed and agreed.
Team turnover is also a key component of our WINcard and Annual Incentive Scheme.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 60 Strategic report Key to change in the risk level New Higher Level Lower New risk Risks Key mitigations Change Pandemic terrorism The safety and security of our customers, employees and suppliers is The risk of a pandemic or of utmost importance.
Failure to prevent or respond to a major safety terrorism on the safety and or security incident could adversely impact our operations and financial security of our customers, staff performance.
We invest site level training to help identify hostile and the consequent impact reconnaissance activities and to ensure we have an appropriate response ontrading.
should such events take place.
The executive team also hold regular crisis management exercises to ensure we are prepared for such events.
Talent and succession Talent and succession planning takes place regularly to ensure top talent Insufficient leadership capability is identified and succession plans exist for key roles.
Talent gaps are and succession in place to deliver addressed through recruitment, training and development to grow our growth ambitions.
The Group offers key employees appropriate levels of reward and recognition in order to retain them.
Food safety and hygiene The health and wellbeing of our customers is fundamental to our The preparation or storage business.
We have stringent food safety and sourcing policies with of food and or supply chain traceability and testing requirements in place in respect of meat and failure results in food poisoning other products.
Independent food safety audits are also completed and reputational damage.
regularly at our hotels, restaurants and coffee shops and the results are closely monitored.
We also invest considerable resources in employee training in the storage, handling and preparation of food.
Health and safety The safety of our guests and employees is of paramount importance.
Health and safety risk, death NSF, an independent company, carries out health and safety audits on or serious injury as a result of every site and we have a programme of fire safety training for our Company negligence.
Health and safety is a measure on the WINcard and acts as a gateway for incentive payments.
Regular health and safety updates are provided to the Executive Committee and the Board.
Third party arrangements Whitbread has a number of key supplier relationships that help ensure New Business interruption as a result the efficient delivery of our multi-site and support centre operations.
The of the withdrawal of services failure or withdrawal of services from one or more of these suppliers may support or reputational damage result in some business interruption.
To ensure against this, we continually as result of supplier practices is review our suppliers and business continuity arrangements.
We expect recognised as a new risk this year.
our suppliers practices to be in line with our values and standards.
Suppliers are thoroughly vetted before we enter into any arrangements to ensure they are reputable and then monitored though our supplier management arrangements.
The strategic report on pages 4 to 61 was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Chris Vaughan, General Counsel on 24 April 2017.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 61
