Strategic report Our principal risks and uncertainties Risk governance acceptable variation in earnings during minimum financial buffer is maintained We have agreed with the Board systems our planning cycle.
in pursuit of our objectives.
and processes to govern our approach Liquidity Insurance risk to risk management.
These systems We aim to maintain a prudent level of We actively seek measured amounts of specifically encompass ensuring an free cash and committed borrowing insurance risk in business lines where we effective risk assessment and facilities so that all entities in the Group have appropriate expertise and expect to management system is in place: agreeing have rapid access to funds when needed.
be appropriately rewarded for accepting the principal risks and uncertainties the the risk.
We will accept limited insurance business should accept in pursuit of Conduct risk for personal injury risks that we feel its strategic objectives and regularly We recognise that our continued we have the expertise to underwrite reviewing the status of these: ensuring success depends on maintenance of our and manage and will accept non-life a suitable risk culture is embedded brand, and reputation for quality service insurance risks that we have the relevant throughout Saga: and frequently with our customers.
We therefore strive expertise in.
assessing the effectiveness of the Groups to eliminate any systemic unfair customer risk management systems, including outcomes as a result of failures in the We enter into certain reinsurance essential levels of internal and external product, marketing, sales or service arrangements, including the new risk communication.
Our approach and delivery systems and processes, or funds-withheld quota share arrangement these processes are set out in more cultural shortcomings.
with NewRe, to reduce our exposure detail in the Accountability section of our tolarge losses and any potential Corporate Governance Statement on Customer growth deterioration in claims development.
pages 54-57 of this annual report.
Our goal is to know as many of our target customers as possible so we Strategic risk We believe that enhanced sustainability havea low appetite for actions or events We operate in a dynamic business and shareholder value will come through which lead to a low growth or reduction environment and accept that we are achieving the optimum balance between in the number of our target customer exposed to a number of strategic risk and reward.
We will actively seek to grow range of risks and uncertainties that our business in areas which present could impact their strategic objectives, We further describe our attitude towards sustainable growth opportunities and some common to the Group as a whole the following main categories of risk that where we have demonstrable expertise.
and others unique to the particular we encounter through carrying out business or operation.
It is therefore our business: Mergers and acquisitions risk imperative to have a risk management We aspire to levels of business growth policy and framework capable of Market risk which may require us to consider merger assessing and monitoring these risks We seek some market risk through and acquisition opportunities from and uncertainties individually and in our investment activity and seek to time to time.
Where these arise in aggregate against an agreed risk earn returns commensurate with our areas where we have expertise we will appetite to ensure management risk appetite.
We have limited appetite for consider them and establish suitable risk within agreed tolerances.
foreign exchange risk, commodity price tolerances in each case.
movements and interest rate movements Risk appetite and actively manage these to reduce risk Operational risk Our risk appetite, reviewed annually, where possible.
We actively seek some logistical risks defines the amount and sources of where we believe that we have expertise risk which we are willing to accept in Credit risk and will be rewarded for taking them.
aggregate in pursuit of our objectives.
Our practice of working with external We have a very low appetite for risks We express our overall attitude to risk counterparties, such as intermediaries, which threaten our reputation and will using the following dimensions: risk management activity such as only engage in regulated activities where reinsurance and hedging and deposit we have the expertise to manage them Financial strength making introduce elements of credit risk.
We define our risk appetite for We aim to maintain an appropriate buffer We have a low appetite for credit risk but certain specific areas of operational risk of capital resources within the Group are prepared to accept it to some extent as follows: and, where relevant, within our legal where it is necessary to achieve our entities, to ensure that we are able to business objectives.
Health and safety absorb reasonable operational variation We have zero appetite and a low and meet regulatory thresholds.
Liquidity risk tolerance for health and safety risks Through our daily operations we are and we will do all that is reasonably Earnings volatility exposed to needs for liquidity and we practicable to prevent personal injury We have a low appetite for volatile have a low appetite for this risk.
We and danger to the health of our earnings and have established limits will therefore accept, but actively seek employees, customers, and others representing the maximum amount of to manage, liquidity risk to ensure a who may be affected by our activities.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Becoming increasingly customer-centric 2 Growing profits in our insurance and travel businesses 3 Investing in future growth 4 Maintaining our efficient operating model 5 Developing our people Cyber security customer service.
We, therefore, have Saga, customised to their business We recognise the need to utilise zero appetite and very low tolerance needs and complementary to the technology to achieve our business for risks that could breach our security Groups tolerances.
We are, however, focused measures and threaten the security Risk appetite statements and risk on maintaining a robust and secure IT of our systems and data.
tolerances are central to our decision environment, with particular attention Separate risk appetite statements and making processes and are a point being paid to avoiding loss of customer, risk tolerance thresholds have also of reference for all significant employee and other business been created for each business in investment decisions.
confidential data, and interruption of Strategic priorities Principal risks linkage and risk and uncertainties movement Specific concerns Response mitigation IT systems Failure of our core IT We have allocated specific investment for refreshing our 1 2 3 4 systems to deliver required IT Infrastructure and continue to strengthen our core IT team and processes performance stability and processes.
Inability to develop digital Digital innovation remains a core focus at Group and business offerings sufficient to drive level with continued investment during 2016 in system innovation and growth.
Cybercrime attacks cause We have continued to strengthen our Information Security Cybercrime 1 2 3 4 breach loss of sensitive team and protective counter measures during 2016 and data assets and prevent our approach has been validated through a third party audit.
Sagas continuous improvement programme is in place to ensure protections continue to be appropriate.
Compliance with the We have mobilised a programme of work to make any further Database 1 2 3 4 incoming EU Data improvements necessary to ensure compliance.
Our culture does not deliver We have redefined our brand and cultural values and cascaded People 1 2 3 4 5 the Saga brand.
We have created a further two year plan to ensure that these values are completely embedded group wide.
We do not attract and or A revised people strategy has been introduced, designed to retain the right people to address attraction and retention issues across the Group and achieve our objectives.
to ensure a pipeline of future talent at all levels.
Failure to accrue expected We have added further resource to our dedicated change Operational 1 2 3 4 benefits from operational management function, and enhanced our change management efficiency change initiatives.
governance to ensure change is managed consistently and change effectively.
Operational and change initiatives are reviewed innovation at all governance and trading meetings and mitigating steps taken where appropriate.
Failure to maintain existing A beyond compliance maintenance programme covering all shipping fleet at a level to aspects of our ships is overseen at Group level and reported meet both customer weekly via our governance structure.
Regular refits and expectations and plan.
overhauls ensure our ships are resilient and offer the quality of product our customers expect.
New ship does not fully meet We have created dedicated product development and transition business customer needs.
planning projects to ensure our customer needs are fully understood and met.
Reputational damage arising We have reinforced our Business Continuity team and continue Business 1 2 3 4 from ineffective handling of to test and revise our Business Continuity Plans to address all interruption interruption incidents.
aspects of potential interruption scenarios.
Loss arising from shipping Our beyond compliance safety and maintenance programme 2 3 4 technical failure or maritime covering all aspects of our ships is overseen at Group level and incident.
reported weekly via our governance structure.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 21 Strategic report Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic priorities Principal risks linkage and risk and uncertainties movement Specific concerns Response mitigation Breach of regulation governing Dedicated Compliance teams are embedded in all External 1 2 3 4 our operations.
regulated businesses and are responsible for monitoring regulatory compliance performance.
Teams exist at Group level to landscape ensure Group compliance with key legislation such as the political change Health and Safety at Work Act.
Inability to respond to regulatory Saga has a diversified business model to lessen the change affecting our business.
potential impact of changes affecting one product or service.
Emerging and horizon compliance risks are tracked by the dedicated business compliance teams and raised at all governance forums.
UK decision to leave the We have created a task force to assess and respond 1 2 3 4 5 EU negatively impacts our to change arising from the implementation of Brexit.
New Inability of key partner to provide Saga controls its third party supply quality through Counterparty 1 2 3 4 appropriate service leading to contractual terms and agreed service level agreements.
failure to produce anticipated Adherence to these documents is monitored through benefits and reputational damage.
internal and external audits, Customer moments of truth surveys and customer complaint review.
During 2016 we refreshed our selection, monitoring and due diligence processes in place for all key partners suppliers.
Insurance Inability to compete with Competition within the Insurance market remains intense.
To counteract this, we control the underwriting process landscape for both broking and insurance operations, thereby allowing us to compete on policy terms and price where appropriate.
Rates in the motor insurance We continue to run a motor panel arrangement, thereby market do not move as expected.
increasing competitiveness and reducing risk.
We continuously review AICL risk appetite to consider non-standard risks where they are understood.
Claims experience is adverse We adopt strict underwriting criteria to price our risks, compared with current bestandreview our claims and reserve development frequently.
Wealso purchase reinsurance to reduce claims volatility, including the new funds-withheld quota share arrangement.
Conduct Our behaviour results in poor Sagas governance structure is built on the premise 1 2 3 4 unacceptable outcomes for of customer dedication with regular consideration of customers customers.
customer satisfaction throughout the organisation.
Changes in the macroeconomic The impact of external economic factors on costs and Macroeconomic 1 2 3 4 climate impact our customers customer demand are closely monitored throughout the climate inclination capability to purchase group and necessary changes are made to products and our products and services.
Investments do not yield We manage its investment portfolio through an investment 2 3 4 expected returns.
committee which ensures a spread of risk and optimal returns.
Inability to offset product We have focused on improving our efficiency and flexibility Travel landscape 1 2 3 4 commoditisation with agile during 2016, to allow us to bring the right products to the pricing and yield management.
Failure to enhance customer Detailed reviews of customer wants and needs have propositions and brand been undertaken and work is ongoing to create products perception to drive more first which meet both existing customers and first time time buyers and additional buyers requirements.
Failure to create expected We undertaken comprehensive customer research customer demand for future to understand future expectations and have marketing shipping capacity.
and sales development plans in design to deliver increased demand.
We have a Transformation Programme in place to create appropriate service offerings and operation and marketing plans for the new vessel when it is delivered.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 22 A busy year Everything we have achieved this year has been a result of the successful implementation of the clear strategy.
Put simply we have continued to grow earnings from our core businesses and invest in future growth whilst focusing on our customers journey.
