Risks RISK MANAGEMENT OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT Given the scale of our businesses, the Board of Directors recognises that To Identify Our Risks, we start with our strategic pillars and consider the nature, scope and potential impact of our business and strategic what might stop us achieving our ONE Kingfisher plan.
The process risks is subject to constant change.
As such, the Board has implemented is therefore looking at the risks we face within our strategic planning the necessary framework to ensure that it has sufficient visibility of the period.
The approach combines a top-down strategic company-level view principal risks and the opportunity to regularly review the adequacy and and a bottom-up operational view of the risks at Operating Company effectiveness of our mitigating controls and strategies.
Meetings are held with our Operating Company RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Group Executive Operating Companies HOW DO WE HOW DO WE MONITOR OUR IDENTIFY OUR RISKS RISKS ONE Kingfisher plan HOW DO WE HOW DO WE MANAGE OUR ASSESS OUR RISKS RISKS Management Governance GROUP EXECUTIVE OPERATING BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPANY BOARDS The Group Executive takes The Board has overall responsibility The Audit Committee takes ownership of the principal risks.
The Operating Company boards for our risk management, and for responsibility for overseeing the They are accountable for are accountable for identifying, the level of risk that the company effectiveness of risk management identifying, assessing and assessing and managing the risks is willing to take.
and internal control systems, managing the principal risks, and within their Operating Company.
including reviewing the process for reviewing and assessing the the company has put in place to Operating Company risks.
identify, assess and manage our risks.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 38 Strategic report leadership teams and functional leaders to identify the risks within the These presentations include the risk assessment for the Operating operations.
To identify our principal risks, discussions are held with the Company enabling the Audit Committee to monitor the risks and level Group Executive and non-executive directors.
The information from the of control in place.
Internal Audit also considers the risks at Operating operational assessments is also considered to arrive at our principal risks.
Company and Group level when developing the internal audit plan.
The table below shows how the principal risks link to the strategic pillars.
THIS YEARS UPDATE To Assess Our Risks, we consider the potential financial, reputational, Having followed the process set out above, and in light of a strategy regulatory or operational impact and probability that the risk may that remains unchanged, we have made no material changes to our materialise.
This helps us to assess the level of control we need to put in principal risks.
For each of the principal risks, we have included an assessment of However, as part of this years risk assessment, we did consider the the change in risk from last year.
This assessment is based on the external impact of the result of the EU referendum on our principal risks.
We have environment, the companys operations, and the impact of the controls established a Brexit working group to monitor developments and to keep in place.
We have considered whether the risk is increasing, decreasing or under review our principal risks and mitigations.
Whilst the principal risks remains unchanged.
currently remain unchanged, we recognise that Brexit may impact the To Manage Our Risks, ownership is assigned at all levels.
The Operating level of risk we face and this has been reflected in the statements made Company leadership team owns and is responsible for managing its regarding the change in risk.
Each leadership team is responsible for putting appropriate During the year, the Board has also considered the nature and level of controls in place and procedures to ensure that the controls are operating risk that we are prepared to accept to deliver our business strategies, effectively.
The same procedure is followed for our principal risks.
and has reviewed and approved our internal statement of risk appetite.
To ensure we effectively Monitor Our Risks, the principal risks are This describes desired levels of acceptable risk, supported by high level reviewed by the Group Executive and Board twice a year.
Changes qualitative risk statements, ensuring that risks are proactively managed to to the principal risks and mitigation strategies are considered as part the level agreed by the Board.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviews the risk The Corporate Governance report on page 52 gives further details on our assessment process and receives presentations from some of the governance processes.
Strategic pillars Unified Operational Retail & Unique Digital Efficiency Operations Offer Risk 1.
Unifying our offer and processes 3.
com 39 RISKS CONTINUED OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS The principal risks to delivering our strategy are set out on the following pages.
1 ORGANISATION OF THE COMPANY 2 UNIFYING OUR OFFER & PROCESSES Organising Kingfisher as a more unified company with a We fail to deliver the benefits of a more unified andunique unified customer offer, rather than a collection of individual offer and standardised activities and processes.
businesses, fails to deliver the anticipated benefits.
Strategic pillar Strategic pillar Unified & Unique Offer Unified & Unique Offer How our risks have changed How our risks have changed We believe our risk exposure has decreased since last As this project progresses the level of ranges impacted is year.
Progress has been made on the organisational increasing and our risk exposure increases.
design and we have a coordinated plan in place, with a series of planned changes.
How we manage and monitor therisk How we manage and monitor therisk Monthly tracking against key strategic milestones in place.
Teams with specialised roles to develop and take the best practice and the best products from across the company.
Monthly reporting to the plc Board, Group Executive, Operating Company Chief Executives and Strong project management process in place, including Finance Directors.
capturing lessons learned for continuous improvement.
Programme of strategic updates to the Group Executive Monthly tracking and review by the Offer & Supply Chain and the Board planned during the year.
board to identify and respond to potential risks.
Regular meetings with the Operating Company Chief Validation and governance processes in place for business Executives to monitor progress, ensure buy in and resolve case approvals of range and procurement decisions.
Clearly defined range and purchasing standards, principles A new process has been introduced to deliver the and methodology with guidance and support from transformational change, including tracking alignment, expert leads.
Performance of the ranges and brands is tracked and strategies updated accordingly.
A strong sourcing network which is focused on securing company buying opportunities.
Group implementation task force in place to steer the aspects of 1 merchandising solutions, 2 store implementation, 3 stock clearance, 4 supply and logistics.
Vendor management process in place which includes vendor selection, risk assessments, monitoring of vendor responses, and communication.
Systems and data improvements have been identified and are part of the unified IT platform implementation.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 40 Strategic report Key: Increasing No change Decreasing 3 PRICE COMPETITIVENESS 4 SUSTAINABILITY DELIVERY A lack of actual or perceived price competitiveness, We fail to deliver our sustainability targets due tonot particularly when compared tomore discount-based or integrating our sustainability plan into the day-to-day online competitors, would affect our ability tomaintain operations of the business.
market share or may result in a loss ofmarket share.
Strategic pillar Strategic pillar Unified & Unique Offer Unified & Unique Offer How our risks have changed How our risks have changed This continues to be a key area of focus for us.
This is While the risk exposure in this area continues toincrease an area of increasing risk as we continue to review our with our changing operations and increased legislation, ranges.
We are taking the necessary steps to stabilise we continue to take steps tomitigate this and we feel and reduce this risk.
that this results in the risk remaining unchanged.
How we manage and monitor therisk How we manage and monitor therisk A new pricing strategy and governance has been decided, Governance is overseen by the Group Sustainability where Offer & Supply Chain now sets recommended Committee, a sub-committee of the Group Executive.
prices on all unified ranges, securing the best selling price Capacity building and sharing of best practice e. g. annual whilst protecting margin.
network meetings of Operating Company sustainability Regular pricing studies undertaken with regards to the teams supported by monthly WebEx meetings.
market and price positioning aligned with competition.
Investment in pricing to reinforce and communicate our Engagement with external stakeholders to identify and value credentials.
Developing improved customer insight and analytical tools Regular review of company positions and policies to to optimise product ranging and pricing strategies.
More targeted use of online and mass media tools to Annual monitoring and reporting of sustainability Key communicate and reinforce price perception.
Performance Indicators KPIs and progress against targets to the Group Executive.
Ongoing work towards sustainability targets within Operating Companies, with annual progress reports signed off at Board level.
Development of sustainability plans and responsibilities within unified buying functions including Offer & Supply Chain procurement of goods for resale and Group Purchasing team procurement of Goods Not For Resale.
com 41 RISKS CONTINUED 5 DIGITAL AND FORMAT 6 INVESTMENT VALUE We fail to create a culture of innovation in our offer, format Our investments fail to deliver value to the company.
and digital channels to stimulate consumer spend and deliver the desired sales growth.
Strategic pillars Strategic pillar Unified & Unique Offer Operational Efficiency Digital Retail Operations How our risks have changed How our risks have changed We are exposed to risk in this area, particularly infailing We do not believe that our risk exposure has increased to keep pace within the digital area, however, we feel from last year, We continue to invest significant capital the steps we have continued to take this year have expenditure in line with our transformation plan and our ensured that we are better positioned to fulfil our controls have been enhanced in this area.
How we manage and monitor therisk How we manage and monitor therisk Digital strategy developed for the Group.
On-going assessment of opportunities for expansion, in terms of both online and bricks and mortar retail, across all Digital priorities programmes underway, Brilliant Basics and the territories and regions in which we operate.
Regular updates are given to the leadership team and Digital Forum in place to develop and deliver a unified all decisions are approved in line with our investment strategy for the Group.
Plans in place for a digital centre of excellence and digital Country and market entry strategies are based on the delivery, roles, skills and knowledge have been defined, application of a proven operating model and supported by resource recruitment underway.
the part of the business with the most relevant experience, The Easier unified IT programme is being rolled out across capabilities and capacity to successfully lead a market the Group to provide the systems and capabilities required entry strategy.
to deliver the foundations for the digital strategy.
Proposed acquisition or market entry strategies are subject Trial stores identified and guiding principles for these stores to challenge and due diligence from both the leadership being developed.
Due diligence exercises are supported by external and Retail concepts and common and unique customer independent advisers when necessary.
Following an acquisition, integration plans are prepared and monitored at Operating Company andcompany levels.
Existing management teams are supplemented with company resources to monitor and assist with the integration.
All investments are evaluated and monitored via our post-investment review methodology in place across the business.
The financial performance of investments is monitored ensuring early corrective action can be taken if needed.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 42 Strategic report Key: Increasing No change Decreasing 7 TECHNOLOGY DELIVERY 8 EFFICIENCY SAVINGS Our unified IT platform fails to deliver the requirements in line We fail to identify and maximise potential cost reductions and with the plan needed to enable support the delivery of the efficiency savings.
Strategic pillar Strategic pillar Digital Operational Efficiency How our risks have changed How our risks have changed The implementation within B&Q is nearing completion The project targets were based on an initial number andthe roll-out is commencing in the remainder of our of estimated savings.
A plan is now inplace to deliver Operating Companies.
Whilst we have confidence in the these savings.
solution and our roll-out process, the risk is increased for us as more of the estate is exposed to the implementation.
How we manage and monitor therisk How we manage and monitor therisk Change control procedure in place with the leadership Each Operating Company reviews its cost base and team having final approval on all functional changes.
identifies potential savings as part of the planning process.
The roll-out plan avoids a big bang implementation Identified savings are monitored as part of the budgeting approach, instead gradual increments are implemented and forecasting processes.
over a short period, ensuring dual running kept to a As part of our investment in IT we have identified a number minimum and allowing any issues to be identified and of benefits and benchmarked these externally.
One of our strategic pillars is Optimising our Operational Process in place to establish learning points and to ensure Efficiency which is driven by our Goods Not For Resale these are built into future roll outs.
Specific controls in this area are as follows: Agile ways of working are already in place and are currently A project team is in place to review categories of spend being enhanced.
across the company and not only identify cost savings A new process has been introduced to deliver the but also opportunities to work in a more effective way.
transformational change, including tracking alignment, Project teams are supported by a Steering Group whose dependencies and expectations.
responsibilities include monitoring plans, milestones Existing partners have skills that can support our needs in and the financial impact for each category.
Initial review committed to delivery of targets over the Retaining knowledge by ensuring the colleagues who first three years.
Year 1 has delivered earlier than plan, established the template are involved in the programme we have plans in place to deliver Year 2 and Year 3 is through the central team or via the local roll-out.
Applications are being provided in accordance with our Regular reporting and review against budget targets proposed three-tier architecture, which provides flexibility and forecast.
to areas where innovative ideas are most likely, tools are Procurement Excellence Programme typically agnostic and therefore can be interchanged in the launched to optimise key processes within the event this is required.
Digital IT team is integrated within the overall IT function with common release management and operations in place.
com 43 RISKS CONTINUED 9 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 10 HEALTH & SAFETY We do not make the necessary investment in our people We fail to maintain a safe environment for our customers and to ensure that we have the appropriate capacity, skills store colleagues, which results inamajor incident or fatality and experience.
that is directly attributable to a failure in our Health & Safety management systems.
Strategic pillars Strategic pillar Unified & Unique Offer Retail Operations Digital Operational Efficiency Retail Operations How our risks have changed How our risks have changed We continue to monitor and manage this risk closely.
Our Safety network is embedded in the business and While the risk exposure is significant, we have aclear continues to work with the Operating Companies to understanding of the scale of the change and plans in ensure our minimum standards are maintained during place to deliver the model.
How we manage and monitor therisk How we manage and monitor therisk The Chief People Officer is leading the work to improve our The Board reviews and challenges Health & Safety capabilities, ensuring we have effective KPIs and relevant performance, standards and targets across our reward structures.
Work is underway to redesign, where required, HR Group Health and Safety Committee sets the policy processes, policies and guidelines to ensure they are fit for and standards for the company.
purpose and in line with our ambition.
Initial focus will be Group Minimum Safety Standards with detailed on recruitment, reward, talent and engagement.
guidance for identified risks are in place across the Remuneration Committee oversees the reward policy.
Reviewing our engagement methodology to ensure we Dedicated Safety team and responsible Director in each of have an appropriate and timely engagement methodology our Operating Companies to ensure the Health & Safety which enables us to check across all staff our ability to policy is implemented and communicated.
drive the changes we need whilst being able to respond to The Group Safety Officer monitors compliance and any insights which may impact upon our duty of care as provides help and support to the Operating Companies.
Compliance is monitored across our Operating Companies Creating a strong pipeline of developing talent through through a programme of self-certification and Health & structured programmes including graduate and high Safety audits, with issues reported through local Audit potential schemes e. g. LEAD programme Leadership Committees and escalated to the leadership team, Group Exploration and Development for the development of Audit Committee or Board where necessary.
Nomination Committee oversees the Board composition and succession planning.
Continue to invest in development activities for our storebased colleagues and in how we support and recognise the role of our customer advisors across the organisation.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 44 Strategic report Key: Increasing No change Decreasing 11 REPUTATION 12 MACRO-ECONOMIC FACTORS Kingfishers reputation and brand are affected bya major Uncertainty surrounding the resilience of the global environmental or ethical failure, major corporate issue economy and increased geo-political volatility, may impact or crisis, asignificant corporate fraud or material nonboth consumer confidence and the long-term sustainability compliance with legislative or regulatory requirements and capabilities of our supplier base.
resulting in punitive or custodial procedures.
Strategic pillar Strategic pillar Retail Operations Retail Operations How our risks have changed How our risks have changed There is a potential for the risk to increase in this area This is an area of increasing risk.
There are still as we go forward with our transformation, however, we anumberof uncertainties relating to the UKs exit from are putting procedures in place tomitigate this risk and the EU and heightened geopolitical tensions in some therefore believe there isno change in the risk.
How we manage and monitor therisk How we manage and monitor therisk Both employees and suppliers working for or with The provision of supply chain finance programmes to Kingfisher must conduct themselves according to our support suppliers.
minimum standards of ethics and behaviours as defined Portfolio of international banking partners that provide by our Code of Conduct.
flexibility, access to funding and reliable local retail cash and Responsibility for compliance with our Code of Conduct card payment processing services.
rests with each Operating Company Chief Executive.
Diversification of cash holdings across a number of financial Appropriate resources are available to our Operating institutions with the strongest short-term credit rating.
Companies to ensure that both colleagues and suppliers An appropriate and prudent mix of hedging policies, cash are aware of, and comply with, the Code.
deposits and debt financing to minimise the impact of Legal teams in Group and each of our Operating foreign exchange currency volatility on the company.
Companies work and communicate together to form a Government Affairs team actively monitors the political and legal compliance network.
economic situations in the countries in which we operate or Communications teams at Kingfisher and each of may impact our operations.
our Operating Companies work together to form a Strategies in place to identify, monitor and aim to influence communications network.
changes to legislation which may impact the business.
Policies and procedures in place to support the The Government Affairs team oversees direct policy and environmental, ethical, fraud, crisis management, legislative political engagement with dedicated resource in the UK, and regulatory areas.
Specifically: France, Belgium, Poland and Russia, supported by local Competition law compliance messaging and training.
representatives in our Operating Companies and our membership of key business trade associations in every Working group in place to manage and oversee market.
the new European and Russian Data Protection legal requirements.
Actively monitoring the Brexit process via the Government Affairs team, Treasury, Finance and Tax teams alongside UK Anti-bribery training in place and all key individuals must and French Operating Companies.
Work has begun to consider the implications of Brexit, Whistleblowing hotline throughout the Group and all including presenting high level implications of this to the calls are followed up, including monitoring at the local Board.
As the situation becomes clearer and the mechanics Audit Committee level.
of an exit are known, more detailed plans will be prepared.
Disclosure policy and training in place.
com 45 RISKS CONTINUED VIABILITY STATEMENT GOING CONCERN In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate The directors confirm that, after reviewing expenditure Governance Code, the Directors have considered the commitments, expected cash flows and borrowing facilities, prospects of the company over a period longer than the they have a  that Kingfisher plc and 12 months required by the going concern provision.
the Kingfisher group of companies have adequate resources to continue in operational existence.
For thisreason they The Board has concluded that the period for this review should continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing be three years, in line with the usual business planning period.
Further details of the companys However, last year the company carried out a strategic review liquidityare available in the Financial Review on pages 30 to 37. covering five years and therefore this year the assessment has been carried out over the remaining four years to 2021.
STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL The Strategic Report is approved for and on behalf of the The Board has continued to monitor progress against the Board by: strategic review this year and has therefore been able to review sufficient information to form a reasonable expectation as to the companys longer-term viability.
The plan produced Vronique Laury as part of the strategic review provides consolidated plans Chief Executive Officer at both the company and Operating Company level.
The plans also consider the companys cash flows, committed 21 March 2017 funding and liquidity positions, forecast future funding and key financial metrics.
Sensitivity analysis of the main assumptions underlying the plans was also carried out.
The plan was approved by the Board and year one provides the basis for setting the financial budgets and KPIs that are subsequently used by the Board to monitor performance during the year.
Inaddition, as in previous years, the Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the business, including those that would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks are set out on pages 38 to 45.
Scenarios have been developed to test the companys resilience to the occurrence of these risks.
Stress testing has also been performed and taken into consideration for the assessment.
As a result of the steps taken above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the four-year period of the assessment.
