e t a g i t i M e t a u l a v E Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Risk Managing our risks Recognising the effect of uncertainty on our business means that we are in a better position to achieve our objectives, respond to emerging risks and create opportunities Risk management approach The risk management process The risk management framework The achievement of our six priorities depends on our ability to make sound, risk-informed Top Board of Directors down decisions.
Managing risk and uncertainty is an Maintains sound risk management and control systems, assesses principal risks and sets risk appetite integral part of doing business.
We manage increasing uncertainty as we respond to rapid Audit Committee changes in our industry and the wider politicalSets risk management framework, assesses effectiveness economic climate by maintaining a businessof risk and control systems and maintains oversight of risk monitoring wide understanding of our key risks and how to manage them.
This assists in delivering our Executive Committee promises to customers and shareholders.
Assesses principal and operational risks and undertakes regular monitoring of risk The risk management process Risk and Internal Audit Our risk management framework has been Coordinates risk management activity through review built to identify, evaluate, mitigate and monitor of risk registers, agreement of risk mitigation plans and preparation of risk reporting those risks which threaten the achievement of our six priorities.
The framework incorporates Operational Management both a top-down approach to identify the Reviews operational risks, operates controls and Bottom Groups principal risks and a bottom-up implements risk mitigation plans up approach to identify operational risks.
At the core of the risk management process are Where potential weaknesses are identified, These risks are further detailed on the the risk registers for each function.
These detail our Risk and Internal Audit teams work with following page.
the key operating risks and are used to assess the business to agree robust actions to This assessment of principal risks has resulted the gross level of risk likelihood and impact, mitigate these.
in some changes from those risks disclosed last mitigating controls, the resultant net level of risk The Audit Committee supports the Board year.
Specifically, a regulation risk has been and risk mitigation plans with dates and target in establishing a robust risk management added which includes Groceries Supply Code level of risk.
The risk registers are owned and of Practice GSCOP and other key areas of framework by approving the risk management managed by operational management, with process and reviewing the Groups principal risks compliance.
The supplier relationships risk has the head of each function certifying annually and key risk indicator reporting.
been removed as the key elements are now that these have been reviewed and action plans covered in other risk areas.
are in place where required.
The risk registers Read more on risk governance in the Audit are formally reviewed by a sub group of the The impact of the UKs exit from the EU Committee report on page 28.
has been considered and, whilst not seen Key areas of focus as a separate risk, it has been reflected in A Group risk register is reviewed and updated some of the other risk areas.
There are some Key activities in 2016 17 included the review and at least twice annually by the Executive uncertainties, particularly in relation to the update of the key controls framework ensuring Committee.
It details the Groups principal impact of imported food prices and potential that key controls are identified and assessed as risks, owners, the level of risk and mitigating changes to access to EU labour: however, there part of the review of risk registers.
The Executive Committees assessment has been no material change at this stage to the risk appetite framework has also been developed.
of these risks takes into account the operating Groups residual risk profile.
The focus in 2017 18 will be establishing the risks, strategic risks, external factors and any rotational monitoring of key controls and aligning emerging risks.
The principal risks are monitored Certain risks are inherent in the business and are reporting and ways of working to risk appetite.
every month by the Executive Committee using fundamental to the achievement of all of our key risk indicator reporting, supplemented by key priorities.
Other risks could directly impact Principal risks more detailed reviews as appropriate.
the achievement of certain key priorities.
The Directors have carried out a robust The Risk and Internal Audit function facilitates assessment of the principal risks facing the the preparation of both functional and Group Viability statement Group, including those that would threaten its risk registers.
It supports the Audit Committee For more information, see page 30 business model, future performance, solvency in reviewing the effectiveness of our risk or liquidity.
management and internal control systems.
17 y f i t n e d I r o t i n o M Strategic report Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Risk continued Principal risks The principal risks have been identified following a robust assessment by the Directors Key changes in the year include the introduction of a regulation risk and the consideration of the impact that an exit from the EU would have on the business.
The risks, which are shown in no particular order, are disclosed along with their alignment to the six priorities and the movement in residual risk during the year.
Residual risk is stated after considering the actions taken by management in response to new and emerging issues impacting the identified risks.
RISK TYPE DESCRIPTION MITIGATION There is a risk that a major incident, We have recovery plans in place covering our stores, depots, sites and offices: Business such as a natural disaster or strike These plans include, where appropriate, secondary locations which would be used interruption action, could cause significant as backup in case of an incident: disruption to business operations.
# A Crisis Management Group is in place to oversee these plans and to manage and The Groups response must be respond to any major incidents: and appropriate to minimise disruption and reputational damage.
We conduct supplier risk assessments and have contingency plans in place, where possible, to manage the risk of loss of supply.
The Grocery sector continues to have We review and actively manage our key price-points, sales proposition, and Competitiveness high levels of competitive activity, promotional and marketing campaigns such as Morrisons Makes It which 1 particularly in relation to price and emphasises our point of difference: enhancement of service.
The impact of We work closely with our suppliers to build joint business plans, ensuring a the EU referendum on exchange rates competitive customer offer and a resilient supply base: has affected some commodity prices We continually review our range and quality and respond to customer feedback: and we need to remain competitively for example, The Best premium own brand range was launched during 2016: priced through these fluctuations.
Competitor pricing positions and market trends are reviewed on a weekly basis: and If we do not engage with our suppliers Our strong balance sheet and proven ability to generate cash will allow us to further and effectively manage our trade invest in our proposition.
plan to remain competitive, there is a risk that we will not achieve our financial targets.
There is a risk that we dont meet the One of our six priorities is to serve customers better and we have a range of Customer needs of our customers in respect activities to support that see page 6 : 1 2 3 4 6 of price, range, quality and service.
A large-scale programme of customer listening groups is in place to gain a deep We need to be responsive to changes understanding of what our customers want and, where we can improve, these have in customer confidence and trends informed key activities such as our store Fresh Look programme: resulting from changes to the economy We closely monitor research on customer perceptions and respond quickly where and the UKs exit from the EU.
If we possible with support from a senior level.
For example with a steering group to dont provide the shopping trip that address any particular risks arising from the UKs exit from the EU: and customers want, we could lose sales We have worked with wholesale partners to make Morrisons products accessible to and market share.
more customers and continue with plans to further expand the geography covered by our Online offering.
A security breach leading to loss The Group has an Information Management Security Group which has the Data of customer, colleague or Group responsibility for overseeing data management practices, policies, awareness # confidential data is a key aspect of this and training: principal risk.
A major data security Information security policies and procedures are in place, including encryption, breach could lead to significant network security, systems access and data protection: reputational damage and fines.
This is supported by ongoing monitoring, reporting and rectification of The risk environment is challenging, with vulnerabilities: and increased levels of cybercrime and the The Group is taking steps to ensure compliance with the GDPR which applies forthcoming General Data Protection from May 2018.
18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 RISK TYPE DESCRIPTION MITIGATION The main areas of this principal risk are the The Groups Treasury function is responsible for the forward planning and Financial availability of funding and management management of funding, interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and and treasury of cash flow to meet business needs, certain commodity price risks see note 7.
They report to the Treasury fluctuations in commodity prices and Committee and operate within clear policies and procedures which are # foreign exchange rate movements.
approved by the Board: There are governance processes in place to control purchases in foreign currency and management of commodity prices: and For livestock and produce, we track prices and forecasts and enter into long term contracts where appropriate to ensure stability of price and supply.
There is a risk that the products we sell Strict standards and monitoring processes are in place to manage food safety Food safety are unsafe or not of the integrity that and product integrity throughout the Group and our supply chain: and product our customers expect.
It is of utmost Regular assessments of our suppliers and own manufacturing facilities are integrity importance to us and to the confidence undertaken by a dedicated team to ensure adherence to standards: that customers have in our business that # Our vertical integration model gives us control over the integrity of a significant we meet the required standards.
If we proportion of our fresh food: do not do this it could impact business reputation and financial performance.
Management regularly monitors food safety and product integrity performance and compliance as well as conducting horizon scanning to anticipate emerging issues: and The process is supported by external accreditation and internal training programmes.
The main aspect of this principal risk is of We have clear policies and procedures detailing the controls required to manage Health injury or harm to customers or colleagues.
health and safety risks across the business: and safety Failure to prevent incidents could impact An ongoing training programme is in place for front-line operators business reputation and customer # and management: confidence and lead to financial penalties.
A programme of health and safety audits is in place across our stores, depots, sites and offices with resources dedicated to manage this risk effectively: and Management regularly monitors health and safety performance and compliance.
We have competitive employment policies, remuneration and Our colleagues are key to the achievement People of our plan, particularly as we make benefits packages: # changes to the business.
There is a A Group-wide reward framework is in place and roles are evaluated against risk that if we fail to attract, retain or an external framework, driving stronger consistency of rewards: motivate talented colleagues, we will not Our training and development programmes are designed to give colleagues provide the quality of service that our the skills they need to do their job and support their career aspirations: customers expect.
Line managers conduct regular talent reviews and processes are in place Business change and the challenging to identify and actively manage talent see more in our Colleagues section trading environment may impact on on page 12 : colleagues leading to an increase in this Colleague engagement surveys, listening sessions and networking forums are risk.
There is uncertainty on potential used to understand and respond to our colleagues: and changes to employment regulations when the UK leaves the EU and this could A senior level steering group is in place to monitor and take action on any result in a retention and recruitment risk, particular people risks relating to the UKs exit from the EU.
particularly at some manufacturing sites.
We have a GSCOP compliance framework in place including training for relevant Regulation The Group operates in an environment colleagues and processes to monitor compliance: governed by strict regulations including # GSCOP, competition, employment, health We have a senior level working group in place to review and improve GSCOP and safety, and regulations over the Groups compliance activity: products.
There is uncertainty on any We have a channel for suppliers to provide feedback and a Code potential changes to regulations relating to Compliance Officer: the UKs exit from the EU.
In all cases, the We have a senior level steering group in place to monitor and take action on any Board takes its responsibilities very seriously potential regulatory change resulting from the UKs exit from the EU: and and recognises that breach of regulation can We have training, policies and legal guidance in place to support compliance lead to reputational damage and financial with Competition Law and other regulations.
Key Link to six priorities 1 5 Increase in residual risk To be more competitive To simplify and speed up the organisation 2 6 No change To serve customers better To make the core supermarkets strong again 3 # Decrease in residual risk Find local solutions Underpins all six priorities 4 New risk in the current year Develop popular and useful services 19
