STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee UNCERTAINTIES has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control during the period.
In The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for system of risk management and internal control and for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board confirms that the business and the policies and procedures by which there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating these risks are managed.
Management is responsible and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, for the identification and evaluation of significant risks which has been in place for the period and up to the applicable to their areas of the business together with date of approval of these financial statements, and the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may However, such systems are designed to manage rather be associated with a variety of internal or external than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business sources including control breakdowns, disruption in objectives, and can provide only reasonable and information systems, competition, natural catastrophe not absolute assurance against material misstatement and regulatory requirements, and also by reference or loss.
to the Groups five year strategic and financial plan.
In order to help manage these risks and uncertainties, During the period the Board has placed significant focus the Board has delegated responsibility for monitoring on risk management.
As such, during the period the the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal Audit Committee engaged  control and risk management to the Audit Committee.
LLP PwC to undertake a detailed review of the In addition, the Group has established a Risk Groups risk framework and internal audit function via Committee that includes the Finance Director and in-depth interviews with senior management and key various members of the Executive Committee and heads stakeholders across the Group.
The Risk Committee reviews the risk The Group has an independent internal audit management and control process in each key business function whose findings are regularly reviewed by area on an ongoing basis, and provides a platform for the Board and the Executive Committee.
The Audit management to drive improvement across the business.
Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of The Risk Committee considers: the internal audit activities.
The Chief Operating Officer provides the Board the authority, resources and co-ordination of those with monthly financial information which includes key involved in the identification, assessment and performance indicators.
management of significant risks faced by the Group: The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the response to the significant risks which have been the principal risks facing the Group, including those that identified by management and others: would threaten its business model, future performance, the maintenance of a controlled environment solvency or liquidity.
Although not exhaustive, the directed towards the proper management of risk: and following list highlights some of the principal risks the annual reporting procedures.
identified by the Group which are not shown in order of importance.
Additional risks and uncertainties not Having considered the key risks inherent in the presently known, or currently considered to be less business and the system of control necessary to manage material, may also have an adverse effect on the Group: such risks, the Finance Director presents the Risk Committees findings to the Board on a regular basis.
In addition, the Chief Executive reports to the Board on changes in the business and the external environment which affect significant risks.
20 STRATEGIC REPORT ISSUE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION STRATEGIC Brand and The strength and reputation of the Ted Baker We carefully consider each new partner with whom RISKS Reputational Risk brand is important to the business.
Such partners are subject to due risk that our brand may be undermined or diligence and are monitored on an ongoing basis damaged by our actions or those of our to ensure they remain appropriate to the brand.
Our dedicated social media team closely monitors social media channels and addresses any reputational issues in accordance with our protocol.
Development of Failure in growing the international business We perform extensive due diligence on all Overseas Markets through franchise operations, licencees and potential partners and territories and to assess e-commerce.
Risk that the Group fails to our appropriate routes to market.
We operate prioritise the right territories or investment or fails in a range of international markets, which helps to support these markets with systems and supply to mitigate over-reliance and exposure to any chain capability.
Fashion and Design As with all fashion brands there is a risk that our We maintain a high level of market awareness offer will not satisfy the needs of our customers and an understanding of consumer trends and or we fail to correctly identify trends in an fashion to ensure that we remain able to respond increasingly competitive market, resulting in to changes in consumer preference.
We use lower sales and reduced market share.
customer data to develop targeted marketing and promotional activity.
We continue to focus on product design, quality and attention to detail.
External Events External events may occur which may affect the These risk factors are monitored closely on an global, economic and financial environment in ongoing basis ensuring that we are prepared which we operate.
These events can affect our for and can react to changes in the external suppliers, customers and partners, increasing our environment, allowing us to reduce our exposure cost base and adversely affecting our revenue.
The geographic spread of our business and supply chain also helps to mitigate these risks.
Brexit The UKs decision to leave the European The Group and its external advisers continue to Union has increased the level of economic carefully monitor the potential impact of Brexit.
Our presence in a range of international markets helps mitigate the impact of this risk.
OPERATIONAL Supply Chain If garments do not reach us on time and to Our supply chain is diversified across a number RISKS specification, there is a risk of a loss of revenue of suppliers in different regions, reducing reliance and customer confidence.
Over-reliance on key on a small number of key suppliers.
Suppliers are suppliers could also have an impact on treated as key business partners and we work our business.
closely with them to mitigate these risks.
The Group continues to improve and evolve its supply chain.
Infrastructure There is a risk of operational problems, including The business continuity plan is constantly disruption to the infrastructure that supports our reviewed and updated by the Risk Committee.
business, which may lead to a loss of revenue, In addition, business disruption is covered by data and inventory.
Social Responsibility We are committed to operating in a responsible A subcommittee of the Executive Committee has and sustainable manner as regards our supply been tasked with overseeing specific areas of our chain, environment and community.
If we social responsibility agenda.
Teds Conscience fail to operate in a manner that supports our Team is responsible for monitoring this agenda philosophy, this could damage the trust and and ensuring our practices fall in line with it.
More confidence of our stakeholders.
information is set out on page 24 Sustainability.
Cyber Security The business is reliant on sensitive data being The Group has invested in additional specialist transmitted electronically, and is subject IT resources.
to threats from hacking or viruses or other The continual upgrading of security equipment unauthorised data breaches.
and software also mitigates these risks.
There is the possibility of unintentional loss of Tightly controlled security controls and data controlled data by authorised users.
recovery and business continuity plans have been implemented with the support of specialist third parties.
21 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 STRATEGIC REPORT POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION ISSUE OPERATIONAL IT Infrastructure and The Groups IT infrastructure is key to the The Groups IT Steering Committee meets on a RISKS Implementation operation of its business.
two weekly basis to review the implementation CONTINUED of ERP and all other major IT projects.
This Committee We are in the process of implementing Microsoft comprises members of the Executive Committee Dynamics AX across the business.
With any and is advised by external professional advisers.
project of this scale, there is a risk of a poorly The IT Steering Committee has established managed implementation or take-up of new a Design Authority charged with overseeing systems, which could lead to business disruptions.
the scheduling of the implementation of any This, and the implementation of other new new system.
business systems, has potential to impact Robust change management and professional interdependent systems.
project managers recruited to oversee the project team which includes key business stakeholders.
People Our performance is linked to the performance of Identification and retention of key talent is our people and, in particular, to the leadership important and we take active steps to provide of key individuals.
The loss of a key individual stability and security to the key team.
We carry whether at management level or within a out an annual benchmarking review to ensure specialist skill set could have a detrimental that we provide competitive remuneration and affect on our operations and, in some cases, the total reward packages.
We also utilise long-term creative vision for the brand.
incentive schemes to retain key talent.
Employee engagement through our culture and environment strengthen the commitment of team members and has a positive impact on our attrition rate.
Succession plans are in place and have been reviewed during the period.
Regulatory and We operate in a range of international markets The Group closely monitors changes in the legal Legal Framework and must comply with various regulatory and regulatory framework within the markets in requirements.
Failure to do so could lead to which it operates.
We work closely with specialist financial penalties and or reputational damage.
advisers in each market to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations.
Infringement of the Unauthorised use of the Groups designs, The Group, with its external advisers, rigorously Groups Intellectual trademarks and other intellectual property rights manages and defends its intellectual property.
Property could damage the Ted Baker brand and the The Group deals with counterfeit goods in Groups reputation.
accordance with its robust enforcement strategy.
FINANCIAL Currency, Interest, In the course of its operations, we are exposed The Groups policies for dealing with these RISKS Credit and to these financial risks which, if they were to risks are discussed in detail in Note 23 to the Counterparty Credit arise, may have material financial impacts on financial statements.
Financial Covenants under the Groups credit facilities Foreign Exchange The Group is exposed to fluctuations in the The Groups Foreign Exchange strategy is exchange rates of key currencies.
closely managed by the Finance Director and the Groups external advisers.
The Group has adopted a hedging policy to mitigate short-term foreign exchange risk.
22 STRATEGIC REPORT VIABILITY STATEMENT Groups cash flows, headroom, covenants and other key In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate financial ratios having stress tested the potential impact Governance Code dated September 2014 the Code of these scenarios, both individually and in combination.
the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group Sensitivity analysis was also used to stress test the over a five year period, taking into account the Groups Groups strategic plan and to confirm that sufficient current position and the potential impact of the principal headroom would remain available under the Groups risks documented above.
The Board considers that under each The Group operates a five year plan, which is scenario tested the mitigating actions would be effective updated and reviewed annually by the Board.
Within and sufficient to ensure the continued viability of the the five year plan, detailed scenario planning and stress Group.
For the reasons stated above, based on the testing has been carried out over a five year period.
robust assessment undertaken, the Directors confirm The Directors therefore consider the five year period they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will to 30 January 2022 to be the appropriate period to be able to continue in operation, and meet its liabilities assess the viability and prospects of the Group with a as they fall due, over the period of assessment.
The Directors assessment has been further GOING CONCERN enhanced by analysing the current and future risks, The Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets controls and assurances available, resulting in a clear and long-term projections.
After making enquiries, picture of the risk profile across the whole business.
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the The principal risks, including specific operational risks, Company and the Group have adequate resources to that could affect the future viability of the Group over continue in operational existence for twelve months the next five years are identified on pages 20 to 22 in from the approval of these accounts.
For this reason, Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in In making this assessment the Directors have preparing the financial statements.
considered the resilience of the Group to the occurrence of these risks in severe but plausible scenarios, taking into account the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
In addition, the Board has considered the impact on the 23 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17
