S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s Principal Risks and Uncertainties Good risk management is an integral part of planning and achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board and the senior management team are collectively responsible for managing risks and uncertainties across the Group.
In determining the Groups risk appetite and how risks are managed, the Board, Audit and Risk Committee and the senior management team look to ensure an appropriate balance is achieved which enables the Group to achieve its strategic and operational objectives and facilitates the long-term success of the Group.
The Groups Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups risk management framework and ensuring that it enables the Committee and the Board to carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board reviews the Groups most significant risks at least twice a year, in addition to periodically challenging the Executive Directors in relation to any specific concerns and as to what they consider to be the risks which would keep them awake at night.
Further details of our risk management framework are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out below, together with details of how these are currently mitigated: Risk Type Description Mitigation The Group continues to generate Regular customer surveys and market research supported by Market almost all of its revenue from the experienced marketing resource.
sale of greeting cards, dressings Significant additional investment in and collaboration between our and gifts.
Although the Group has a in-house design and buying teams during the year.
Since 2016 proven track record of understanding Investment in our merchandising team to improve customer the needs of our customers, trends shopping experience.
and tastes can change, often quite Developing multiple sales channels, particularly online, to respond to quickly, and there is a risk that we changing consumer demands.
may not be able to effectively predict Strong focus on product innovation with designs continuously and respond to changing consumer refreshed through key trading seasons and new product ranges demands and market trends which being introduced.
could affect our sales, performance Detailed sales analysis guides design and purchasing decisions.
Weekly trading meetings driving better real time decision-making.
Vertically integrated model helps the Group position itself to quickly respond to changes in its markets.
Competition in the greeting card, Sustained investment in the assets, systems and people supporting Competition dressings and gifting sectors our vertically integrated model which underpins our competitive continues to intensify particularly position.
during key seasons like Christmas.
In-house design and print operations help maintain and improve the Since 2016 Product choice and quality, store quality and value of our offering.
location and design, inventory, price Strong focus on innovation and product development helps refresh and customer service remain key and strengthen our proposition each year.
We All key elements of competitor activity, including new store openings compete with a wide range of retailers and market entrants, closely monitored with selective localised including new entrants and, as strategies used to remain competitive.
the quality and range of products Rigorous store selection process to ensure our store opening we offer has grown, our competitor programme enables us to maintain our competitive position.
Significant Continuous review of individual store performance and customer competitors include national retailers trends and behaviours supported by more targeted externally who enjoy strong brand presence facilitated customer research.
recognition, financial resources and purchasing economies of scale, any of which could give them a competitive advantage.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 23 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Type Description Mitigation Card Factory and Getting Personal Rigorous protection of our intellectual property, and greater Our Brands are the Groups key brand assets.
guidance and education for our buying team when buying third Protecting and enhancing them party product.
If we Regular reviews of customer trends and competitor activity.
Since 2016 are unable to protect them or we Customer surveys address brand perception with specialist fail to sustain our appeal to our marketing resource now supporting activity driven from these.
customers, our reputation and our Product innovation and closer collaboration between our design and sales and future prospects could be buying teams to ensure were giving customers the quality and value jeopardized.
they expect from Card Factory.
Development of our dedicated quality control function that works with our design, buying and print teams and third-party suppliers to ensure product quality and safety.
The Groups four pillar strategy New CEO has provided further insight and experience in the Business has been developed with the aim continued development of the Groups strategy.
Strategy of achieving long-term value for We regularly monitor the implementation of, and performance our shareholders.
If the strategy against, strategy both at Board and senior management team level.
and vision for the business are not Business objectives, and how we prioritise and communicate these Since 2016 properly developed, communicated are set in the context of our four pillar strategy.
or delivered, the Groups performance Continued investment in the senior management team to ensure the could suffer.
Strategy implementation Group has the capacity and capability to implement its strategy.
requires careful prioritisation of Competitor analysis, customer research and sales data used to bring resource to ensure a focus on those focus to the development of our retail proposition.
initiatives from which the business will benefit most.
The Group has an extensive store Maintained database of new store opportunities.
Store network across a wide range of Additional specialist resource recruited into the property team to Portfolio locations and demographics but, in implement acquisition strategy.
Expansion line with our strategy, further profit Further development of our appraisal process for new store growth depends in part on us being locations including store formats with the benefit of the additional able to find good locations for new insight and experience of our new Property Director.
Managing the competition for Since 2016 Commercial analysis conducted on new stores to assess potential retail sites and achieving acceptable sales and profitability taking into account the number of other Card commercial terms are key to our Factory and competitor stores in close proximity.
Commercial developments monitored in the real estate market and our strategy is adjusted where a change may adversely affect a Supporting our growing stores potential profitability.
portfolio through our operational Groups operational capabilities support the current portfolio infrastructure, financial systems and expansion strategy in the UK.
managerial controls and procedures is critical to the Groups success.
Third-parties, including many in the Strong relationships with key suppliers.
Sourcing Far East, supply nearly all of our Continuously developing and broadening supplier base providing Supply non-card products, our handcrafted greater flexibility and reducing reliance on individual suppliers.
Chain greeting cards and certain raw Periodic inspections and third-party facilitated technical audits materials.
If they fail to satisfy orders of factories operated by major suppliers with clear actions where it may affect the business or result weaknesses are identified.
in us having to seek alternative Since 2016 Sedex membership the Supplier Ethics Data Exchange combined suppliers, who may not be able to with a programme of standalone ethical audits of key suppliers.
We are also exposed Dedicated product quality control function which is responsible for to changes in supplier dynamics and the testing and inspection of products.
increases in raw material prices.
Our During 2015, both Sportswift Limited which trades as Card supplier profile means we are subject Factory and Printcraft Limited, obtained Forest Stewardship to the risks of manufacturing and Council FSC certification.
importing of goods from overseas including freight costs and duty, as well as supply interruption and reputational risk arising from supplier labour practices.
24 24 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s Risk Type Description Mitigation The Groups Four Pillar strategy On joining, Karen Hubbard, undertook an extensive tailored Key and long-term success depend on induction and handover programme with support from the former Personnel our ability to: develop and manage CEO, the CFO and the rest of the Board and senior management succession plans for the Groups team.
senior management team: sustain Management development has been supported using external Since 2016 and develop our senior management agencies and, in some cases, one-to-one business mentors.
team and employees: and to build our Succession plans for the whole of the senior management team are teams where this supports our growth being developed and the succession of our CFO is being managed and ensures we have appropriate by the Nomination Committee.
capability and capacity to pursue our The Group has recruited a new Human Resources Director who will strategic goals.
oversee the development of the Groups wider people strategy.
The Groups Remuneration policy set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 71 is designed to incentivise senior management and promote the long-term success of the Group but will be reviewed in light of recent developments regarding remuneration strategy.
Delivery of the Groups strategic objectives and business performance are currently and will remain central to any remuneration policy the Group adopts with remuneration structured to align the interests of the senior management team and shareholders.
As the Group seeks both to increase A dedicated Programme Director has been recruited to manage Managing scale and improve efficiency, the some of the important projects the Group is pursuing and to ensure Change number of business initiatives it change is being managed alongside business as usual priorities and wishes to undertake also increases.
takes into account capacity within the relevant teams.
This introduces a risk of management Members of the Board have buddied up with members of the senior Since 2016 overload and business as usual management team to provide additional mentoring and support.
NEW Specialist resource is supporting the Groups marketing activities and online development.
The Groups senior management team carefully prioritise projects and initiatives to ensure they support delivery of the Groups strategy.
Board receives regular updates and has the opportunity to challenge the initiation or speed of progression of major projects.
Our funding arrangements and the Current financing arrangements and Group cash generation continue Finance and fact that we source the majority of to provide the Group with appropriate financial support and cash Treasury our non-card merchandise, as well resources for the delivery of its strategy.
as handmade cards and certain Treasury management processes and policy in place to govern cash raw materials, from suppliers in management and manage exposure to foreign exchange and interest Since 2016 the Far East mean that a lack of rate fluctuations including those resulting from the Brexit decision.
appropriate levels of covenant Foreign exchange and interest rate hedging contracts pre-approved headroom and or cash resources in directly by the CFO and communicated to the Board monthly.
the Group, or significant variations Treasury strategy reviewed and approved annually by the Board in interest or exchange rates, could with periodic consultation between the CFO and the Chairman of the have an impact on our operations and Audit and Risk Committee.
The CFOs Review on The Groups programmes within its Business Efficiencies strategic page 20 sets out in further detail the pillar have been reviewed to ensure opportunities for cost savings risk to the Group of recent exchange are being robustly pursued.
rate fluctuations after the UKs Further details of the Groups financial position are described in decision to leave the European Union.
the CFOs Review on pages 21 and 22 and the Groups viability statement is on page 77 of the Directors Report.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25 25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Type Description Mitigation Any major disruption to any of the The Groups crisis management arrangements continue to be Business parts of our vertically integrated developed and have been reviewed by our internal audit services Continuity business model, in particular to provider Deloitte LLP with our Audit and Risk Committee providing our printing facility, Printcraft, our further guidance to the senior management team.
distribution centre or our design Crisis management arrangements will be supplemented by periodic Since 2016 studio, could severely affect our scenario testing which will allow the Groups arrangements to evolve ability to supply our stores.
ensuring they meet the needs of the business.
Stock held across multiple locations to mitigate the risk of a Disruption to any of these functions catastrophic event at any one of our storage facilities.
could also force us to use third-party Group IT systems are subject to specific disaster recovery providers which could be expensive arrangements.
The Group also maintains appropriate business interruption insurance cover.
The Group is subject to legislation Policies and procedures are in place governing behaviours in all key Compliance and regulations in areas including areas, some which address mandatory requirements and others corporate governance, the listing and adopted voluntarily.
trading of our shares, employment Senior management team members manage compliance of the Since 2016 including that relating to the Groups key operational teams with escalation and disciplinary action introduction of the new National where needed.
Living Wage, product quality, Groups General Counsel and Company Secretary oversees trading, the environment, health and compliance with the support of external advisers.
Senior management safety, bribery and data protection.
team members liaise with him to ensure issues are identified and managed.
Any failure to comply with these could Impact of new legislation on the Group is monitored with changes lead to penalties, fines, damages, implemented where required, eg Market Abuse Regulations.
claims or reputational damage which could impact the financial performance of the business.
Reliable, resilient and efficient IT Since their appointment, our internal audit services provider Deloitte Information systems, including those supporting LLP, have largely focused their work on the Groups use of technology Technology our retail operations both physical and the structure and resources supporting this.
and online, our head office function Detailed reviews of the Groups point of sale technology systems and and our in-house design and printing the resilience of our IT systems, including their ability to withstand Since 2016 operations, are important to the cyber-threats, have been carried out by Deloitte with actions and Group.
recommendations being monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee including further investment in additional cyber-security measures.
Failure to adequately develop and The Group has conducted a detailed review of its IT strategy and maintain these or any prolonged governance.
system performance problems or Further investment has been made in the systems supporting both the cyber-attack could seriously affect Card Factory and Getting Personal trading websites.
our ability to implement the Groups Key IT risks are documented and agreed service levels for recovery of strategy and to carry on the business.
key business systems are in place.
The Groups online presence, via our Investment in the management team at Getting Personal.
Online Getting Personal and Card Factory New team reviewing Card Factory online proposition and marketing transactional websites, remains a activity supporting this.
relatively new and developing part Online focused team put in place within the Groups design studio.
Since 2016 of the business but is one of our four Continued investment in offering via in-house web development team.
Analysing various data transactional, industry, competitor, etc to ensure we respond appropriately to changing customer tastes.
Our websites operate in a very Mobile sites have evolved to reflect evolution in consumer behaviour competitive market with relatively low to new channels.
If they do not evolve to account for changing customer tastes and the different devices being used by customers to make online purchases, they may not deliver the anticipated revenue growth.
This may also affect our reputation and customer perception of our brands.
26 26 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
