Strategic Report Principal Risks Any business undertaking will involve some risk with many risk factors common to any business no matter what segment it operates in.
The Directors acknowledge however that certain risks and uncertainties are more specific to the Group and the markets in which its businesses operate.
The principal risk factors are assessed below: Risk and Impact Mitigating Activities Key Suppliers and Brands The retail fascias offer a proposition that contains a mixture of third party and own brand product.
The Group seeks to ensure it is not too reliant on a small number of athletic brands by constantly The Group maintains and is dependent on long term supplier relationships whose loss could adversely impact adding new brands to its offer and by offering a stable of evolving own brands.
Where possible, the Groups retail fascias also work in partnership with the third party brands in The retail fascias are heavily dependent on the products and the brands themselves being desirable to the their business on the design of bespoke product which is then exclusive to the Groups fascias.
customer if the revenue streams are to grow.
Therefore, the Group needs all of its third party and own brands, Further, the Group continues to actively seek additional brands which it can either own or including brands licensed exclusively to it, to maintain their design and marketing prominence to sustain license exclusively.
The Group is also subject to the distribution policies operated by some third party brands both in terms of the fascias which can sell the ranges and, more specifically, the individual towns or retail centres.
Intellectual Property The Groups trademarks and other intellectual property rights are critical in maintaining the value of the The Group works with third party organisations to ensure that the Groups intellectual property is registered Groups own brands.
Ensuring that the Groups businesses can use these brands exclusively is critical in in all relevant territories.
The Group also has a well-established Profit Protection team which actively works providing a point of differentiation to our customers and without this exclusivity we believe that footfall into to prevent counterfeit product being passed off as legitimate.
the stores, visits to our websites and ultimately conversion of these visits into revenues would all be reduced.
Retail Property Factors The retail landscape has seen significant changes in recent years with a number of new developments Wherever possible, the Group will seek a number of protections when agreeing to new property leases: opened and a high volume of retail units becoming vacant.
New leases taken out for a maximum period of 10 years.
The Group can be exposed where it has committed itself to a long lease in a location which, as a result Break option part way through the lease.
of a more recent retail development, is no longer as attractive to the customer leading to reduced footfall Capped rent reviews.
and potentially lower sales volumes.
Rents which flex with turnover in the store.
When the Group determines that the current store performance is unsatisfactory then an assessment is made on whether the Group wants to continue trading in that location.
If it does then the landlord is approached to see whether we can reach an agreement on a reduction in the rent or a change to a turnover based rent.
If it is considered that the best solution is to exit the store completely then the landlord is approached with a view to a complete surrender of the lease.
If this is not possible then the Group would alternatively seek to assign the lease or sublet it to another retailer.
The Group is mindful of general economic factors and the already wide availability of retail units consequent to the bankruptcy of other retail businesses.
Assigning the lease or finding a sub-tenant is not without risk because if the incoming retailer fails then the liability to pay the rent usually reverts to the head lessee.
The Group monitors the financial condition of the assignees closely for evidence that the possibility of a store returning is more than remote and makes a provision for the return of stores if this risk looks probable.
The Board reviews the list of assigned leases regularly and is comfortable that appropriate provisions have been made where there is a probable risk of the store returning to the Group under privity of contract and, other than as disclosed in note 21, they are not aware of any other stores where there is a possible risk of these stores returning.
Seasonality The Groups core retail business is highly seasonal.
Historically, the Groups most important trading period The business monitors stock levels and manages the peaks in demand constantly with regular sales rein terms of sales, profitability and cash flow in its Sports Fashion fascias has been the Christmas season.
Lower than expected performance in this period may have an adverse impact on results for the full year, which may cause excess inventories that are difficult to liquidate.
Economic Factors As with other retailers and distributors into retail businesses, the demand for the Groups products is The Group seeks to manage this risk by offering a highly desirable and competitively priced product influenced by a number of economic factors, notably interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, range, which is highly differentiated from that of the Groups competitors.
employment levels and ultimately, disposable incomes.
57 57 57 Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Principal Risks continued Risk and Impact Mitigating Activities Brexit Following the UKs vote to leave the EU in June 2016, the UKs future trading relationship with the remaining There are options to mitigate this risk but they come at a price with additional significant fixed costs, members of the EU is uncertain.
In particular, it is possible that the UK may face tariffs when trading with a requirement for suppliers to take action and likely operational inefficiencies.
However, the Group is the EU and lose access to other Free Trade Agreements FTAs that it currently benefits from by being part developing a comprehensive strategy to mitigate the risks posed by Brexit including: of the EU.
Investigating options on customs warehousing.
The majority of the Groups retail stores across Europe are supplied with stock by the Groups principal Working with branded suppliers to review the trading terms with which our retail businesses are supplied.
Consequently, the current business model requires access to these Investigating options on a separate European hub.
European markets and various FTAs to be maintained at no worse than current levels.
As per page 63, the Group aims to protect the anticipated US Dollar requirement at rates at, or above, Further, Brexit has had a negative impact on the rate at which the Group can source goods which are priced the buying rate through appropriate foreign exchange instruments.
or sourced in US Dollars and Euros.
Consequently, Brexit and its associated risks will remain high on the Board's Agenda as the changes to be negotiated become clearer.
Reliance on Non-UK Manufacturers The majority of both third party branded product and the Groups own branded product is sourced outside of The Group works with its suppliers to ensure that the products being sourced satisfy increasingly stringent the UK.
The Group is therefore exposed to the risks associated with international trade and transport as well laws and regulations governing issues of health and safety, packaging and labelling and other social and as different legal systems and operating standards.
Whilst the Group can manage the risk in the supply chain environmental factors.
on its own and licensed products, it has little control over the supply chain within the third party brands.
As Compliance is monitored by the Groups Head of Quality and Ethics who has extensive experience in such, the Group is exposed to events which may not be under its control.
Adequate levels of stock are maintained to cover short periods of supply delay.
IT Systems The Group relies on its IT systems and networks and those of the banks and the credit card companies to The IT team continues to be strengthened.
Further, a bespoke training scheme is in place to train already service its retail customers all year round.
highly skilled IT operatives in the operating system behind the core ERP system.
The principal enterprise system continues to be ideally suited to the operations of the business but it has Any long term interruption in the availability of the core enterprise system would have a significant impact historically been reliant on a limited number of key development staff.
The Group manages this risk by housing the principal IT servers in a third party location which has a mirror back up available should the primary servers or links fail.
Cyber Security Cyber-crime is constantly evolving and is a risk in all of our markets.
A cyber-attack or a breach of information The Group continues to invest in protecting our sites and customer data from exposure to cyber-attacks.
security may result in the short term loss of revenue and diverted resources and there is the risk of a longer There have also been improvements made in how we handle data across the group with focus on training term negative impact on customer confidence and the Groups reputation.
and awareness for staff and improved policies, procedures and strategies in place to monitor our systems.
There has been focus on encryption, network security, access controls, perimeter defence, data protection and a review of information handling by all parties.
Warehouse Operations Stock is held in the Groups warehouse in Rochdale.
Having the stock in one location with increased The Group has worked with its insurers on a conceptual Business Continuity Plan which came into effect automation in the picking process has brought significant benefits in terms of capacity, product availability, when the warehouse became operational.
quicker deliveries to our European stores and reduced transport costs.
However, there is an increased risk to In addition, there is a full support contract with our automation equipment providers which includes a 24 7 store replenishment and multichannel fulfilment from both equipment and system failure, together with the presence from a qualified engineer thereby enabling immediate attention to any equipment issues.
inherent risk of having all the stock in one location.
An extension to the facility at Kingsway is currently under construction.
Whilst it is an extension rather than a separate building, there will be a two hour fire resistance wall between the two operations.
Personnel The success of the Group is dependent upon the continued service of its key management personnel and To help achieve this continued service, the Group has competitive reward packages for all staff.
upon its ability to attract, motivate and retain suitably qualified employees.
More specifically for the retail businesses, the Group also has a long established and substantial training function which seeks to develop training for all levels of retail employees and thereby increase morale and improve staff retention.
This then ensures that knowledge of the Groups differentiated product offering is not lost, thereby enhancing customer service.
The Board regularly considers the actions required to ensure there is succession planning for all key roles.
Strategic Report Principal Risks continued Risk and Impact Mitigating Activities Health and Safety The health and safety of our customers and employees is of the utmost importance.
Policies are implemented There is a comprehensive induction and training programme for all staff covering Health and Safety issues.
in conjunction with training programmes to protect our employees and customers.
Personal injuries, distress The Group Health and Safety Committee meets on a quarterly basis, is chaired by the Group Health and and fatalities could result from a failure to establish and maintain safe environments.
Safety Manager and includes as its attendees the Group Company Secretary and Group Property Director.
The Group Health and Safety Manager appraises the Board of material issues and incidents on a periodic basis.
Targets are set by the Board to enable measurement of performance.
Performance against targets, incidents, and legal claims that arise are reported to the Board.
The Group also works closely with its principal insurers who undertake regular risk reviews both in the store portfolio and in the main central warehouse.
The distribution centre commission an annual independent Health & Safety audit with the British Safety Council and in 2016 achieved a 4 star status.
Treasury and Financial The Group is exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The Group encourages its own brand suppliers to quote in Euros where possible thus creating a natural hedge against the Euros remitted from the international businesses.
The surplus Euros are also used to fund Branded product for the JD fascia throughout Europe is purchased by JD Sports Fashion Plc which is the main the international store developments thus alleviating the need for local third party financing.
Any surplus UK trading business.
This business then sells to the international businesses in their local currencies.
Given Euros are converted back to sterling with hedging now put in place for approximately 75% of the anticipated the current geographical location of the Groups stores this results in an increasingly significant Sterling Euro surplus.
This leaves some Euros available should the Group need to move quickly to take advantage of an exposure in the UK trading business for the Euros which are remitted back for stock purchases.
acquisition or other investment opportunity.
Discussions continue with senior management at the major There is also exposure in relation to Sterling US Dollar consequent to the sourcing of own brand merchandise, international brands on how the risk on Sterling Euro volatility from the centralisation of product buying where suppliers are located principally in the Far East or Indian Sub-Continent.
Strengthening of the US Dollar can be shared fairly between the parties.
relative to Sterling makes product sourced in this currency more expensive thus reducing profitability.
The Group sets a buying rate for the purchase of own brand goods in US dollars at the start of the buying season typically six to nine months before the product actually starts to appear in the stores and then enters into a number of local currency US dollar contracts, using a variety of instruments, whereby the minimum exchange rate on the purchase of dollars is guaranteed.
The Group typically looks to protect up to 90% of the US dollar requirement for the following year.
Regulatory and Compliance The Group operates in an environment regulated by legislation, codes and standards including, but not The Group actively monitors adherence to its existing regulatory requirements and has a number of internal limited to, listing rules, trading standards, advertising, product quality, carbon emission reporting, bribery, policies and standards to ensure compliance where appropriate.
corruption and data protection rules.
The Group provides training where required and operates a confidential whistleblowing hotline for The Group recognises that failure to comply with these may result in financial or reputational damage to colleagues to raise concerns in confidence.
The Group expects all suppliers to comply with its Conditions of Supply which clearly sets out its expectations of its suppliers and includes a Code of Conduct which all suppliers must adhere to.
Brian Small Chief Financial Officer 10 April 2017 59 59 59 Strategic Report
