Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 31 Risk management Identifying, evaluating and managing risk Risk management approach The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing their eectiveness, supported by the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
A risk management framework is in place which sets out the ongoing processes for the identication, assessment and management of risks, and for their ongoing monitoring and review.
The Board has dened its risk appetite in a number of key areas for the business this sets out the relative level of risk that the Group is prepared to seek or accept in the pursuit of its strategic objectives.
The aim is to ensure that the risks taken by the Group fall within its dened risk appetite.
Eective risk management is essential to enable us to achieve our operational and strategic objectives and deliver long-term value creation.
During the reporting period we have continued to focus on embedding a culture of risk management throughout the organisation which will contribute towards successful strategy execution.
Robust risk assessment The risk management framework sets out a systematic approach to risk management which is designed to identify risks to the business, regardless of source.
Once identied, risks are assessed according to the likelihood and impact of the risk occurring and an appropriate risk response is determined in line with the Groups risk appetite.
Risks are re-assessed based on the strength of the mitigating controls implemented.
The implementation of risk mitigation plans is subject to ongoing monitoring and review.
A risk scoring matrix is used to ensure that a consistent approach is taken across the business at both a corporate and functional level.
This risk assessment and review process is documented in the appropriate risk register.
Risks are constantly reviewed on an ongoing basis: the Groups risk register is formally reviewed by the Risk Committee quarterly and by the Board and the Audit Committee twice each year.
Risk control assurance Internal audit work is undertaken by an independent organisation which develops an annual internal audit plan having reviewed the Groups risk register and following discussions with the external auditors, management and members of the Audit Committee.
During the year the Audit Committee has reviewed reports covering the internal audit work.
This has included assessment of the general control environment, identication of any control weaknesses and quantication of any associated risk, together with a review of the status of mitigating actions.
The Audit Committee has also received reports from management in relation to specic risk items together with reports from external auditors, who consider controls to the extent necessary to form an opinion as to the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
The Groups internal control and risk management systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The report of the Audit Committee can be found on page 48.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 32 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has carried out a robust, systematic assessment of the principal risks facing the Group during the period, including those which would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks as determined by the Board are listed in the table below, together with corresponding mitigating actions.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all risks and uncertainties that may arise.
The UKs decision to leave the European Union has created a volatile and uncertain economic environment.
Like many other businesses, we are closely following developments in this area.
We believe that it is still too early to quantify or determine with any certainty the impact on the Group of the UK leaving the European Union.
However, given that the Group is a UK based group whose sales are predominantly made in the UK, our current assessment is that Brexit will not have a significant impact on the Group, other than through its eect on foreign exchange rates to which it is exposed through the purchase of certain commodities.
We will continue to monitor developments and adapt our strategy as the impact of the UK exit from the European Union becomes clear.
Principal risks and uncertainties Risks relating to the Group Risk Impact Mitigating actions Changes in consumer Consumers may decide The Group oers a broad range of branded products across a preferences, perception to purchase and consume range of avours, subcategories and markets which oer choice or purchasing behaviour alternative brands or to the end consumer.
spend less on soft drinks.
Changing consumer attitudes and behaviours are monitored on an ongoing basis and inform our brand plans and new product development.
Changing consumer Consumers may decide The Group oers a broad range of branded products, many of which attitudes towards sugar to purchase and consume are low sugar or sugar free.
We announced on 1 March 2017 that we further government alternative brands or will accelerate our long-standing sugar reduction programme so that intervention spend less on sugared over 90% of our Company owned soft drinks portfolio by volume will on sugar soft drinks.
contain less than 5g of total sugars per 100ml by the autumn of 2017.
Our new product development activity is focused on development of lower calorie products and our marketing programmes incorporate our lower calorie choices.
We are working constructively with the government in relation to the proposed sugar tax, with the aim of ensuring the optimal outcome for the Group.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 33 Risk Impact Mitigating actions Adverse publicity in Adverse publicity in Our risk management process is designed to identify and monitor relation to the soft relation to the soft drinks events that may impact the Group as a result of adverse publicity drinks industry, the industry, the Group or and to ensure that controls are in place to manage these risks.
Group or its brands its brands could have an adverse impact on We liaise with relevant industry bodies who work with government the Groups reputation, and policy makers.
consumer consumption patterns, sales and Nutritional information is shown on all of our products and we have operating profits.
signed up to the UK Governments voluntary front-of-pack nutritional labelling scheme.
Processes are in place to ensure compliance with health and safety legislation and ethical working standards and these are regularly reviewed by the Board and management committee.
Quality standards are well dened, implemented and monitored.
A Corporate Social Responsibility Committee is in place, with a clearly dened and communicated Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
The Group maintains and develops ISO 9001 and 14001 systems and BRC standards which are subject to annual external audits, with any non-conformances addressed in a timely manner.
Failure to maintain Failure to maintain The Group oers a broad range of brands that it manufactures customer relationships appropriate customer and distributes through a variety of trade channels and customers.
or take account of relationships or a reduction Performance is monitored closely by the Board and management changing market in the customer base could committee by trade channel and customer as appropriate.
This dynamics have an adverse impact includes monitoring of metrics which review brand equity strength, on the Groups sales and financial and operational performance.
The Group focuses on delivering high quality products and invests heavily in building brand equity.
We work closely in partnership with our customers on an ongoing basis.
Members of the senior management team meet with key customers throughout the year.
Inability to protect Failure to protect The Group invests considerable eort in proactively protecting the Groups intellectual the Groups intellectual its intellectual property rights, for example through trademark property rights property rights could and design registrations and vigorous legal enforcement as and result in a loss of when required.
Failure of the A catastrophic failure Assets within the Group are proactively managed and maintained.
Groups operational of the Groups major Risk assessments are carried out on a regular basis and appropriate infrastructure production or distribution actions taken.
Robust business continuity plans are in place and are facilities could lead to a regularly tested.
sustained loss in capacity or capability.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 34 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks relating to the Group continued Risk Impact Mitigating actions Loss of continuity The loss of continuity There is a robust supplier selection process in place.
Supplier of supply of major of supply of major raw performance is monitored on an ongoing basis and audits are raw materials material ingredients and or undertaken for major suppliers.
Multiple sources of supply are sourced packaging materials could wherever possible.
Commodity risks are managed by the procurement impact our ability to team and reviewed by the Treasury and Commodity Committee.
manufacture, with an Contingency measures are in place and are tested regularly.
adverse impact on the Groups sales and operating profits.
Loss of product integrity A loss of product integrity Appropriate risk assessments are carried out on a regular basis and in the manufacturing robust quality controls and processes are in place to maintain the high supply chain could lead quality of our products.
Product recall procedures are tested regularly.
to a product withdrawal or recall.
Failure of critical A failure of critical IT IT assets within the Group are proactively managed and procedures IT systems systems could result exist that support rapid and clean recovery.
Robust business in a loss of key systems, continuity plans and contingency measures are in place and are business interruption, lost regularly tested.
Financial risks The Groups activities Our underlying objective is to secure budgeted exchange rates and expose it to a variety thereby reduce the volatility through our cost of goods.
Financial of financial risks which risks are reviewed and managed by the Treasury and Commodity include market risk Committee, which seeks to minimise adverse eects on the Groups including medium term financial performance through hedging known currency exposures movements in exchange throughout the year.
rates, interest rate risk and commodity price risk, The Groups finance team reviews cash ow forecasts throughout the credit risk and liquidity risk.
year, with headroom against banking covenants assessed regularly.
The finance team uses external tools to assess credit limits oered to customers, manages trade receivable balances vigilantly and takes prompt action on overdue accounts.
The Groups financial control environment is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
Internal audits focus is to work with and challenge management to ensure an appropriate control environment is maintained.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 35 Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a three year period to January 2020, taking account of the Groups current position and the Groups principal risks, as detailed in the Strategic Report.
Based on this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to January 2020.
In making this statement, the directors have considered the resilience of the Group in severe but plausible scenarios, taking account of its current position and prospects, the principal risks facing the business and how these are managed.
This assessment has considered the potential impact of these risks on the Companys business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the three year period.
The following four principal risks were selected for enhanced stress testing: changing consumer preferences, loss of product integrity, major raw material supply disruption and the sugar tax.
These are the principal risks assessed to have the highest probability of occurrence or the most severe impact: they were stress tested both individually and in combination, taking account of the Groups current position, the Groups experience of managing adverse conditions in the past and the mitigating actions available to the business.
A reverse stress test was also performed, allowing the Board to assess scenarios and circumstances that would render its business model unviable and enabling the identication of potential business vulnerabilities and the development of appropriate mitigating actions.
The Board selected the period of three years as an appropriate period for the Companys viability statement for the following reasons: the Company operates on a three year business cycle: and management currently use three year forecasts as part of the business planning process and capital investment cycle.
A. Barr Company Secretary 28 March 2017 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
