Strategic Report During the year, an independent review was undertaken Risks and Uncertainties by Ernst and Young in relation to the assessment of NEXTs cyber risk.
Findings were discussed in detail with relevant Risk management and internal senior management and presented to the Audit Committee and the Board.
A prioritised action plan has been agreed control framework and, in addition to significant resources which are already The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review devoted to the development, maintenance and security of IT of principal business risks, and oversees risk management.
This systems, further investment has been approved.
includes identifying key risks, determining control strategies and considering how those risks may affect the achievement Brexit of business objectives, taking into account risk appetite.
Following the outcome of the UK referendum to leave the Executive directors and operational management are EU, there are a number of uncertainties about how the delegated the task of implementing processes to ensure that exit will be engineered.
Therefore, the extent to which our risks are managed appropriately.
On a day-to-day basis, the operations and financial performance are affected in the risk management process is managed and co-ordinated by the longer term will only become clear as details emerge.
Each business area is responsible have considered the possible consequences that Brexit for preparing and maintaining operational risk registers which could have upon our business and have concluded that it involves identifying, evaluating, managing, measuring and does not raise any new principal risks, however it does have monitoring the risks in their respective areas.
Risk registers the potential to impact a number of our existing risks at an are prepared using consistent risk factors and incorporate individual risk level, e. g. exchange rates, changes in tariffs business impact and likelihood ratings, both before and after and duties, regulatory changes and economic uncertainty.
the effect of any mitigating factors or controls.
Progress and We will continue to monitor the risks and uncertainties issues are reported to the corporate compliance team on a arising from Brexit within the risk management and control regular basis, and more formal annual reviews are also carried process described above.
This provides a more effective out to ensure robustness and consistency across the business.
and operationally focused mitigation of these risks on an In addition, Internal Audit plans are agreed with the Audit ongoing and timely basis.
Committee based on the risks and controls identified through this risk management process.
Assessment of principal risks and During the year the Board carried out a detailed evaluation uncertainties of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal controls systems for all parts of the business, which covered The directors confirm that they have carried out a robust all material controls including financial, operational and assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing compliance controls, and it is satisfied that they are operating the Group, including those that would threaten its business effectively for the financial year to January 2017 and up to and model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Those including the date of this report.
This incorporated a review of principal risks are described below along with explanations of reports, discussion, challenge and assessment of the principal how they are managed or mitigated.
The principal risks areas business risks with relevant senior management.
During the remain the same as reported last year.
The Board remains year, the directors received presentations from management committed to ensuring that the key risks are managed on an on specific higher risk areas and agreed key action plans ongoing basis and operate within an acceptable level.
Whilst including further enhancement of mitigating controls.
these risks all have the potential to affect future performance, work is undertaken to mitigate and manage these risks such The work and findings of the corporate compliance team are that they should not threaten the overall viability of the also reviewed, discussed and agreed by the Audit Committee business over the three year assessment period refer to the on a regular basis: any significant matters are communicated Viability Assessment on page 35. to the Board.
No significant failings of internal control were identified during these reviews.
Operational risk registers detail limited, though not significant, control weaknesses and clear action plans are in place to address these.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Business strategy development and implementation If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does The Board reviews business strategy on a regular basis to not implement its strategies effectively, the business may determine how sales and profit budgets can be achieved suffer.
The Board therefore needs to understand and or bettered, and business operations made more efficient.
properly manage strategic risk, taking into account specific Seasonal and annual budgets together with longer term retail sector risk, in order to deliver long term growth for the financial objectives and cash flow forecasts are produced.
The Board and senior management consider strategic risk factors, wider economic and industry specific trends that affect the Groups businesses, the competitive position of its product offer and the financial structure of the Group.
The Audit Committee monitors strategic and operational risk regularly and any significant matters are reported to the Board.
Management team The success of NEXT relies on the continued service of its The Remuneration and Nomination Committees identify senior management and technical personnel, and on its senior personnel, review remuneration at least annually and ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly formulate packages to retain and motivate these employees, qualified employees.
The retail sector is very competitive including long term incentive schemes.
and NEXTs staff may be targeted by other companies.
The Board considers the development of senior managers to ensure adequate career development opportunities for key personnel, with orderly succession and promotion to important management positions.
Product design and selection NEXTs success depends on designing and selecting Executive directors and senior management continually products that customers want to buy, at appropriate price review the design, selection and performance of NEXTs points and in the right quantities.
In the short term, a failure product ranges.
To some extent, product risk is also mitigated to properly manage this area may mean that NEXT is faced by the diversity of NEXTs ranges.
with surplus stocks that cannot be sold at full price and may have to be disposed of at a loss.
In the longer term, the reputation of the NEXT Brand may suffer.
Product design and selection is therefore at the heart of the business.
co. uk 31 slugline Strategic Report Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Key suppliers and supply chain management NEXT relies on its supplier base to deliver products on NEXT continually seeks ways to develop its supplier base so time and to the quality standards it specifies.
Failure to do as to reduce over-reliance on individual suppliers of products so may result in an inability to service customer demand and services, and maintain the quality and competitiveness or adversely affect NEXTs reputation.
The Groups risk assessment procedures for key suppliers identify alternatives and develop contingency plans in the event of key supplier failure.
Changes in global manufacturing capacity and costs may Existing and new sources of supply are developed in impact on profit margins.
conjunction with NEXT Sourcing, external agents and or direct suppliers.
Non-compliance by suppliers with the NEXT Code of NEXT carries out regular inspections of its suppliers Practice principles may increase reputational risk.
operations to ensure compliance with the standards set out in this Code: covering production methods, employee working conditions, quality control and inspection processes.
Further details can be found on page 37.
NEXT monitors and reviews the financial, political and geographical aspects of its supplier base to identify any factors that may affect the continuity or quality of supply of its products.
NEXT also monitors and reviews stock availability on an ongoing basis to ensure that issues are identified and appropriate action is taken where any issues are impacting service delivery to customers.
Warehousing and distribution NEXT regularly reviews the warehousing and distribution Planning processes are in place to ensure there is sufficient operations that support the business.
Risks include business warehouse handling capacity for expected future business interruption due to physical damage, access restrictions, volumes over the short and longer terms.
breakdowns, capacity shortages, IT systems failure see next Service levels, warehouse handling, inbound logistics and page, inefficient processes and third-party failures.
delivery costs are monitored continuously to ensure goods are delivered to our warehouses, Retail stores and Directory customers in a timely and cost-efficient manner.
Business continuity plans and insurance are in place to mitigate the impact of business interruption.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Customer experience NEXTs performance depends on the recruitment and Market research is used to assess customer opinions and retention of customers, and on its ability to drive and service satisfaction levels, and regular customer experience visits customer demand.
This includes having an attractive, to our stores help to ensure that staff remain focussed on functional and reliable website and effective call centres, delivering excellent customer service.
operating successful marketing strategies, and providing The Group continuously monitors website and call centre both Retail and Directory customers with service levels that operations that support the business to ensure that there is meet or exceed their expectations.
sufficient capacity to handle volumes.
Call centre employees receive comprehensive and relevant training on an ongoing basis, targeting our service to be at its highest possible levels.
Retail store network NEXT Retails performance depends on profitably The predominantly leased store portfolio is actively managed developing the trading space of the store network.
The by senior management, with openings, refits and closures successful development of new stores depends on a number based on store profitability and cash payback criteria.
of factors including the identification of suitable properties, Regular reviews of lease expiry and break clauses are obtaining planning permissions and the negotiation of undertaken to identify opportunities for exit or renegotiation acceptable lease terms.
Prime retail sites will generally of commitments.
Profiling of the Groups lease commitments remain in demand, and increased competition for these can is also regularly reviewed by the Board.
result in higher future rents.
NEXT will continue to invest in new space where its financial criteria are met, and will renew and refurbish its existing portfolio when appropriate.
Information security, business continuity and cyber risk NEXT is dependent upon the continued availability and Systems vulnerability and penetration testing are carried out integrity of its IT systems, which must record and process regularly to ensure that data is protected from corruption or substantial volumes of data and conduct inventory unauthorised access or use.
The Groups systems Critical systems are reviewed and tested periodically to require continuous enhancement and investment to prevent ensure they have back up facilities and business continuity obsolescence and maintain responsiveness.
The threat plans in place: these are updated on an ongoing basis to of unauthorised or malicious attack is an ongoing risk, reflect business risk.
the nature of which is constantly evolving and becoming IT risks are also managed through the application of internal increasingly sophisticated.
policies and change management procedures, contractual service level agreements with third-party suppliers, and IT capacity management.
The Audit Committee received updates and agreed appropriate actions relating to cyber risk and business continuity during the year see page 56.
As the nature of cyber attack risk is constantly changing and becoming ever more sophisticated, NEXT continually works towards improving mitigating controls in this critical area see page 56 regarding the independent cyber risk review undertaken during the year.
co. uk 33 slugline Strategic Report Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Financial, treasury, liquidity and credit risks The main financial risks are the availability of funds to NEXT operates a centralised treasury function which is meet business needs, default by counterparties to financial responsible for managing its liquidity, interest and foreign transactions, the effect of fluctuations in foreign exchange currency risks.
The Groups treasury function operates rates and interest rates, and compliance with regulation.
This includes approved counterparty and other limits which are designed to mitigate NEXTs exposure to financial risk.
Further details of the Groups treasury operations are given in Note 24 of the financial statements.
Compliance teams are responsible for regulatory compliance in specific areas.
NEXT continually strives to maintain and develop the systems and processes that underpin these areas see page 30.
The Audit Committee received regular briefings on regulatory compliance during the year, for example in relation to requirements for the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards PCI DSS, and the FCA regulated credit business.
NEXT has a longstanding policy of returning surplus cash to NEXT has adequate medium and long term financing in shareholders through share buybacks and special dividends, place to support its business operations, and the Groups whilst maintaining an appropriate level of debt.
Adequate cash position and forecasts are regularly monitored and financing facilities are therefore required to support the reported to the Board.
operational needs of the business.
NEXT is also exposed to credit risk, particularly in respect of Rigorous procedures are in place with regard to the Groups its Directory customer receivables, which at 1bn represents Directory account customers, including the use of external the largest item on the Group balance sheet.
credit reference agencies and applying set risk criteria before acceptance.
These procedures are regularly reviewed and updated.
The Audit Committee received a formal update regarding the customer credit business during the year.
