GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT The Board and the AIFM recognise that risk is inherent in the operation of the Company and are committedto effective risk management to protect and maximise shareholder value.
30 Strategic report GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 The Board, with the assistance of the Audit & Risk committee, undertakes a formal risk review twice a year.
Role of the Board The following are the key components which Role of the AIFM The Board has the ultimate responsibility for the Company has in place to provide effective The AIFM is required to operate an effective and risk management and internal control within the internalcontrol: suitable risk management framework to allow Company.
The Board recognises the existence the identification, monitoring and management the Board and Investment committee have of inherent risks within the Companys operation of the risks that the AIFM and the AIFs under its agreed clearly defined investment criteria, which and that effective risk management is critical to management are exposed.
specifies levels of authority and exposure limits: the success of the organisation.
When setting The AIFMs permanent risk management function, the Board notes the rules of the UK FCA on the riskmanagement strategy, the Board also has a primary role alongside the Board in shaping the promotion of non-mainstream pooled determines the nature and extent of the principal the risk policy of the Company, in addition investments and has a procedure to ensure that risks they are willing to take to achieve the to responsibility for risk monitoring and risk the Company can continue to be approved as an Companys strategic objectives.
measuring in order to ensure that the risk level investment company by complying with sections The Board, with the assistance of the Audit & complies on an ongoing basis with the Companys 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010: Risk committee, undertakes a formal risk review risk profile.
the Investment Adviser and Administrator twice a year to assess the effectiveness of the prepare forecasts and management accounts Companys risk management process and internal which allow the Board to assess the Companys control systems.
The review covers the operational, activities and review its performance: compliance and financial risks facing the Company.
During the course of such review, the Board has the contractual agreements with the Investment not identified, nor been advised of any failings or Adviser and other third party service providers, weaknesses which it has determined to be of a and their adherence to them, are regularly material nature.
reviewed: the services and controls at the Investment Adviser and at other third party suppliers arereviewed at least annually.
The Audit & Riskcommittee receives and reviews assurancereports on the controls of Link Asset Services which includes the Depositary and Custodian undertaken by professional service providers: and the Investment Advisers Compliance Officer continually reviews the Investment Advisers operations.
31 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks faced by the Company include but are not limited to execution risk, portfolio risk, 1 financial risk and other risks.
RISK 1: EXECUTION RISK RISK IMPACT HOW THE RISK IS MANAGED If an investment underperforms, the interest and principal In addition to due diligence carried out by the Investment Sufficiency of due diligence Investment due diligence may not reveal all the facts received on the investment may be lower than envisaged, committee of the Board, the Investment Adviser, various negatively impacting the performance of the Company.
third party financial, technical, insurance and legal relevant in connection with an investment and may not highlight issues that could affect the investments experts are engaged to advise on specific project risks.
If the Company cannot invest capital in suitable assets The Investment Adviser is constantly in touch with the Availability of suitable investments and in a timely and appropriate manner, the uninvested cash market seeking new deals and builds a specifically reinvestment risk balance will have a negative impact on the Companys identified investment pipeline before the Board seeks There is no guarantee that the Company will be able returns.
If the only available investments with an to raise additional finance in an attempt to ensure that to identify suitable investments with risk and return appropriate risk profile yield lower rates of return than have capital is deployed in a timely fashion.
characteristics that fit within the investment strategy historically been achievable, the Companys overallreturns of the Company, or that suitable investments that can may be adversely affected.
be identified will be made in a timely manner.
This is a risk whenraising capital and when reinvesting principal returned to the Company under existingloan agreements.
Failure by a third party service provider to carry out The performance of the Companys service providers Reliance on the Investment Adviser and third its obligations in accordance with the terms of its is closely monitored by the Board.
Inaddition, at least party service providers appointment, or to exercise due skill and care, could once a year the ManagementEngagement committee The Company is heavily reliant on third party service have a material effect on the Companys performance.
performs a formal review process to consider the providers to carry out its main functions.
In particular, Anypoor performance, misconduct or misrepresentation ongoing performance of the Investment Adviser and the Company depends on the Investment Adviser to by the Investment Adviser or other third party providers, otherthird party providers.
implement the Companys strategy and investment may manifest itself in direct financial losses or result policy to deliver its objectives.
Should the engagement The Investment Adviser has industry and asset in damage to reputation causing longer-term financial with the Investment Adviser be terminated, there is a risk knowledge of specific use and importance to the consequences to the performance of the Company.
that the Company may not be able to find an appropriate Company.
The Company has entered into a contractual replacement Investment Adviser.
engagement with the Investment Adviser on the terms that it considers to be mutually fair and reasonable.
TheBoard maintains an awareness of other advisers that could replace the Investment Adviser if required.
The principal financial risks, the Companys policies for managing these risks and the policy and practice with regard to financialinstruments are summarised in note 18 to the financial statements.
32 Strategic report GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 RISK 2: PORTFOLIO RISK RISK IMPACT HOW THE RISK IS MANAGED Potential adverse effect on the performance of the Any changes in laws, regulation and or policy are Change in laws, regulation and or Companys investment portfolio and the returns achieved monitored by the Board on an ongoing basis.
Given the Governmentpolicy by the Company.
UK Governments reliance on private capital for, inter alia, Any change in the laws, regulations and or government the funding of new social and economic infrastructure policy as a result of Brexit and or other factors, in and renewable energy projects, it is the view of the particular those relating to the PFI and renewable energy Investment Adviser and the Board that any future markets.
changes in policy are more likely to have a prospective rather than a retrospective effect.
If a key subcontractor was to be replaced due to the The competence and financial strength of contractors, Performance of and reliance on subcontractors insolvency of that subcontractor or for any other reason, as well as the terms of contractors engagements, is a The performance of the Companys investments is the replacement subcontractor may charge a higher price key focus of investment due diligence.
The Board and typically, to a considerable degree, dependent on the for the relevant services than previously paid.
The resulting the Investment Adviser monitor the Companys exposure performance of subcontractors, most notably facilities increase in the costs may result in the Company receiving to any given subcontractor, and ensures that the risk of managers and operation and maintenance contractors.
lower interest and principal payments than envisaged.
underperformance is mitigated by diversification.
The Company is heavily reliant on subcontractors to carry out their obligations in accordance with the terms of their appointment and to exercise due skill and care.
Operational or construction issues In the event of material operational or constructionissues, The Companys construction exposure is limited to 25% the interest and principal payments received by the of its total assets.
The Board and the Investment Adviser The investments which the Company holds are exposed to construction and or operational risks and may not Company may be lower than expected.
monitor this limit and the status of any project in the construction phase on an ongoing basis.
The Investment perform as expected.
Adviser undertakes extensive due diligence on all projects regarding expected performance.
A full package of insurance and manufacturer guarantees is put in place to protect the Company from any unforeseen events.
The Board ensures that the Company has security over the assets against which it is lending, so in an instance of borrower default it can enforce security over the assets.
Such issues may give rise to additional costs ormay The Investment committee of the Board and the Technology risk otherwise result in the financial performance of the Investment Adviser ensure that due diligence is carried Some of the projects that the Company invests inutilise relevant investment being poorer than is anticipated.
This out by technical experts to advise on specific project relatively new or developing technologies.
There may may adversely affect the value of and returns generated by risks including technology risk.
be issues in relation to those technologies that become the Companys investments.
In such circumstances the cash flow available to service Project lifecycle and maintenance timings and costs are Lifecycle and maintenance costs From time to time, components of a project may need the Companys debt may be reduced to an extent where typically based on manufacturers data and warranties the interest and principal payments received by the and advice received from specialist consultants.
to be replaced or undergo a major refurbishment.
Over the life of a project the cost of such replacements or Company are less than forecast.
Updated lifecycle cost projections are received on a regular basis and with appropriate provisions made refurbishments may be higher than projected.
which are monitored on an ongoing basis by the InvestmentAdviser.
The Company could lose all or part of the value of its The Investment Adviser requires confirmations and Insurance investment if appropriate insurance is not inplace.
evidence from all borrowers that the insurance required by There is a risk that a project encounters issues resulting the relevant loan documentation is inplace.
in a loss that is uninsured, either because it is not covered by the insurance that is in place or because no insurance is in place.
All the projects that the Company is exposed to are required under the loan documentation to have appropriate insurance in place.
33 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK 2: PORTFOLIO RISK CONTINUED RISK IMPACT HOW THE RISK IS MANAGED In the event of material operational or constructionissues, The Investment Adviser and the Investment committee Project company owner The owners of the project companies to which the interest and principal payments received by the of the Board ensure that equity owners have appropriate Company may be lower than expected.
expertise and financial standing to own, construct the Company lends money are responsible for the underlyingasset performance.
There is a risk that these and operate the underlying project by carrying out the appropriate due diligence.
equity owners do not have the experience, track record, ability or financial resources to satisfactorily fulfil their required role.
RISK 3: FINANCIAL RISK RISK IMPACT HOW THE RISK IS MANAGED Assumptions There can be no assurance that these assumptions will When modelling future cash flows and structuringdebt turn out to be accurate, and actual data could have an profiles, the Investment Adviser uses assumptions The Company makes investments which rely on detailed financial models based on certain assumptions, adverse impact on the performance of the Companys considered to be conservative by third party experts.
The Investment Adviser constantly monitors the actual estimates and projections of each investments future cash flow.
Such assumptions include, inter alia, inflation, performance of projects and takes action where appropriate.
power price, feedstockcost, asset productivity, lifecycle andinsurance cost.
Such changes may negatively impact the value ofthe The Companys infrastructure investments are generally Valuation The value of the investments made by the Company Companys investment portfolio.
low volatility investments with stable pre-determined, very long-term, public sector backed revenues.
will change from time to time according to a variety of factors, including movements and expected movements Approximately 60% of the Companys investment portfolio is exposed to some form of inflation protection in interest rates, inflation and or general market pricing of similar investments.
Further issues arising from Brexit mechanism.
may impact the factors outlined above.
The Companys investments are valued with reference to duration matched interest rates, typically between 15 and 25 year rates.
Thediscount rates currently used to value the Companys investments include a material premium that offers protection in the event ofrate rises.
Any material increase in interest rates could increase the Interest rate hedging may be carried out by the Company Interest rates Companys cost of borrowing, impacting the financial to seek to provide protection against increasing interest The Company has a floating rate revolving credit facility performance of theCompany.
rates as and when any floating rate liabilities are entered and as such the financial performance of the Company into by the Company.
will be adversely affected in the event that there is a material increase in interest rates as a result of Brexit and or other factors.
Further, changes in interest rates may also affect the valuation of the Companys assets.
If the Company was unable to secure borrowing facilities The Facility is in place to fund potential investments in Borrowings this may adversely affect the Companys investment the near term and to avoid holding material amounts of The Company utilises borrowing facilities to finance returns and may have a material adverse effect on the uninvested cash awaiting investment.
The Facility is a and or part-finance further acquisitions in accordance Groups financial position andresults of operations.
short-term measure and the loan to value borrowings with the Companys investment policy.
However, there as a percentage of net assets at year end was 3.4%.
can be no guarantee that any such facilities will be Consideration may also be given to other forms of credit available to the Company on commercially acceptable as part of the Companys future funding strategy.
34 Strategic report GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 RISK 4: OTHER RISKS RISK IMPACT HOW THE RISK IS MANAGED Potential material adverse effect on the ability of the The Board monitors compliance information provided Compliance with laws and regulations Changes in the laws, regulations and or government Company to successfully pursue its investment policy and by the Administrator, Company Secretary, Investment meet its investment objective or provide favourable returns Adviser and legal counsel and monitors ongoing policy affecting the Company, including any change in the Companys tax status or in taxation legislation in to shareholders.
compliance developments in the Channel Islands and Europe along with regulatory developments in the UK the Channel Islands, the UK and or Europe including achange in interpretation of such legislation.
as well as listing rules and FCA marketing rules.
The Company has a comprehensive compliance monitoring programme to ensure full compliance with legislation regulation relevant to the Companys operations.
Cyberattack risk May manifest itself in financial losses, theft of intellectual The Company has no dedicated IT systems and it relies property or damage to the Companys reputation as a on those of its service providers and sub-contractors.
A failure of systems, policies and procedures in place to prevent against cyber-attack at the Investment Adviser, consequence.
The Board monitors reports and compliance information provided by the Administrator, Company Secretary, other third-party service providers and or subcontractors causing theft orloss of data, or damage to control Investment Adviser and legal counsel and monitors ongoing compliance developments in the Channel systems andequipment.
Islands and Europe to ensure the risk is mitigated.
Going concern The Directors have assessed the prospects of Given that the projects that the Companys The Directors have assessed the financial the Company over a longer period than the twelve investments are secured against are all UK prospects of the Company for the next twelve months required by the going concern provision.
infrastructure projects that generate long-dated, months and made an assessment of the The Board have conducted this review for a period public sector backed cash flows, the Board thus Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
covering the next five years, as over this period, it considers the revenue of the Company over that The Directors are satisfied that the Company believes the risk of changes in government policy period to be dependable.
has the resources to continue in business for that would result in retrospective adjustments to Additionally, the Company primarily invests in the foreseeable future and furthermore are not such public sector backed cash flows is low.
long-dated UK infrastructure debt that earns aware of any material uncertainties that may cast This assessment involved an evaluation of the a fixedrate of interest and is repaid over time significant doubt upon the Companys ability to potential impact on the Company of these risks according to a pre-determined amortisation continue as a going concern.
Where appropriate, the Companys schedule.
As such, assuming that the underlying Viability statement financial model was subject to a sensitivity projects perform as expected, the Companys At least twice a year, the Board carries out a analysis involving flexing a number of key cashinflows are also predictable.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing assumptions in the underlying financial forecasts Based on this assessment of the principal risks the Company, including those that would threaten in order to analyse the effect on the Companys facing the Company and the stress-testing based its business model, future performance, solvency net cash flows and other key financial ratios.
assessment of the Companys prospects, the and liquidity.
The Directors have considered each Thesensitivity analysis undertaken considered the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties impact of a significant proportion of the portfolio Company will be able to continue in operation and detailed on pages 32 to 35 and in particular the not yielding, which is a plausible consequence of a meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year risk and impact of changes in government policy number of the principal risks materialising, either in period of their assessment.
that could materially affect the cash flows of the isolation or in parallel.
The sensitivity analysis was underlying projects that support the Companys based on a number of assumptions, including that The strategic report has been approved by the investments.
The Directors also considered the the Companys credit facility remains in place to Board and signed on its behalf.
Companys policy for monitoring, managing and provide short-term finance for further investments mitigating its exposure to these risks.
and that there will be sufficient liquidity in the market to raise new capital as and when required.
Ian Reeves CBE Chairman 13 December 2017 35 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 GOVERNANCE WHATS IN THIS SECTION LEADERSHIP See pages 38 to 49 of the corporate governance statement EFFECTIVENESS See pages 50 and 51 of the corporate governance statement ACCOUNTABILITY See the Audit & Risk committee report on pages 52 and 53, risk management disclosures on pages 30 to 35 and financial statements on pages 67 to 90 REMUNERATION See the Directors remuneration report and policy on pages 55 to 57 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS See page 58 DIRECTORS REPORT See pages 59 and 60 36 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 37
