Principal risks and their management Risk management at Ferguson Monitoring risk throughout the Group The Board is ultimately accountable for the system of risk management at Ferguson.
The Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee review risks and controls in the context of the Groups strategic plan and objectives.
Throughout the year, information is provided directly from front line operations, via corporate functions and independent audits.
Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee Fourth level Principal risks formally reviewed every six months .
Thresholds for principal risks agreed.
Overall system of risk management reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Associate Performance reports Audit reports whistleblowing line throughout Risk reports in March the year and September 1.
Independent operations and functions assurance Corporate Audit findings functions analyse inform assessments linemanagement Group and subsidiary level, Internal audit, external risk and control of control e. g. risk, treasury, finance, auditors and other e. g. branches and data, set policies effectiveness by and procedures Group Risk team distribution centres legaland IT independent experts Operations report Reports from First level Second level Third level on risk and control GroupRisk inform status and submit audit priorities Business operations Set policies and procedures.
Test the design and performance and plans for the implement policies.
effectiveness of procedures Monitor risks and controls.
reports, e. g. coming year and controls.
injury statistics Associates act in line with Collate and submit risk reports.
Fergusons Code of Conduct and Group policies.
42 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Risk analysis during the year Longer-term viability of the Group 2016 17 risk and control assessments Building on this risk analysis, the Directors have assessed the Groups prospects and viability in light of its current financial position, strategic Ferguson formally reviews its principal Group and business unit risks plan and principal risks.
The Board believes that a three-year viability everysix months at the half-year and at the year-end.
assessment period to July 2020 is appropriate as this timeframe aligns In January and July 2017, the Board provided its perspective on risks with the Groups planning horizon.
Furthermore, the Groups principal relating to the Groups strategy for 2017 18 and beyond.
The Boards risks are ongoing in nature and could materialise at any time.
None are assessment was then combined with bottom-up risk reports received triggered by a specic, known event that will happen beyond that threefrom business units in February and August 2017 to produce an overall year timeframe.
Forecasting beyond the three-year timeframe does not riskprole and report for the Group.
therefore provide additional accuracy or risk insight.
This risk report, listing principal and emerging risks and how they Strategic plans have been prepared by all business units and financial havechanged, was reviewed, amended and nalised with the Executive forecasts and budgets have been reviewed by the Board.
The principal Committee in March and September 2017.
The mitigation in place for each risks to the Groups strategy were formally reviewed by the Board in principal risk was then reported to and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Consideration has also been given to the strength of the Groups balance sheet and its credit facilities.
Throughout the year, members of the Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee have received updates on the Groups principal Financial forecasts have been tested against an unlikely, but realistic, risks, as follows: worst-case scenario.
This incorporates a material downturn occurring in the Groups major markets.
The material assumptions used in this Risk Updates provided analysis were based on a hypothetical market downturn resulting in a New competitors Formal analysis and update provided A 20percent shortfall in forecast Group revenue in 2018, lasting for one andtechnology to the Board in September 2016. year, followed by annual growth rate of 5 per cent thereafter.
The impacts Related risks considered by the of the revenue fall have been owed through the cash ow statement on Board in January and July 2017 and a line by line basis using management assumptions which have then been by the Executive team in March and tested against the historical trends experienced by the Group in the last September 2017. economic downturn of FY08 FY10.
The testing took account of a number of mitigating cash ow actions available to the business to respond to the B Market conditions Monthly performance reviews with market downturn for example, a reduction in working capital, capital CEO and CFO.
CEO update to the Pressure on margins C expenditure and tax alongside the elimination of acquisitions.
Board at each Board meeting.
Based on these assumptions, and considering the Groups financial D Information security Reports on the status of the Groups position, strategic plans and principal risks, the Directors have a information security programme were reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in provided to the Executive Committee operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year and the Board and the Audit periodof their assessment.
The Directors statement regarding the adoption of the going concern Litigation The Group General Counsel regularly E basis for the preparation of the financial statements can be found on provides updates to the Executive page41.
Committee and the Board on changes in legislation and any material litigation or exposures.
Reports were provided UK referendum result June 2016 on how the Group mitigates the risk of The UK referendum result of a vote to leave the European Union continues product integrity and related exposure.
to produce some market uncertainties including a material weakening of sterling against the Groups principal trading currencies, of which the most Health and safety Performance updates were provided at F significant is the US dollar.
The weakening of sterling has had a translation every Executive Committee and Board impact on the Groups financial statements with a beneficial impact on meeting during the year.
In future years, the Company will report in US Dollars.
G Strategic change Monthly performance reviews with Since the large majority of the Groups profit is derived from activities CEO and CFO.
CEO update to the outside of the UK and Europe, the Group does not, at this point in time, Board at each Board meeting.
envisage a material adverse impact in the future.
The Group will continue H Regulations The status of the Groups anti-bribery to monitor developments.
programme was reported to the Audit Committee in January 2017.
I Talent management The Board, supported by the and retention Nominations and Audit Committees, has received detailed updates throughout the year from leadership teams around the Group.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Principal risks and their management continued The materialisation of these risks could have an adverse effect on the Heat map before mitigating controls and actions Groups results or financial condition.
If more than one of these risks occur, The heat map below illustrates the relative positioning of our principal the combined overall effect of such events may be compounded.
risks by severity and likelihood.
Severity scales are different to those The chart shows managements assessment of material risks before used in previous annual reports and are not directly comparable.
Various strategies are employed to reduce these inherent risks to an acceptable level.
These are summarised in the Before mitigating controls or actions Principal risks tables on the following pages.
New A competitors H The effectiveness of these mitigation strategies can change over time, and technology for example with the acquisition or disposal of businesses.
Some of Market B these risks remain beyond the direct control of management.
The risk conditions B A management programme, including risk assessments, can therefore only Pressure C C on margins provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that risks are managed to D an acceptable level.
Information D G security E F The Group faces many other risks which, although important and subject Litigation E to regular review, have been assessed as less significant and are not listed here.
These include, for example, natural catastrophe and business I Health F and safety interruption risks and certain financial risks.
A summary of financial risks and their management is provided on pages 41, 107 and 108.
Strategic G change Regulations Risks to the drivers of profitable growth H Less likely More likely The symbols shown at the bottom of page 45 are displayed alongside Talent Likelihood I each risk on the following pages to indicate which of the strategic drivers management and retention of growth are most threatened by that risk.
These strategic drivers are described on page 17.
A New competitors and technology Inherent risk level Denition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation High Wholesale and distribution Increased resources were allocated The Group develops and invests businesses in other industry sectors to the exploration and incubation in new business models, including Trend have been disrupted by the arrival of new business models and new e-commerce, to respond to changing Increased of new competitors with lower-cost technologies.
The Group made customer and consumer needs.
business models or new technologies anumber of acquisitions of online One example, online channels in our to aggregate demand away businesses during the year.
HVAC business, is set out on page 11. from incumbents.
A new Non Executive Director, The Company remains vigilant to The Board is attuned to both the risks Nadia Shouraboura, joined the the threats and opportunities in and opportunities presented by these Board, bringing experience of large this space.
The development of changes and is actively engaged as international e-commerce businesses.
new business models in our market the Group takes action to respond.
place is closely evaluated both for investment potential and threats.
Key to risks Risk has increased Risk has decreased Risk has been added to the list Risk is unchanged of top Group risks this year 44 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Severity Low Medium High Strategic report Governance Financials Other information B Market conditions Inherent risk level Changes this year Mitigation Denition and impact High This risk relates to the Groups The downturn seen in industrial The Group cannot control market exposure to short-term markets in 2015 16 has stabilised.
conditions but believes it has effective Trend macroeconomic conditions measures in place to respond to No change The UKs vote to leave the European andmarket cycles in our sector changes.
Ferguson continues Union continues to create a level i. e. periodic market downturns.
toreinforce existing measures in of uncertainty affecting the UK place, including: Some of the factors driving market economy, although this is not growth are beyond the Groups expected to have a material impact the development of our control and are difficult to forecast.
business model: cost control, pricing and Further information on the trends in The Group has maintained a strong gross margin management each of our regions can be found on balance sheet throughout the year initiatives, including a focus pages 28 to 33. and other measures have been taken on customer service and to manage the cost base in line with productivity improvement: forecast growth.
resource allocation processes: and capital expenditure controls The Group has again tested its financial forecasts, including cash and procedures.
owprojections, against the impact ofa severe market downturn.
C Pressure on margins Inherent risk level Denition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation High Fergusons ability to maintain Pressure on margins remained high The Groups strategy for tackling attractive profit margins can be during the period under review, this issue remains unchanged.
Trend affected by a range of factors.
primarily due to levels of competition.
This includes continuous No change These include levels of demand Commodity price deation eased improvements in customer service, and competition in our markets, the during the year.
product availability and inventory arrival of new competitors with new management.
Revenues from In response, the Group has continued business models, the exibility of e-commerce and other growth to manage its cost base in line with the Groups cost base, changes in sectors continue to expand and changes in expected growth rates.
the cost of commodities or goods the Group has made acquisitions Business unit performance, including purchased, customer or supplier intheseareas during 2016 17. margins achieved, were monitored consolidation or manufacturers monthly throughout the year.
The performance of each shipping directly to customers.
business unit is closely monitored Gross margins were 40 basis points There is a risk that the Group may and corrective action taken ahead of last year.
This was achieved not identify or respond effectively when appropriate.
by driving the benets of scale in to changes in these factors.
If it sourcing, growing own label sales Resource allocation processes invest fails to do so, the amount of profit and through good pricing discipline.
capital in those businesses capable generated by the Group could be ofgenerating the best returns.
Key to drivers of profitable growth Operating model and All nine of our drivers Engaged associates Organic expansion All e-commerce development of profitable growth Excellent service ethic Bolt-on acquisitions Pricing discipline Strong sales culture Adjacent opportunities Own label penetration Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Principal risks and their management continued D Information security Inherent risk level Changes during the year Mitigation Denition and impact High medium Technology systems and data This risk has remained material, The Group operates an IT are fundamental to the future as a greater proportion of the governance framework including Trend growth and success of the Group.
Groups revenue is derived from a set of dedicated IT policies, No change These digital assets are threatened e-commerce.
The level and procedures and standards aligned by sophisticated security threats, sophistication of IT security threats to known security and operational including hacking, viruses, phishing isconstantly developing.
These include behavioural or inadvertent errors.
procedures for associates and Like all large corporations, the Group technical controls for IT systems.
The Group is reliant on a number of continues to experience sustained These are reviewed annually and are and frequent attempts to gain different legacy technology systems, subject to continuous improvement.
some of which have been in place for unauthorised access to its technology systems, primarily from automated, The Group periodically reviews the many years or have been subject to in-house development.
nature of the sensitive data it holds, its location and the controls in place to Data breaches in our industry During the year, the Group engaged protect it.
sector and others indicate that such a specialist security consultancy to events are highly likely and difficult benchmark its information security The Group reviewed its approach to to prevent.
The findings, along with obtaining assurance over the correct improvement actions, have been operation of IT systems and controls, Sensitive employee, customer shared with the Audit Committee.
some of which relate to cyber risks.
or other data may be stolen and distributed or used illegally, leading to Further penetration tests have been Certain of these controls are tested conducted, using both digital and by business units and the Group increased operating costs, litigation and fines or penalties.
physical means, e. g. phone calls.
IT and internal audit functions.
Improvements have been made External specialists are also These technology systems, on which where necessary.
employed as appropriate to test the our branches, distribution centres and security of our technology systems, e-commerce businesses rely, may be Technical IT projects continue e. g. penetration tests.
disrupted for several hours or days.
to deliver enhancements to the As a result, Ferguson could forego Groups digital security systems Core IT systems and data revenue or profit margins if we are and infrastructure.
centres for the Groups material unable to trade.
businesses, including the Groups The Group reviewed the adequacy of principal e-commerce businesses, its cyber insurance arrangements.
have documented disaster Using a database of 50,000 historical recovery plans which are tested data breaches, the Group conducted annually.
Crisis management a statistical analysis to estimate and communications plans are its exposure to certain types of regularly updated.
Insurance coverage is in place, Briengs on the status of the Groups including coverage for cyber risks.
information security programme were provided to the Board, the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee throughout the year.
Key to risks Risk has increased Risk has decreased Risk has been added to the list Risk is unchanged of top Group risks this year 46 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information E Litigation Inherent risk level Changes this year Mitigation Denition and impact Medium The international nature of the During the year, there has been Levels of litigation are monitored Groups operations exposes it to the no material change in the level by individual operating companies.
Trend potential for litigation from third parties of litigation to which the Group A monthly report of potential No change and such exposure is considered to is exposed.
exposures and current litigation be greater in the USA than in Europe.
is submitted by all businesses An improved management and reviewed by the Group Material levels of litigation may arise information system was introduced General Counsel.
from many of the Groups activities.
toimprove the reporting and analysis significant levels of litigation in our of actual and potential litigation.
Contracting procedures are continuously reviewed and improved industry sector have in the past Reviews of policies and procedures related to products, associates or against a good practice framework relating to product liability were used by all Ferguson businesses.
undertaken during the year and the Acquisitions and disposals and the findings were reported to the Board.
The Group periodically re-assesses restructuring of under-performing Particular focus is being placed the level of product-related risk in businesses may also give rise on quality control and assurance all business units.
procedures to support the successful is conducted on products and growth of own label sales.
suppliers considered to be high For more information on litigation risk.
Product testing is carried out affecting the Group and related The level of contractual protection incertain businesses supplying afforded to the Group under product provisions, see pages 109 and 119. product to industrial customers.
and employee-related contracts has improved during the year.
KPIs are used to measure the level ofcontractual and other protection.
Contracting procedures continue tobe improved in all businesses.
In the case of claims related to exposure to asbestos, Ferguson The Groups liability insurance continues to employ independent programme was restructured professional advisers to actuarially toprovide enhanced cover.
determine its potential gross liability.
F Health and safety Inherent risk level Denition and impact Changes this year Mitigation Medium The Group does not operate in a high The risk has been elevated this year Leadership of health and safety is risk industry with regard to health following the deterioration in injury key.
Health and safety performance Trend and safety.
The Company is reported to and discussed at Increased is recruiting a senior leader for health all Group Executive Committee The nature of Fergusons operations and safety in the USA.
The Group meetings and Board meetings.
cannevertheless expose its conducted in-depth driver risk employees, contractors, customers, The Group maintains a health and assessments and implemented suppliers and other individuals to safety policy and detailed minimum control improvements.
The Group health and safety risks.
standard, which sets out requirements vehicle collision rate has improved.
which all Ferguson businesses are Health and safety incidents can lead Page 23 provides further information.
Branches are to loss of life or severe injuries.
Key to drivers of profitable growth Operating model and All nine of our drivers Engaged associates Organic expansion All e-commerce development of profitable growth Excellent service ethic Bolt-on acquisitions Pricing discipline Strong sales culture Adjacent opportunities Own label penetration Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Principal risks and their management continued G Strategic change Inherent risk level Denition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation Medium To respond to changing customer During the year, we announced our Each business unit has a clear needs the Group is changing intention to dispose of our operations strategy for continuously developing Trend traditional ways of working in its in the Nordics.
its business model and a dened Decreased established businesses.
programme of work to execute In the UK, the transformation plan is the strategy.
These changes are underway in all underway and we expect that it will ofour key markets, especially the UK, take a further two years to complete.
The Group Chief Executive and Chief and will continue for several years.
To support faster execution, greater Financial Officer discuss progress focus has been paid to a smaller with each business unit during regular The Group must successfully number of initiatives capable of performance reviews.
implement these changes without delivering the greatest value.
The Board reviews progress during regular updates from the Group The Groups ability to successfully Chief Executive and as part of its execute these changes will affect its six-monthly review of principal risks.
ability to grow profitably in the future.
H Regulations Inherent risk level Denition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation Medium The Groups operations are affected There has been no major change The Group monitors the law in the level of regulation applying across its markets to ensure the by various statutes, regulations Trend and standards in the countries tothe Group.
effects of changes are minimised No change and the Group complies with all and markets in which it operates.
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption The amount of such regulation and applicable laws.
practices in all businesses were the penalties can vary.
reviewed during the year and the The Groups Code of Conduct sets While the Group is not engaged in a findings reported to the Executive out the behaviours expected of highly regulated industry, it is subject Committee and to the Audit Ferguson associates.
This includes to the laws governing businesses Committee.
Improvements are clear statements that the Group does generally, including laws relating to being implemented.
not permit bribery or the giving or competition, product safety, timber receiving of improper gifts, that it does The Group reviewed its Code sourcing, data protection, labour and not tolerate fraud and that associates of Conduct.
employment practices, accounting must comply with anti-trust laws.
and tax standards, international trade, Further information on the Groups The Group aligns Company-wide fraud, bribery and corruption, land ethics and compliance programme policies and procedures with its usage, the environment, health and can be found on pages 24 and 36. key compliance requirements and safety, transportation, payment terms monitors their implementation.
Briengs and training on legal and Breach of any legal or regulatory regulatory topics and compliance requirement could result in significant requirements, including anti-trust, fines and penalties and damage to anti-fraud and anti-corruption, the Groups reputation.
Where appropriate, tests are conducted to ensure that the Group would respond appropriately to a regulatory investigation.
Key to risks Risk has increased Risk has decreased Risk has been added to the list Risk is unchanged of top Group risks this year 48 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information I Talent management and retention Inherent risk level Changes during the year Mitigation Denition and impact Medium As the Group develops new business There has been no material change in All of the Groups businesses models and new ways of working, the level of employee turnover during have established performance Trend itneeds to develop suitable skill-sets the year: however a number of senior management and succession New addition within the organisation.
management changes have occurred planning procedures.
packages for associates are designed All Furthermore, as the Group continues to attract and retain the best talent.
to execute a number of strategic These have included the retirement change programmes, it is important of the Group CEO and the CEO in Organisational and talent reviews that existing skill-sets and talent the USA, the appointment of their areconducted quarterly by the Group is retained.
successors and the appointment of HRDirector with each business.
anew Group Chief Financial Officer.
Failure to do so could delay the The Group continues to invest in execution of strategic change Talent management procedures associate development, an example programmes, result in a loss of werereviewed during the year.
of which our Industrial Group corporate memory and reduce University is highlighted on page 9.
theGroups supply of future leaders.
Key to drivers of profitable growth Operating model and All nine of our drivers Engaged associates Organic expansion All e-commerce development of profitable growth Excellent service ethic Bolt-on acquisitions Pricing discipline Strong sales culture Adjacent opportunities Own label penetration The Strategic report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: John Martin Group Chief Executive Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Governance 51 Governance overview 52 Board of Directors 54 How the Board operates 56 Fergusons governance structure 57 What the Board has done during the year 58 Evaluating the performance of the Board of Directors 59 Relations with shareholders 60 Audit Committee 64 Nominations Committee 66 Directors Report other disclosures 69 Directors Remuneration Report Drivers of profitable growth On the following pages the symbols below indicate where the activity of the Board and its Committees related to the drivers forprotable growth set out in the Group Chief Executives reviewon page 17.
Operating model and Engaged associates e-commerce development Excellent service ethic Pricing discipline Strong sales culture Own label penetration All nine of our drivers Organic expansion All of profitable growth Bolt-on acquisitions Adjacent opportunities Compliance with the Code Throughout the financial year ended 31 July 2017, the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP, arerequired to review whether the above statement reects the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
A copy of the Code can be found onthe Financial Reporting Council website www.
50 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
