Strategy, Business Model and Principal Risks Fund Objective The objective of the Fund is to achieve long-term capital growth, primarily through investment in equity markets of developing countries.
Strategy The core element of our strategy is to appoint and retain a high-quality manager whose investment philosophy best matches the Funds objective, and carefully monitor the Funds performance.
Genesis, the Funds Manager, believes that it can best deliver excellent long-term performance by working as a team to make investments in quality businesses at attractive prices as explained below.
Business Model and Investment Process The Fund has no employees or premises and the Board is comprised of non-executive Directors.
The day-to-day operations and functions of the Fund have been delegated to third-party service providers who are subject to the oversight of the Board.
During the year under review Genesis provided investment and risk management services, JP Morgan Chase Bank was the Custodian and JP Morgan Administration Services Guernsey Limited was the Administrator and Company Secretary.
The Board regularly reviews the performance and risks of its primary service providers and checks that they have appropriate frameworks in place for the oversight of their internal controls, monitoring and reporting.
In line with the stated investment philosophy, the Manager employs a bottom-up investment approach with all members of its investment team taking responsibility for analysis on individual companies.
The investment process is founded on proprietary internal research, with the Managers structure designed to allow a cohesive team of investors to generate fundamental research insights and, subject to rigorous challenge, express those insights in portfolios.
The Funds portfolio is diversified across countries and industries and comprises approximately 130 holdings currently representing some 36 different countries, to give a range of 10-15 per team member.
The Manager believes that when its team concentrates on a smaller number of ideas, the research can be deeper and insights more valuable.
Over the last three years, the Manager has increased this depth of focus and concentration, actively reducing the number of holdings in the Fund's portfolio from 160 three years ago to 125 at the end of the 2016-17 financial year.
Portfolios comprise holdings in predominantly high-quality, sustainable businesses, both large and small.
As part of their analysis the Managers team determines quality ratings for each company, which primarily measure a business ability to generate sustainable excess returns on capital and US$ intrinsic value stability.
Many factors are incorporated into this analysis: as well as company-specific elements, the team considers the political and macroeconomic framework in which the company operates.
Environmental, Social and Governance ESG considerations are included in the analysis of sustainability, and the team takes ESG factors into account when determining the quality rating of a business.
The Manager recognises that governance issues in particular are relevant to all companies and has laid out the key principles that it expects companies to follow from a corporate governance perspective.
10 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com Given that the average holding period of investments in client portfolios has consistently been more than five years and is currently in excess of six and that this characteristic is expected to persist, the Manager is comfortable buying into relatively illiquid situations and building positions gradually.
In the Managers experience the trading liquidity of a stock improves as its underlying merits are gradually appreciated by a wider domestic and international investor base.
Turnover is correspondingly low: typically of the order of 20-25% per annum.
There is no specific company market capitalisation range in which the Manager invests, and it is prepared to take positions in  stocks where compelling investment cases are found, in the belief that these can be a source of particularly attractive long-term investment opportunities.
The Fund invests in a large number of emerging markets, many of which are not represented in the standard indices.
The Manager aims to retain as much flexibility as possible with respect to portfolio constraints.
Because the Manager aims to invest in companies that can compound shareholders capital, but also aims to invest at a discount to intrinsic value, the portfolio tends to have both growth and value characteristics.
The portfolios investments are primarily listed equity securities.
However, the Fund will also hold positions in Genesis affiliated investment companies, Participatory notes and Investee Funds, where appropriate.
Details of the Funds portfolio are shown on pages 39 to 45.
The Fund does not engage in any active management of foreign currency risk and the portfolio is currently unleveraged refer to notes 14 b and 14 e respectively.
The Fund entered into a securities lending programme with JP Morgan Chase Bank N. A. in April 2016 refer to note 2 n. Principal Risks and Risk Management The main risks to the value of its assets arising from the Funds investment in financial instruments are unanticipated adverse changes in market prices and foreign currency exchange rates and an absence of liquidity.
The Board reviews and agrees with the Manager policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised on the following page.
These policies have remained unchanged since the beginning of the period to which these financial statements relate.
Volatility of emerging markets and market risk The economies, currencies and the financial markets of a number of developing countries in which the Fund invests may be extremely volatile.
To manage the risks posed by adverse price fluctuations the Funds investments are geographically diversified, and will continue to be so.
The Fund will not invest more than 25% of its assets at the time the investment is made in any one country.
Further, the exposure to any one company or group other than an investment company, unit trust or mutual fund is unlikely to exceed 5% of the Funds net assets at the time the investment is made.
The Articles of Incorporation place a limit of 10% for securities issued by one company but the Directors use 5% for monitoring purposes.
Foreign currency exposure The Funds assets will be invested in securities of companies in various countries and income will be received by the Fund in a variety of currencies.
However, the Fund will compute its net asset value and distributions in US dollars.
The value of the assets of the Fund as measured in US dollars may be affected favourably or unfavourably by fluctuations in currency rates and exchange control regulations.
Further, the Fund may incur costs in connection with conversions between various currencies.
The Fund has opted not to engage in any active management of foreign currency risk, and therefore all its open foreign exchange positions are typically unhedged.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 11 Lack of liquidity Trading volumes on the stock exchanges of developing countries can be substantially less than in the leading stockmarkets of the developed world and trading may even be temporarily suspended during certain periods.
Liquidity can also be negatively impacted by temporary capital controls in certain markets.
A lower level of liquidity can exaggerate the fluctuations in the value of investments described previously.
The restrictions on concentration and the diversification requirements detailed above also serve normally to protect the overall value of the Fund from the risks created by the lower level of liquidity in the markets in which the Fund operates.
Custody risk The Fund is also exposed to operational risks such as custody risk.
Custody risk is the risk of loss of securities held in custody occasioned by the insolvency or negligence of the Custodian.
Although an appropriate legal framework is in place that eliminates the risk of loss of value of the securities held by the Custodian, in the event of its failure, the ability of the Fund to transfer the securities might be temporarily impaired.
The day-to-day management of these risks is carried out by the Manager under policies approved by the Board.
Other Matters Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Fund over the next three years.
The Board considers that this period of time is appropriate to assess the viability of the Fund given the inherent uncertainty in the global emerging markets and the Funds investment cycle.
As part of its assessment, the Board has considered the Funds business model including its investment objective and investment policy as well as the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the Fund.
The Board has noted that: The Funds investment objective is to achieve capital growth over the long term and the Board regards the Fund as a long-term investment.
The average holding period for companies in the Funds portfolio is currently over six years, with turnover at around 24% over the last twelve months.
These attributes reflect the Managers long-term fundamental approach.
The Funds portfolio consists of a diversified group of companies from a large number of emerging market countries.
The majority of these are traded on major international stock exchanges.
In the opinion of the Manager, the portfolio is sufficiently liquid to meet all ongoing and future liabilities arising from the Funds day-to-day business.
No significant increases to ongoing charges or operational expenses are anticipated.
The Board has therefore concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Fund will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
12 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com Environmental, Social and Governance Factors Genesis meaningfully integrates ESG factors into the investment process as part of its ongoing qualitative judgement of a companys sustainable competitive advantage.
Genesis recognises that ESG factors can expose potential investment opportunities and risks, reflect the quality of management and impact a companys financial performance.
ESG factors are assessed in the context of materiality and particular attention is paid to the quality of company management and the alignment of interests with minority investors.
Signed on behalf of the Board Hlne Ploix th 28 September 2017 www.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 13 14 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 15
