Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties The execution of the Companys investment strategy is subject to risks and uncertainties.
During the year, the Company expanded its investment policy to include investment in early-stage life science companies.
Accordingly, the principal risks and uncertainties have been updated to reflect new risks associated with the financing of and investment in early-stage companies.
The principal risks that the Board has identified are set out in the table below, along with the consequences and mitigation of each risk.
Further information on risk factors is set out in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
New for 2017 Unchanged Life science portfolio Description Impact Mitigation Investment risk The Company sources life science The value of the portfolio company The Companys Investment Advisor employs highly experienced businesses for investment.
Such depends on the performance of its personnel who have considerable experience of building and early-stage businesses typically have future products and the Company developing early-stage life science businesses.
limited products in development and, may not realise its original cost or Before making any investment, the Investment Advisor performs consequently, any problems encountered any value from its investment.
extensive due diligence covering all the major business risks.
in one product may have a particularly It may take time and significant Once the investment is made, the Investment Advisors personnel damaging effect on the prospects of that resources for the Company to work closely with portfolio companies, taking non-executive and portfolio company.
realise its investment and the at times executive roles on portfolio company boards, monitoring Early-stage life science businesses will portfolio company may not be progress and ensuring familiarity with issues and risks.
spend a considerable proportion of their successful or may not grow rapidly Within the Investment Advisors investment process, there resources on research and development and the Company may not realise is a robust and disciplined financing and capital allocation into unproven technology, which may be its original cost or any value from framework, focused on the achievement of key strategic and unsuccessful or may be commercially its investment.
development milestones ahead of any further investment.
Initial unproductive and may require the investments may involve seed funding to identify and mitigate injection of further capital by the Company early risks before proceeding with more substantial investments.
to fully exploit the results of that research.
The Company ensures that it has sufficient liquidity to fund its early-stage investment programme and the Investment Manager and Investment Advisor maintain detailed financing and capital allocation models on an ongoing basis and forecasts are produced for the Board that contain appropriate stress testing.
General, commercial, technological and clinical risks The Companys life science investments All of these risks could potentially The Companys Investment Advisor employs highly experienced are exposed to a wide range of general, lead to a decline in the value of a personnel who have considerable experience of building and commercial, technological and clinical portfolio company, or in extreme developing early-stage life science businesses.
In particular: cases lead to the portfolio Advisors personnel work closely with portfolio companies, company failing.
taking both executive and non-executive roles on portfolio Negative results from clinical trials company boards, monitoring progress and ensuring familiarity Intellectual property may fail to be with issues and risks.
granted or may be infringed or copied Failure of a technology platform In addition, the Investment Advisors team can assist the in an early-stage company management teams of the portfolio companies with arranging Failure to obtain regulatory approval specialist advice, for example, communication advice to support for new products developed them dealing with issues or any likely issues.
Failure to sell products profitably or in sufficient volumes Changes in pharmaceutical pricing practices Launch of competing products Reputational damage Targeted public campaigns Latent product defects resulting in claims Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 41 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Life science portfolio continued Description Impact Mitigation Dominance of portfolio by a few larger investments and or sector focus Within its life science portfolio, the If a portfolio company experiences The Board considers the performance of its largest portfolio Company is seeking to build a focused financial or operational difficulties, companies and the portfolios concentration on specific portfolio of up to 20 leading life science fails to achieve anticipated results sub-sectors on a quarterly basis.
Accordingly, a large or, where relevant, suffers from The Companys Investment Advisor employs highly experienced proportion of the overall value of the poor stock market conditions personnel who have considerable experience of building and life science portfolio may, at any time, and if, as a result, its value were developing early-stage life science businesses.
The Investment be accounted for by one, or a few, to be adversely affected, this could Advisors personnel work closely with portfolio companies, portfolio companies.
have an adverse impact on the taking non-executive and at times executive roles on portfolio overall value of the life science The Companys life science portfolio may companies boards, monitoring progress and ensuring investment portfolio.
also be focused on a small number of familiarity with issues and risks.
sub-sectors within the life science sector.
Similarly, if the technology or At 31 March 2017, the Companys three largest investments Accordingly, a material proportion of the technologies utilised in a specific in its life science portfolio represented 19.4 per cent of the overall value of the life science investment sub-sector prove to be net asset value of the Company.
portfolio may, at any time, be invested in commercially unproductive or a specific sub-sector.
unsuccessful, then the value of the Companys investments in the respective sub-sector s could be negatively impacted.
Market risk realising investment portfolio companies Instability in equity and debt markets It may take longer to realise The Investment Advisor, alongside the portfolio company and or the markets appetite for value from investments in management team, is focused on ensuring that portfolio investment in life science companies portfolio companies.
company business models appeal to both strategic acquirers could result in an inability to access as well as public markets.
capital markets or realise value in portfolio In addition, the Company seeks to ensure that it has sufficient companies through sales to financial liquidity to fund its portfolio companies through the cycle and or strategic acquirers.
should not therefore be dependent on third-party funding or realisations from its life science portfolio to fund further investments into a portfolio company.
The Investment Manager and Investment Advisor maintain detailed financing and capital allocation models on an ongoing basis and forecasts are produced for the Board that contain appropriate stress testing.
To further mitigate this risk, the Investment Advisor maintains strong relationships with potential strategic acquirers and other leading investors in the sector.
Syncona Limited 42 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report New for 2017 Unchanged Description Impact Mitigation Market risk political and economic uncertainty may negatively impact the Companys ability to achieve its strategic objectives Political and economic uncertainty, There could be potential risks to The Companys Investment Manager and Investment including impacts from the EU research funding and to attracting Advisor monitor these developments, with the help of referendum or similar scenarios, and retaining talent.
professional advisers, as appropriate, to ensure it is prepared could have several potential impacts, for any potential impacts.
including changes to the labour market The UK government recognises these challenges and available to the Investment Advisor and we believe will seek to address them as part of its underlying portfolio companies, or industrial strategy.
regulatory environment in which the Company and its investment portfolio companies operate.
Funds portfolio Description Impact Mitigation Investment risk The funds portfolio is exposed to the risk Any underperformance of the The Companys Investment Manager employs highly that its portfolio fails to perform in line with funds portfolio will have an impact experienced personnel who have considerable experience in its objectives if it is inappropriately on net asset value of the Company investing in capital markets.
The Investment Manager performs invested or markets move adversely.
and the longer-term liquidity for life due diligence on potential new investments, including an science investments.
assessment of investment risk and, after the investment is made, The funds portfolio has significant indirect post investment monitoring of their performance.
The Board exposure to risks through the underlying reviews reports from the Investment Manager at each quarterly portfolios of the investment entities.
Due Board meeting, paying particular attention to the constitution of to the lack of transparency in many of the the portfolio, the performance and volatility of underlying underlying assets, it is not possible to investments and the liquidity forecast prepared by the Investment quantify or hedge the impact of these Manager and Investment Advisor.
risks on the portfolio as each investment entity may have complex and changing risk dynamics that are not observable or predictable.
These risks will include extensive interest, foreign exchange and other market risks which are magnified by significant gearing in many cases, resulting in increased liquidity and return risk.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 43 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational Description Impact Mitigation Failure to attract or retain key personnel The expertise, due diligence, risk If the Investment Manager and or The Investment Advisor carries out regular market comparisons management skills and integrity of Investment Advisor do not succeed for staff and executive remuneration.
Senior executives are the staff at the Companys Investment in retaining skilled personnel or are shareholders in the Company and executives of the Investment Manager and Investment Advisor are unable to continue to attract all Advisor participate in the Syncona Long Term Incentive Plan.
key to the success of the Company.
personnel necessary for the In addition the Investment Advisor encourages staff development and operation of their development and inclusion through coaching and mentoring The industries in which the Investment business, they may not be able to and carries out regular objective setting and appraisals.
Manager and Investment Advisor operate execute the Companys investment are specialised and require highly The Investment Managers personnel are shareholders in the strategy successfully.
qualified and experienced management Company and they are incentivised by the BACIT UK Agreement, and personnel.
details of which are on page 65.
Given the relatively small size of the team, the execution of the Companys investment strategy is dependent on a small number of key individuals.
There is a risk that employees could be approached by other organisations or could otherwise choose to leave the Investment Manager or Investment Advisor.
Financing risk The financial risks, including market, credit and liquidity risk, faced by the Company, where relevant, are set out in note 22 on pages 93 to 97.
These risks and the controls in place to mitigate them are reviewed at each quarterly Board meeting.
Financing risk and the inability to match Lack of funding may restrict the The Company has a strong liquidity position and ensures that funding to the timing of investments by ability of a portfolio company in the it has sufficient liquidity to fund its early-stage investment the Investment Advisor, including delayed Companys life science portfolio to programme.
The Investment Manager and Investment Advisor distributions from the funds portfolio, or fund ongoing research and maintain detailed financing and capital allocation models on holdings in the funds portfolio not being development and commercialisation an ongoing basis and forecasts are produced for each Board sold, or being sold for less than expected.
programmes and the ability of the meeting that contain appropriate stress testing.
Company to invest in new, attractive investment opportunities.
This could, in some cases, result in the Investment Advisor having to seek funding from third-party investors, thereby diluting the Companys ownership of the portfolio company.
In extreme cases, it may result in the portfolio company being forced to sell off its assets or cease its development, thereby impacting the value of theinvestment.
Syncona Limited 44 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report New for 2017 Unchanged Description Impact Mitigation Systems and controls The potential loss of operation of core Disruption of the business Systems and control procedures are developed and reviewed systems or sensitive data leading to of the Investment Manager regularly and the Board receives reports annually from the damage and disruption to the Investment and or Investment Advisor Investment Manager, Investment Advisor and Administrator Manager and or Investment Advisor or or Administrator.
Legal and regulatory Description Impact Mitigation Changes in law and regulations may adversely affect the Company The Company is subject to laws and Any material changes to laws or The Company, its Investment Manager and Investment Advisor regulations of national and local regulations could adversely affect utilise professional advisers, as appropriate, to support its governments.
In particular, the Company the Company, its Investment monitoring of, and response to, changes in law and regulation, is subject to, and is required to comply Manager and Investment Advisor, including any changes in tax or other legislation.
with, regulation of the UKLA and certain in the ability to operate in regulatory requirements that are accordance with any such applicable to registered closed-ended changed requirements.
This could collective investment schemes which in turn adversely affect the returns are domiciled in Guernsey.
that shareholders may receive from the Company.
In addition, changes in legislation and government policy may occur that could adversely impact the ability of the Investment Manager and Investment Advisor to execute the investment strategy of the Company.
Changes to tax laws may impact the Companys returns or the returns that shareholders may receive from the Company.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 45
