Risk management Following the expansion of the Companys investment policy, the acquisition of Syncona Partners LLP and recruitment of the Syncona Partners investment management team, the Companys risk management framework has been reviewed to reflect the changes to the investment strategy.
As part of this process, the Board reviewed The output from this process, together mindful of the risk return profile of these the effectiveness of the Companys risk with reports arising from the external investments.
There is very low tolerance management and internal control systems, audit, provides input to the Board on the for financing risk with the aim to ensure including an assessment of all of the status of the risk management framework.
that even under the most severe stress material controls, including financial, The day to day operation and oversight scenario, the Company is likely to meet operational and compliance controls.
of the risk management framework has its funding requirements and financial In particular, the Board has carried out been delegated to the Companys obligations.
Similarly, there is low risk a robust assessment of the principal Investment Manager, Investment tolerance with respect to legal, taxation risks facing the Company including those Advisor and Administrator.
and regulatory risk, but the Company that would threaten its business model, accepts a certain degree of operational The Board accepts a level of investment future performance or liquidity.
risk, for example in areas such as risk to achieve its targeted returns.
Risk management and its governance is particular the Company is exposed to risks the responsibility of the Board, with the associated with investment in early-stage Investment Manager, Investment Advisor companies, and the Board is therefore and Administrator given the task of ensuring an effective and transparent Risk management structure process and that risks are identified, documented, assessed and, where appropriate, mitigated.
Board of Directors The Board is responsible for Risk management leadership determining the overall risk appetite.
The Audit Committee assesses and monitors the risk management framework Audit Committee and specifically reviews the controls Review and monitor the risk management process and assurance programmes in place.
To achieve this, a process has been Investment Manager established which seeks to: Risk reporting and running the controls assurance programme Review the risks faced by the Company and the controls in place to address Investment Manager, Investment Advisor and Administrator those risks: Risk management is integral to the investment process and financial management Maintain a risk register: Identify and report changes in Life science portfolio company management teams the risk environment: Risk identification and mitigation Identify and report changes in the operational controls: Identify and report on the effectiveness of controls and errors arising: and Ensure no override of controls by its service providers, the Investment Manager, Investment Advisor or the Administrator.
Syncona Limited 40 Annual report and accounts 2017
