Strategic report|Principal risks Principal risks identifying and managing risk Risk management is an essential element of how we run Experian, to help us deliver long-term shareholder value and to protect our business, people, assets, capital and reputation.
Successfully managing existing and achieving consensus on issues involving Executive committees emerging risks is critical to our longstrategy, risk, growth, people and culture The Executive Risk Management term success and to achieving our and operational efficiency.
It also ensures Committee 'ERMC' comprises senior strategic objectives.
To seize the strong communication and co-operative Group executives, including the opportunities in front of us, we must working relationships within the executive directors and the Company accept a reasonable degree of risk and executive team.
Its meetings tend to be Secretary.
It oversees how we manage manage that risk appropriately.
Risk focused on key issues facing the Group.
The Security and Continuity management is therefore integral to our Steering Committee 'SCSC' is a subThe global and regional strategic project corporate governance and how we run committee of the ERMC.
The primary committees include our most senior our business.
responsibility of the SCSC is to oversee global and regional executives.
They management of global information Our risk and control governance ensure that we appropriately resource security, physical security, and business all our strategic projects, and that they Board continuity risks.
The Assurance Steering are risk assessed and commercially, The Board sets our overarching Committee 'ASC' is also a subfinancially and technically appraised.
risk appetite and ensures that we committee of the ERMC and oversees Depending on the outcome of their appropriately manage risks across the the development and implementation of discussions, the committees conclusions Group.
The Board delegates oversight of the Groups enterprise risk management are then considered by the Board or certain risk management activities to the framework.
Regional risk management relevant Group Principal Operating Audit Committee.
committees oversee management Subsidiary for approval.
of regional risks and feed up to the Audit Committee ERMC.
The Tax and Treasury Committee Executive management The Audit Committee regularly monitors oversees management of financial risks, Our executive management takes daythe principal risks and uncertainties including tax, credit, liquidity, funding, to-day responsibility for implementing identified by our risk assessment market and currency risks.
Each the Boards policies on risk management processes, along with the strategies committee is responsible for ensuring and internal control.
In doing so, it weve developed and the actions weve these risks remain consistent with our designates who is responsible and taken, where possible, to mitigate them.
It risk appetite, strategies and objectives.
accountable through its design and also continually reviews the effectiveness implementation of necessary systems of our system of risk management and The Group Operating Committee is made of internal control, including policies, internal controls, which supports our risk up of our most senior executives.
remit includes identifying, debating and Risk and control governance structure Board Audit Committee Executive Risk Management Committee Security and Assurance Regional risk Continuity Tax and Treasury Strategic project Group Operating Steering management Steering Committee committees Committee Committee committees Committee Executive management 12 Strategic report|Principal risks A top-down approach at the global We use a global issue tracking system to Our risk management framework level.
This identifies the principal consolidate the monitoring and reporting The Board is responsible for maintaining risks that threaten the delivery of our of active risk remediation action plans and reviewing the effectiveness of our risk strategy and objectives.
The diagram across the Group.
We use standard management activities, from a financial, below summarises our principal criteria to prioritise, monitor, report operational and strategic perspective.
These activities are designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives or to successfully deliver our Risk management business strategy.
Tone at the top Weve built the risk management framework to identify, analyse, evaluate, mitigate and monitor the risks that Business strategy threaten our ability to achieve our Sustaining business strategy and objectives, within a culture of integrity and our risk appetite.
More detail regarding Increasing Risk management ethical values engagement the specific actions and processes underlying each element of the risk Accelerating management process can be found in the innovation Commitment Corporate governance report.
to maintaining a strong risk and control Broadening culture Risks are owned and managed within our impact Risk the business, and reviewed by our appetite Enhancing our businesses at least quarterly.
This is our assets and working first line of defence.
Global governance as One Experian Commitment teams form a second line of defence.
to competency Strengthening These teams review risks and controls, our foundations including those relating to information security, regulatory compliance and business continuity.
Internal Audit is the third line of defence, as it independently Principal risk profile and objectively assesses our risks and controls.
The results of these reviews feed into our quarterly reporting cycle.
Business conduct risk Loss or inappropriate use of data and systems Our risk identification processes follow a Non-resilient IT business dual approach: environment New legislation or changes in regulatory enforcement Undesirable investment A bottom-up approach at a business outcomes Increasing competition unit or country level.
This identifies Dependence on highly the risks that threaten an individual skilled personnel business unit activity and which the business unit manages.
To give us visibility of wider issues within Data ownership, Failure to comply with the business, we consolidate these access and integrity laws and regulations risks at the regional and global level, Adverse and unpredictable financial markets or fiscal and escalate higher rated risks developments to the regional and executive risk management committees.
Likelihood 13 Impact Strategic report|Principal risks Principal risks identifying and managing risk continued Risk appetite Future developments Principal risks and uncertainties We assess the level of risk and our We continue to refine our risk The table on the following pages sets associated risk appetite to ensure we management framework to further out what the Board believes to be the focus appropriately on the risks we face.
improve our risk monitoring capabilities, principal risks and uncertainties facing We target risks for assessment based such as advancing our Three Lines of Experian, the mitigating actions for each on gross risk and measure them based Defence model.
Refinements include and the trends in the risk environment on net risk using a scoring methodology.
more rigorous testing and evaluation during the year ended 31 March 2017.
We then prioritise risks for mitigation of control effectiveness across our The list is not exhaustive and may change by considering these scores against our critical business processes.
This will during the next financial year, as some risk tolerance and appetite.
The Board further strengthen our business so risks may assume greater importance and Audit Committee review the principal that we continue to deliver competitive, and others may become less significant.
risks, of which there are currently ten, on consistent and quality solutions to our For the purposes of assessing the an ongoing basis, and the ERMC monitors clients.
Weve deployed a global software Groups viability, the directors focused these risks.
The Board has defined risk solution to support this capability and on three principal risks which are appetite statements for certain principal give managers an enhanced tool for critical to our success.
These risks are risks that Experian faces during the monitoring their risks.
The tool also summarised below and further discussed normal course of business.
We use a provides better live data reporting in the Viability statement.
variety of information sources to show across the Group and supports our whether were working within our global governance teams in their second Loss or inappropriate use of data tolerance for these risks and whether any line of defence risk assessment and or systems leading to serious require additional executive attention.
We continue to develop this reputational and brand damage, legal software solution, as we broaden its penalties and class action litigation.
Our risk culture support capabilities across various risk Adverse and unpredictable financial The Board is committed to maintaining management activities.
markets or fiscal developments in one a strong risk culture that emphasises of our major countries of operation, Our risk landscape continues to change the importance of managing risk and resulting in significant economic as both the business and regulatory encourages transparent and timely deterioration, currency weakness environments evolve.
The pace of change risk reporting across the Group.
and the need for greater visibility across therefore work to align employees the organisation continue to grow and behaviours, attitudes and incentives New legislation or changes in were developing our risk function and with our risk appetite and other regulatory enforcement, changing practices to meet these challenges.
governance and risk management how we operate our business.
Our risk governance process reinforces and facilitates appropriate ownership, accountability, escalation and management of our principal risks.
This process includes: well-defined roles and responsibilities across our Three Lines of Defence model: assigning accountability for risk taking when making key business decisions: documenting clear boundaries and behavioural expectations in policies and standards: and creating an environment that reinforces adherence and accountability.
14 Strategic report|Principal risks 1 2 3 4 5 V Loss or inappropriate use of data and systems Description Examples of control mitigation We hold and manage sensitive consumer information that We deploy physical and technological security measures, increases our exposure and susceptibility to cyber-attacks, combined with monitoring and alerting for suspicious activities.
either directly through our online systems or indirectly We maintain an information security programme for identifying, through our partners or third-party contractors.
protecting against, detecting, and responding to cyber security risks and recovering from cyber security incidents.
We impose contractual security requirements on our partners and other third parties who use our data, complemented by periodic reviews of third-party controls.
We maintain insurance coverage, where feasible and appropriate.
Potential impact Changes from 2016 Losing or misusing sensitive consumer data could cause The trend of external cyber security threats to companies problems for consumers and result in material loss of continues to increase, as shown by the reported number and scale business, substantial legal liability, regulatory enforcement of cyber-attacks.
However, we continue to accelerate and improve actions and or significant harm to our reputation.
our security capabilities to meet this evolving threat.
Over the past year, we increased our focus on upgrading our cyber security culture and awareness, and better aligning our security personnel across our Three Lines of Defence model.
We continued to enhance our protection, detection and response capabilities by strengthening our cyber security practices and policies and ensuring we apply them consistently across our regions and business units.
We intend to continue to invest in the tools, resources and initiatives necessary to strengthen our global information security programme.
Key Our strategy: 1 Increasing engagement 2 Accelerating innovation 3 Broadening our impact 4 Enhancing our assets and working as One Experian 5 Strengthening our foundations V Considered as part of the viability assessment 15 Strategic report|Principal risks Principal risks identifying and managing risk continued 1 2 3 Failure to comply with laws and regulations Description Examples of control mitigation We hold and manage sensitive consumer information We maintain a compliance management framework that includes and must therefore comply with a range of privacy and defined policies, procedures and controls for Experian employees, consumerprotection laws, regulations and contractual business processes, and third parties such as our data resellers.
We assess the appropriateness of using data in new and changing products and services.
We vigorously defend all pending and threatened claims, employing internal and external counsel to effectively manage and conclude such proceedings.
We analyse the causes of claims, to identify any potential changes we need to make to our business processes and policies.
Potential impact Changes from 2016 Non-compliance may result in material litigation, including While we face existing regulatory and government investigations class actions, as well as regulatory actions.
These could in a number of jurisdictions, and over the past year the number result in civil or criminal liability or penalties, as well as of individual and US class action lawsuits has increased, the risk damage to our reputation.
of non-compliance has stabilised as a result of our mitigating controls.
While we continue to manage the effects associated with these investigations and lawsuits, the cost of defending individual consumer litigation continues to rise.
Non-resilient IT business environment 1 2 3 4 5 Description Examples of control mitigation Delivery of our products and services depends on a number We maintain a significant level of resilience in our operations, of key IT systems and processes that expose our clients, designed to avoid material and sustained desruption to our consumers and businesses to serious disruption in the businesses, clients and consumers.
event of systems or operational failures.
We design applications to be resilient and with a balance between longevity, sustainability and speed.
We maintain a global integrated business continuity framework that includes industry-appropriate policies, procedures and controls for all our systems and related processes, as well as ongoing review, monitoring and escalation activities.
We duplicate information in our databases and maintain backup data centres.
Potential impact Changes from 2016 A significant failure or interruption could have a materially Throughout the year we experienced isolated events, including adverse effect on our business, financial performance, weather and power disruptions that tested our plans financial condition and or our reputation.
We believe that the overall risk of non-resilient systems is decreasing due in large part to continued enhancements to our global integrated business continuity framework and advancements in our application architecture framework.
We continue to perform periodic exercises to validate, where possible, that our documented global business continuity procedures are accurate and suitable for each environment.
We have designed our applications using a build anywhere, deploy anywhere strategy, to support portability and maximum resilience.
Our approach to asset lifecycle management helps ensure that we retire and replace our technology in a timelyfashion.
16 Strategic report|Principal risks 1 2 3 4 5 Business conduct risk Description Examples of control mitigation Our business model is designed to create long-term We maintain appropriate governance and oversight that include value for people, businesses and society through our data policies, procedures and controls designed to safeguard personal assets and innovative analytics and software solutions.
data, avoid detriment to consumers, provide consumer-centric Inappropriate execution of our business strategies or product design and delivery, and effectively respond to enquiries activities could adversely affect our clients, consumers or and complaints.
These activities also support a robust conduct risk counterparties.
We enforce our Global Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy and Gifts and Hospitality Policy.
If we believe employees or suppliers are not following our conduct standards, we will investigate thoroughly and take disciplinary action where appropriate.
Potential impact Changes from 2016 Consumers or clients could receive inappropriate products While regulators have continued to put public trust and consumer or not have access to appropriate products, resulting and investor protection at the centre of their mission statements in material loss of business, substantial legal liability, and promote prudent conduct risk management, we believe our regulatory enforcement actions or significant harm to mitigation efforts have stabilised the overall risk toExperian.
Dependence on highly skilled personnel 1 4 5 Description Examples of control mitigation Our success depends on the ability to attract, motivate and In every region, we have ongoing recruitment, personal and retain key talent and build future leadership.
career development, and talent identification and development programmes.
We periodically carry out our Global People Survey and act on the feedback.
We offer competitive compensation and benefits and review them regularly.
We actively monitor attrition rates, with a focus on individuals designated as high talent or in strategically important roles.
Potential impact Changes from 2016 Not having the right people could materially affect our We have taken steps to effectively manage our ability to attract, ability to service our clients and grow our business.
develop and retain employee talent and believe our mitigation efforts have reduced the overall risk to Experian.
We continue to monitor employee engagement through a variety of channels, and have been implementing the action plans from our last Global People Survey.
Our next global survey will be launched in May 2017, and we will introduce regular sentiment-tracking capability to increase our visibility of employee engagement.
Voluntary attrition rates have decreased over the past year, but continue to be a focus for us as the labour market in the USA is tightening.
In the UK, the impact on free movement of labour resulting from Brexit may pose a risk, but the impact remains unclear at this stage.
We have deployed a Brexit Response programme and Steering Committee: and as more information on the impact of Brexit for both Experian and our employees becomes available, we will consider what action we need to take to address those impacts.
Talent, succession planning and reward remain key initiatives, and our Global Talent Acquisition team is working hard to enhance recruitment practices and outcomes across the business.
For further information on our succession and retention programmes please refer to the Our people section of the Strategic report.
17 Strategic report|Principal risks Principal risks identifying and managing risk continued Adverse and unpredictable financial markets or fiscal developments 2 3 4 V Description Examples of control mitigation We operate globally and our results could be affected by We have a diverse portfolio by geography, product, sector and client.
global or regional changes in fiscal or monetary policies.
We provide counter-cyclical products and services.
A substantial change in credit markets in the USA, the UK or We convert cash balances in foreign currencies into US dollars.
Brazil could reduce our financial performance and growth We retain internal and external tax professionals, who regularly potential in thosecountries.
monitor developments in international tax and assess the impact We present our Group financial statements in US dollars.
of changes and differing outcomes.
However, we transact business in a number of currencies.
Changes in other currencies relative to the US dollar could affect our financial results.
A substantial rise in USA, EU or UK interest rates could increase our future cost ofborrowings.
We are subject to complex and evolving tax laws and interpretations, which may change significantly.
These changes may increase our effective tax rates in the future.
Uncertainty about the application of these laws may also result in different outcomes from the amounts we provide.
Potential impact Changes from 2016 The USA, UK and Brazil markets are significant contributors Global and regional economic trends and forecasts continue to to our revenue.
A reduction in one or more of these influence our capital allocation and calculated returns, whilst consumer and business credit services markets could heightened uncertainty in future tax legislation in response to reduce our revenue and profit.
geopolitical change in our key markets means the overall risk to Experian has increased.
We benefit from the strengthening of currencies relative to the US dollar and are adversely affected by currencies The Brazilian real remains weak and volatile by historic standards, weakening relative to it.
creating a drag on Group revenue.
General weakness in the Brazilian economy, coupled with increasing inflation, could impede We have outstanding debt denominated principally in our business results in Brazil and may lead to unhelpful legislative US dollars, sterling and euros.
As this debt matures, and fiscal measures.
The UK may experience recessionary we may need to replace it with borrowings at higher pressures as a result of Brexit and sterling may come under interest rates.
further pressure as the implications of Brexit become clearer.
Earnings could be reduced and tax payments increased Experian has a number of outstanding tax matters and resolving either as a result of settling historical tax positions or them could have a substantial impact on our financial statements, increases in our effective tax rates.
Tax authorities are adopting longer and more formal processes to agree significant outstanding matters and in some cases are challenging or overturning previously agreed positions.
Following conclusion of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development 'OECD' G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting 'BEPS' initiatives and the publication of the BEPS actions, governments are reviewing tax laws and tax treatment in many jurisdictions where we do business.
The new US administration is also considering wide-scale corporate tax reform.
Changes to tax laws or interpretations may result in significant increases in our overall effective tax rate and cash tax payments or impact our historical tax positions.
Adverse publicity around tax could damage our reputation.
18 Strategic report|Principal risks New legislation or changes in regulatory enforcement 1 2 3 V Description Examples of control mitigation We operate in an increasingly complex environment, in We use internal and external resources to monitor planned and which many of our activities and services are subject realised changes in legislation.
to legal and regulatory influences.
New laws, new We educate lawmakers, regulators, consumer and privacy interpretations of existing laws, changes to existing advocates, industry trade groups, our clients and other stakeholders regulations and or heightened regulatory scrutiny could in the public policy debate.
For example, future regulatory Our global compliance team has region-specific regulatory expertise changes could impact how we collect and use consumer and works with our businesses to identify and adopt balanced information for marketing, risk management and fraud compliance strategies.
Regulatory changes could impact how we serve We execute our Compliance Management Programme, which directs Consumer Services clients or how we market services to the structure, documentation, tools and training requirements to clients or consumers.
support compliance on an ongoing basis.
Potential impact Changes from 2016 We may suffer increased costs or reduced revenue New laws, new interpretations of existing laws, changes to existing resulting from modified business practices, adopting new regulations and regulatory scrutiny continue to increase.
procedures, self-regulation and or litigation or regulatory Increasing regulation by the UK Financial Conduct Authority 'FCA' actions resulting in liability or fines.
and the US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 'CFPB', and various federal and state legislative actions in Brazil, may affect our access to data, increase our costs, and require us to modify our products or reduce our revenue.
While we are pleased that the FCA approved our application for full authorisation as a credit reference agency, the FCA has broad authority that includes rulemaking and investigative and enforcement powers, as well as the ability to make determinations on matters such as fairness in consumer outcomes.
In Brazil, federal and state public prosecutors continue to bring actions that emphasise their regulatory focus in areas such as use of marketing and enquiry data, and restrictions on utility default data.
We also continue to manage the effects of regulatory requirements to use return receipt letters before we can add negative consumer credit information to our database.
The longterm continuation and proliferation of this type of legislation at the state and federal levels could affect our business and the businesses of our clients.
In the USA, the CFPB proposed a rule that would prohibit the use of arbitration clauses in consumer financial contracts, potentially exposing our Consumer Services business to increased litigation.
Key Our strategy: 1 Increasing engagement 2 Accelerating innovation 3 Broadening our impact 4 Enhancing our assets and working as One Experian 5 Strengthening our foundations V Considered as part of the viability assessment 19 Strategic report|Principal risks Principal risks identifying and managing risk continued 1 2 3 4 5 Increasing competition Description Examples of control mitigation Our competitive landscape continues to evolve, with We continue to research and invest in new data sources, people, traditional players reinventing themselves, emerging technology and products to support our strategic plan.
players investing heavily and new entrants making large We carry out detailed competitive and market analyses.
commitments in new technologies or new approaches to We continue to develop new products that leverage our scale and our markets, including marketing, consumer services, and allow us to deploy capabilities in new and existing markets and business and consumer credit information.
that we will not respond adequately to such disruptions or We use rigorous processes to identify and select our development that our products and services will fail to meet changing investments, so we can effectively introduce new products and client and consumer preferences.
Potential impact Changes from 2016 Price reductions may reduce our margins and financial While the competitive risk to our business remains high, we believe results.
Increased competition may reduce our market our mitigation efforts have stabilised the overall risk to Experian.
share, harm our ability to obtain new clients or retain We remain proactive in our efforts to evaluate competitors and existing ones, affect our ability to recruit talent and can markets, and pursue investments and enhancements to our data, influence our investment decisions.
We might also be analytics and technology where appropriate.
unable to support changes in the way our businesses During the past year our established competitors have been and clients use and purchase information, affecting our strengthening their data assets and underlying technology, operating results.
including pursuing acquisitions of non-traditional data sources to round out their offerings and provide new insights to clients.
We have responded by establishing working groups to understand emerging business models in our core markets and build specific plans to respond.
We have also strengthened our competitive intelligence and strategy capabilities, and enhanced our efforts to identify investment opportunities in early-stage industry and technology companies.
Our Consumer Services business in the USA continues to face stiff competition from alternative 'freemium' and lead-generation business models.
We are also seeing a similar trend emerge in the UK.
Alternative scoring models for consumer and commercial credit eligibility are beginning to enter the market through 'FinTech' companies and others.
Finally, we continue to monitor the group of major banks in Brazil that are building a new 'credit intelligence bureau' that will include positive data.
This entity will partner with RELX Group-LexisNexis, to provide technology infrastructure and support to the bureau.
Key Our strategy: 1 Increasing engagement 2 Accelerating innovation 3 Broadening our impact 4 Enhancing our assets and working as One Experian 5 Strengthening our foundations V Considered as part of the viability assessment 20 Strategic report|Principal risks 1 2 3 5 Data ownership, access and integrity Description Examples of control mitigation Our business model depends on our ability to collect, We monitor legislative and regulatory initiatives, and educate aggregate, analyse and use consumer and client lawmakers, regulators, consumer and privacy advocates, information.
There is a risk that we may not have access industry trade groups, clients and other stakeholders in the public to data because of consumer privacy and data accuracy policydebate.
concerns, or data providers being unable or unwilling to We use standardised selection, negotiation and contracting of provide their data to us or imposing a different fee structure provider agreements, to address delivery assurance, reliability and for using their data.
protections relating to critical service provider relationships.
Our legal contracts define how we can use data and provide services.
We analyse data to make sure we receive the best value and highest quality.
Potential impact Changes from 2016 Our ability to provide products and services to our clients The overall trend in data collection, aggregation and use could be affected, leading to a materially adverse impact on restrictions remains stable.
our business, reputation and or operating results.
Consumer advocates and regulators in various jurisdictions are focused on driving changes and restrictions on data collection, aggregation and use based on consumer privacy concerns, including providing greater transparency and control options for consumers.
In the USA, the CFPB continues to focus on policies, procedures and processes related to data accuracy, and there continues to be negative press surrounding the accuracy of credit bureau data.
In some instances, data providers are looking to further monetise the data they provide.
Momentum towards reporting positive data continues in some countries and we continue to advance the importance and value of positive data in countries such as Brazil, India and Australia.
Undesirable investment outcomes 1 2 3 4 5 Description Examples of control mitigation We critically evaluate and may invest in acquisitions and We analyse competitive threats to our business model and markets.
other growth opportunities, including internal performance We carry out comprehensive business reviews.
improvement programmes, any of which may not produce We perform due diligence and post-investment reviews on the desired financial or operating results.
We employ a rigorous capital allocation framework.
We analyse competitive threats to our business model and markets.
We design our incentive programmes to optimise shareholder value through delivery of balanced, sustainable returns and a sound risk profile over the long term.
Potential impact Changes from 2016 Failure to successfully implement our key business We believe our mitigation efforts have stabilised the overall risk to strategies could have a materially adverse effect on our Experian of undesirable investment outcomes.
ability to achieve our growth targets.
During the past year, we implemented a new economic return Poorly executed business acquisitions or partnerships could framework for both organic and inorganic investments, which result in material loss of business, increased costs, reduced focuses on risk-adjusted investment hurdles.
We are also revenue, substantial legal liability, regulatory enforcement implementing policies and standards that will apply minimum actions and or significant harm to our reputation.
requirements to our acquisition and integration processes, including enhanced information security requirements.
We continue to analyse competitive threats to our business model and markets, and will take advantage of strategic partnerships and invest in new technologies where appropriate.
