Financial review, risk and corporate responsibility Risk report Effective risk management underpins the successful delivery of the Companys strategy.
Approach to risk governance Risk review process The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk The Companys risk review process includes the management of the Company.
It seeks to achieve monitoring of key strategic and financial metrics an appropriate balance between mitigating risk considered to be indicators of potential changes in and generating attractive risk-adjusted returns for its risk prole.
The review includes, but is not limited to, shareholders.
Integrity and responsibility are embedded the following: in the Companys approach to risk management.
regular updates on the operational and financial The Board exercises oversight of the risk framework, performance of portfolio companies: methodology and process through the Audit and Risk infrastructure and broader market overviews: Committee.
The risk framework is designed to provide a structured and consistent process for identifying, experience of investment processes: assessing and responding to risks.
The Committee key macro-economic indicators and their impact on the ensures that there is a consistent approach to risk across performance and valuation of portfolio companies: the Companys strategy, business objectives, policies and procedures.
liquidity management: The Company is also reliant on the risk management compliance with regulatory obligations: framework of the Investment Adviser and other key analysis of the impact of international initiatives such service providers, as well as on the risk management as the OECDs Action Plan on Base Erosion and profit operations of each portfolio company.
Shifting and the Common Reporting Standard, the EU The Board manages risks through updates from the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, and Investment Adviser and other service providers and the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act: and through representation on portfolio companies boards review of the Companys risk log.
of investment advisory team members.
The Audit and Risk Committee uses the above to identify In addition to the Audit and Risk Committee, a number of key risks.
It then evaluates the impact a number of other committees contribute to the and likelihood of each key risk, with reference to the Companys overall risk governance structure including Companys strategy and business model.
The adequacy the Investment Committee and the Management of the mitigation plans and controls are then assessed Engagement Committee.
and, if necessary, additional actions are agreed and then reviewed at the subsequent meeting.
Further detail on these committees can be found in the Governance section of this report on page 53.
S St te even Wilderspin Chair Ch man, Audit and Risk Ris Committee 1 10 0 May 2017 46 Financial review, risk and corporate responsibility The Committee maintains a risk matrix, onto which the Risk appetite key risks are mapped by impact and likelihood.
The The Committee has reviewed the risk matrix, and set principal risks are identied on the risk matrix as those out the Companys appetite for each of the key risks.
with the highest combination of impact and likelihood As an investment company, the Company seeks to scores.
The Company considers these principal risks take investment risk.
The appetite for investment risk is in greater detail with regard to the assessment of the described in the Investment policy and on page 8, with Companys viability.
A number of scenarios have been a risk return graph which shows the investment focus of developed to reect likely outcomes should the principal the Company.
The Company seeks to limit or manage risks be experienced, as well as consideration of stressed exposure to other risks to acceptable levels.
scenarios that could result in the Company ceasing to be viable.
The Company is an investment company, Review of significant key risks therefore the stressed scenarios reect cash ow from The disclosures on pages 48 and 49 are not an exhaustive investments being reduced, such that debt covenants are list of risks and uncertainties faced by the Company, breached and liabilities cannot be met.
The Investment but rather a summary of significant key risks which are Adviser models the impact of these scenarios on the under active review by the Board.
These significant Company and reports the results to the Board.
The key risks have the potential to affect materially the modelling relates to the Companys investment portfolio, achievement of the Companys strategic objectives and as the Company is an investment company and this is impact its financial performance.
This disclosure shows therefore most relevant to an assessment of viability.
developments in these significant key risks for the year.
The resulting assessment of viability is included in this The risks that have been identied as principal risks Risk report.
are described in more detail in the Principal risks and mitigations table on pages 50 and 51.
The Companys risk prole and appetite remains broadlystable.
Risk framework Strategic considerations New or emerging risks Risk assessment Strategy and business model Risk appetite Control and mitigation Risk management Mitigation Internal controls Risk limits Monitoring and measurement Controls assessment Stress testing Assurance work Sensitivity headroom analysis Risk related reporting Internal External Annual report Monthly management accounts Risk appetite Internal and external audit reports Viability statement Service provider control reports Internal controls Risk logs Going concern Compliance reports Statutory accounting disclosures 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 47 Financial review, risk and corporate responsibility Risk report continued The revenues of Innis are underpinned by the inationExternal risks market and competition linked UK Renewables Obligation Certicate ROC The markets in which the Company seeks to invest, regime until 2027, while the valuation of the business is and in particular the European economic infrastructure also dictated by the evolution of long-term power prices market, are competitive, with strong demand for large and to uctuations in the power price.
This has fallen Core assets.
This has supported value gains for existing since our investment and is reected in thevaluation.
In this challenging environment, the Investment Adviser continues to leverage its network External risks regulatory and tax and skills to make investments that can continue On 3 June 2016, the Finnish Energy Authority, which to deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns to the regulates electricity distribution in Finland, issued a Companys shareholders.
draft government bill which, if enacted, will amend The terms on which the UK will leave the EU are the Electricity Market Act by implementing certain uncertain, and could create a generally less favourable restrictions on price increases by Distribution System financial environment for the Company and its Operators DSOs.
According to the draft bill, DSOs, investments.
including Elenia, will be restricted from increasing their electricity distribution tariffs by more than an aggregate UK ination has exceeded expectations in the year, 15% on tariffs after taxes over any rolling 12-month impacting the assets with ination-linked revenues period.
The new regulation will apply with respect to partially offset by an increase in cost.
Non-UK ination both consumer and corporate customers.
The proposed remained low in the year but increased in some countries.
amendment is expected to become law during 2017.
Interest rates remained low throughout the year.
The Company and the Investment Adviser continue Thishadpositive implications for some of the to monitor, and where relevant contribute to, the portfolio assets and allowed for the favourable development of tax changes recommended by the renancing of debtin TCR, Elenia and Innis.
Elenia has OECDs Base Erosion and profit Shifting BEPS project.
continued to take advantage of the favourable credit Of the 15 BEPS Actions comprising the BEPS project, market conditions and, since April 2016, has issued the two which have been identied as most relevant to 207 millionof new bonds with maturities between 2029 the Company and its investments are Action 4 Limit and 2034.
The proceeds were used to pay down the base erosion via interest deductions, and Action 6 revolving capital expenditure facility.
There was significant currency volatility in the year, The UK is well advanced in its plans to introduce new with sterling depreciating by 8.0% against the euro in tax rules to give effect to the recommendations of BEPS response to the UK referendum result on leaving the Action 4.
The Investment Adviser has been involved in European Union.
The Companys objective is to hedge contributing to representations made by infrastructure substantially its euro, Danish krona and Singapore dollar bodies in the development of these rules.
The expected exposure associated with the investment in Oiltanking impact of the new UK interest deductibility rules has Singapore within the Oystercatcher valuation.
The been reected in the valuation of the Companys UK revaluation of the hedging programme for the euro, investments as at 31 March 2017.
A number of European Singapore dollar and Danish krona is impacted by jurisdictions have tax regimes which already limit interest movements in forward exchange rates which are not deductions and further changes are not therefore necessarily matched exactly by an equivalent change in expected to have a material impact.
the spot exchange rate at which theassets are translated.
In November 2016, the BEPS project group published a The exposure to the Indian rupee remains unhedged.
In Multilateral Instrument MLI which provides countries relation to this exposure, the Boards assessment remains with a mechanism to amend their tax treaties for several that the cost of hedging the exposure would outweigh of the BEPS recommendations including the BEPS Action the potential benets, primarily due to the significant 6 related recommendations concerning the prevention of interest rate differential between sterling and rupee.
A first MLI signing ceremony The Board monitors the effectiveness of the Companys is planned at the beginning of June 2017 when a number hedging policy on a regular basis.
Overall, 73% of the of countries are expected to sign.
The Company and the foreign exchange gains were offset by movements in Investment Adviser will continue to monitor relevant tax theforeign exchange hedging derivatives.
treaty changes which may impact the Companys existing investment holding structures and, where necessary, will consider relevant options for mitigating any adverse impacts.
This is expected to be a significant area of activity for the Company and the Investment Adviser overthe next year.
48 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, risk and corporate responsibility The Companys investment in Innis is exposed to Viability statement regulatory risk around embedded benets.
Ofgem The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company has proposed that the most important of these benets over a three-year period to March 2020.
The Directors have to Innis should be phased out by 2021.
If this occurred taken account of the current position of the Company, and the earlier than assumed in the valuation of Innis, this principal risks it faces which are documented in this Risk report.
However, Ofgem The Directors have considered the potential impact on the has subsequently indicated that it is contemplating Company of a number of scenarios in addition to the Companys launching a significant Code Review, which could delay business plan and recent forecasts, which quantify the financial implementation by as much as two years.
impact of the principal risks occurring.
These scenarios represent severe but remote circumstances that the Company Strategic risks could experience, including a significant impairment in the value During the year, the Company had to balance the of the portfolio and a reduction in the cash ows available from portfolio companies from a variety of causes.
funding requirements of its pipeline of investments with the objective of running its balance sheet The assessment was conducted over several months, during efficiently.
The Board assessed the Companys liquidity which the scenarios to be analysed were evaluated by the requirements regularly.
The Company announced in Board, the assumptions set, and the analysis conducted and reviewed.
The analysis included the impact of changes in May 2016 that it had negotiated an extension to the taxation under the OECDs BEPS initiative, a Brexit outcome RCF for a further year.
The Facility includes a temporary that is unfavourable to the Company, consideration of dramatic accordion feature, allowing for an increase in the Facility political events and widespread economic turmoil, and the of a further 200 million.
The Company utilised this loss of a large investment.
The implications of changes in the feature from April 2016 to July 2016 and had aggregate ination, interest rate and foreign exchange environment were short-term borrowing facilities of 500 million available also considered, separately and in combination.
to position it to continue to make commitments to The results of this stress testing showed that the Company potential new investments.
In April 2017, the Company would be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios again increased the size of the facility from 300 million occurring over the three-year period.
The Directors also to 500 million on a temporary basis to March 2018. considered scenarios that would represent a serious threat to itsliquidity in the time period.
These scenarios were considered Investment risks to be remote.
The Company made six new investments during the year, The Directors consider that a three-year period to March 2020 in Innis, WIG, TCR, Valorem, the A27 A1 and Hart van is an appropriate period to review for assessing the Companys Zuid primary PPP projects and a follow-on in XLT.
This reects greater predictability of the Companys cash ows over that time period, the term of the Companys Following these investments, the Company has a larger Revolving Credit Facility, and increased uncertainty surrounding and more diverse portfolio.
In line with the Companys economic, political and regulatory changes over the longer term.
investment focus, described on page 8, these new Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable investments have characteristics which may increase expectation that the Company will be able to continue in volatility in returns from time to time, for example from operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the exposure to market power prices or demand risk.
The performance of the investments in the India Fund remained weak.
The India Fund sold its holding in Adani Power during the year.
The remaining portfolio is being managed for realisation.
Operational The key areas of operational risk include the loss of key personnel at the Investment Adviser, and whether the Investment Advisers team can continue to support the delivery of the Companys objectives.
The Board monitors the performance of the Investment Adviser through the Management Engagement Committee.
Italso monitors the performance of key service providers, receiving reports of any significant control breaches.
TheBoard reviewed its own reporting on cyber risk during the year, assessed its service providers and considered cyber risk within portfolio companies.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 49 Financial review, risk and corporate responsibility Risk report continued Principal risks and mitigations Principal risks Risk description Risk mitigation External Changes to the following areas may impact Company has retained legal advisers Legal, tax, upon theoperation of the Company: and the Investment Adviser has in-house compliance and lawyers accounting Legal changes to listing rules Tax advice taken on transactions and Tax changes to the rules which affect atother times asnecessary the Jersey nilrated regime Investment Adviser has an in-house Compliance increased regulation eg Compliance team toprovide advice AIFMD, FATCA onregulatory issues Accounting rules pertaining to Accounting advice and updates provided disclosure consolidation by external rms if required Regulatory changes to the regulatory regime of the Company, the Investment Adviser and portfolio companies can impact the operating model and or profitability Changes to the tax regime applicable to The impact on the portfolio or OECD BEPS the Company, subsidiaries or portfolio investment strategy ofchanges to initiative companies that increase tax leakage applicable standards and regulation and or affect the Companys relative isclosely monitored attractiveness as an investment vehicle Tax regimes exist in other jurisdictions due to the OECD BEPS initiative or which limit tax leakage for investment associated UK and EU initiatives companies Macro-economic or market volatility Advice of Investment Adviser on dealMarket economic ows through topricing, valuations and making, asset management and hedging portfolio performance solutions to market volatility Fiscal tightening impacts market Periodic legal and regulatory updates environment on the Companys markets and in-depth market and sector research from other Risk of sovereign default lowers market advisers sentiment andincreases volatility Misjudgement of ination and or interest rate outlook Increased competition for the acquisition Continual review of market data and Competition of assets inthe Companys strategic review of Company return target focus areas compared to market returns Deal processes more competitive and Origination experience of Investment prices increase Adviser New entrants compete with a lower cost Strong track record and strength of capital  50 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, risk and corporate responsibility Principal risks Risk description Risk mitigation Strategic Failure to ensure adequate spread of Investment process explicitly addresses Unbalanced assets invested to minimise concentration questions ofgeographical sector balance portfolio risks eg by geography, sector, demand in the portfolio driver, regulator and full investment Portfolio concentration measures are policy reviewed periodically by the Board difficulty in maintaining geographical The Investment Adviser undertakes diversity, or sale of large assets, may lead a concentration review for each new to unbalanced portfolio investment Misjudgement of risk when entering new sectors, industries or geographies Investment Failure to achieve new investment efficient balance sheet maintained and Inappropriate impacts shareholder perception, returns monitored regularly by the Board rate of investment and growth prospects Portfolio concentration measures are Excess vintage risk magnies the reviewed periodically by the Board impact of poor performance from a The Investment Adviser undertakes vintage of investments a concentration review for each new Poor management of investment pipeline investment Operational Members of the deal team at Investment Benchmarked compensation packages Loss of senior Adviser leave and deal-doing and and deferredremuneration Investment portfolio management capability in the Adviser staff Notice periods within employment short to medium term is restricted contracts Size of the senior team and strength ofthe 3i brand Unauthorised access of information and Regular review of the Company and key Cyber operating systems service providers Regulatory and legal risks from failure Regular review and update of cyber due to comply with cyber related laws and diligence for potential investments regulations, including data protection Review of portfolio companies for cyber risk management and incident readiness 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 51
