30 31 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CASE STUDY: The operation at Sukari has a low costperounce RISK MANAGEMENT IN ACTION of production compared with other operating mines, At least quarterly, a management review team meets in an open forum to discuss emerging risks and consider the effectiveness of controls in place.
The meetings result in a formal report which is presented to the audit and risk committee and takes the form of a which contributes to the Companys longer term viability.
report by exception on matters such as risk identification, policy changes and changes to practices resulting from either breaches to policies or improvement in operating practices.
Data is captured at an operational level, collated through daily, monthly and quarterly reporting.
The reports are assessed by management, and discussed in detail at quarterly meetings.
Recommendations from site, policy changes and other remedial actions, as well as category 4 and 5 level incident reports are reported to the audit and risk committee and summarised to the board.
Decisions of the board, committee, management and executive are communicated to the heads of department.
Daily toolbox discussions and ongoing site training are the forums for disseminating this information to the wider workforce.
Other strategic matters such as the acceptance or rejection of new business opportunities are regularly discussed, with geopolitical Risk appetite The board is agreed that due to the The principal risks described in the risk representing the first hurdle for new project initiatives.
The discussions around risk and areas of concern provide the nature and inherent risks associated report can have a serious impact on Centamin accepts that the exploration management team with the means to escalate emerging issues to the audit and risk committee and equally develop enhanced with an operating mining company, our ability to deliver on our strategic for and development of metals and procedures to reduce or mitigate a particular issue.
the board accepts a higher risk aims.
The management of risks mineral resources, together with the appetite, however this needs to be through identification, monitoring and construction and development of PRINCIPAL RISKS managed within acceptable limits mitigation allows the group to improve mining operations is an activity that by having appropriate safeguards in its decision making process, deliver on involves a high degree of risk.
The principal risks identified by its objectives and improve its group therefore can only manage, the board and disclosed below, performance as a mining company.
Principal risks rather than eliminate risk completely.
evidence the extent of potential In considering risk appetite, the board The board reviews existing and consequences inherent in operating considered the level of acceptable risk emerging risks in the context of both a largescale mining operation.
tolerance, the attitude and culture opportunities and potential threats.
The board assesses regularly the Corporate risk register towards risk and the ways in which the This is then applied when challenging measures to mitigate these risks and board can influence risk appetite the strategic objectives of the limit the likelihood for incidents.
Operational risk assessment register Company that underpin the business The groups risks may change over model.
The board met during the year In considering risk appetite, the board time, as will the groups risk appetite on a focused strategy day to evaluate is clear that Centamin has a zero Business continuity planning statement, as the external and assess the overall business plan.
tolerance to breaches in health and environment changes and as safety and environmental protection.
Open pit mining Underground mining Process plant Although a longer time horizon is operations are expanded into new The board invests heavily in a considered for evaluation of risks Supply and warehouse Information technology HSES environment geographical areas.
The risk programme of continuous impacting the Company, the Exploration Site security Advanced exploration management and review process improvement in health and safety assessment of viability is made during requires regular monitoring of the practices and has an expectation to the budget process which covers a five groups existing risks and the meet the highest standards.
year period and detailed assessment Viability statement for risk might affect the assessment.
The operation at Sukari has a low cost identification of any new and emerging of financial and operational forecasts.
The group has a high risk appetite The review includes the Companys per ounce of production compared In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of risks, including financial and towards its strategic objectives, such strategic objectives, business model with other operating mines, which the UK Corporate Governance Code nonfinancial matters.
It also requires The report covers the boards that risks are reduced to reasonably and its prospects over the coming five contributes to the Companys longer the Code, the directors have the ongoing management of the assessment of its risk appetite to key practicable levels, in the pursuit of years to December 2022. term viability.
assessed the Companys prospects appropriateness of the risk mitigation strategic decisions, our viability mineral exploration, development and over the longer term, addressing a in place.
statement and details of our principal The review, which included the Integral to the long term viability of gold production.
Meeting period of five years.
During 2017 the Company presentation and approval of the the Company is the Companys environmental, regulatory and legal directors assessment was the budget implemented a risk management budget, received board approval resource and reserves R&R and obligations takes priority over other and forecast carried out in December framework details of which are set out and formed the basis of an investor details of Sukaris R&R can be found business objectives.
2017 which reviewed the longer term in the audit and risk committee report presentation which was released on on the Companys website.
The R&R viability of the Company.
The financial statements are supported by technical assessed the Companys position and forecasts used in the review included reports which are developed in progress against its four strategic key assumptions about gold price, consultation with external experts and focus areas including stability, future production levels, operating combine geological, metallurgical and prioritising stakeholder returns, and capital costs, cash flows and the economic data.
The latest R&R optimal growth and social groups balance sheet and shareholder statement was announced on responsibility.
The operational forecasts 10 January 2018. areas are set out on page 18.
In included mining and process plant addition, the Company considered the throughput levels, grades and potential impact on its principal risks, metallurgical recovery rates.
and also considered how its appetite Management and audit and Management risk committee board review review 32 33 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT continued The investor presentation, together The review undertaken to determine Change to principal risks CENTAMIN PLC RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS INITIAL RISK IDENTIFICATION, DOCUMENTATION AND ASSESSMENT with the latest presentations, can be the long term viability did not identify Due to the nature of the business viewed on the Companys website any new or emerging risks that have as an operating mining company, the Approve risk which contain the latest uptodate not already been disclosed under headline principal risks, whilst Set corporate policy and objectives strategy, and set operational and financial information.
principal risks nor have any additional fundamental to the ongoing risk appetite mitigation measures been operation, remain largely constant.
The management team also considers implemented, other than in the The committee regularly reviews the strategic, operational and compliance ordinary course of business.
principal risks as well as the wider risks throughout the year and operational, corporate and general produces the following reports and On the basis of all the procedures Review, business risks and has identified one If unsatisfied with challenge and documents for the board and audit outlined above, the directors change to the principal risk register managements approve risk and risk committee to review to confirmed on the date of this report view of risks register as follows: support it in making the formal that they have a reasonable viability statement: expectation that the Company will The risk relating to currency exposure be able to continue in operation is no longer considered to be a operational risk assessment register and meet its liabilities as they fall Document principal risk to the business and has Risk Report to the Implement risk and corporate risk matrix: Consider risks in mitigating monitoring due over the five year period of been removed from the principal risk Identify key risks Assess and audit and risk management at relation to risk actions and annual impairment review: to objectives analyse key risks committee on an operational their assessment.
appetite sources of risks level going concern review: assurance Principal risks The group operates predominantly life of mine model: Centamin takes a number of measures in Egypt with EGP representing business continuity planning: and to mitigate risks associated with its approximately 15% of total cost base.
underlying operational and The group receives all revenue from Develop operational exploration activity which are gold sales in US dollars.
In November The assessment of viability over a level risk monitored and evaluated regularly.
2016 the Egyptian government floated period of five years to 2022 and the registers Due to the nature of these inherent the Egyptian pound in an attempt to material inputs and assumptions risks, it is not possible to give absolute stabilise its economy.
This led to a remain consistent with the conclusions assurance that mitigating actions will significant devaluation of the currency set out in the viability statement in the The budget process, which pulls production assumptions: Sukari prepared over a five year period to be wholly effective.
and subsequently an increase in local 2016 annual report.
However, notably, heavily on the R&R data, includes key is a 24hoursaday, sevendaysa 2022. inflation.
Whilst this still carries a the updated reserve and resource The current status of the principal risks assumptions related directly to our week operation with an estimated potential risk for the group, as it can statement at 30 June 2017 supports In preparing budgetary information affecting Centamin and its operational significant risks, our strategy and risk plant throughput capacity of lead to increases in the prices of fuel, the longevity of the open pit operation and forecasts, the group considers the and exploration activities, together appetite and are summarised below: 11.75Mtpa 12Mtpa from 2018. raw materials as well as pressure to and upside potential of the principal risks and wider corporate and with the measures to mitigate risk are The process plant recovery rates increase staff wages, we have underground operation at Sukari see gold price assumptions: operational risks.
Of the principal risks detailed on pages 34 to 37. are estimated to average at 89% observed a relatively stable profile R&R statements on pages 65 to 67. management time and focus is identified on pages 34 to 37, those in 2018.
Maintaining and improving against the US dollar and whilst this The relationship with our JV partners, applied to ensure a low cost with the most potential to impact productivity is fundamental to our will be closely monitored, this risk has EMRA, remains strong with both operation, which helps Sukari negatively upon the Companys business and long term strategy: been removed from Centamins parties enjoying profit sharing in line remain profitable, even in a ongoing viability include the gold and principal risk register.
with the Concession Agreement relatively low gold price price, the relationship with its joint social licence to operate: relations throughout the year.
The strategic decision venture partner, political risk and the The directors confirm that a robust with our joint venture partner, are set out on pages 34 to 37 and all to remain unhedged means the ongoing litigation in Egypt.
assessment of the principal risks EMRA, remain strong and this principal risks have been concluded by Company benefits fully in a strong impacting the Company has been relationship continues to strengthen A sensitivity analysis was carried out the board to be within acceptable gold price environment.
In a weaker undertaken which identified strategic with the onset of profit sharing.
on the key inputs to the financial and limits, taking account of the associated gold price environment, the and operational risks at a corporate operational forecasts, including mitigation that is in place.
commitment to cost control helps level and principal risks impacting our Although the business does prepare sensitivity analysis on the average gold ensure business continuity: operations in Egypt and West Africa.
plans over a longer time horizon, price.
The review also considered the commodity assumptions: based notably in the Sukari life of mine cost in developing the prospects in on forecast prices, fuel represents models, the Company chose five years West Africa, noting that there are approximately 20% of our for its viability statement and carried sufficient cash resources to cover the operational costs and is therefore a out the review in December 2017 early stage development.
The review significant commodity assumption based on this time horizon.
The five considered timing and possible future in both the budget process and year time horizon reflects the period of capital expenditure whilst ensuring the development of the R&R.
This can the review which includes the dividend policy and ongoing therefore materially affect the cost preparation of the budget document commitments could be met.
base of the business: which includes operational and financial forecasts that have been Operational Senior Audit and risk Board management management committee 34 35 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT continued PRINCIPAL RISK TREND NATURE OF RISK MITIGATION COMPANY OBJECTIVE STRATEGY RISK APPETITE OWNER STRATEGIC RISK Neutral The Sukari Gold Mine currently constitutes Centamins main mineral resource and sole Sukari Gold Mine: the project at Sukari has two At Sukari, the process plant has been Risk appetite is at an Executive: mineral reserve and near term production and revenue.
The resources in Burkina Faso and distinct ore sources open pit and underground, designed with sufficient resilience and acceptable level, with CEO, COO Loss of revenue due to Cte dIvoire are not currently of a sufficient size to convert into a reserve.
the processing plant has two separate flotation redundancies within the operating appropriate levels of single project dependency circuits and two separate power stations.
Whilst cycle, to develop a wellbalanced mitigation in place to reduce Until further production growth beyond Sukari is identified, the potential impact remains one project, the nature of the design of the plant project pipeline, with potential to add the likelihood of significant high and safeguarding the project is paramount to the Company.
provides adequate mitigation and reduces the incremental shareholder value by loss of revenue due to single relative likelihood of dependence compared to increasing production across the project dependency.
The second circuit of group.
The regional exploration of the the process plant has been fully operational for licence portfolio in Burkina Faso and over two years, which shows the resilience of the Cte dIvoire continues.
In addition, the plant is fed by both the open pit and underground operation, providing high and lowergrade ore to the processing plant.
Operational activity and production is expected to continue at above nameplate capacity.
Other mitigating factors, outside the single project at Sukari, include the continued focus on longer term growth and expansion through exploration and acquisition targets both inside and outside of Egypt.
STRATEGIC RISK Neutral Whilst Centamin retains control over the project, the holding company, SGM, is jointly Maintaining relations: with the onset of profit Maintaining good relations with Risk appetite is at an Executive: owned by the Companys wholly owned subsidiary PGM and EMRA, with equal board sharing with EMRA last year, managing timing EMRA is a key objective of the acceptable level, with Chairman, Sukari Gold Mine joint venture risk representation from both parties.
The board of SGM operates by way of simple majority.
and quantum of payments, as well as applying Company which is achieved through appropriate levels of CEO, CFO, and relationship with EMRA Should a dispute arise which cannot otherwise be amicably resolved, arbitration or other and interpreting certain provisions of the cooperation, regular meetings and mitigation in place.
COO proceedings may need to be employed.
Concession Agreement, is important in correspondence with EMRA, as well Operational: maintaining a good relationship with EMRA.
as making sure that the terms and The successful management of the Sukari Gold Mine is in part dependent on maintaining a GM Future expenditure and recovery of qualifying conditions of the Concession good working relationship with EMRA.
The group has regular meetings with officials from capital expenditure will also need to be Agreement governing the mine are EMRA and invests time in liaising with relevant ministry and other governmental managed, to be appropriately cost recovered fully complied with.
STRATEGIC RISK Neutral Executive: The extent of the Companys financial performance is due in part to the price of gold, which The group is 100% exposed to the gold price: The Company does not currently The strategy is aligned with CEO, CFO the Company has no influence over.
Revenues from gold sales are in US dollars and however, the cash costs of the Sukari Gold Mine hedge against the price of gold or the risk appetite of the Gold price Centamin has exposure to costs in other currencies including Egyptian pounds, Australian remain low compared with the industry norm.
Centamin manages its exposure to gold price by keeping operating costs as low as possible.
STRATEGIC RISK Neutral The groups corporate structure includes operational activity in Egypt and West Africa held Tax exposure: the group engages tax advisers To minimise the complexity of the Simplification of the structure Executive: through holding companies in Australia and the United Kingdom.
Exposure to changing to provide local advice at an operational level corporate structures ensuring tax is ongoing: however, the CEO, CFO Jurisdictional taxation cross jurisdictional tax legislation could have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to as well as corporate and structuring advice at neutrality within the holding group mitigation in place is at an exposure repatriate revenues.
The Company has developed entities.
acceptable level and therefore a global tax strategy to take account of the operating within the required regulations relevant to Centamin.
parameters of our current risk The Companys strategy is to ensure taxes are appetite.
paid at an operational level and tax leakage is reduced through the holding structure.
STRATEGIC RISK Neutral The Companys operational activities are primarily in Egypt, a country that has been subject The Concession Agreement with EMRA and the Maintain a detailed understanding of The Company operates within Executive: to civil and military disturbance.
Future political and economic conditions in Egypt could Egyptian government was declared into Egyptian the political environment in which we acceptable limits and the Chairman, Political risk Sukari change with future governments adopting different policies that may impact the Law no.
222 of 1994, which further protects the operate as well as a constructive operation has continued to be CEO development and ownership of mineral resources.
Policy changes and licensing may also Companys licence rights and sets the applicable relationship with government.
The unaffected despite a number Operational: impact the use of explosives, tenure of mineral concessions, taxation, royalties, exchange tax regime for a number of years.
This law Company undertakes to abide by the of major political events GM rates, environmental protection, labour relations, repatriation of income and capital.
received full parliamentary approval as required spirit and letter of the Concession occurring in Egypt.
The Egyptian Changes may also impact the ability to import key supplies and export gold.
Agreement as well as local laws and Company supports Egypts operations regulations.
development of a modern The potential for serious impact should be balanced against the Egyptian governments mining code.
support of Centamins investment and contribution to both revenue and development of the mining industry.
New laws have been introduced to protect and therefore encourage foreign investment, which is a positive step for the country.
32 has been confirmed by Parliament, although it remains subject to a challenge in the Supreme Court.
36 37 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT continued PRINCIPAL RISK TREND NATURE OF RISK MITIGATION COMPANY OBJECTIVE STRATEGY RISK APPETITE OWNER STRATEGIC RISK Neutral The Company operates in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
There are no assurances that Policies have developed over many years to Maintain relationships with all key The Company operates within Executive: future political and economic conditions in these countries will not result in the encourage foreign investment and the stakeholders, including regional acceptable limits.
CEO Political risk West Africa governments adopting different policies in respect to foreign development and ownership development of mining operations, which governments, landowners and local Operational: of exploration and exploitation licences.
continues to be the focus of governments in chiefs.
The Company meets its GM, group these regions.
Centamin actively monitors legal environmental and operational exploration and political developments, engaging in commitments set out in the permits manager dialogue with relevant government and legal grants and local laws regulations.
policymakers to discuss all key legal and regulatory developments.
OPERATIONAL RISK Neutral Time and costs of exploration activity are recognised as exploration and evaluation assets The exploration for precious metal may not be To ensure a progressive pipeline of The Company operates its Executive: E&E assets on the balance sheet.
E&E assets continue to be carried on the balance successful and is highly speculative in nature.
greenfield and advance stage exploration programmes CEO, CFO Exploration development sheet where there is ongoing planned activity and the right of tenure is current.
Before undertaking any exploration projects, exploration projects to serve the next within acceptable risk appetite Operational: a full risk assessment in undertaken covering stage of growth for the Company.
There can be no guarantee that an exploration project progresses to an economic resource GM, group country risk, industry risks as well as a detailed and therefore there remains a risk that E&E assets are partially or fully impaired during a Ensure systematic exploration exploration technical review of the underlying geological financial period where either a decision is made to discontinue a project or no further programmes are carried out with manager data available.
Management implements activity is scheduled.
costs attributed to licence areas and systematic drilling programmes across its prospects so that they can be exploration projects, with costs aggregated assessed for impairment.
appropriately to licence areas and prospects.
OPERATIONAL RISK Neutral Mineral resource and reserve figures are prepared by Centamin personnel and reviewed by Management has implemented processes to To achieve reliable and consistent The Company operates within Executive: externally appointed independent geologists.
By their nature, mineral resources and continuously monitor and evaluate the current production, whilst optimising the acceptable risk appetite CEO Reserve and resource estimate reserves are estimates based on a range of assumptions, including geological, life of the Sukari Gold Mine, mine plans and potential of the operation.
Operational: metallurgical, technical and economic factors.
Other variables include expected costs, production targets.
The most recent technical Company provides timely and GM, group inflation rates, gold price and production outputs.
There can be no guarantee that the update was completed in Form 43101 dated accurate information to the market exploration anticipated tonnages or grades expected by Centamin will be achieved both from the 23 October 2015 and is available at www.
on production levels and forecasts.
manager underground operation or open pit.
An updated reserve and resource statement for Sukari was announced on 9 January 2018.
Preliminary resource statements have been provided for Konkera, Burkina Faso and Doropo in Cte dIvoire.
OPERATIONAL RISK Improved Centamin prepares annual estimates for future gold production from the Sukari Gold Mine.
The realisation of production estimates are To achieve reliable and consistent The Company operates within Executive: There can be no assurance that Centamin will achieve its production estimates and such dependent on, amongst other things: the accuracy production, whilst optimising the acceptable risk appetite CEO Failure to achieve production failure could have a material and adverse effect on Centamins future cash flows, of mineral reserve and resource estimates: the potential of the operation.
estimates Operational: profitability, results of operations and financial condition.
It should be specifically noted that accuracy of assumptions regarding ore grades and Company provides timely and GM the potential quantity and grade from the Sukari underground mine is conceptual in nature, recovery rates: the ore tonnes and grade mined accurate information to the market that there has been insufficient exploration to define a mineral resource and that it is from the underground operation which are outside on production levels and forecasts.
uncertain if further exploration will result in the target being delineated as a mineral the current reserve base: ground conditions: resource.
skilled and motivated labour force: processing capacity and maintenance policies: and logistics for consumables and parts.
Whilst there can be no certainties, production to date has provided confidence in managements estimation and mine planning methods and with the fully operational expanded processing plant, the prospect of improvements in reliable forecasting is increased.
OPERATIONAL RISK Neutral In order to mitigate this risk Centamin has To minimise exposure to litigation and The Company is operating Executive: Centamins finances, and its ability to operate in Egypt, may be severely adversely affected Chairman, a taken appropriate legal advice and continues reduce the impact of actions by within its risk appetite by current and any future litigation proceedings and it is possible that further litigation Litigation CEO actively to pursue its legal rights with respect to complying with all relevant laws and parameters and the mitigation could be initiated against Centamin at any time.
Centamin is currently involved in litigation that relates both to a the validity of its exploitation lease at Sukari and b the price at which its existing cases its legal advisers believe that regulations and to defend and or in place is at an acceptable it can purchase Diesel Fuel Oil.
Centamin will ultimately be successful in both of bring any actions necessary to protect level.
these cases : and b actively monitors activity in the Companys assets, rights and both court and local media for signs of any reputation.
legislative or similar developments that may threaten its operations, finances or prospects.
The potential for serious impact should be balanced against Centamins adherence to local laws and agreements: the Egyptian governments support of Centamins investment: Law no.
32 of 2014 that should protect Centamin against litigation by third parties: and the fact that Egypt and Australia PGMs place of incorporation have in place a bilateral investment treaty.
