130 131 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT AND RISK REPORT Inspection of grinding balls delivered to Sukari A summary of the committees responsibilities and activities carried out during 2017 are set out below: TOPICS COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES External auditor Approval of the external audit plan and assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Review of the audit committee report prepared by the auditor following the half year review and annual audit.
Internal audit Approval of the scope of the internal audit function and review of work carried out in 2017.
Financial reporting Making recommendations to the board for the approval of the quarterly, halfyear and annual results.
Accounting matters and judgments Review of management papers and challenging the proposals relating to areas of significant Mark Arnesen judgments and estimates.
Chairman of the audit and risk committee Risk reporting Review and monitoring of the risk management processes including periodic reviews of the corporate, strategic and operational risks, linkages to strategic goals and adequacy of the assessment of risk throughout the business.
The committee were satisfied with the adequacy Internal controls Review of the internal control environment, to include controls over financial reporting, of the systems and controls in place during the year budgeting and reporting obligations.
Carrying out an assessment of the control environment and reporting findings to the board.
and the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Accounting for transactions Review of the cost recovery model and mechanism for profit sharing with EMRA.
Responding to regulators Responding to requests from regulatory bodies: see note below on the committees involvement in responding to the FRCs periodic review.
Dear shareholders Audit committee composition The committee meetings are regularly Taxation Review of the Companys global tax strategy, incountry taxes and cross jurisdictional tax and effectiveness attended, by invitation, by the compliance.
Responding to the Australian Tax Authority streamline review.
I am pleased to present this report chairman, CEO and CFO along with The audit and risk committee has covering the activities of the audit Dividends Ensuring the dividend proposals are in line with the group policy and making the company secretary.
PwC is also three independent nonexecutive recommendations to the board.
and risk committee during 2017. invited to attend relevant committee directors: Mark Bankes, Edward meetings.
Separate discussions IT systems Review of recommendations relating to the IT infrastructure, IT systems development and Haslam and me as chairman.
The report also summarises the controls, software upgrades and the impact and implementation of GDPR.
outside of formal committee meetings Biographies of the members of the work of the external auditor and are regularly held between the committee can be found on pages our assessment of their effectiveness, Charter Update of the committee charter in line with the Code and best practice guidelines.
external audit partner, the committee 92 and 93.
All committee members the activities and assurances given chairman and the CFO.
attended all six scheduled meetings by the internal auditor and the During the year, the committee carried sides this year.
During the evaluation, the during 2017. responsibilities of the committee In addition to the scheduled quarterly out an evaluation of its own considered its composition, the committee and board were mindful in line with the Code.
As an audit and meetings, the committee also meet, In accordance with the Ontario performance.
The assessment competency, availability and that each of the three members of the risk committee reporting to the board, by way of conference calls, at least Securities Commission requirements, considered the activities of the contribution of its members and did committee had served for six years.
the committee considers in detail once a quarter to review the draft all members of the committee are committee and the improvements in not recommend any further changes The nomination report sets out details the suitability of the Companys risk quarterly financial statements and considered financially literate timely and accurate delivery of to the board.
The board also of the review that has been management and internal interim MD&A a requirement of the pursuant to section 1.5 of the financial information, the continued conducted an evaluation of the undertaken and considerations and control systems.
Multilateral Instrument 52110 and in development of the external committee, its composition, plans for progressive refreshment of compliance with the Code, I am the relationships with the auditor and experience and activities during the the board.
member with the required relevant internal auditors, particularly given year and there were no proposed financial experience as a professionally new members were involved on both changes to the composition of the qualified accountant.
All members of the audit and risk committee are financially literate and competent within this industry.
132 133 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT AND RISK REPORT continued Significant issues highlighted during the year by the committee TOPIC SIGNIFICANT ISSUE SUMMARY OF THE SIGNIFICANT ISSUE KEY ACTION POINTS The following significant issues were considered by the committee during the year full details and analysis are set out in Impairment of Accounting for Management has concluded that there is no Committee actions assets other transactions indication that an impairment exists, nor have note 4 to the financial statements.
The committee reviewed the papers than financial any indicators arisen after the reporting period presented by management in respect to assets and are therefore not required to perform a TOPIC SIGNIFICANT ISSUE SUMMARY OF THE SIGNIFICANT ISSUE KEY ACTION POINTS IAS 36 and IFRS 6 and were in agreement full impairment review under IAS 36.
Any with the conclusions set out above.
Cost recovery Accounting treatment A full analysis has been performed by Committee actions exploration permits relinquished or lapsed and profit management on the cost recovery model Review of the exploration strategy at Sukari, Approval of CRM.
have been written off during the period.
share CRM, the timing and mechanism for profit Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire presented Agreement on timing and mechanism of In making the assessment as to the possibility share.
by the CEO, GM and chief exploration profit sharing in compliance with the of whether impairment losses have arisen, the manager.
With the commencement of profit share Concession Agreement.
committee assessed: payments to the Egyptian Mineral Resource Management actions Management actions exploration and evaluation of mineral Authority EMRA the committee considered Analysis of the trigger events that may resource for indicators of impairment: and Profit share payments to EMRA and managements judgments in determining initiate an impairment review.
reconciliation of amounts due under profit share and the approach taken in exploration and evaluation assets for Sukari, Review of exploration activity and strategic the CRM.
reconciling the CRM under the terms of the Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Accounting for profit sharing and residual The committee agreed with management that Technical geological review and assessment cost recovery payments.
The committee agreed with the accounting there were no triggers for a full impairment of the exploration programmes.
treatment and judgments in determining the review under IAS 36.
Budgeting for exploration programmes and allocation of profit share.
Valuation of Accounting for Inventory is required to be carried at the lower Committee actions Financial Regulatory review The FRC requested further information on Committee actions stores and transactions of cost or net realisable value.
For inventory of Review of management accounting papers.
Reporting 27 October 2017 across three principal areas: consumables this nature, a write down to net realisable Noting that the FRC review covered the key Monitoring system improvements Council inventory value will generally occur when the inventory is significant judgments control of Sukari judgments which the committee and board of identification of slowmoving or FRC damaged or obsolete.
The committee Gold Mine SGM : have previously considered.
considered managements proposals in sensitivity of estimates disclosures: and Review of the information request and reply Management actions respect to the valuation of inventory.
alternative performance measures APMs committee agreed with management that Inventory software upgrades to assist free cash flow.
Management actions there was no requirement for a write off of management in categorising stock.
Management prepared a detailed and Preparing a detailed response to the FRC inventory however, in respect of inventory Action taken to reduce stock levels and comprehensive response addressing each of with input from PwC.
obsolescence, a provision of US$5.14 million improve inventory holding periods, the areas raised, for review by the committee.
Collating relevant papers and supporting identification of slowmoving and documents to respond to the review.
Accounting Going concern and The directors performed an assessment of the entitys ability to continue as a going concern at Amortisation Accounting for The transfer of underground development Committee actions basis of longerterm viability the end of each reporting period.
The period of the assessment covered at least twelve months of transactions from capital work in progress to mine Review of management accounting papers.
preparation from date of signing the financial statements.
In addition to the twelve month going concern underground development properties occurred roughly Agreement on calculation of theoretical consideration, the directors assessed the Companys prospects over the longer term, specifically development every two years when a reserve and resources reserve and timing of transfers from capital addressing a period of five years as part of the overall viability statement.
Details of the viability drives statement was issued.
Management and the work in progress to mine development statement and review assessment can be found in the strategic report on page 31. board determined that this was not sufficient properties.
and a new estimate of a theoretical reserve Under guidelines set out by the FRC, the directors of UK listed companies are required to Management actions was created to allow this transfer to occur consider whether the going concern basis is the appropriate basis of preparation of financial every six months.
The board agreed with the statements.
Collection of data and review of changes in assessment produced by management and theoretical reserve which triggers the Based on a detailed cash flow forecast prepared by management, in which any reasonably this was put into effect, the result of which was transfer to mine development properties.
possible change in the key assumptions on which cash flow forecast is based, the directors a much smaller underground development Amortising the new mine development considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
balance within capital work in progress at year properties balance correctly over the new Key assumptions underpinning this forecast include: end and a reduced amortisation balance theoretical reserve.
litigation as discussed in note 22 to the financial statements: compared to prior years.
forecast gold price: Revenue Accounting standards An analysis of IFRS 15 was performed and it Committee actions production volumes: and recognition was concluded that the new standard will not Review of the new standard which is costs and recovery rates.
have an impact on the timing of our revenue effective 1 January 2018. recognition.
These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 have therefore been prepared Consideration of the management paper on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities Revenue from development assets E&E and and potential impact on key metrics.
during the normal course of operations, in preparing the financial statements.
analysis of IFRS 6 and the treatment of revenue Management actions generated from an exploration asset at Sukari Review of the new standard against the Cleopatra.
terms of the refining agreement, timing and The committee agreed with managements transfer of risk to the refiner as well as the assessment of revenue recognition.
physical movement of gold dor.
Review of the treatment of offsetting any revenue generated against cost capitalised during the exploration phase.
134 135 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT AND RISK REPORT continued Fair, balanced and understandable The committee concluded that the was approved by the committee and AUDIT AREA OBSERVATIONS BY THE COMMITTEE annual report was fair, balanced sent to the FRC in December 2017 and The committee was satisfied that the Audit planning With an accelerated timeframe, careful planning is essential to ensure delivery of a quality and understandable having as at the date of this report there has controls over the accuracy and audit.
The planning documents had sufficient detail and were presented to the committee in considered the activity of the been no further correspondence.
The audit plan was adhered to by the auditors and the opinion released as consistency of the information in the scheduled on 31 January 2018.
Company during the period and Certain of the matters raised by the 2017 annual report were sufficiently that users of the report would be FRC have been incorporated into the robust.
The committee reviews the Leadership and communication The committee notes that a new audit manager was introduced to the audit team this year able to understand our position, 2017 annual report, including control environment and is in receipt and worked well with the team who welcomed a fresh and challenging approach.
strategy, business model and sensitivity analysis of estimates and of monthly, quarterly and annual Assessment of independence There were no areas that conflicted PwCs independence.
Please see below in relation to the overall performance which were disclosures of APMs relating to free financial and budgetary information.
presented consistently throughout cash flow.
The committee is also involved in Audit costs While the audit process is still substantive based, with continued improvement in the internal the annual report.
the review of all key accounting External auditor effectiveness control systems and the use of technology, the committee was pleased with the ability to policies and matters requiring meet the accelerated timetable and therefore able to spend more time on material External auditor The committee undertook a review of judgment and estimation.
The committee noted that additional time and resource were During 2017, the Companys external the effectiveness of the external allocated to deal with the increase in compliance and regulation.
The committee was The committee has, at the request of auditor,  LLP auditor at the halfyear and annual encouraged by the way the auditors shared information across the jurisdictions, to assist with the board, also considered whether PwC attended committee statutory audit.
This review compared subsidiary audits which included SGM.
The combined and joined up nature of the audit team as well as the use of local Egyptian auditors incountry is also welcomed.
The fees year on the annual report is fair, balanced and meetings to present its detailed the original audit plan against the year have remained in line with expectations.
In arriving at that audit plan and final audit review and delivery of the audit.
The committee decision, the committee has been recommendations.
The committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal controls and use of internal auditor Now in the third year of internal audit, the committee will discuss with the external auditor the involved in reviewing, at an early agreed with the audit approach at audit by considering the efficiency and extent to which work undertaken by the internal auditor could provide further assurance on the internal control environment and additional support to the external auditor.
stage, the content of both the the planning stage and agreed with use of resources and the delivery and financial statements and the strategic the materiality thresholds, which the relevance of the reporting.
The report including the business model, committee are pleased to see have committee is pleased with the There has been open communication audit services incurred during the year and signed the audit opinion on the the performance review and increased in 2017 in line with the improvements to the annual report between the committee and the audit amounted to US$460k: there were 2017 financial statements on governance reporting throughout the improvements made to the control and response of the auditor to the partner throughout the statutory audit nonaudit services carried out by PwC 31 January 2018.
With an appointment report including the directors report.
The committee also accelerated timeframe.
and management has also worked during the year of US$196k.
Full details date for Alison of 5 February 2018, agreed with the key audit risk areas directly with the audit team.
PwC has are set out in note 24 to the financial PwC have confirmed that they are not The committee, in reviewing the As part of the evaluation, the that were identified by PwC.
also had open access to the board.
Our policy on nonaudit aware of any ongoing independence annual report and accounts, also committee completed a questionnaire services and auditor independence issues that impact the 2017 audit or noted the need for concise reporting.
During the year the FRC carried out a which also took into account the views The audit team visit Sukari regularly to can be found on our website at any independence issues arising from The committee has worked with review of the 2016 annual report which of the senior members of the finance carry out inventory as well as control www.
com investors the appointment of Alison Baker.
management to clearly demonstrate, sought clarification on three areas: team and the CFO.
Following the and substantive testing.
Jonathan Lambert, PwC partner from through carefully structured tables, i significant judgments relating to the evaluation process, any relevant audit work at our administrative offices 2011, with over 20 years audit graphs and images, the linkages control of SGM: ii the sensitivity findings were relayed to the audit in Egypt and Jersey.
Change to audit partner experience, will replace Richard between risk, the Companys analysis of estimates and disclosures: partner and, where applicable, actions The committee notes that as a former Spilsbury following the 2017 audit.
Having carried out the evaluation, the strategic aims and the structure for and iii disclosure of APMs relating to were incorporated into the audit plan.
PwC partner, having left PwC in 2016, committee is satisfied that the audit rewarding performance.
A comprehensive reply The Companys policy is to tender the PwC and Alison Baker are required to engagement for the financial year external audit every ten years.
The last assess their independence given the ended 2017 was both effective and audit tender was undertaken in 2014 potential familiarity risk.
The current added value to the group.
when PwC were appointed auditor.
audit partner, Richard Spilsbury, and PwC have been auditor of the Alison had worked together on other Nonaudit fees Company for four years.
clients unrelated to Centamin within There was no significant nonaudit the last two years at PwC and work carried out by PwC during the Auditor objectivity and independence therefore Richard, for audit year, with the majority of the tax The committee continues to monitor independence purposes, is a covered advisory services continuing to be the auditors objectivity and person to Alison.
Due to the provided by the Deloitte LLP tax independence and is satisfied that requirement of a mandatory cooling teams in the UK and Australia.
The PwC and the group have appropriate off period of two years, the current groups policy for nonaudit services policies and procedures in place to audit partner will be required to step sets out the categories which the ensure that these requirements are down from the audit before Alison external auditor will and will not be not compromised, as evidenced by joins the board.
Richard Spilsbury has allowed to provide to the group and the change in audit partner.
served four of his possible five years as those engagements that need audit partner on the Centamin account preapproval in advance.
Fees for 136 137 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT AND RISK REPORT continued Internal auditor The level of assurance over the design or policies and the cost effectiveness The committee will be working with During the year, the committee Full details of the risk management and operational effectiveness was of the actions and assurance review.
BDO LLP and management to agree a reviewed the overall control and control environment are set out in BDO LLP, the groups externally deemed substantial, meaning there is As well as providing assurance over scope of work for 2018. environment, including specific the strategic report.
The risk appointed internal auditor, carried out a sound system of internal control key areas identified in the scoping financial controls and procedures.
management report concludes by a detailed review of Centamins key The committee will monitor the designed to achieve system objectives document, the committee assesses The review pulled heavily on the work identifying the principal risks for the financial processes, risk and inventory auditors progress this year and ensure and the controls in place are being the performance of the internal auditor of both the external and internal business and the Companys management and IT controls.
The they continue to have access to the consistently applied.
In particular, auditors and the work of management statements on risk appetite and long internal audit team spent time onsite required resources and information to where the audit review process to enhance the policies and term viability.
The purpose of the risk at Sukari to carry out their review and The committee considers the complete their scope in 2018. provides recommendations to procedures and IT systems to management framework is to provide their findings to the effectiveness of the internal auditor management to improve systems of improve the control environment.
understand the risks the group faces committee.
The findings are The internal auditor will make an by reviewing the actions against the controls and the implementation of and to manage them appropriately to summarised in the table below.
assessment each year of any significant original scoping document, any Controls over financial reports those recommendations is monitored enhance the Companys ability to changes to the risk profile of the improvements in controls over systems and financial statements and reported back to the committee.
improve its decision making process, organisation and consider any areas of The consolidated financial statements deliver on its objectives and focus for the provision of internal audit and annual report are prepared at the subsequently improve its performance AREA AUDITED WORK CARRIED OUT FINDINGS services.
The committee will ultimately Companys head office in Jersey, as a mining company.
be seeking an independent viewpoint Procurement and Comprehensive review of the tendering, contract There were a total of nine medium and two low rated where the group financial controller contract management and payment cycles with a focus on larger items reported.
These related to updating site policies in and assurance over the internal control The audit and risk committee monitors and chief financial officer are based.
management material contracts and the design of and adherence to line with current practices, consistent application of the environment from BDO LLP.
the risk management and internal The accounting information from the the overall process at Sukari.
The scope covered: policies and record keeping to demonstrate the application of the policies.
Remedial action has been control structure implemented by groups operations is provided to the Control environment tendering and procurement: applied over these administrative and procedural aspects management.
It advises on significant head office where the ledgers are contract management procedures: While the board has overall of procurement and contract management.
changes to that structure so as to consolidated.
Appropriate responsibility for ensuring the adequacy testing of contract payments focus on accuracy and obtain reasonable assurance that the reconciliations and reviews are pricing : and of internal controls, the board has Companys assets are safeguarded performed at the level of the cash management.
delegated certain responsibilities to and that reliable financial records are operation and at the groups head this committee.
These include Key financial A review of core financial processes was a followup audit There were two medium level findings relating to controls maintained.
The committee assists in office by way of the performance of responsibility over monitoring the processing following the recommendations raised in 2015. over the workbook security and segregation of duties on developing the risk environment, monthly, quarterly and annual effectiveness and design of policies input and approval.
Procedures have been updated to A review of controls within specified key financial making suggestions on ways in which reconciliations.
processes covered the following: the business can improve its internal financial close processes: and Risk assessment The key features of the control reporting.
The committee receives gold book and sales cycle controls.
The board has overall responsibility environment are to ensure compliance comprehensive monthly reporting This follows and builds upon the work carried out in 2015 for establishing risk across Centamin with laws, regulations and other information from the groups on the core financial controls.
through a robust risk management requirements relating to external operations and enhanced reporting in system that allows for the assessment Risk management A review of the risk management reporting was a The followup report noted the improvements that had reporting by the Company of financial the event of an incident.
reporting followup audit following the recommendations raised in been made in both internal and external reporting of and management of material strategic and nonfinancial information.
2015. principal risks at a corporate level and wider operational and operational risks.
An additional workshop, facilitated by the internal board is responsible for articulating auditor, will be carried out on site to assist further with the groups risk appetite against the mapping risks across the business, assigning owners and principal risks.
communicating identified risk factors to the wider workforce.
Inventory The review of inventory management covered the There were one high, one medium and four low level management following key areas: findings.
These related to the reliability of record keeping and controls, particularly over obsolete or damaged stock levels: stock.
The findings have supported the decision to stock replenishment: improve the systems both IT and procedural which have stock classification: been rolled out during 2017 and resulted in a reduction in stock holding values and a robust assessment of stock security and reconciliation: and provisions stock obsolescence.
IT penetration The penetration testing provided assurance over the The testing commenced in 2017 and will be concluded in testing security of Centamins IT systems.
To date, results have assisted the IT team to build additional layers of security, particularly over search for network vulnerabilities: portable devices and at remote locations.
search for web infrastructure vulnerabilities: attempt to penetrate systems using vulnerabilities: and followup testing to confirm fixes to issues identified.
138 139 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT AND RISK REPORT continued Risk assessment continued Targets in 2018 build and develop the finance The committee recommends to function in West Africa in the board the appointment of PwC The following diagram illustrates the structure for risk review and reporting across the organisation: The committee considered the action anticipation of developing a mine in as auditor at the forthcoming annual plan for 2018 and the key milestones BOARD OVERALL RESPONSIBILITY FOR RISK the region: and general meeting.
PwC has expressed for the year.
The areas of focus for its willingness to continue in office 2018 include, but are not limited to, develop the treasury function and EXECUTIVE AND MANAGEMENT AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE as auditor.
the following: identify opportunities to improve WORKING GROUP Reviews risk structure yields on deposits.
Detailed assessment of operational and effectiveness Conclusion EXTERNAL AUDIT continued focus on cost reduction and corporate risks Going concern and Review of control environment and working capital management: As a result of its work during the year, and risk statements long term viability the committee has concluded that it continue to meet the financial and MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES OTHER The directors considered it has acted in accordance with its terms reporting obligations whilst Responsibility for managing Consider risks impacting appropriate to continue to adopt the of reference and has ensured the meeting the accelerated timelines: the risk framework committee objectives going concern basis of accounting in independence and objectivity of the review of regulatory compliance preparing the financial statements.
A member of the and impacts on the finance OPERATIONS INTERNAL AUDIT The going concern statement is committee will be available at the function, including cyber security HODs to identify risks and Assess effectiveness of controls, detailed in full in note 3 to the financial AGM along with the CFO to answer perform risk assessment risk mitigation and risk reporting and GDPR: statements.
The statements in relation any questions in relation to this report.
approval of the SGM audited to the groups viability, over the longer SECONDARY RISK REVIEW THIRD RISK REVIEW accounts for 2016 2017 and PRIMARY RISK REVIEW For and on behalf of the audit and risk term, are set out in the risk EVALUATION ASSURANCE allocation of profit share: committee of Centamin plc.
management report on page 31. conclude on the matters raised by the FRC following their periodic External auditor Mark Arnesen review of the 2016 accounts: During the year, the audit and risk comprehensive control environment The assessment identifies the risks So far as each current director of Chairman of the committee and the board evaluated memorandum and facing the business and we consider scope the internal audit function to the Company is aware, the auditor audit and risk committee their risk management processes and recommendations for further the annual assessment to be suitably ensure the tasks are aligned with has had full access to all relevant reporting.
The evaluation pulled on improvement prepared by the robust, covering strategic and the business needs: information and the committee 31 January 2018 the work of both the external and management team: operational risks at a corporate level has answered any questions raised roll out of IT upgrades for stock and internal auditors and the management and risks identified at our operations in by the auditor allowing the auditor environmental risk assessments inventory: reports prepared in accordance with Egypt, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
reported via the Carbon the risk management framework.
Having considered the risks in detail, Development Project CDP : the principal risks have been identified internal audit work: The assessment considered the and are set out on pages 34 to 37. external audit work culminating in principal risks and wider strategic, the annual and halfyearly audit corporate, operational and The assessment carried out during the report: environmental risks.
The following year, which also took note of the work quarterly risk reporting to include reports were prepared for the audit carried out by the internal auditor, analysis on corporate and and risk committees review: concluded that there were adequate operational risks, mitigation procedures, polices and controls in monthly and quarterly reporting on including insurance cover, place at an operational level and that the operational activity, including operational Level 4 5 incident the risks at a corporate level, taking enhanced reporting on any reporting and corrective action: and into account the Companys strategic significant operational and policy updates and review.
objectives, had been adequately corporate issues: identified.
The audit and risk committee and the board are pleased to confirm that the Company remains in compliance with best practice guidelines and with the Code and relevant Canadian requirements.
