Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Principal Risks and Uncertainties ahigher probability and a significant potential impact Risk Factors on performance, strategy, reputation or operations are The Board and Investment Manager have identified identified below as principal risks faced by the Company.
anumber of risks to the Companys business.
A comprehensive risk assessment process is undertaken The Companys Board is responsible for monitoring and on a quarterly basis to re-evaluate the impact and oversight of the risks facing the Company and conducts probability of each risk materialising and the financial a structured review of these risks, and associated orstrategic impact of the risk.
Those risks which have mitigants, on at least a quarterly basis.
Risk Description Mitigating Factor Foreign Approximately 20% of the value of HVPEs total assets The Board and the Investment Exchange are denominated in non-US dollar currencies, primarily Manager monitor the foreign exchange Risks euros.
Foreign Currency movement affects the risk experienced by the Company and Companys investments, borrowings on the multiwill consider implementing hedging currency credit facility, and unfunded commitments.
Public Public markets in many developed countries are trading Both the Board and the Investment Market Risks close to all-time highs.
While economic fundamentals Manager actively monitor the have improved, structural imbalances remain.
The Companys NAV, and exposure to Company makes venture capital and buyout investments individual public markets is partially in companies where operating performance is affected mitigated by the geographical by the broader economic environment within the diversification of the portfolio.
The countries in which those companies operate.
While these Board notes that it has limited ability companies are generally privately owned, their valuations tomitigate public market risk.
are, in most cases, influenced by public market Stress testing takes place as part of the comparables.
In addition, approximately 13% of the portfolio composition process to model Companys portfolio is made up of publicly traded the effect of different macro economic securities whose values increase or decrease alongside scenarios to provide comfort to the public markets.
Should global public markets decline or Board that the balance of risk and the economic situation deteriorate, it is likely that the reward is appropriate in the event Companys NAV could be negatively affected.
Balance The Companys balance sheet strategy and a willingness The Board has put in place a Sheet Risks to utilise leverage to finance new investments is described monitoring programme with a defined on page 65 of this report.
The Company also continues to total commitment ratio cap, maintain an over-commitment strategy and may draw on determined with reference to portfolio its credit facility to bridge periods of negative cash flow models, in order to mitigate against when cash calls on investments are greater than the requirement to sell assets at a realisations.
The level of potential borrowing available discount during periods of NAV under the credit facility could be negatively affected by decline.
Both the Board and the declining NAVs.
Therefore, in a period of declining NAVs, Investment Manager actively monitor reduced realisations, and rapid substantial cash calls, the these metrics and will take appropriate Companys net leverage ratio could increase beyond an action as required to attempt to appropriate level, resulting in aneed to sell assets.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Description Mitigating Factor While it is currently undrawn, the Company depends on The Board monitors developments in Borrowing the availability of its credit facility in order to operate an credit markets and intends to renew the risk overcommitment strategy.
The Companys lenders may credit facility regularly with the aim that be unable or unwilling to renew or extend the Companys there should always be a minimum of 36 credit facility.
months of unexpired facility available.
The Board is also actively considering options for other sources of financing.
Reliance on The Company is dependent on its Investment Manager This risk is mitigated by the Board HarbourVest and HarbourVests investment professionals.
With the monitoring the performance of the exception of the 2011 Absolute investment and 2012 Investment Manager on an ongoing basis, Conversus investment, nearly all of the Companys including through regular reports and assets, save for cash balances and short-term liquid visits to the Investment Managers London investments, are invested in HarbourVest funds.
and Boston offices, which took place twice inthe year under review.
In addition, Additionally, HarbourVest employees play key theAudit Committee reviewed a recent rolesinthe operation and control of the Company.
ISAE3402 report from the Investment Thedeparture or reassignment of some or all of Manager to assess the controls HarbourVests professionals could prevent the environment of the Investment Manager.
Company from achieving its investment objectives.
Succession planning at the Manager is monitored by the Board of the Company.
Trading Any ongoing or substantial discount to NAV has the The Companys shares are admitted Liquidity potential to damage the Companys reputation and to totrading on the Main Market of the and Price cause shareholder dissatisfaction.
London Stock Exchange to appeal to awide variety of shareholders and to The five largest shareholders represent approximately increase the liquidity of the Companys 45% of the Companys shares in issue.
In addition, the Board continues contribute to a lack of liquidity and widening discount.
to monitor the discount to NAV and will Also, in the event that a substantial shareholder chose consider appropriate solutions to to exit the share register, this may have an effect on the address any ongoing or substantial discount to NAV.
The Board has overseen the allocation of additional investor relations resource in the year under review.
The Company has attracted new shareholders and the concentration of shares held by the five largest shareholders has decreased from 50% to 45% in the course of the year under review.
Popularity of Investor sentiment may change towards the Listed The Board has set the Manager the Listed Private Private Equity Sector, resulting in a widening of the objective of ensuring that the widest Equity Sector Companys share price discount to NAV.
possible variety of investors are informed about the Companys performance and proposition in order to mitigate against this.
In addition, the Manager actively participates in the marketing of the sector.
The size of the Company means that its own success will contribute to the popularity of the sector as a whole.
60 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017
