Principal risks and uncertainties Glencore is exposed to a variety of risks that can have an impact on our business and prospects, future performance, financial position, liquidity, asset values, growth potential, sustainable development and reputation Therefore, risk management is one of the key responsibilities of the Board and its Audit and HSEC Committees.
Our principal risks and uncertainties whether under our control or not are highly dynamic and our assessment and our responses to them are critical to our future business and prospects Our risk management framework In compiling this assessment we have 2017 developments identifies and manages risk in a way indicated the impact and likelihood The following remain the leading that is supportive of our strategic of these risks in comparison with risks i. e. those posing the greatest priorities of opportunistically ayear ago in the chart below.
potential threat which the deploying capital, while protecting Group faces: The commentary on the risks in this our future financial security and section should be read in conjunction 1.
Reduction in commodity prices: flexibility.
Our approach towards with the explanatory text under there has been a general rise in risk management is framed by our Understanding the information commodity prices over the past ongoing understanding of the risks on risks which is set out on the 18months.
Notwithstanding these that we are exposed to, our risk following page.
firmer price conditions, we remain appetite and how these risks mindful that underlying markets change over time.
The natural diversification of can be volatile and we continue to our portfolio of commodities, The Board assesses and approves our focus on the partially controllable geographies, currencies, assets and overall risk appetite, monitors our risk element of the margin equation liabilities is a source of mitigation for exposure and sets the Group-wide costs.
Any significant downturn some of the risks we face.
In addition, limits, which are reviewed on an in the current commodity price through our governance processes ongoing basis.
This process is environment, especially in zinc, and our proactive management supported by the Audit and HSEC copper or coal, would have a approach we seek to mitigate, where Committees, whose roles include severe drag on our financial possible, the impacts of certain risks evaluating and monitoring the risks performance.
As a result, this should they materialise.
In particular: inherent in their respective areas as continues to be the Groups described on pages 9293.
The our liquidity risk management foremost risk.
current assessment of our principal policy requires us to maintain 2.
Fluctuations in supply of, or risks, according to exposure and via a $3 billion minimum demand for commodities: the impact, is detailed on the following prescribed level sufficient cash depression of commodity prices pages.
In accordance with UK and cash equivalents and other reflects the actual, perceived Financial Reporting Council guidance, sources of committed funding or prospective increases in we define a principal risk as a risk available to meet anticipated and supply of commodities and or orcombination of risks that can unanticipated funding needs reductions in demand.
seriously affect the performance, making use of credit enhancement future prospects or reputation of 3.
Fluctuations in currency exchange products, such as letters of credit, Glencore.
These include those risks rates: the rise in commodity prices insurance policies and bank which would threaten the business noted above is associated with a guarantees and imposing limits model, future performance, solvency generally weaker U. S. dollar versus on open accounts extended or liquidity of the Group.
We look at producer country currencies.
risk appetite from the context of our management of marketing risk, Although strong producer severity of the consequences including daily analysis of Group currencies are generally detrimental should the risk materialise, factors value at risk VaR over the short term to our locally influencing the risk and the denominated operating costs, this Companys ability to mitigate it.
can be outweighed by stronger Glencore Annual Report 2017 42 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information 2017 developments and overview of principal risks and uncertainties Key Risk impact 6 1 Minor Moderate Major Severe 2 External risks 13 1 Reductions in commodity prices 2 Fluctuations in the supply of, or demand 9 for, the commodities in which we operate 3 3 Fluctuations in currency exchange rates 7 4 Geopolitical risk including social unrest 5 5 Laws, regulations, enforcement, permits 4 and licences to operate 6 Liquidity risk 8 Business risks 7 Counterparty credit and performance 8 Operating and cost risks 9 Cyber risk 11 10 Sustainability risks 10 Emissions and climate change 12 11 Community relations and human rights 12 Skills availability and retention 13 H ealth, safety, environment, including potential catastrophes Indicates change in 2017 Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Probability world economic conditions 5.
Liquidity risk: while our net debt In reassessing our risk analysis, we and the associated increases in has further reduced in 2017, we have concluded that: cyber should commodity prices that may derive remain cognisant that access to now be a stand-alone risk: sourcing, from this.
Additionally, currency credit is vital and that debt freight, storage infrastructure and rates can change for political and markets can bevolatile.
logistics related risks no longer merit economic reasons unlinked to the inclusion as a separate risk: and we Changes in risk exposure commodities markets, which could have combined development and andanalysis result in a mismatched impact of operating risks and cost control as As a result of the strong economic pricing and currency movements Operating and cost risks as they are growth momentum seen over the resulting in income volatility.
past 18 months and the repositioning 4.
Health, safety, environment of our balance sheet and reduction in including catastrophic hazards: the cost and capex structures of our aserious failure in safety, health portfolio, the probability of liquidity and environmental management risk and counterparty credit and could result in an operational performance exposures materialising emergency or catastrophe, injuries has reduced.
Climate change or fatalities and a negative impact initiatives continue to be at the on our corporate reputation.
Many countries Inparticular, catastrophic began to implement their hazards such as tailings leakages commitments to address climate and collapses of pit walls or change, e. g. through announcing underground tunnels represent limits on the number of petrol diesel significant unquantifiable risks cars to be produced or imposing for resources companies.
During production limits on certain 2017, the HSEC Committee industries.
These events have led to continued to concentrate on an increase, compared to 2016, both the management and mitigation in the probability of risk exposure and of the Groups catastrophic its impact related to emissions and hazards see page 100. climate change.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 43 Impact Minor Moderate Major Severe Principal risks and uncertainties continued Longer-term viability to simulate the potential impacts The scenarios were assessed taking In accordance with the requirements of exposure to the Groups principal into account current risk appetite and of the UK Corporate Governance risks and uncertainties.
any mitigating actions Glencore could Code, the Board has assessed the take, as required, in response to the These scenarios included: prospects of the Groups viability over potential realisation of any of the the four-year period from 1 January a prolonged downturn in the price stressed scenarios.
This period is consistent with and demand of commodities most Based on the results of the related the Groups established annual impacting Glencores operations analysis, the Directors have a business planning and forecasting foreign exchange movements to reasonable expectation that the processes and cycle which is subject which the Group is exposed as a Group will be able to continue in to review and approval each year result of its global operations operation and meet its liabilities as by the Board.
The four-year plan they fall due over the four-year period considers Glencores Adjusted consideration of the potential of this assessment.
They also believe EBITDA, Capital expenditure, Funds impact of adverse movements in that the review period of four years from operations FFO and Net debt, macro-economic assumptions and is appropriate having regard to the and the key financial ratios of Net their effect on certain key financial Groups business model, strategy, debt to Adjusted EBITDA and FFO KPIs and ratios which could principal risks and uncertainties, to Net debt over the forecasted increase the Groups access and viability.
years and incorporates stress tests to or cost of funding Understanding the information on risks There are many risks and uncertainties which have the In addition, more information on our risks is available in the potential to significantly impact our business, including relevant sections of our website.
competitive, economic, political, legal, regulatory, social, To provide for concise text: business and financial risk.
The order in which these risks and uncertainties appear does not necessarily reflect the where we hold minority interests in certain businesses, likelihood of their occurrence or the relative magnitude although these entities are not generally subsidiaries, the of their potential material adverse effect on our business.
interests are mostly taken as being referred to in analysing these risks, and business refers to these and any business We have sought to provide examples of specific risks.
of the Group However, in every case these do not attempt to be an exhaustive list.
These principal risks and uncertainties should where we refer to natural hazards, events of nature orsimilar be considered in connection with any forward looking phraseology we are referring to matters such asearthquake, statements in this document as explained on page 220. flood, severe weather and other naturalphenomena Identifying, quantifying and managing risk is complex and where we refer to mitigation we do not intend to suggest challenging.
Although it is our policy to identify and, where that we eliminate the risk, but rather it shows the Groups appropriate and practical, actively manage risk, our policies attempt to reduce or manage the risk.
Our mitigation of risks and procedures may not adequately identify, monitor and will usually include the taking out of insurance where it is quantify all risks.
customary and economic to do so This section describes our attempts to manage, balance or this section should be read as a whole often commentary offset risk.
Risk is, however, by its very nature uncertain and in one section is relevant to other risks inevitably events may lead to our policies and procedures not commodity ies will usually refer to those commodities having a material mitigating effect on the negative impacts which the Group produces or sells of the occurrence of a particular event.
Our scenario planning and stress testing may accordingly prove to be optimistic, law includes regulation of any type particularly in situations where material negative events risk includes uncertainty and hazard and together with occur in close proximity.
Since many risks are connected, material adverse effect on the business should be our analysis should be read against all risks to which it may understood as a negative change which can seriously affect be relevant.
the performance, future prospects or reputation of the Group.
These include those risks which would threaten the In this section, we have sought to update our explanations, business model, future performance, reputation, solvency reflecting our current outlook.
Mostly this entails emphasising orliquidity of the Group certain risks more strongly than other risks rather than the elimination of, or creation of, risks.
Certain investors may also a reference to a note is a note to the 2017 financial statements be familiar with the risk factors that are published in the a reference to the sustainability report is our 2017 Group debt or equity prospectuses or listing documents.
sustainability report to be published in May 2018 These provide in part some differing descriptions of our principal risks.
A recent example is available on our website at: http: www.
com who-we-are governance Glencore Annual Report 2017 44 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Strategic priorities Integration of Maintain a robust Focus on cost control sustainability and flexible and operational throughout balance sheet efficiencies our business Risk description Comments impacts to the Group Mitigation and risk appetite External risks 1 Reductions in commodity prices Risk movement in 2017: Stable Risk appetite: Low.
Outside of the inherent risk ofcommodity prices on unmined reserves Link to strategic priorities resources, flat price exposure on extracted or trading related positions is to be hedged.
The revenue and earnings of substantial A significant downturn in the price of Diversification of our portfolio of commodities, partsof our industrial activities and, to a commodities generally results in a decline geographies, currencies, assets andliabilities.
lesser extent, our marketing activities, are inour profitability and could potentially result Government policy decisions can be very dependent upon prevailing commodity in impairment and balance sheet constraints.
important, e. g. in reducing the demand for prices.
Commodity prices are influenced by It is especially harmful to profitability in the coal orincreasing its pricing via carbon taxes anumber of external factors, including the industrial activities, which are more directly seeEmissions and climate change below.
supply of and demand for commodities, exposed to price risk due to the higher level New or improved energy production or speculative activities by market participants, of fixed costs.
technologies can also reduce the demand global political and economic conditions, The dependence of the Group especially our for some commodities such as coal.
related industry cycles and production costs industrial business on commodity prices, Also see our longer-term viability analysis above in major producing countries.
make this the Groups foremost risk.
See the and the business review on page 60.
Chief Executive Officers review on page 4 and the financial review on page 52.
Any economic developments, particularly impacting China and other fast growing countries, could lead to reductions in demand for, and consequently prices of, commodities.
2 Fluctuations in the supply of, or demand for, the commodities in which we operate Risk movement in 2017: Stable Risk appetite: Low.
Although an inherent risk in the extractive and marketing industries, Link to strategic priorities we seek to ensure this risk is minimised through scale of operations and diversity of product.
We are dependent on the expected volumes Future demand for certain commodities Diversification of our portfolio of commodities, of supply or demand for commodities might decline fossil fuels, whereas others geographies, currencies, assets and liabilities.
whichcan vary for many reasons, such might increase such as copper, cobalt, and Making sure we are prepared for the shift in as competitor supply policies, changes nickel for their use in electric vehicles and commodity demand by putting a special focus in resource availability, government policies batteries, taking into consideration the on the parts of the business that will potentially and regulation, costs of production, global greening of the global economy.
grow with the anticipated increase of electric and regional economic conditions, demand This risk is currently prevalent in various vehicles and battery production and closely in end markets for products inwhich the commodities, such as steel, coal and oil.
monitor fossil fuel particularly thermal commodities are used.
These also include Inparticular, many analysts believe that coal demands.
technological developments, e. g. commodity demand for coal will reduce sooner than See the Chief Executive Officers review on substitutions, fluctuations in global previously expected due to significant cost page4 and the business review on page60.
production capacity, global and regional reductions in renewable capacity and greater weather conditions, natural disasters and efficiencies from coal power plants.
diseases, all of which impactglobal markets Also see Emissions and climate and demand for commodities.
changes in expected supply and demand conditions impact the expected future Market price responses to such changes prices and thus the price curve of areneither instantaneous nor perfectly each commodity.
calibrated nor can the sustained implementation of such policies be certain.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 45 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk description Comments impacts to the Group Mitigation and risk appetite 3 Fluctuations in currency exchange rates Risk movement in 2017: Stable Risk appetite: Low.
Where possible foreign exchange exposure to non operating foreign exchange Link to strategic priorities risk are to be hedged.
The vast majority of our transactions are Currency fluctuations tend to move in In respect of commodity purchase and sale denominated in U. S. dollars, while operating symmetry with those in commodity prices transactions denominated in currencies other costs are spread across many different and supply and demand fundamentals as than U. S. dollars, the Groups policy is usually to countries, the currencies of which fluctuate noted above, such that decreases in hedge the specific future commitment through against the U. S. dollar.
A depreciation in the commodity prices are generally associated a forward exchange contract.
From time to time, value of the U. S. dollar against one or more with increases in the U. S. dollar relative to the Group may hedge a portion of its currency of these currencies will result in an increase local producer currencies and vice versa.
exposures and requirements in an attempt in the cost base of the relevant operations Ifthis occurs then it is detrimental to us tolimit any adverse effect of exchange in U. S. dollar terms.
through higher equivalent U. S. dollar ratefluctuations.
operating costs at the relevant operations.
The main currency exchange rate exposure This negative, however, would usually be isthrough our industrial assets, as a large offset to some extent by the increases proportion of the costs incurred by these incommodity prices which had caused operations is denominated in the currency thischange.
of the country in which each asset is located.
The largest of these exposures are to the currencies listed on page 61.
4 Geopolitical risk including social unrest Risk movement in 2017: Stable Risk appetite: High.
We operate in countries with less developed political regimes.
To be Link to strategic priorities considered a truly diversified commodities group, operations in these jurisdictions arerequired.
We operate and own assets in a large The Groups industrial assets are diversified Policies or laws in the countries in which we number of geographic regions and countries, across various countries.
Also, the Group do business may change in a manner that some of which are categorised asdeveloping, continues to actively engage with governmental may be adverse for us, even those with complex or having unstable political or social authorities in light of upcoming changes stable political environments e. g. many climates.
As a result, we are exposed to a and developments in legislation and governments have sought additional sources wide range of political, economic, regulatory, enforcementpolicies.
of revenue by increasing rates of taxation, social and tax environments.
The Group royalties or resource rent taxes.
See map on page 3 which sets out our global transacts business in locations where We have no control over changes to policies, operational footprint.
it is exposed toa risk of overt or effective laws and taxes.
In 2017, we also published our second Payments expropriation resource nationalism The OECD tax reporting initiative on Base toGovernments report.
This detailed total continues to be a challenging issue in Erosion and Profit Sharing BEPS is now government contributions in 2016 of around many countries.
Our operations may also effective and in 2018 the Group will report for $4billion.
We also continue to be an active be affected by political and economic the first time with regard to the 2017 taxyear.
memberof the Extractive Industries instability, including terrorism, civil disorder, Transparency Initiative EITI.
violent crime, war and social unrest.
The continued operation of our existing assets and future plans are in part dependent Increased scrutiny by governments and upon broad support, our social licence to taxauthorities in pursuit of perceived operate, and a healthy relationship with the aggressive tax structuring by multinational respective local communities see further companies has elevated potential tax Community Relations and Skills availability exposures for the Group.
and retention concerning workforce disputes.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 46 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Risk description Comments impacts to the Group Mitigation and risk appetite 5 Laws, regulations, enforcement, permits and licences to operate Risk movement in 2017: Stable Risk appetite: Medium.
The Group maintains programmes which seek to ensure that we comply Link to strategic priorities with or exceed the laws and external requirements applicable to our operations and products.
However, some of our industrial activities are located in countries that are categorised as developing, complex or having political or social climates and or where corruption is generally understood to exist.
We are exposed to extensive laws including Since 2007 the Group has had various We seek to ensure full compliance through our those relating to bribery and corruption, business dealings with entities associated commitment to complying with or exceeding sanctions, taxation, anti-trust, financial with Dan Gertler in connection with its the laws and external requirements applicable markets regulation, environmental protection, copper assets in the DRC.
In December 2017 to our operations and products and through use of hazardous substances, product the United States government designated monitoring of legislative requirements, safety and dangerous goods regulations, Dan Gertler and affiliated companies as engagement with government and regulators, development of natural resources, licences Specially Designated Nationals SDNs, and compliance with the terms of permits and over resources, exploration, production and thereby imposing blocking sanctions on licences.
We keep informed of new regulations post-closure reclamation, employment of them and companies owned 50% or more and legal requirements.
We seek to manage the labour and occupational health and safety by them, under Executive Order 13818, titled risk of breaching applicable laws and external standards and preservation.
The terms Blocking the Property of Persons Involved in requirements through our policy framework attaching to any permit or licence to operate Serious Human Rights Abuses or Corruption.
which is described on page 91.
However, may also be onerous and obtaining these The Group has pre-existing contractual there can be no assurance that such policies, and other approvals, which may be revoked, obligations to make royalty and pas-fide-porte procedures and controls will adequately protect can be particularly onerous to comply with.
payments in respect of KCC and Mutanda to the Group against fraud, corruption, sanctions Furthermore, in certain countries title to land certain of these companies which pre-date breaches or other unlawful activities.
and rights and permits in respect of resources the SDN designation and which arose are not always clear or may be challenged.
when the companies acquired rights from Gecamines.
The Group has not made any The legal system and dispute resolution payment to the companies since the SDN mechanisms in some countries may be designation.
The Group is still considering uncertain so that we may be unable to how best to mitigate its risks in relation enforce our understanding of our rights.
Successful lawsuits based upon damage resulting from operations could lead to the In January 2018, the DRC parliament imposition of substantial penalties, the adopted a revised Mining Code.
This cessation of operations, compensation includes significant increases in royalties, and remedial and or preventative orders.
taxes, government ownership requirements Moreover, the costs associated with legal and repatriation restrictions and terminates compliance, including regulatory permits, retroactively the 10-year stability clause that are substantial and increasing.
Any changes exists in the current Mining Code.
If the to these laws or their more stringent revised Mining Code is promulgated and enforcement or restrictive interpretation implemented in this form, it would have could cause additional significant a significant impact on the investments expenditure to be incurred or cause of the Group in the DRC and their value.
suspensions of operations and delays in the During the year, a restatement of past development of industrial assets.
Failure to financial statements at Katanga Mining obtain or renew a necessary permit or the Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, was occurrence of other disputes could mean required and the Ontario Securities that we would be unable to proceed with the Commission is investigating various matters development or continued operation of an relating to Katanga see pages 92 and 97. asset and or impede our ability to develop As KCC Katangas 75% held main operating new industrial properties.
subsidiary did not rectify a capital deficiency As a diversified sourcing, marketing and by 31 December 2017 as required by DRC distribution company conducting complex corporate laws, an interested party may transactions globally, we are exposed to the commence legal action before DRC judicial risks of fraud, corruption, sanctions breaches authorities.
Katanga continues to assess and other unlawful activities both internally options to address the capital deficiency and externally.
Our marketing operations are including options which may partially large in scale, which may make fraudulent adversely impact its entitlement to KCCs or accidental transactions difficult to detect.
In addition, some of our industrial activities are located in countries, such as the DRC, where corruption is generally understood to exist.
Corruption and sanctions risks remain highly relevant for businesses operating in international markets as shown by recent regulatory enforcement actions both inside and outside the resources sector.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 47 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk description Comments impacts to the Group Mitigation and risk appetite 6 Risk movement in 2017: Decrease Liquidity risk Risk appetite: Low.
It is the Groups policy to operate a BBB rating or above balance sheet and Link to strategic priorities to ensure a minimum level of cash or committed funding is available at any given time.
Our failure to access funds liquidity would A lack of liquidity may mean that we will The Financial Review on page 52 sets out the severely limit our ability to engage in not have sufficient funds available for our Groups Net Funding and Net Debt in 2017, desiredactivities.
marketing and industrial activities, both of which are both currently within our targets.
We which employ substantial amounts of capital.
also issued during the year the following bonds Liquidity risk is the risk that we are unable to If we do not have funds available for these with applicable coupon and redemption dates: meet our payment obligations when due, or activities then they will decrease.
$500 million 3% 2022, $500 million 3.875% are unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow 2027 and $1.0 billion 4% 2027. funds in the market at an acceptable price to Note 25 details our financial and capital risk fund our commitments.
While we adjust our management including liquidity risk.
While we have delevered and repositioned minimum internal liquidity threshold from theGroups balance sheet in the past two years, time to time in response to changes in we remain cognisant that access to credit is vital market conditions, this minimum internal and that market conditions can change rapidly.
liquidity target may be breached due to As at 31 December 2017, the Group had available circumstances we are unable to control, undrawn committed credit facilities and cash such as general market disruptions, sharp amounting to $12.9 billion 31December 2016: movements in commodity prices or an $16.7billion, comfortablyahead of our $3 billion operational problem that affects our minimum prescribed level.
Standard & Poors and Moodys latest assessments for the Companys investment grade credit are BBB positive outlook and Baa2 stable respectively.
Business risks 7 Counterparty credit and performance Risk movement in 2017: Decrease Risk appetite: Low.
Where possible, credit exposure are to be covered through Link to strategic priorities credit mitigation products.
Financial assets consisting principally Non-performance by suppliers, customers We monitor the credit quality of our ofreceivables and advances, derivative and hedging counterparties may occur and counterparties and seek to reduce the risk of instruments and long-term advances and cause losses in a range of situations, such as: customer non-performance by requiring credit loans can expose us to concentrations support from creditworthy financial institutions a significant increase in commodity prices ofcredit risk.
including making extensive use of credit resulting in suppliers being unwilling enhancement products, such as letters of credit, Furthermore, we are subject to nontohonour their contractual commitments bank guarantees and insurance policies.
Specific performance risk by our suppliers, customers to sell commodities at pre-agreed prices credit risk policy rules apply to open account and hedging counterparties, inparticular a significant reduction in commodity risk with an established threshold for referral via our marketing activities.
prices resulting in customers being ofcredit positions by departments to central unwilling or unable to honour their management.
In addition, note 25 details our contractual commitments to purchase financial and capital risk managementapproach.
commodities at pre-agreed prices suppliers subject to prepayment or hedging counterparties may find themselves unable to honour their contractual obligations due to financial distress or other reasons Glencore Annual Report 2017 48 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Risk description Comments impacts to the Group Mitigation and risk appetite 8 Operating and cost risks Risk movement in 2017: Stable Risk appetite: Low.
It is the Companys strategic objective to focus on cost control Link to strategic priorities and operating efficiencies.
Our industrial activities are subject to The development and operating of assets Development and operating risks and numerous risks and hazards normally may lead to future upward revisions in hazards are managed through our continuous associated with the initiation, development, estimated costs, delays or other operational development status evaluation and reporting operation and or expansion of natural difficulties or damage to properties or processes and ongoing assessment, reporting resource projects, many of which are beyond facilities.
This may cause production to be and communication of the risks that affect our our control.
These include unanticipated reduced or to cease and may further result operations along with updates to the riskregister.
variations in grade and other geological in a decrease in production, personal injury We publish quarterly our production results problems so that anticipated or stated or death, third party damage or loss or andannually our assessment of reserves and reserves, may not conform to expectations.
resources based on available drilling and other Other examples include natural hazards, Also, the realisation of these risks could data sources.
Conversion of resources to reserves processing problems, technical malfunctions, require significant and additional capital and, eventually, reserves to production is an unavailability of materials and equipment, and operating expenditures.
ongoing process that takes into account unreliability and or constraints of Some of the Groups interests in industrial technical and operational challenges, economics infrastructure, industrial accidents, labour assets do not constitute controlling stakes.
of the particular commodities concerned and force challenges, disasters, protests, force Although the Group has various structures the impact on the communities in which majeure factors, cost overruns, delays in inplace which seek to protect its position weoperate.
permitting or other regulatory matters, where it does not exercise control, these Local cost control measures are complemented vandalism and crime.
other shareholders may have interests or by global procurement that leverages our goals that are inconsistent with ours.
They scale to seek to achieve favourable terms may take action contrary to the Groups onhigh-consumption materials such as fuel, interests or be unable or unwilling to fulfil explosives and tyres.
Details of the significant impairments recorded Infrastructure availability remains a key risk, during the year are contained in note 5. e. g. availability of continuous high-voltage Deterioration in the price outlook or operating power to our copper operations in the difficulties may result in additional impairments.
We are continuing to seek long-term power solutions via the Inga dam refurbishment.
9 Cyber risk Risk movement in 2017: New principal risk Risk appetite: Low.
Where possible, cyber exposures are to be mitigated through proactive Link to strategic priorities monitoring and routing test to confirm security of systems.
A cyber security breach, incident or failure Cyber risks for firms have increased We have invested in global IT security platforms ofGlencores IT systems could disrupt our significantly in recent years owing in part in order to seek to proactively monitor and businesses, result in the disclosure of to the proliferation of new technologies, manage our cyber risks.
We conduct routine confidential information, damage our the use of the internet and the increasing third party penetration tests to confirm the reputation and create significant financial degree of connectivity, telecommunications security of our systems.
Our designated IT and legal exposures.
technologies and major increase in Security Council sets the global cyber security cyber-crime.
strategy, conducts regular risk assessments Although Glencore invests heavily to monitor, and designs targeted cyber security packages maintain and regularly upgrade its systems, Our activities depend on technology for that seek to thwart emerging malware, virus, processes and networks, absolute security industrial production, efficient operations, vulnerabilities etc.
Our incident response team is not possible.
environmental management, health isestablished and responsible to respond in the and safety, communications, transaction event of any major cyber incident.
We conduct processing and risk management.
ongoing training of our employees in order to We see the increasing convergence of IT and raise the awareness of cyber security threats.
OT Operational Technology networks that will create new risks and demand additional management time and focus.
We also depend on third parties in long supply chains that are exposed to the same cyber risks but which are largely outside ourcontrol.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 49 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk description Comments impacts to the Group Mitigation and risk appetite Sustainability risks 10 Risk movement in 2017: Increase Emissions and climate change Risk appetite: High.
Our business involves mining and consuming fossil fuels along Link to strategic priorities with processing minerals which inevitably entails emitting harmful emissions.
Our global presence exposes us to a number A number of national governments have Through our sustainability programme, we strive of jurisdictions in which regulations have already introduced, or are contemplating to ensure emissions and climate change issues been or are being considered to reduce the introduction of regulatory responses to are identified, understood and monitored emissions.
The likely effect of these changes greenhouse gas emissions.
This includes inorder to meet international best practice will be to increase the cost for fossil fuels, countries where we have assets such as standards and ensure regulatory compliance.
impose levies for emissions and increase Australia, Canada and Chile, as well as Weseek to ensure that there is a balanced costs for monitoring and reporting and to customer markets such as China, India debate with regard to the ongoing use reduce demand for fossil fuels.
including potential or actual investors, Many countries are also pledging to stop During 2017, we published our second Climate may also introduce policies adverse to the using fossil fuels specifically coal in power Change Considerations for our Business which Company due to its interest in fossil fuels.
generation, e. g. in 2017 25 countries and sets out information about how our business regions including the UK, France and Mexico operates, our position on climate change and undertook to do so by2030.
how we are managing the opportunities and challenges of climate change across As a result of these factors, some other ourbusiness.
market participants and analysts have a morebearish view some strongly so in In order to understand and plan for the effects relation to coal and oil and believe that many of climate change on our business, we are fossil fuel assets could become stranded, seeking to provide a framework for identifying, i. e. no longer capable of operating for an understanding and, ultimately, managing to the economic return with the capital invested extent possible climate-related challenges and being irretrievablylost.
This covers in particular government policy, energy costs, We are one of the major producers of key physical impacts, stakeholder perceptions, metals including copper, cobalt, nickel that and market impacts.
are currently essential for electric vehicles and Further information is available at the transition to a low carbon economy, www.
com sustainability although technological change may over climate-change time reduce their requirement.
11 Community relations and human rights Risk movement in 2017: Stable Risk appetite: Low.
It is our policy to ensure we proactively engage with local communities Link to strategic priorities to maintain our social licence to operate.
The continued success of our existing A perception that we are not respecting or We believe that the best way to manage these operations and our future projects are in advancing the interests of the communities vital relationships is to adhere to the principles of part dependent upon broad support and in which we operate, could have a negative open dialogue and cooperation.
In doing so, we a healthy relationship with the respective impact on our social licence to operate, our engage with local communities to demonstrate local communities.
ability to secure access to new resources and our operations contribution to socio-economic our financial performance.
The consequences development and seek to ensure that of negative community reaction could also appropriate measures are taken to prevent or have a material adverse impact on the cost, mitigate possible adverse impacts on the profitability, ability to finance or even the communities, along with the regular reporting as viability of an operation and the safety outlined on our website at: www.
com and security of our workforce and assets.
Suchevents could lead to disputes with Some of our mine sites are in remote locations governments, with local communities where they are a or the key employer in the or any other stakeholders, and give rise to region.
Inevitably, every mine will reach a point reputational damage.
Even in cases where of depletion where it is no longer economic no adverse action is actually taken, the to operate and must be closed in an orderly uncertainty associated with this instability fashion.
We are working with all stakeholders could negatively impact the perceived value atour mine sites to operate for as long as it is of our assets.
economically viable to do so, and to prepare long-term plans that provide for agradual transition to the end of mine life.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 50 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Risk description Comments impacts to the Group Mitigation and risk appetite 12 Skills availability and retention Risk movement in 2017: Stable Risk appetite: Low.
It is a key strategic objective of the Company to maintain positive employee Link to strategic priorities relationships and to attract and retain skilledworkers.
The maintenance of positive employee and Many employees, especially at the Groups We understand that one of the key factors in our union relations and the ability to attract and industrial activities, are represented by labour success is a good and trustworthy relationship retain skilled workers, including senior unions under various collective labour with our people.
This priority is reflected in the management, are key to our success.
Their employing company may principles of our sustainability programme attraction and retention of highly qualified not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its and related guidance, which require regular, and skilled personnel can be challenging, collective labour agreements when they open, fair and respectful communication, especially, but not only, in locations expire and may face tougher negotiations or zero tolerance for human rights violations, fair experiencing political or civil unrest, or in higher wage demands than would be the remuneration and, above all, a safe working which they may be exposed to other case for non-unionised labour.
In addition, environment, as outlined on our website at: hazardous conditions.
existing labour agreements may not prevent www.
com careers Our-culture and a strike or work stoppage.
inour People section on page www.
Various union strike action has occurred at several of our operations during the year e. g. CoalAustralia.
Group companies seek negotiated outcomes with employee representatives, based on reasonableness and fairness, however unfortunately and occasionally strike action can occur.
13 Health, safety, environment, including potential catastrophes Risk movement in 2017: Stable Risk appetite: Low.
It is our policy to ensure we comply with or exceed the health, safety and Link to strategic priorities environmental laws and external requirements applicable to our operations and products.
Our operations are subject to health, Environmental including those associated Our approach to sustainability and our safety and environmental laws along with with particular environmental hazards and expectations of our workers and our business compliance with our corporate sustainability health and safety laws may result in increased partners are outlined in our sustainability framework.
The processes and chemicals costs or, in the event of non-compliance or framework.
This underpins our approach towards used in extraction andproduction methods, incidents causing injury or death or other social, environmental, safety and compliance as well as transport and storage, mayimpose damage at or to our facilities or surrounding indicators, providing clear guidance on the environmental hazards.
A serious failure areas may result in significant losses, standards we expect all our operations to achieve.
inthese areas could lead to an emergency including those arising from 1 interruptions Through the reporting function within the orcatastrophe at a site, which could result in production, litigation and imposition programme, our Board and senior management ininjuries or fatalities and also impact ofpenalties and sanctions and 2 having receive regular updates and have a detailed production and our corporatereputation.
licences and permits withdrawn or oversight on how our business is performing suspended or being forced to undertake across all of the sustainability indicators.
The storage of tailings at our industrial assets extensive remedial clean-up action or to pay We monitor catastrophic risks, in particular, and the storage and transport of oil are for government-ordered remedial clean-up across our portfolio and operate emergency material examples of these risks.
In each case, liability may arise where response programmes.
the hazards have been caused by any Compliance with international and local previous or subsequent owners or operators regulations and standards are top priorities.
of the property, by any past or present owners of adjacent properties, or by third parties.
We remain focused on the significant risks facing our industry arising from operational catastrophes We regret, we recorded nine fatalities at our such as the examples of tailings dam collapses in operations from nine separate incidents.
Canada and Brazil and the coal mine explosions experienced in the last five years.
We seek to learn from these events, and proactively assess our exposure to similar incidents and implement measures to avoidthese.
Considerable ongoing investment continues in the Groups SafeWork health and safetyprogramme.
See also the Sustainable development review on page 24 and the HSEC Committee report on page 100.
Further details will also be published in our 2017 sustainability report.
