International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board is responsible for overall risk management, RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS with delegation provided to the Audit and Risk The Companys risk management process as overseen by the Board can Committee.
The system of risk management and internal be summarised as: control has been designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet the business objectives.
Regard is given to the materiality of relevant risks in designing systems of internal control but no system of control can provide absolute assurance against the incidence of risk, misstatement or loss.
INPP has in place a risk management framework, with a risk register that is reviewed and updated by the Board and Audit and Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers the risks facing the Company and controls and other measures in place to mitigate the impact of risks.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the most significant risks faced by the Company.
The process has been in place through 2017 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
RISK FRAMEWORK AND SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL CONTROL The Board recognises the importance of identifying and actively monitoring the financial and non-financial risks facing the business.
While responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, the aim is that the management of risk is embedded as part of the everyday business and culture of the Company and its principal advisers.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but because of the internal controls systems in place at the key service providers, and the external controls process reviews performed annually, it has decided instead to place reliance on those control and assurance processes.
The overall risk governance framework is the responsibility of the Board, overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee with input from the Management Engagement Committee.
It is implemented through the following risk control processes.
RISK IDENTIFICATION The Board and Audit and Risk Committee ARC identify risks with additional input from the Companys Investment Adviser and Administrator.
The Board also receives detailed quarterly asset management reports highlighting performance and potential risk issues on an  basis.
The ARC also has an open dialogue with its advisers to assist with assessment of significant risks, if any, that might arise between reporting periods.
31 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK ASSESSMENT Each identified risk is assessed in terms of probability of occurrence, potential impact on financial performance and movements in the relative significance of each risk from period to period.
A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company is performed.
In terms of risks that might impact viability these are separately considered.
See the viability statement on page 40 for more information of this assessment.
ACTION PLANS TO MITIGATE RISK Where new risks are identified or existing risks increase in terms of likelihood or impact, the Audit and Risk Committee assists the Company in developing an action plan to mitigate the risk and put in place enhanced monitoring and reporting.
RE-ASSESSMENT AND REPORTING OF RISK Such risk mitigation plans are reassessed by the Audit and Risk Committee, where applicable with the relevant key service providers and reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Direct communication between the Company and its Investment Adviser, and the entity level asset manager, is a key element in the effective management of risk and performance at the underlying investment level.
The risk framework is applied holistically across the Company and the underlying investment portfolio as illustrated in the Business Model on pages 8 to 9.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND MITIGATION The key risks affecting the Company and the investment portfolio have not, in the view of the Board, materially changed year to year, largely due to the contractual and long-term nature of the investments with similar risk profiles.
Changes in the macroeconomic environment and broader global regulatory and tax environment can impact on fund returns and are a permanent feature of the risk appraisal process.
32 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Board notes the evolving political and economic environment, where certain risks are more pronounced in the period under review.
Whilst the U. K. opposition party has publicly threatened to nationalise privately owned infrastructure include UK PFI, the Company believes that significant compensation would be required in order to do this legitimately within existing contractual arrangements.
Counterparty risk has been closely monitored over the year following issues affecting certain service providers to the Group, and contingency plans developed by the Investment Adviser in the event of counterparty failure.
Following the collapse of Carillion plc in early 2018, the Company announced that the costs of transitioning to new facilities management providers and other associated costs would be up to c. 1.5 million.
The Investment Adviser continues to closely monitor other service providers within the portfolio.
The U. K. s departure from the EU also continues to be monitored for any associated risk to the Company, however there are no Brexit specific clauses in INPPs underlying project contracts.
Nevertheless, a certain degree of uncertainty remains at this stage over the eventual regulation which will cover the future relationship between the U. K. and the EU, in particular the approach to cross-border AIFMD regulation and taxation of cross-border financing.
We continue to monitor this on an ongoing basis.
As noted in the Audit and Risk Committee report pages 58 to 61, the Board also considered the Companys controls and processes relating to asset availability reporting.
Asset availability reporting was considered an important non-financial KPI for a number of the Companys investments, as there are consequential implications on returns if such assets become unavailable for public use.
The review concluded that the Company had sufficient controls in operation for the accurate capture and reporting of such information and no weaknesses or control deficiencies were identified.
The Boards view of principal risks and how the relative significance may have changed in the period are set out on the following pages.
This section is not intended to highlight all the potential risks to the business.
There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded as less material, which could turn out to materially impact the performance of the Company, its assets, capital resources and reputation.
We note the potential impact of, and heightened focus on cybersecurity, which continues to be an issue of relevance across all businesses as a response to the growing levels of sophistication being used in carrying out cyber-attacks.
The Company recently procured an external independent review of its cybersecurity control enforcement and continues to monitor resilience to these threats.
Following careful consideration, it is not believed that cybersecurity represents a specific risk to the Company and is instead managed as a general risk to all businesses accordingly.
A description of broader risk factors relevant to investors is disclosed in the latest Company prospectus available on the website www.
While the Company has applied mitigation processes set out below it is unlikely that the techniques applied will fully mitigate the risk.
The chart below provides a summary of the Boards view of the probability and potential impact of the Companys principal risks: 33 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk Heat Map RISK TYPE 1 Inflation 2 Foreign Exchange Movements 3 Interest rates 4 Tax and accounting 5 Political Policy 6 Law and Regulation 7 Asset Performance 8 Counterparty Risk 9 Physical Asset Risk 10 Contract Risk 11 Financial Forecasts The following key is used in the table below to highlight the Boards view on movement of risk exposures during the period: Risk exposure has increased in the period Risk exposure has reduced in the period No significant change in risk exposure since last reporting period RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH MACROECONOMIC RISKS Inflation Inflation may be higher or lower than expected.
INPP monitors the effect of inflation on its Investment cash flows are positively correlated to portfolio through its biannual valuation process.
It inflation therefore increases decreases to inflation also provides sensitivities to investors indicating compared to current projections would impact the projected impact on the Companys NAV of a positively or negatively on the Companys future number of alternative inflation scenarios, offering projected cash inflows.
Negative inflation deflation investors an ability to anticipate the likely effects will reduce the Companys future cash flows in alternative inflation scenarios may have on their absolute terms.
Whilst we hold a stable view we The Companys portfolio has been developed in INPP uses a long-term view of inflation within its note an increase in inflation would anticipation of continued inflation at or above the forecasts, benchmarked where possible to have a positive impact on levels used in the Companys valuation assumptions.
investment cash flows Where inflation is at levels below the assumed levels investment performance may be impaired.
The level of inflation linkage across the investments held by the Company varies and is not consistent.
Some investments have no inflation linkage and some have a geared exposure to inflation.
The consequences of higher or lower levels of inflation than that assumed by the Company will not be uniform across its portfolio.
The Company is also exposed to the risk of changes to the manner in which inflation is calculated by the relevant authorities.
34 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH MACROECONOMIC RISKS CONTINUED Foreign Exchange Movements INPP indirectly holds part of its investments in entities INPP uses forward foreign exchange contracts to in jurisdictions with currencies other than Sterling but mitigate the risk of short-term volatility in foreign borrows corporate level debt, reports its NAV and pays exchange on significant investment returns from dividends in Sterling.
Changes in the rates of foreign overseas investments.
These may not be fully currency exchange are outside INPPs control and may effective and rely on the strength of the impact positively or negatively on cash flows and counterparties to those contracts to be valuation.
INPP monitors the effect of foreign exchange on its portfolio through its biannual valuation Continued possibility of exchange process and reports this to investors.
The rate volatility in light of Company also provides sensitivities to investors international economic and indicating the projected impact on the NAV of a political change including the limited number of alternative foreign exchange U. K. s planned withdrawal from scenarios, offering investors an ability to the European Union anticipate the likely effects of some foreign exchange scenarios on their investment.
Interest Rates Changes in market rates of interest can affect the Company in a variety of different ways: Valuation Discount Rate The Company, in valuing its investments, uses a In determining the discount rate used to value its discounted cash flow methodology.
Changes in market investments, INPP generally uses nominal interest rates of interest particularly government bond rates rates.
Where the Companys cash investment may directly impact the discount rate used to value the inflows are linked to inflation, higher interest Companys future projected cash flows and thus its rates can often be precipitated by higher inflation The sensitivity of the portfolio to valuation.
Higher rates will have a negative impact on expectations, and therefore any inflation linkage interest rates is relatively static valuation while lower rates will have a positive impact.
may partly mitigate the effect of interest rate changes.
Corporate Debt Facility INPP has a corporate level debt facility that may be In the event that the interest rate increases, INPP drawn from time to time.
Interest is charged on a has the option of repaying its corporate level floating rate basis, so higher than anticipated interest facility at any time with minimal notice, providing rates will increase the cost of this facility adversely sufficient funds are available.
impacting on cash flow and the Companys valuation.
Underlying portfolio considerations As presented in the sensitivity analysis, variations in cash deposit rates have little impact on the Changes in interest rates have potential impacts on Companys NAV.
Due to the spread of cash the portfolio at underlying investee entity level.
holdings within ring-fenced SPV structures and Portfolio entities typically choose or can be required to relatively smaller balances in the SPVs, it is not hold various cash balances, including contingency economically feasible to hedge against adverse reserves for future costs such as major lifecycle deposit rate movements.
maintenance or debt service reserves.
These are generally held on interest bearing accounts INPP monitors the effect of historical and and under the contractual terms applicable to certain projected interest rates on its portfolio through investments which in many cases are projected to be its biannual valuation process and reports this to held for the long-term.
It also provides sensitivities to investors indicating the projected impact on the Companys The Company assumes that it will earn interest on NAV of a limited number of alternative scenarios, such deposits over the long-term.
Changes in interest offering investors an ability to anticipate the likely rates may mean that the actual interest receivable by effects of some deposit interest rate scenarios on INPP is different to that projected.
If INPP receives less their investment.
interest than it projects this will impact cash flows and NAV adversely.
The risk of adverse movements in debt interest rates for unhedged debt within regulated entities Certain assets within the portfolio contain refinancing is limited through protections provided by the assumptions.
Increases in lending rates available to regulatory regime.
these projects would have the potential to increase their cost of financing and therefore impact the overall returns from these assets.
35 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH MACROECONOMIC RISKS CONTINUED Change in Tax Rates Tax and Accounting INPP incorporates changes in tax rates within its Headline rates of tax have tended to reduce in recent forecast cash flows and NAV once substantively years, both in the U. K. and overseas jurisdictions in enacted.
However, there is a risk that this trend could be reversed if government or policy were to change in the future.
Change in tax legislation The diversified jurisdictional mix of INPPs investments may provide some mitigation to tax The Company continues to Changes in tax legislation across the multiple changes in any one jurisdiction.
monitor developments relating jurisdictions in which INPP has investments can reduce to tax reform across the returns impacting on the Companys future cash flow INPP believes it takes a conservative approach to jurisdictions in which the returns and hence valuation calculated on a discounted tax planning.
The Board monitors changes in tax Company has operations but cash flow basis.
legislation and takes advice as appropriate from notes no overall increase in risk external, independent, qualified advisers.
While The OECDs Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit over the year the Board and the Companys Investment Adviser Shifting BEPS, published in 2013, seeks to address seek to minimise the impact of adverse changes perceived flaws in international tax rules.
It sets out 15 in tax requirements, its ability to do so is naturally actions to counter BEPS in a comprehensive and limited.
Countries in which INPP invests have been assessing their compliance or otherwise with this guidance.
The Companys Investment Adviser continues to monitor developments in relevant geographies.
Significant legislation relating to corporate interest restriction was enacted in 2017 in the U. K. and Belgium, with no net adverse valuation impacts currently noted.
There remains however, no guarantee that responses to the OECD proposals by other governments changes in approach to these rules, as a consequence of market practice or updated guidance, will not have a negative impact on the Companys performance.
Accounting A portion of INPPs income is received in the form INPP and its portfolio of investments and holding of shareholder debt interest income i. e. from preentities form an international group structure.
The tax cash flows and not constrained by Group uses long term cash flow forecasts from its distributable profits tests.
However, changes in portfolio as part of its valuation process.
These cash flow accounting standards or challenges to accounting forecasts are dependent upon distribution profiles cash judgements can potentially have an impact on tax profiles and therefore can fluctuate because of distributable profits or post-tax cash flows.
future changes in accounting standards, or challenges to accounting judgements.
Therefore, future changes to accounting standards, or changes in interpretation and application of existing standards, have the potential to impact the distributable profits of entities in the portfolio and so the cash flows available to the Group and overall portfolio valuation.
36 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH POLITICAL AND REGULATORY RISKS The nature of the businesses in which INPP invests Most of INPPs existing investments benefit from exposes the Company to potential changes in policy long-term service and asset availability based and legal requirements.
All investments have a public pricing contracts and the countries in which the sector infrastructure service aspect and are exposed to Company operates do not tend to have a political scrutiny and the potential for adverse public tradition of penal retrospective legislation.
They sector or political criticism tend to be long-term supporters of infrastructure and similar investment and recognise the risk of deterring future investment in the event that penal or disproportionate steps are taken in respect of existing contractual engagements.
Political Policy Change in political policy Current global policy practice continues to Political policy and financing decisions may adversely support the use of private sector capital to impact either on existing investments, or on INPPs finance public infrastructure, despite challenge ability to source new investments, at attractive prices from some political parties, particularly in the or at all.
This may impact the Companys reputation.
U. K. around the role of the private sector in the provision of such services.
Public debate around private sector involvement infrastructure INPP seeks to maintain strong and positive A certain degree of reputational risk exists in this area provision has intensified relationships with its public sector clients where as policy decisions adversely impacting INPP have the assessment of public sector value possible.
It also has an active relationship with potential to be made as a direct or indirect result of and therefore increase the risk of other external stakeholders including investors.
reputational developments seen across the wider reputational and or economic sector.
impact Termination of Contracts Often contracts between public sector bodies and INPP engages with its public sector clients in INPPs investment entities contain rights for the public developing cost-saving initiatives and seeks to act sector to voluntarily terminate contracts in certain as a good partner.
None of INPPs investments situations.
While the contracts typically provide for have been identified, by any government audit or some compensation in such cases, this may be less public sector report, as poor value-for-money or than required to sustain INPPs valuation, causing loss not in the public interest.
There have been instances of contracts being The Investment Adviser is a signatory to the Code voluntarily terminated in the U. K. although not of Conduct for Operational PFI PPP contracts in affecting INPP.
the U. K. The voluntary code of conduct sets out the basis on which public and private sector partners agree to work together to make savings in operational Public PPP contracts.
Compensation on termination clauses within such contracts serve to partially mitigate the risk of voluntary termination.
Furthermore, in the current financial climate where voluntary termination leads to a requirement to pay compensation, such compensation is likely in many cases to represent an unattractive immediate call on the public finances for the public sector.
Regarding any potential impact from the U. K. s planned withdrawal from the EU, there are no specific Brexit specific clauses in INPPs underlying project contracts.
Law and Regulation Change in Law Regulation Changes in law or regulation may increase costs of Some investments maintain a reserve or operating and maintaining facilities or impose other contingency designed to meet change in law costs costs or obligations that indirectly adversely affect and or have a mechanism to allow some change INPPs cash flow from its investments and or valuation in law costs typically building maintenance of them.
related to be passed back to the public sector.
37 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH POLITICAL AND REGULATORY RISKS CONTINUED Regulatory requirements INPP is subject to changes in regulatory requirements The Company and Amber, its Investment Adviser, that relate to its business and that of its Investment monitor regulatory developments and seek Adviser both in terms of its investments and in terms independent professional advice in order to of itself.
It is supervised by the Guernsey Financial manage compliance with changing regulatory Services Commission and is required to comply with requirements.
It is unclear currently what impact, the U. K. Listing Rules applicable to Premium listings.
if any, Brexit will have on regulatory requirements.
The Investment Adviser is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the U. K. in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
OPERATIONAL AND VALUATION RISKS Asset Performance Construction Contractual mechanisms allow for significant pass For the Companys assets under construction, there is down of construction cost overrun risk to an element of construction risk that takes the form of subcontractors or consumers, subject to credit risk cost overruns that could impact on project returns.
New investment made in the Asset Availability year into construction stage The entitlement of INPPs PPP and OFTO investments The Board reviews underlying investment assets to receive income is generally dependent on performance of each investment quarterly underlying physical assets remaining available for use allowing asset performance to be monitored in and continuing to meet certain performance close to real time.
Failure to maintain assets available for use Historically, INPP has seen very high levels of asset or operating in accordance with pre-determined performance, which suggests a positive trend for performance standards may dis-entitle wholly or the future.
partially the continued receipt of income that INPP Contractual mechanisms and underlying has projected to receive.
regulatory frameworks also allow for significant pass-down of unavailability and performance risk to sub-contractors in many cases, subject to credit risk see below.
Termination In the event of significant and continuing In serious cases where the terms of the underlying unavailability across INPPs portfolio, it is able to contract with the public sector are breached due to terminate the Investment Advisory Agreement.
default or force majeure then that contract can This serves to reinforce alignment of interest usually be terminated without compensation.
Failure between the Company and the Investment to receive the amount of revenue projected or Adviser.
termination of a contract will have a consequential The risk of termination of contracts as a result of impact on INPPs cash flow and value.
political policy is addressed in risk five above.
Counterparty Risk INPPs investments are dependent on the INPP has a broad range of suppliers and believes performance of a series of counterparties to contracts that supplier counterparty risk is diversified across including public sector bodies, consortium partners, its investments.
All contracts include the provision construction contractors, facilities management and of a security package from counterparties to maintenance contractors, asset and investment mitigate the impact of supplier failure.
In addition, managers including the Investment Adviser, banks generally payments are made in arrears to service and lending institutions and others.
Failure by one or providers giving the Company some protection Following the collapse of more of these counterparties to perform their against failures in performance.
Carillion plc in early 2018, the obligations fully or as anticipated could adversely Company continues to monitor affect the performance of affected investments.
There the risk of any further The credit quality of supplier counterparties is may be disruption or delay to the services provided to developments occurring relating reviewed as part of INPPs due diligence at the investments, or replacement counterparties where to any of its other significant time of making its investments.
they can be obtained may only be obtained at a counterparties.
See page 20 in Most of the services provided to the Companys greater cost.
These risks would negatively impact the the strategic report for further investments are reasonably established with Companys cash flows and valuation.
information competing providers and therefore there are expectations there will be a pool of potential replacement supplier counterparties in the event that a service counterparty fails albeit not necessarily at the same cost.
38 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH OPERATIONAL AND VALUATION RISKS CONTINUED Where borrowings exist in respect of INPPs investments, The credit risk of such swap counterparties is interest rates are generally fixed through the use of considered at the time of entering into these interest rate swaps.
INPP is therefore exposed if the arrangements and are regularly reviewed.
counterparties of these swaps were to default or the However, there is a risk of credit deterioration swaps otherwise become ineffective.
which could impact affected investments.
Early 2018 saw the collapse of Carillion plc.
Facilities management services were provided by Carillion FM to projects making up approximately 3% by fair value of the Companys portfolio.
The investment adviser had been monitoring the issues affecting Carillion plc for some time and had developed contingency plans accordingly.
The anticipated impact of transitioning projects to alternative service providers including transaction costs is expected to be less than 1.5 million.
The Company continues to monitor the risk of any additional developments occurring in this space relating to its other more significant counterparties or without delay.
Physical Asset Risk INPP indirectly invests in physical assets used by the public INPPs investments benefit from regular risk and thus is exposed to possible risks, both reputational reviews and external insurance advice which is and legal, in the event of damage or destruction to such intended to ensure that those assets continue assets and their users.
including loss of life, personal injury to benefit from insurance cover that is standard and property damage.
While the assets INPP invests in for such assets.
benefit from insurance policies, these may not be effective in all cases.
Contract Risk The performance of the Companys investments is Such contracts have been entered into usually dependent on the complex set of contractual only after lengthy negotiations and with the arrangements specific to each investment continuing to benefit of external legal advice.
A legal review operate as intended.
INPP is exposed to the risk that such of contract documentation is undertaken as contracts do not operate as intended, are incomplete, part of INPPs due diligence at the time of contain unanticipated liabilities, are subject to making new investments.
See also Political interpretation contrary to its expectations or otherwise fail Policy on page 37 for further commentary on to provide the protection or recourse anticipated.
contractual risk of voluntary termination.
Financial Forecasts INPPs projections depend on the use of financial models Financial forecasts are generally subject to to calculate its future projected investment returns.
These model audit by external accountancy firms are in turn dependent on the outputs from other financial which is a process designed to identify errors.
model forecasts at the underlying investment entity level.
The comparison of past actual performance of There may be errors in any of these financial models investments against past projected including calculation errors, incorrect assumptions, performance also gives confidence in financial programming, logic or formulaic errors and output errors.
models where actual performance has closely Once corrected, such errors may lead to a revision in matched projected performance.
However, The nature of some recent projected cash flows and thus impact valuation.
Recent there can be no assurance that forecast results investments in operational investments in operating infrastructure businesses can will be realised, particularly in relation to infrastructure businesses can result in more variability in performance than contracted operational infrastructure businesses where result it more variability in concessions special purpose companies, and are therefore more variables can impact forecast results.
performance inherently more difficult to forecast accurately given the wider range of variables that apply.
Sensitivities INPP publishes information relating to its portfolio Sensitivities are produced for the information including projections of how portfolio performance and of investors and are accompanied by valuation might be impacted by changes in various factors disclaimers and guidance explaining that e. g. interest rates, inflation, deposit rates, etc.
The limited reliance can be placed upon them.
sensitivity analysis and projections are not forecasts and actual performance is likely to differ possibly significantly from that projection as in practice the impact of changes to such factors will be unlikely to apply evenly across the portfolio or in isolation from other factors.
39 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C2:2 of the 2014 revision of the U. K. Code of Corporate Governance, we have considered the Company's viability as summarised below.
Due to the long-term and or contractual nature of our investments, we have a significant level of confidence over the endurance and longevity of our business, however it is difficult to assess the regulatory, tax and political environment on a long-term basis.
While we consider the valuation of investment cash flows for the purposes of NAV over a considerably longer period than five years, we view five years as an appropriate timeframe for assessing the Company's viability given these inherent uncertainties.
The viability assessment process is embedded within the Company's annual risk review cycle and involves the following: 1.
An Audit and Risk Committee review and assessment of the risks facing the Company.
A summary of the review process is detailed on pages 30 to 31.
Identification of those principal risks that are deemed more likely to occur and have a potential impact on the Companys viability over the viability period.
This exercise has included consideration of a persistent low inflation rate environment noting that a high rate environment would be positive for the Companys investment cash flows, large currency fluctuations impacting on receipts from overseas investments, and the impact from the loss of income from investments whether due to key sub-contractor default or other asset underperformance.
We note that a number of risks identified during the risk review process in step one above may have implications for the Companys valuation but may be considered insignificant from a five-year viability perspective 3.
Quantification analysis of the potential impact of those principal risks occurring in isolation and under plausible combined sensitivity scenarios over the viability period 4.
Assessment of potential mitigation strategies to mitigate the potential impact of principal risks over the viability period.
This exercise has considered the potential to liquidate investments and or refinance investments if necessary The viability assessment is approved by the Board.
Following the assessment, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet all its liabilities as they fall due up to March 2023.
This assessment is based on the following assumptions which are not within the Companys control: - No retrospective changes to government policy, laws and regulations affecting the Company or its investments - Continued availability of sufficient capital and market liquidity to allow for the refinancing repayment of any short-term recourse debt facility obligations as they become due Rupert Dorey John Whittle Chairman Senior Independent Director 20 March 2018 20 March 2018 40
