Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Principal risks are those risks that, given the Groups current position, could materially threaten the business model, future performance, prospects, solvency, liquidity, reputation, or prevent us from delivering our strategic objectives.
In terms of managing these risks, our systems of risk management and internal control are founded upon deployment of our Enterprise Risk Management Framework based upon ISO 31000:2009 : and our Internal Control Framework.
Details of these are included in the Audit Committee report on pages 82 to 87.
MARKET CONDITIONS Description and impact Mitigation and management Low oil and gas prices impact the capital The oil and gas market is showing signs of improvement.
Oil prices have improved and the majority expenditure plans of our key clients and of forecasts expect a rise in price in the medium term.
We expect clients in our core markets will the demand for our services, limiting our continue to invest in long-term strategic projects, especially regions with lower costs of production.
Over the longer New investment decisions are now being taken and capital investment is edging upwards.
term, volatility in oil and gas prices could We achieved US$5.2 billion of new order intake, providing us with good revenue visibility and we influence and change the industrys continue to see high levels of tendering activity.
business models and investment trends.
We are pushing forward with organic growth initiatives.
During 2017, we established E&C Growth The financial performance of IES is directly and we plan to grow our EPS business through the expansion of existing services, new geographies impacted by oil and gas price volatility.
We have maintained strong relationships with our clients over the recent downturn, working with them to ensure we have strong commercial and contract management on our projects.
We continue to focus on operational excellence to remain competitive.
Significant movements in exchange rates The majority of Group revenues are denominated in US dollars or currencies pegged to the US dollar.
could impact our financial performance.
Where we procure equipment or incur costs in other currencies, we use forward currency contracts to hedge any related exposure.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: pages 8-9: We expect the 2018 market environment to remain broadly similar to 2017.
It will The risk has and 161 continue to be competitive and bidding discipline will continue to be important.
decreased We will continue our focus on organic growth initiatives and we will maintain our in 2017 cost competitiveness through our focus on operational excellence.
WORSENING POLITICAL RISKS IN KEY GEOGRAPHIES Description and impact Mitigation and management The Groups backlog is heavily concentrated The Board actively monitors political developments and seek to avoid or minimise our exposure on business activities in the Middle East to jurisdictions with unacceptable risk levels.
which may increase our vulnerability.
We have good experience in project execution and maintain positive relationships with key Recent global economic conditions have stakeholders.
Careful consideration is given to contractual terms and security conditions through had a significant impact on countries whose our detailed risk review process and we seek external advice on specialist issues as required.
economies are exposed to the downturn The delivery model is modified to suit each project and we limit exposure to single sources of supply in commodities, placing greater pressure and service.
We limit our fixed asset commitment within each contract and closely monitor and on governments to find alternative means manage our cash flow and commitments.
There is continued focus on evacuation and emergency of raising revenues and increasing the risk response and operations are assessed and executed in accordance with our security policy and of social and labour unrest.
The impacts include risks to the successful delivery of our operations and associated impact on margins, the safety of our people, security issues, material logistics and travel restrictions.
The risk of over-concentration in a We are actively pursuing projects in new geographies and we carry out detailed risk analysis before particular market or geography.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: pages 19: 46-50: To mitigate the risk of geographical concentration, a new business line to focus The risk has and 58-59 on growth of lump-sum business into new geographies has been established.
decreased Dedicated leadership and resources have been assigned to identify opportunities in 2017 and assess the risks and mitigations for business delivery.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 29 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED FAILURE TO MEET PROJECTED ORDER INTAKE Description and impact Mitigation and management The risk is that our clients continue to In our MENA region, the source of the majority of our backlog, we see a good pipeline of bidding exercise capital discipline and the demand opportunities in 2018 and 2019.
New investment decisions are now being taken and capital for our services may be impacted with investment is edging upwards.
the cancellation or delay of planned We saw a strong recovery in new orders in 2017, including projects in adjacent markets such as investments.
The potential impact is Russia and Turkey.
We are also reviewing a number of potential opportunities in India as we seek that the Group could fail to deliver its to further expand our geographic footprint.
anticipated backlog and growth targets.
The Group wins most of its work Our service lines work together to review and identify prospects and regularly analyse bid-to-win through a competitive bidding process, ratios and our competition.
We expect the market for our services to remain very competitive and and as competition increases, there is continue our focus on operational excellence to support our competitive bidding performance by a risk that we could fail to maintain protecting, and where possible, enhancing margins.
We have dedicated resources to support clients differentiated margins.
financing requirements in our bids.
We have been able to further reduce our project support costs in 2017.
These savings allow us to be more competitive in the market, deliver projects for our clients more cost-effectively and help to support our margins going forward.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: pages 8-9 During 2017 we saw a strong recovery in new orders and we have a healthy The risk has bidding pipeline for 2018 and 2019. decreased in 2017 DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY Description and impact Mitigation and management To build enterprise value, we need to The challenging events of 2017 demonstrated our underlying resilience.
We executed our projects assure shareholders and opinion formers effectively, reduced our debt and maintained our bidding discipline.
We saw a strong recovery in that we are pursuing an appropriate new orders, securing US$5.2 billion in new order intake from both existing and adjacent markets.
strategy capable of delivering shareholder Developing opportunities for organic growth is a strategic priority and recognising the importance value.
The impact is reflected in the of this, we established a new service line in June to focus on E&C growth in new geographies.
appetite for new investors to buy into We are also planning to grow our reimbursable business in the western hemisphere through the Group and consequently our geographic and service line expansion, and we are exploring longer-term opportunities.
The Board regularly assesses our strategic plan to satisfy itself that the right mix of risk, capability and reward is established.
We conduct detailed sensitivity analysis to assess the robustness of our plans.
The GRC reviews all material new business opportunities and projects, new country entries, joint ventures, investments, acquisitions and disposals.
The Group may be unable to complete its We are committed to a capital light business model going forward, we will continue to focus on divestment programme within the desired strong cash management across the Group, and we will release capital from investments which timescales or achieve the expected values.
are not strongly linked to our core competence.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: pages 6-11: Our approach will continue to be characterised by three themes: focus on our The risk has and 14-21 core, organic growth and reduce capital intensity.
decreased in 2017 OPERATIONAL AND PROJECT PERFORMANCE Description and impact Mitigation and management Our portfolio typically includes a relatively The main project risks are the application of contractual liquidated damages by clients and failure small number of large value contracts.
to secure assessed variation orders.
We regularly review these exposures and are satisfied that the Cost or schedule overruns on any of risks are balanced across the E&C portfolio.
We work closely with our clients to resolve contractual these projects could negatively impact elements for our substantially completed and ongoing projects.
the Groups profitability, cash flows and Key risks to delivery are initially identified at the tender stage, through the risk review process.
On award, detailed execution strategies are further developed and during the execution phase, emerging risks and opportunities are managed through assurance and operational reviews.
Lessons learned are cascaded through leadership lines and our quality initiatives are focused on a right first time approach.
30 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report OPERATIONAL AND PROJECT PERFORMANCE continued If we are unable to transfer certain risks to We maintain a Group-wide insurance programme to mitigate against certain significant losses.
the insurance market due to the availability The programme is consistent with general industry practice.
We continually review the coverage or cost of cover, for example, we could be of our policies.
exposed to material uninsured losses.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: pages 3: 10-13: We continued to operate effectively throughout 2017.
Project delivery remained a No change and 85 significant area of focus for the Board and executive management to ensure that we continued to implement lessons learned from prior projects.
LOSS OF LICENCE TO OPERATE Description and impact Mitigation and management Formal investigations by regulatory A sub-committee of the Board has been established to be solely responsible for the Companys authorities could result in a loss in share engagement with the SFO and to oversee the Companys response to their investigation.
price value and or a loss in business.
The investigation by the Serious Fraud Office SFO into Petrofac is ongoing.
The Company continues Other consequences could include to engage with the SFO and is devoting significant resources to this matter.
It is unclear when or the prosecution of the Company and how the investigation will be concluded.
The consequences of this investigation will be determined of individuals: imprisonment and or fines by the regulatory authorities and it remains therefore too early for Petrofac to predict their outcome.
for individuals: and fines, penalties or other Since the instigation of the investigation, shareholder confidence has been impacted resulting in consequences, including reputational a material fall in the market value.
However, the award of new business has demonstrated that it damage, to the Group.
There may also is a business as usual approach and that our clients remain supportive.
be considerable cost and ongoing disruption in responding to allegations or investigations and taking remedial action.
There are several factors that could impact Safety is a core value and the risk is governed largely by our operating framework, Group policies, our ability to operate safely, ethically and systems and various monthly forums such as the asset integrity review board.
During the year we effectively.
These include safety and asset carried out a number of safety deep dives and introduced a number of global standards for HSSEIA.
integrity risks and extend to a range of We continued our focus on crisis management training with exercises being held at the Group and environmental and regulatory risks.
We reviewed our business continuity plans and digital media response.
is the potential harm to our people, and the Ethical risks are covered under compliance and controls.
commercial and or reputational damage that could be caused.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: pages 78: 46-50: Our safety performance improved with 70 million man-hours worked without a No change and 77 LTI at the end of December 2017.
IT RESILIENCE Description and impact Mitigation and management The Groups performance is increasingly Breach or failure of our IT systems due to integrity failings, negligence or attacks on cyber-security dependent on the ongoing capability and could seriously disrupt our operations and could result in the loss or misuse of sensitive information.
reliability of our IT platforms.
Such breaches in IT security could adversely impact the Groups ability to operate and lead to financial loss, damaged reputation, loss of client and shareholder confidence and regulatory fines.
We as with all companies continue to be exposed to external cyber-security threats.
We have adopted a cloud strategy and increasingly use secure internet connectivity.
We have a number of intrusion detection and prevention tools so we can quickly respond to alerts and suspicious activity.
We have moved to a greater standardisation of our IT systems in an effort to replace our legacy systems.
The Group recognises the increased incidence of cyber-security threats and has recently reviewed its policies, procedures and defences to mitigate associated risks, engaging market-leading specialists where appropriate.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: page 73 We continually develop our IT infrastructure to ensure we are resilient to existing No change and emerging threats.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 31 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED LOSS OF FINANCIAL CAPACITY Description and impact Mitigation and management Failure to adequately forecast, manage or We always maintain an adequate level of liquidity in the form of readily available cash, short-term maintain sufficient liquidity and credit could investments, or committed credit facilities.
The Audit Committee has defined a minimum level of impact our ability to operate and result in liquidity that must be maintained.
financial loss and or ability to comply with our financial covenants.
Debt costs may arise owing to rating A funding plan was approved by the Board in February and November 2017 to employ a agency downgrades and the possibility conservative and flexible funding strategy, robust across a range of business plan scenarios.
of restricted access to funding.
We made good progress in 2017, securing an extension of our revolving credit facilities and refinancing US$300 million of term-loan maturities.
Access to multiple sources of funding is We prepare quarterly cash flow forecasts, aligned to our financial reforecasts, to identify any critical to our sustainability and future growth.
funding requirements well in advance.
Failure to obtain financing could hamper the We introduced a global cash management tool and increased our focus on working capital Groups growth, prevent us from taking on management during 2017. new projects and could adversely affect the Groups financial performance.
The risk of financial or commercial We perform financial due diligence on new and existing clients.
We closely monitor all receivables exposure if counterparties such as key and seek to minimise the risk of exposure through contractual terms.
We have regular, senior level financial institutions, clients, partners, dialogue with our major clients to understand and pre-empt any concerns that they may have.
subcontractors or vendors default Bank ratings are monitored to ensure security of counterparty for both deposits and lending.
The risk is managed by Group Treasury and the Audit Committee.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: pages 20-21: We improved our net debt position over the year and adopted a new funding No change 45: 85: 161-165: and 182-185 strategy.
A key component of our strategy is to reduce capital intensity.
DILUTION OF COMPANY CULTURE AND OR CAPABILITY Description and impact Mitigation and management An inability to respond quickly and The Groups organisational structure was revised in May 2017.
The changes were designed to effectively to unplanned changes in provide clear accountability, drive growth and maintain focus on execution, and improve oversight the leadership structure could have an and control within the business.
adverse impact on the delivery of our The focus on succession planning remains an important priority for the Board and we continue strategy and day-to-day operations.
to review and update succession plans for all our critical roles across the top three tiers of the organisation.
The overall senior talent pipeline is reviewed on a quarterly basis.
We are developing a cadre of future leaders and providing them with the opportunities to demonstrate their potential and accelerate their progression.
We have identified our high performing employees who we see as having the potential to be longer-term successors: and we also focus on the emerging talent who are viewed as high potential individuals and we manage their development in terms of on the job training, rotations and training events to accelerate their progression.
Over 50% of graduates hired since 2004 have been retained within the Group.
Our aim is to always place our most effective people into our most important roles.
Failure to attract and retain the right level We review future headcount requirements as part of our planning process to assess whether of skilled and experienced personnel to reduce our overall headcount in response to tighter market conditions or to invest in retaining could negatively impact our distinctive, capability.
Five-year capability plans have been collated across the Group, linked to the annual delivery-focused culture, and prevent business plan process.
us from maintaining our operational A new integrated learning management system was launched in 2017 to capture individual capability and relationships with clients.
performance objectives and is being used to support mandatory employee performance reviews.
We remain confident that our policies to attract, retain, train, promote and reward our people are appropriate for the Group and will enable us to meet our strategic goals.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: pages 4: 6-7: Succession planning at Board and senior management level was a core focus in No change 10-11: 14-15: 51-52: and 66 2017.
A principal objective is to continue to build a strong talent pipeline.
32 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Group Chief Executive's review See page 10 Corporate responsibility See page 46 COMPLIANCE AND CONTROLS Description and impact Mitigation and management The management of agency relationships A Third Party Risk Committee was established during 2017 to review all high risk relationships and represents one of the largest risks of further progress was made to develop the compliance-related internal controls framework.
reputational damage that companies face.
The potential financial and reputational The Code of Conduct sets out the behaviours expected of our employees and those people risk that would arise from failure to who work with us.
Our employees at supervisory level and above are required to complete an annual comply with law and regulation and or mandatory declaration to confirm they have complied with the Code of Conduct, have declared non-conformance with relevant Group any actual or potential breach of our Code and any potential conflict of interest.
Our Group Finance standards, policies and procedures.
function launched a controls improvement programme during the year to enhance the financial controls framework.
The Group faces risks associated with the The Group must ensure a broad understanding of, and compliance with, the sanctions regime.
management of trade sanctions as it As part of the risk review process, sanctions implications are reviewed with the business and develops business in Russia.
specialised external counsel before entering any territory that may be impacted.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: pages 6-7: 46: During the year the Company revised a number of compliance related controls.
The risk has 64-65: 66-67: 70: 77: 82-85: and 88-89 The Board approved the formation of the Compliance and Ethics Committee.
increased in 2017 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 33
