RISK MANAGEMENT Identifying and managing risks and opportunities is key to the successful delivery PETROFAC OPERATES IN A of our strategy.
We operate in a challenging CHALLENGING ENVIRONMENT.
environment and understand that risks are WITH CAREFUL MANAGEMENT, an inherent part of our business.
RISKS CAN OFFER OPPORTUNITIES We believe our risk management framework AS WELL AS CHALLENGES.
provides us with the structure to identify the risks and uncertainties that may impact our business, thereby underpinning our Risk Governance Framework ability to achieve our objectives and assess opportunities as our business evolves.
Sets risk appetite In 2017, there was a particular focus on BOARD Approves Key Risk Register strengthening the Groups compliance Approves significant projects framework, in particular the anti-bribery and corruption controls that are in place across the Group.
Risk governance Petrofacs overall system of risk governance Reviews Key Risk Register centres on a number of committees and Provides assurance AUDIT management processes, which bring on framework COMMITTEE together reports on the management of risk at various levels.
Oversight of Key Risk The risk governance process is supported Register.
Senior management GROUP RISK by regular risk assessments and reviews consider risk on significant COMMITTEE of existing and new opportunities, by projects and investments considering the risk exposure and risk for formal consideration by the Board appetite of each division, service line and function.
The diagram on the left sets out the risk governance structure in operation, Divisional management showing the interaction between the various oversight and review DIVISIONAL RISK risk review and management committees.
of projects REVIEW COMMITTEE The Group Risk Committee GRC is responsible for the assurance of the Risk management Enterprise Risk Management Framework is embedded within SERVICE agreed by the Board, including the each service line LINES recommendation of Group policies and the application of the Groups Delegated Authorities.
Assurance to management GROUP INTERNAL The GRC reviews all material new business and the Board FUNCTIONS AUDIT opportunities and projects including bid submissions, new country entries, joint ventures, investments, acquisitions and disposals and is responsible for providing direction as to the management and mitigation of risk exposure.
No proposal is presented to the GRC without first being reviewed and supported at the divisionallevel.
In addition to the Groups regular risk review meetings, the Executive Committee increased the frequency of their meetings during 2017.
Safety, compliance, operational, commercial and finance matters are now 26 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report discussed weekly, with any emerging risks Risk appetite Revision of the Groups organisational and opportunities being identified and The Groups risk appetite is largely governed structure, with changes designed to addressed as appropriate.
through the Delegated Authorities and Risk provide clear accountability, drive growth Review Committees, that are embedded and maintain our focus on execution and As with all aspects of good governance, across the Group.
Risk appetite is managed improve oversight and control within the effectiveness of risk management through a series of limits and parameters, thebusiness and internal control also depends on which are regularly monitored in each We carried out significant work on the individuals responsible for operating business service line and aggregated succession planning and talent the systems that are put in place.
for review at Group level.
development We added further controls to our Group Risk management framework One of our intentions in 2017 was to assess risk reviews and increased the attendees to The Groups risk management framework the risk appetite for each of the Groups ensure we have cross-management input is designed to underpin the Groups principal risks.
This remains on the agenda We continued to implement findings longer-term sustainability.
It is based on and the Board will undertake this exercise from lessons learned reviews, and we the principles and guidelines of BS ISO during 2018. conducted regular cold eye reviews 31000 2009 and encompasses the across our E&C projects to support policies, culture, organisation, behaviours, 2017 review them in identifying additional risks and processes, systems and other aspects During the year we continued to enhance mitigating potential impacts of the Group that, taken together, facilitate our processes and controls to improve both We continued to develop and expand our its effective and efficient operation.
the consistency and transparency of our stage gate approach to our E&C projects The framework supports the Board in approach to risk management.
The following with additional improvements introduced exercising its overall responsibilities and to: improvements were made: through project controls and operational processes becoming more systematic The Compliance and Ethics Committee Regulate the entry of appropriate We reviewed our Group functional risks was formed opportunities and risks into the Group and we have captured these within our The Third Party Risk Committee Develop our understanding of the most risk reporting system was established significant threats and opportunities Internal audit completed its transformation Development of a compliance charter Promote active management of risk programme with a number of second Review and enhancement of existing exposures down to acceptable levels line of defence assurance reviews, policies and processes Assist the Group in delivering business plan embedding a risk-based approach Enhancement of our compliance e-learning objectives and operational performance throughout the Group programme to further promote our key We launched a controls improvement compliance requirements During 2017, the framework continued to programme, a broad-reaching initiative mature and we have produced detailed to improve our financial controls and guidance to support its application to provide enhanced assurance.
It is ensure it is followed consistently across building on existing best practices thebusiness.
and will improve the way we work RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Risk management process Infrastructure Risk integration Company vision and strategy Strategic planning Communicate and consult Company values Medium term planning Group policies and standards Prospect phase Risk appetite and Go No-go process delegated authorities Proposal phase Asset integrity framework Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Design reporting identication assessment treatment monitoring Code of Conduct Procurement Risk management process Execution Risk Review Committees Operation Global insurance programme Hand over Emergency preparedness Assurance Management support processes Company values and culture Enterprise Risk Management system and other tools Leadership, communications and engagement Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 27 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED We continued to expand our intrusion VIABILITY STATEMENT detection monitoring of cyber-security threats and tighten our controls A number of HSSEIA deep dives were The Board regularly reviews the funding A material financial loss resulting conducted across the business to identify position of the Group, its projected from poor execution of a major and address key related concerns liquidity requirements and factors that lump-sum project There has been a continued focus on could adversely affect the Groups future A significant decline in the operating evacuation and emergency response long-term viability.
In doing so Directors and financial performance of with mock exercises regularly planned assess the prospects of the Group by Engineering & Production Services and conducted reference to its current financial and An increase in working capital driven A number of new HSSEIA standards operational position, its recent and by a deterioration in contractual terms, have been published and a driving safety historical financial performance, its future weak cash management or delays policy video was circulated globally financial plans and the potential impact in commercial settlements of the principal risks and mitigating Adverse commercial settlements Principal risks factors described on pages 30 to 33. resulting in a significant financial loss The Board defines principal risks as those risks that, given the Groups current position, The Directors have assessed the viability In considering the impact of these could materially threaten the business of the Group over a three-year period to stress-test scenarios, the Board has model, future performance, prospects, 31December 2020.
The Board believes reviewed realistic mitigating actions that solvency, liquidity, reputation, or prevent that this is an appropriate time horizon could be taken to avoid or reduce the us from delivering our strategic objectives.
given its business portfolio, order backlog impact or occurrence of the underlying and business development pipeline risks.
These include reducing operating The Key Risk Register KRR is the means by offers limited visibility beyond three years.
expenditure, cutting discretionary capital which the Groups principal risks are reported The Board reviews its prospects over expenditure, lowering dividends and to the Audit Committee and the Board for a longer term horizon and prepares a disposing of non-core assets.
It includes business, compliance, five-year business plan that is dependent financial, hazard and operational risks, on the external market environment, The Board has also reviewed and together with external factors over which securing new orders at sustainable approved the Groups funding plan, the Group may have little or no direct control, margins, operational performance and long-term liquidity forecasts and risk such as market conditions and worsening capital discipline.
The Groups business management policies, which monitor and political risks in key geographies.
The GRC model aims to deliver sustainable, mitigate the risk of a change in our financial reviews the KRR quarterly prior to submission long-term value to shareholders through position.
In certain scenarios, we may to the Audit Committee.
dividend payments and financial returns need to access capital markets to raise from share price growth.
additional funds to supplement cash flow The KRR is designed to provide the Board from operations or to provide additional and Audit Committee with clarity around the The Directors considered the following liquidity headroom.
The Group has an Groups principal risks and uncertainties, principal risks as the most important established track record of successfully ownership, accountability and mitigation in their assessment of the viability of raising capital from a diverse range of strategies, to promote active engagement, the Group: sources and the Directors believe the informed debate and constructive Group should continue to have access to Market conditions challenge, and to keep under review the capital markets at commercially acceptable Worsening political risks in effectiveness of decision making processes.
rates throughout the assessment period.
key geographies Failure to meet projected order targets As reported on page 78 in the Annual Whilst the principal risks all have the Operational and project performance Report, the Serious Fraud Office SFO potential to affect future performance, Loss of licence to operate began a formal investigation in May 2017. none of them are considered likely either Loss of financial capacity individually or collectively to threaten We have also considered the potential the viability of the business over the The Groups business plan forecasts have impact of the EU referendum result and assessment period.
Based on the results been stress tested against a number of the triggering of Article 50 in March 2017. of this detailed assessment, the Directors severe but plausible risks to the business The Board believes that as an international have a reasonable expectation that that could potentially impact the Groups Group, we have little exposure to the the Group will be able to continue in ability to fund its future activities and European continent and do not expect that operation and meet its liabilities as they adhere to its banking covenants: the United Kingdom leaving the EU would fall due over the next three years.
have any significant impact on our business.
A material decline in oil price relative to both our and market expectations A substantial reduction in forecast new orders in Engineering & Construction 28 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017
