Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management Shires risk management strategy is to identify, As a highly regulated biopharmaceutical assess, manage, and monitor significant risks company focused on serving people withrare diseases, Shire has implemented thatitfaces.
policies, processes and procedures intended to manage risk and ensure Risk management framework appropriate and lawful conduct in thecountries in which the Company operates.
Successful risk management Board of Directors isofbenefit to shareholders and other stakeholders alike.
Shires risk management Ensures comprehensive risk management strategy is to identify, assess, manage, and internal control systems are in place andmonitor significant risks that itfaces.
Determines the Despite this, no risk management strategy Companys risk appetite and reviews its can provide absolute assurance against principal risks.
Stakeholders in risk management, which Audit, Compliance Executive Committee isoverseen by the Boardof Directors & Risk Committee Oversees the implementation and anddesigned to enable the effective Oversees the effectiveness of risk operation of risk management and identification, assessment, management, management and internal control internal control systems.
Reviews and monitoring of the Groups risks, are systems.
Reviews and monitors and monitors the Companys detailedbelow.
principal risks and other riskareas.
Board of Directors The Board of Directors is responsible forensuring thedevelopment and maintenance of sound systems of risk management and internal control.
In fulfilling this responsibility, the Board Chief Compliance Global Compliance and Risk oversees Enterprise Risk Management and Risk Officer Management Department ERM, determines the Companys risk appetite, and ensures that an appropriate Responsible for the Global Supports the development, risk culture is embedded throughout the Compliance and Risk implementation, and maintenance Company.
The Board also interacts with Management Department, of compliance and risk key risk and internal control stakeholders oversees relevant risk and management systems.
on a frequent basis, enabling it to monitor compliance systems across and review the Companys principal risks theCompany, and leads and the effectiveness of its risk theEnterprise Risk management and internal control systems.
During the past year the Board conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks Enterprise Risk Management Business units, corporate facing the Company, including those that ERM Team functions, and franchises could threaten its business model, future performance, solvency, or liquidity.
Facilitates the ERM system Identify and assess risks including the enterprise risk duringthe enterprise risk assessment process.
the Executive Committee, Audit, Implementrisk management Compliance & Risk Committee processes, procedures, and Board ofDirectors.
Internal Audit Global Issues and Crisis Management Provides independent assurance that risk management, Responsible for operating governance, and internal control aGlobalIssues and Crisis processes are designed and Management Framework.
18 Shire Annual Report 2017 Business units, corporate functions, Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee Global Compliance and Risk andfranchises TheAudit, Compliance & Risk Committee Management Department Business units, corporate functions, and supports the Board by overseeing and The Global Compliance and Risk franchises participate in the enterprise risk reviewing risk management, compliance, Management Department, led by the assessment process by identifying and and internal control programs through its ChiefCompliance and Risk Officer, is assessing their relevant risks.
They are interaction with key stakeholders and madeup ofcompliance, assurance, responsible for managing their risks: periodic updates from management.
monitoring, privacy, and risk management implementing controls, and monitoring, TheCommittee reviews and monitors the competencies.
It is responsible for escalating, and reporting risk.
principal risks facing the Company, with supporting the development, each risk assessed on the likelihood of implementation, and maintenance of Global Issues and Crisis Management materialization, potential financial and relevant risk management and compliance Shire operates a Global Issues and Crisis non-financial impacts, and overall risk systems and programs across the Management framework, which assists in mitigation effectiveness.
This is achieved through planning for, and responding to, disruptive governance, policy, and procedures: events that could potentially jeopardize Executive Committee awareness, training, and communications: theCompanys reputation and business The Executive Committee oversees the as well as, audits, monitoring, and operations, The guiding principles implementation and operation of risk investigations.
These activities provide emphasize the health and safety of management and internal control systems forrisk identification, assessment, patients, customers, employees, and the across the Company.
The Committee management, and monitoring, as well as community at large: safeguarding the reviews and monitors principal risks the escalation of relevant matters to the Companys integrity, executing strategy, identified during the enterprise risk Executive Committee, Audit, Compliance andsupporting business continuity.
assessment process, before they are &Risk Committee, and the Board of presented to the Audit, Compliance & Directors as appropriate.
Principal areas of risk RiskCommittee.
Committee members also The Company is subject to varying degrees receive regular risk updates from functional Enterprise Risk Management Team of risk and uncertainty.
The table below and business unit stakeholders.
Along with The ERM Team, ledby the Chief details the principal areas of risk that were both the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer Compliance and Risk Officer, includes identified and assessed through the and the Head of Internal Audit, Committee theHead of Global Risk and Compliance Companys ERM system in 2017. members are also responsible for Assurance, and the Head of Risk escalating matters of risk management Management and Business Continuity, These principal areas of risk are listed andinternal control to the Audit, andis supported by external consultants innoparticular order and, along with asappropriate.
The Team is charged with Compliance & Risk Committee and or thedetailed risk factors set out on pages implementing and operating the ERM theBoard of Directors, as appropriate.
187 to 198 ofthis Annual Report the Risk system.
This consists of maintaining the Factors, should be carefully considered Chief Compliance and Risk Officer enterprise risk universe and risk before any investment is made in Shire.
The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer assessment methodology, identifying Inaddition, risks not presently known to leads the Global Compliance and Risk functional and executive risk owners, theCompany may also adversely affect Management Department, and is facilitating the enterprise risk assessment itsbusiness.
Ifany of these aforementioned responsible for overseeing compliance process, providing risk training and risks were tomaterialize, the business, andrisk management systems and awareness to stakeholders across the financial condition, results of operations, programs, including ERM across the Company, assisting with risk reporting, orprospects of the Company could be Company, and providing the Executive andsupporting the Executive Committee materially harmed.
In such circumstances, Committee, the Audit, Compliance & Risk and Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee the value of the Companys securities could Committee, andthe Board with updates as appropriate.
decline and an investor could lose part onrisk management and compliance.
orall of hisor her investment.
In addition, Internal Audit forward-looking statements that are Internal Audit provides independent contained in this Annual Report or in assurance to the Audit, Compliance & Risk theCompanys other reports, filings, or Committee that Shires risk management, statements may be subject to the principal governance, and internal control processes areas of risk described below and the are designed and operating effectively.
Shire Annual Report 2017 19 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued 1 Principal area of risk Context Trend Competition exclusivity The Companys products face competition in the markets in which we operate.
The market entry of competitor products, and Ourproducts are subject to patent or regulatory expiration and emerging competition from increasing competition due to the loss of generics or biosimilars.
patent exclusivity and product genericization, Shire continues to conduct relevant market research, analysis, and product risk could lead to reduced revenue.
We monitor the regulatory, legal, and industry environment to proactively anticipate and identify competitor products and plan accordingly.
Environment, health and safety EHS The manufacture and distribution of the Companys products are subject to extensive laws, material compliance regulations and policies.
Failure to adhere to relevant laws, regulations, Shire has established a cross-functional Product Stewardship Working Group that meets and policies, including Shires Environment, quarterly to review any changes to the various material compliance regulations and Health & Safety Policy and Supplier Code requirements as well as changes to the Company, products, and processes.
Shire has ofConduct, may result in fines, business implemented processes and supporting technology to provide a framework for oversight disruptions, increased operating costs, and governance.
reducedrevenue, interruption postponement inresearch, delays of new product launches, and or other environmental and reputational consequences.
Anti-corruption anti-bribery We operate in numerous countries across the globe, with emergent markets having Failure to comply with anti-corruption differinglevels of infrastructure and legislative regulatory frameworks.
Ourindustry is anti-bribery laws, regulations, policies and alsohighly regulated.
These circumstances increase our exposure to potential bribery standards governing the manufacturing, orcorruption risks.
sales, and marketing of Shire products, could Shire has a well-defined Code of Ethics, a clear set of values, and pertinent policies negatively impact the Company and or its procedures that guide our approach to Anti-Corruption Anti-Bribery compliance, allofwhich officers, Directors and employees, resulting are available Group-wide.
Shirecontinues to review, audit, and monitor compliancewith inenforcement activity, civil and or criminal relevant policies, procedures, systems, and controls.
We deploy global anti-corruption liability, fines, penalties, imprisonment, business anti-bribery measures including training and awareness initiatives and a third-party due restrictions, or damage to our reputation.
Cyber security The Company is dependent on the availability and integrity of our information and In todays complex and ever-changing supporting technology platforms including systems, applications, databases, and networks.
environment, failure to safeguard information, We have developed an internal cyber security capability, that provides information and systems, applications, databases, and assistance to the Company concerning compliance with Shire cybersecurity policies, networks could result in cyber breaches and guidance on cybersecurity standards, and recommendations on potential vulnerabilities.
violations of privacy consumer protection Weprovide training, awareness and monitoring of cybersecurity activities.
We invest in cyber laws, business disruption, loss of intellectual threat intelligence, security operations, and incidence response services to proactively property, damage to our reputation, fines, predict, prevent, detect and respond to cyber risks.
penalties and or compromise of operations orfinancial condition.
Data protection and privacy The Company is required to protect natural persons when processing their personal data, Failure to effectively identify, collect, and including maintaining the confidentially, integrity and availability of personal data relating to store, personal sensitive information in physicians, patients, employees and other individuals whose personal data is being compliance with federal, state, and regional processed by the Company.
laws, contractual obligations, and policies, Shire continues to implement a data protection and privacy management program, could result in regulator-imposed fines including governance, policies, and procedures, to address global data protection and enforcement actions, damage to our privacy requirements.
Our mitigation strategies are evolving to meet a dynamic regulatory reputation, and or civil or criminal liability.
We monitor regulatory, environmental, and innovation key risk indicators, utilize data analytics, and promote employee awareness of data protection requirements.
Pharmaceutical industry reform The Company has a large portfolio of products in multiple countries across various Failure to proactively identify and comply with therapeutic areas.
Weoperate in a highly regulated industry, with the research and industry laws and pharmaceutical regulatory development, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of these products subject to regulatory changes across our value chain including oversight invarious jurisdictions across the globe.
The successful development, government mandated pricing, could result in manufacturing, distribution, and sale of these products are highly uncertain due to the fines, penalties, business disruption, reduced changing regulatory landscape.
revenue, and or potential exclusion from Shire continues to monitor the regulatory environment at large, and proactively plans government programs.
forpotential regulatory changes within our industry.
We collaborate internally across globalfunctions and business units, and externally with outside counsel and advisors, tounderstand potential industry reform, and its impact on our strategy, operations andperformance.
1 Illustrates overall risk exposure direction, based on an assessment of potential risk impact, likelihood of materialization, and risk mitigation effectiveness 20 Shire Annual Report 2017 1 Principal area of risk Context Trend Clinical trial research, The Company has a portfolio of products in various stages of research and development.
safety and efficacy The successful development of these products requires significant investment, with no Failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy guarantee that these products will receive regulatory approval.
inplanned and ongoing clinical trials, We continue to emphasize patient safety and a disciplined approach to research and unsuccessful clinical research, and failure to development.
We have governance structures in place to monitor and evaluate our risk complete clinical research in a timely fashion, exposure in this area, and which also allow for engagement in external reviews with could result in penalties, fines, reduced thought-leaders, key opinion leaders and other stakeholders.
Our combined portfolio is revenue, and or damage toour reputation.
subject to review by Shires Quality Assurance and Control function for inspection readiness.
We conduct various operational reviews of the programs ensuring targeted reviews of safety and efficacy profiles, including identification of programs where there is limited or nomechanistic, clinical or regulatory precedent.
Intellectual property IP As a global biopharmaceutical company, our significant investments in research and and patents development, and related intellectual property and patents, are extremely valuable corporate Failure to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend assets, and need to be protected.
We face intense competition from manufacturers of our patents, regulatory data, or other IP may branded and generic therapies who may challenge our patent protections in certain lead to the compromise of exclusivity periods markets.
We may be subject to adverse outcomes in legal matters and other disputes, and reduced revenue.
including the Companys ability to enforce and defend patents and other intellectual property rights required for our business.
Shire works with internal and external counsel to monitor threats, defend our patents and IPand prosecute violations.
Public and private partnerships We operate a number of collaborative agreements and external alliances with various PPP joint ventures JV third-parties across the globe to expand our product portfolio and market share.
Failure to effectively manage third-party Shire carefully evaluates new PPP JV opportunities before entering into agreements.
alliances, geopolitical uncertainty, technology Wefocus on support and alignment between our patients, healthcare professionals, and expropriation, foreign exchange exposure, each PPP JV.
We oversee, monitor, audit, and report on these PPP JV relationships on a payment collections, and other risk areas regular basis.
We review macroeconomic factors, manage relevant government relations, could result in reduced revenue, damage to and enforce contractual terms.
our reputation, and or loss of license to operate incertain jurisdictions.
Tenders Procurement through tenders is standard practice in the majority of our international Failure to effectively execute and win major markets and we have developed capabilities to effectively manage tenders.
We strive to tenders in key markets could result in shape tenders to include criteria beyond price so that the value of the therapy is recognized.
We also encourage payers to partner with us on alternative, value-based models to move beyond tenders, where appropriate.
We continue to manage tender relationships and monitor the tender landscape around the world, adjusting our approach asneeded.
Global drug safety tracking of patient We manage an increasing number and variety of PSPs globally and aim to accurately and support programs PSP efficiently track and report their respective safety information.
Risk of non-compliance in safety reporting Shire has implemented a safety reporting policy, registration programs, personnel training, andinterpretation, and incomplete safety and detailed procedures for PSPs.
We continue to improve and refine our system to ensure information and documentation relative to central approval and oversight of all global PSPs.
Patient Support Programs PSPs, could result in potential compromise of patient safety, loss of confidential data, fines, penalties, business disruptions, and or damage to our reputation.
Acquired product company integration The integration of new products companies and the implementation of other strategic andstrategic initiatives initiatives can be complex, costly, and time-consuming.
Important considerations include Failure to effectively integrate acquired culture, personnel, product line synergy, operations, platform alignment, compliance, and products companies, and achieve projected systems, while maintaining focus on patient safety, supply chain execution, customer value from other strategic initiatives, couldresult service, sales, and business relationships.
in lost synergies, diversion ofmanagement The Board has established a governance framework to enable the integration of Baxalta focus, time and resources, operational and the ongoing strategic review of the organization.
These initiatives are being led by inefficiencies, increased costs, reduced senior, experienced leaders.
revenue, and or damage to our reputation.
We continue to audit and monitor Baxalta integration activities in all functions, franchises, and business units, with the Board maintaining oversight.
As of December 31, 2017, certainBaxalta integration activities, particularly in IT and Technical Operations, continue to progress, with the majority of integration work having been completed or being in the final phases of implementation.
We continue to invest time, attention, and resources in the ongoing strategic review of the business.
1 Illustrates overall risk exposure direction, based on an assessment of potential risk impact, likelihood of materialization, and risk mitigation effectiveness Shire Annual Report 2017 21 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
