Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report Segmental Business Review Corporate & Private Client CPC business Overview Private Client Performance summary CPC comprises four businesses, all focused SANNEs Private Client business provides Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2017 primarily on two client segments namely independent fiduciary, administration and were 19.4 million with a gross profit of corporates and private clients around the world.
accounting services primarily to institutionally 12.3 million.
minded ultra-high-net-worth individuals and The C&I division showed revenue and gross Corporate & Institutional families, often working with their respective profit growth resulting from a good level of new family offices.
The business administers structures C&I business wins and execution of cross selling which enable clients to preserve and enhance opportunities including CRS FATCA regulatory SANNEs C&I business offers a comprehensive family wealth and establish a legacy for future reporting services across most divisions, along range of administration and accounting services generations within a well-regulated environment.
Global to international corporates and institutions.
This includes the provision of services to single trends around increased corporate outsourcing, The business assists clients and their advisers in and multi-family offices tailored to ensure the particularly in the regulatory and compliance establishing and providing ongoing administration optimum use of the family offices own in-house space, position C&I well for continued longer term services for a diverse range of structures, including capabilities consistent with client objectives and growth.
group restructuring, asset holding vehicles, planning requirements.
The teams expertise joint ventures, corporate funds and group includes transaction management capabilities The Executive Incentives division showed growth financing vehicles.
Services include governance, across a variety of asset classes including but in revenue despite some new larger engagements fiduciary, company secretarial support, financial not limited to private equity and real estate.
won in late 2016 early 2017 taking longer to reporting, regulatory reporting FATCA and CRS, The Private Client business also establishes implement.
Disciplined cost management acting as listing sponsor for the Channel Islands investment vehicles for private clients either enabled improvement in gross profit.
Global Securities Exchange rebranded in March 2017 investing individually or on a collective basis with trends in regard to executive compensation, to the International Stock Exchange and AIFMD other family members, family offices or business including toward equity based plans, deferred depositary services.
The C&I business often works associates through the use of companies, limited compensation and carried interest structures, in conjunction with the Groups other business partnerships and unit trusts.
bode well for the sustained growth of the areas to provide complementary and ancillary Executive Incentives division over the longer term.
corporate services to specialist asset structures Treasury to extend the scope of services available to the C&I and Executive Incentives share a very similar SANNE continues to invest in its Treasury division client base.
corporate client base and we plan for increased which works closely and collaborates with the collaboration with anticipated synergies.
Group's other divisions and business areas to Executive Incentives deliver competitive foreign exchange and treasury The Private Client division showed growth and SANNEs Executive Incentives business provides management services to client structures.
continues its strategic focus on institutionally specialist trustee services and associated Services are focused on improving management minded ultra-high-net-worth families and administration to support the operation of a of risk through diversification of deposits across their family offices, with a continued focus on range of employee and executive incentive plans.
a number of banks enhancing returns through outsourcing of their fiduciary and administrative These services are provided to LSE Main Market, active treasury management asset pooling as needs.
AIM and internationally listed companies, private well as providing foreign exchange and escrow companies, private equity backed businesses The Treasury division, whilst the smallest of services.
Services are delivered by experienced and fund managers.
Services include trustee the CPC divisions, showed very good revenue treasury specialists with a deep understanding services to employee share trusts, incentive growth resulting from cash management and of money markets and an ability to balance risk plan management, corporate nominee account foreign exchange transactions wins and a strong management and yield enhancement objectives.
administration, transaction management and the pipeline has been developed through cross administration of corporate actions and associated selling initiatives across the global business.
A range of specialist services are potentially global and scalable nature of this also offered to fund managers.
These include deal division positions it well for further strong growth.
executive and partner incentive and retention plans, co-investment and carried interest plans, and key-man incentive and retention plans for private equity investee portfolio companies.
A private equity incubator service has also been developed specifically to offer a cost-effective solution for the swift implementation and efficient administration of employee trusts commonly required to hold key managers interests during the incubation phase of a company, following private equity investment.
com Strategic Report SANNE's Executive Committee SANNE is led by an experienced team of industry experts.
SANNEs Executive Committee members are: Dean Godwin Spencer Daley Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer As CEO, Dean is responsible for As Chief Financial Officer, Spencer is overseeing the running of the responsible for managing the financial business and delivering the business operations strategy of the Group.
He strategies that underpin the long-term works closely with all areas of the development of the client service and global business.
Martin Schnaier Sean Murray Chief Commercial Officer Managing Director, Alternative Assets, EMEA Martin is Chief Commercial Officer and oversees the delivery of the client Sean is responsible for the management services business.
He is based in our of the EMEA Alternatives platform, which London office.
includes Private Equity, Debt, Real Estate and Hedge.
Mark Law Steve Soki Managing Director, Alternative Managing Director, Corporate & Assets, Asia-Pacific & Mauritius Private Client Steve leads the businesss Corporate As Managing Director Mark is & Private Client businesses, which responsible for leading the Alternative include: Corporate & Institutional, Assets business across Asia-Pacific & Executive Incentives, Private Client and Mauritius.
Fred Steinberg Zena Couppey Managing Director, Alternative Managing Director Assets, North America Business Development Fred is responsible for the day-to-day Zena leads SANNEs global business running of SANNE's North American development and oversees all client relationship management and service Alternatives business.
He is based in delivery matters.
Eric Watson Martin Pearson Chief Operating Officer Chief Risk Officer Eric is the Chief Operating Officer at As the the Chief Risk Officer and SANNE.
He is based in SANNE's Jersey interim Group Compliance Officer.
headquarters and oversees SANNEs Martin manages the Risk and global group services functions, Compliance functions accross the including IT, HR and Facilities.
indd 21 23 03 2018 16:24:10 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report Risk Management As a regulated provider of duciary and administration services, risk management is at the core of the Groups day-to-day activities.
Overview Risk assessment As a regulated provider of fiduciary and The Group has followed industry standards for risk The Group reviews and monitors risk exposures administration services, risk management is at management governance and adopted the three closely, considering the potential impact and the core of the Groups day-to-day activities.
lines of defence framework, namely First Line risk any management actions required to mitigate It recognises that uncertain events risks can management, Second Line risk assurance, and the impact of emerging issues and potential occur which may have an adverse effect upon Internal Audit.
The Group Risk Register is the the achievement of these strategic objectives.
principal tool for monitoring risks which are The First Line, owned by the Chief Commercial Nonetheless the Group recognises it must classified in a strict hierarchy see table on the Officer CCO and the Chief Operating Officer be willing to take risks, in a considered and next page.
The highest level Level 1 identifies COO, is responsible for the risk and control controlled manner, if its strategic objectives are five risk categories: Business Model & Strategy, environment across all divisions, functions and to be accomplished.
This section of the report Operational, People, Regulatory and Financial.
The jurisdictions of the Group.
explains the objectives, responsibility and recent next level Level 2 contains 27 risk categories and improvements to the risk management approach, the final level Level 3 carries the detailed risks The Second Line, owned by the Chief Risk Officer which is designed to identify, assess and manage themselves which are captured and maintained CRO and Group Compliance Officer GCO, is these risks.
responsible for challenging the First Line in its management of risk and for providing assurance Each Level 3 risk is rated by assessing the Objectives of risk to the Risk Committee on the effectiveness of the likelihood of its occurrence over the next three risk and control environment.
management years and the associated impact.
A scoring of 1 to 4 is given to each risk which is then used in The prime objectives of risk management in the The Head of Internal Audit is responsible conjunction with an assessment of the internal Group are to ensure that there is: for providing independent assurance on the control environment or other mitigations to derive effectiveness of the Groups governance, risk A strong risk awareness culture, with a strong a residual risk score.
management and the control environment.
tone from the top, so that the Group is able to identify, assess and manage the key risks Notwithstanding the above framework, all Risk appetite to the business and, by doing so, support employees have responsibility for quality control In determining its risk appetite, the Group has the execution of business strategy: and general risk management activities, including defined the levels of risk it is willing to take in the the need to understand and adhere to policies clearly defined risk responsibilities promoting pursuit of its strategic objectives.
appropriate risk-taking behaviour: This has been articulated as a Risk Appetite Improvements to the risk an appropriate balance between cost of Statement with appetite set for each of the Level control and risk management, whilst also 2 categories within the Group Risk Register.
For management approach operating within the defined risk appetite: each Level 2 risk category, the risk appetite is During 2017 Sanne launched a programme to and compared against the associated residual risk to further strengthen the three lines of defence identify areas of focus.
a suitable basis upon which the Board can governance model, including the Compliance reach its conclusions on the effectiveness framework.
This project was instigated following Principal risks of the Groups risk management and a period of rapid organic and inorganic growth, The risks from the Group Risk Register are internal controls.
with a recognition of the benefits that would be discussed, debated and challenged, firstly by obtained from a period of consolidation for the senior management and Executive Directors, Responsibility Groups governance and the control framework.
and then by the Risk Committee, with a view to This project will continue in 2018 and seeks to The Board has overall accountability for ensuring presenting the key risks to the Board.
The Board achieve the following outcomes: any risks that could impact the success of has agreed that the top risks will be presented in delivering the Groups long-term strategic Harmonising standards across business lines the Annual Report and Accounts as the Principal objectives are effectively managed.
The Board and geographies: Risks.
has delegated oversight of the risk and control investment in risk and compliance capability environment to the Risk Committee.
Assessment of principal risks across the three lines of defence, expanding The Board decided to split the Audit and Risk Using the described approach, the Board is able control assurance activities: and Committee into two Committees.
The Risk to confirm that they have carried out a robust enhanced reporting of qualitative and Committee now consists of three independent assessment of the principal risks facing the Group quantitative metrics.
Non-executive Directors NEDs and the Chairman including those that would threaten its business and is responsible for recommending the risk model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
appetite to the Board and for seeking sufficient Included on page 56 is the viability statement, assurance that the risk and control environment is which has been prepared with the assessment of operating effectively throughout the Group.
these principal risks in mind.
com Strategic Report Level 1 Risk Category Level 2 Risk Category Principal Risk Acquisition Yes Business Competitor Yes Model & Strategy Strategic Yes Governance Structures Client Concentration Risk Management Vicarious Business Change Yes Operational Data Security Yes Process Yes Business Continuity Counterparty Insurance Legal Outsourcing Physical Assets Technology Staff Resource Yes People Staff Conduct Political Regulatory Change Yes Regulatory Regulatory Compliance Yes Data Protection Listing Rules Intangible Assets Yes Financial Foreign Exchange Yes Accounting Error Working Capital 23 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
indd 23 23 03 2018 16:24:10 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report Risk Management continued Risk Description Key Mitigants Business Model & Strategy Direction of change: During the period the Group has seen steady progress with the integration of more recent acquisitions.
Recognising that SANNE has experienced a number of years of strong growth, both organically and inorganically, a number of projects including strengthening the three lines of defence as mentioned on page 22 were initiated to enhance the business model and build stronger foundations for future sustainable growth.
Acquisition Risk Robust due diligence process including 3rd party assessments The risk that inadequate due diligence of future acquisitions made by top accounting and law firms, prior to recommendations to by the Group give rise to unidentified liabilities or unintended the Board consequences and or acquisitions made by the Group are poorly Governance and challenge from independent Non-executive integrated, due to inadequate planning, lack of management Directors oversight or lack of resources.
Integration strategy in place prior to acquisition Integration Committees set up to manage integration processes Competitor Risk Divisional responsibility for identifying Failure to innovate and invest in appropriate systems increases forthcoming requirements in respect of digital business the risk that we fall behind key competitors and do not meet the systems investment expectations of clients and other stakeholders.
COO responsible for prioritising and monitoring investment in Digital developments are rapidly evolving meaning that we must digital business systems keep pace with the expectations of clients, especially with our Board oversight of current and planned digital strategic objective of delivering services to institutional clients.
business systems Strategic Risk Strategy regularly reviewed and challenged by Executive The risk that the business model responds inadequately to changing Committee and Board respectively market conditions or that strategic objectives are incorrectly Strategy drives annual business planning process and set, such that sustainable growth, market share or profitability is performance based targets affected.
Operations Committee ensures matters escalated are aligned This is particularly the case due to ongoing changes within the with strategy and risk appetite outsourced administration industry, whereby asset classes are evolving and new asset classes are being created 24 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
com Strategic Report Risk Description Key Mitigants Operational Direction of change: Continued acquisitions and strong growth in customer numbers and staffing has led to increases in inherent operational risk exposures for the Group, as anticipated in the 2016 Annual Report.
These risks have been mitigated accordingly, and a number of operational projects have been instigated to further strengthen the control environment in this respect.
Business Change Risk Documented business plans and IT strategy to mitigate risk The risk that the planning and implementation of change is Monitoring adherence to IT and non IT business plans and ineffective or fails to deliver desired outcomes or results in assurance on its delivery resources being stretched to the detriment of business as usual activities.
Over-arching governance of business critical change programmes provided by the Executive Committee and the Board Data Security Risk Defined IT security procedures The risk of a security breach including cyber-attacks leading to loss Penetration testing of confidentiality, integrity and or availability of data.
System access controls and encryption Physical security at all locations Training and employee awareness Review of selected data security procedures and controls as part of the annual ISAE 3402 Type II report Process Risk Continual development of procedures and controls with The risk that general policies, procedures and processes are ongoing training ineffective and or inefficient leading to operational losses, poor Allocated responsibility for continual maintenance and client service and employee frustration.
enhancement of policies and procedures Three lines of defence assurance and controls testing People Direction of change: In key jurisdictions in which the Group operates, the fund and corporate administration employment market is increasingly competitive, which, along with the Groups continuing organic growth, leads to difficulties in attracting and retaining the best resources.
A centres of excellence initiative has commenced to centralise relevant processes in certain jurisdictions, which will help to mitigate this risk over the medium term.
The continued growth of the Group has also provided the opportunity to introduce new members into the senior leadership team.
Staff Resourcing Risk Recruitment strategy to bolster teams, succession planning in Failure to attract, retain, develop and motivate the best people with place and employee value proposition the right capabilities across all levels and jurisdictions.
Established Remuneration Committee for Executive Directors Set objectives over talent management and people development Regular remuneration benchmarking Established ACCA, ICAEW and ICSA training schemes Management and monitoring of capacity and work loads.
indd 25 23 03 2018 16:24:11 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report Risk Management continued Risk Description Key Mitigants Regulatory Direction of change: The Group remains exposed to the political regulatory risks arising from Brexit and will continue to monitor the political negotiations as they progress, along with the possible implications arising.
Regulatory Compliance risk is in part correlated to business model, operational and staff risk, recognising that as the Group becomes larger and more diverse, the risk of an omission or error increases leading to possible regulatory sanction.
This increasing risk is being mitigated by various projects, in particular the strengthening of the three lines of defence model.
Political Regulatory Change Risk Brexit committee in place to consider specific risks arising The risk that SANNEs business model is materially impacted by Product jurisdictional diversification strategy reduces impact legal, political or regulatory changes which restrict access to markets Jurisdictional oversight by Compliance or services.
Horizon scanning by the Second Line Committee for potential changes Strategy to ensure the business model remains flexible and responsive to change and is regularly reviewed Active dialogue with regulators, governmental and industry bodies Regulatory Licence Compliance Risk Promoting a strong risk and compliance culture across all staff The risk that Sanne is exposed to regulatory sanction and Continued strengthening of the three lines of defence subsequent reputational damage given a failure to follow regulatory Appropriate compliance resources in each jurisdiction reporting laws, orders and codes of practice requirements.
to the Group Compliance Officer Defined and updated regulatory policies and procedures Compliance Monitoring programme Financial Direction of change: Given a significant number of acquisitions made by the Group in the last two years, there are significant intangible assets including goodwill on the balance sheet and the Group is further exposed to volatility arising from movements in currency exchange rates.
Intangible Asset Risk Robust due diligence process including 3rd party assessments by The risk that events arise, foreseen or unforeseen, which result in an Top 4 accountancy firms, prior to acquisitions being completed impairment of the intangible assets, including goodwill, held on the Regular impairment testing as per accounting rules balance sheet.
Ongoing management and monitoring against performance assumptions Foreign Exchange Risk Cash management procedures are in place to reduce the impact The risk that the Groups earnings are volatile as a result of of foreign exchange gains and losses through profit and loss as movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Groups a result of short-term fluctuations in foreign currency exchange exposure comes primarily from the Groups operating activities rates outside of its reporting currency.
Matching of cash flows where possible Permanent changes to foreign currency exchange rates will have an impact on the future earnings of the Group and whilst this is not mitigated further it is monitored and reported 26 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
com Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Our communities Anti-bribery and corruption Our colleagues share in our success We believe in helping and influencing the There is a zero tolerance approach to bribery and communities where we operate.
SANNE has a group anti-corruption Sharing our success is something we value highly.
continued to engage with the communities in policy in place as part of our compliance We have implemented a number of specific which we have offices.
initiatives that help to reward and recognise personal contribution, to deepen engagement Our CSR strategy is orientated around three core Governance and risk with the Company and brand.
themes: management of corporate Employee survey 2017 Supporting initiatives that help to benefit and responsibility improve the lives of children: The results of our 2017 employee engagement We remain committed to corporate responsibility Supporting initiatives that help in the fight survey helped us focus our attention to matters at all levels in our business.
As part of our business against poverty: and that our people have mentioned.
In particular and our culture we consider our stakeholders, we were asked to increase our level of internal Supporting initiatives that give people a clients and the communities where we operate.
As a result, there has been a better education and start in life.
We consider that our strategy provides our people focus on more communications with staff via our an opportunity to grow and develop their careers.
Intranet, a dedicated communications channel, These themes were agreed by staff across the We are looking to build a sustainable long-term and series of Town Hall meetings held in all our SANNE business following a dedicated staff survey.
Feedback on the results of the survey have been presented to staff.
Modern slavery Our people want to be engaged with their communities and for us to be a socially SANNE is committed to preventing modern responsible business.
We are proud that our staff slavery and human trafficking.
We have an annual want to be involved in activities and to support statement on our website at www.
our communities and have a positive impact on com and we will review that approach annually the environment.
As our stakeholders cover a and put in additional safeguards with our suppliers wide range of interests and whilst considering our to reduce this risk.
social responsibility, we are focusing on how we can progress and fulfil more of our environmental, social and governance responsibilities.
indd 27 23 03 2018 16:24:11 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 New offices for our global Strategic Report headquarters in Jersey Our new offices in Jersey are being designed and built using the BREEAM world recognised environmental assessment guide, which sets the sustainable standard for the material used and environment control for the building.
New LED lighting will save energy and give better brightness to the space the lighting control system There will be over 500 LED light fittings Lights will automatically switch off in areas when not occupied Full height glazing on all of our floors More natural light to all areas Efficient drinking water taps, saving on use of bottled water Bicycle parking spaces are located in the basement along with facilities Break-out space for staff Pictured: Right: rt ro o or r o rtr Protecting our environment We have implemented the following initiatives to protect and respect our environment: Phasing out bottled water in our Jersey offices and elsewhere: PIR lighting and use of LED lights in our Jersey office: Recycling, for example plastics and paper etc.
Procurement of new furniture will be environmentally friendly meeting criteria on production and transportation.
SANNE North America Our New York office supported a charity event, Music Matters, to raise funds for the Caron Treatment Centres.
In 2017 the event took place at The Cutting Room in NYC and raised US$30,000.
Carons mission is to transform lives impacted by addiction and substance use through proven, SANNE in Jersey comprehensive and personalised healthcare solutions.
Staff raise money for charities that directly align to our core themes.
Examples of activities undertaken include: Raising money for Save the Children by supporting the National Christmas Jumper Day: and Supporting local charities by participating in a corporate dragon boat racing event.
Pictured: Above: o t ro t t ro ot r r o or rt r 28 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
com Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility CSR continued Above: oo ot t What SANNE has committed Local communities to provide: Throughout 2017, SANNEs people have actively engaged in their local communities.
Examples in Specialised education programmes the year of initiatives undertaken are included tailored for children from underprivileged below.
communities: Counselling with the childrens parents and SANNE in Mauritius family members: Driven by the staffs desire to give back to the local Mauritian community, SANNEs Mauritius business Daily healthy breakfasts and lunches: founders previously known as IFS and staff have Funding for extracurricular activities and always had a strong sense of community.
The core school outings: and of all Mauritian CSR activities has been purposely centred on Giving Back, which closely aligns to Medical well-being checks SANNEs core themes of supporting education and the relief of poverty.
Following 13 months of planning, negotiations and construction, SANNE's charity, IFS Community Care Foundation, successfully opened its latest CSR initiative, SanAngels - Centre dEveil.
The centre accommodates 25 children, irrespective of race, gender, language, or religion.
The school also hosts a state of the art multi-purpose training centre which will be used for facilitating empowerment, entrepreneurship and skills development programmes for the families of the children at Centre dEveil and the wider BeauBassin community.
The land on which the school was built was donated by IFS Founder Couldip Basanta Lala to IFS Community Care Foundation, which makes the building available to the school and covers reasonable running expenses.
