34 PRINCIPAL RISKS There are a number of risks that could have a material impact on the Groups future performance.
To manage these risks, the Group conducts a continuous risk management process, of risk identication, assessment and management.
Our approach to risk management is outlined A Group Risk Register is documented, and below, along with how we seek to manage remains a central repository for management them and the principal risks and uncertainties and the Directors to review and oversee considered to have a potential impact on the risk issues effectively.
This register is Groups long-term financial performance.
reviewed periodically by the Groups senior executive management team, ahead of it How are risks to the business being submitted to the Audit Committee for identied?
The Board has overall accountability for In some instances, key risks will be escalated ensuring that risk is effectively managed to the Board for final decision, sometimes with across the Group and, on behalf of the Board, a recommendation from the Audit Committee.
the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process.
Refer to the The table opposite is an extract of the Audit Committee Report on pages 51 to 55 of Group Risk Register, illustrating our this Annual Report for further insight into the approach to evaluating risk responsibilities of the Audit Committee.
How are these risks managed?
Each business unit is responsible for To ensure our risk management process identifying, assessing and managing the risks drives continuous improvement across in their respective area.
The Internal Audit the business, the Internal Audit function Executive meets with senior and executive monitors the ongoing status and progress of management, meet during the year, in key action plans against each risk regularly.
order to: In addition, risk appetite and mitigation matters remain a key consideration in all i identify new risks: strategic decision-making by senior executive ii monitor the development of each risk management and the Board.
faced by the Group over time namely whether any identied risk has increased, Risk management process: decreased or become obsolete : iii evaluate the likelihood of each risk materialising and the impact it would have BOARD OF on the Group: and DIRECTORS iv determine an appropriate course of action to mitigate or manage the identied risk.
How are risks to the business measured?
As part of the risk management process, risks identied are measured against a dened set of criteria, in particular: BUSINESS UNIT i The associated potential clean EBITDA impact to the Group should the risk REVIEW materialise.
The impact is measured on a scale, where 1 is low, with limited damage to a minor stakeholder, and 4 being severe, which may have a substantial impact on the Groups clean EBITDA or cause significant reputational damage, affecting many key stakeholders.
SENIOR EXECUTIVE ii The likelihood of the risk materialising.
The extent to which an event is likely to MANAGEMENT occur is scored from 1-4, 1 being remote i. e. very unlikely to occur and 4 being probable i. e. where it has the potential to occur or has already happened.
The product of both scores gives rise to the risk score that determines the relative importance of the individual risk.
AUDIT COMMITTEE GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 PRINCIPAL RISKS 35 Group risk register extract: Illustrating our approach to evaluating risk VIABILITY STATEMENT RISK NO 8 In accordance with the obligations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the AREA BUSINESS SEGMENT Technology Board of GVC is required to provide its assessment within the Annual Report and MOVEMENT Decreased Accounts of the viability of the Group over RISK TITLE Platform migration an appropriate period of time.
Accordingly, the Directors have assessed the viability RISK CATEGORY Technology of the Group over a three year-period to RISK DESCRIPTION The customer and label migration from MM1 December 2020, taking account of the tothe BPTY platform is not effective Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks as outlined in POTENTIAL IMPACT 1.
Loss of revenues this section of the Annual Report.
Ineffective transfer of customer data A three-year period was deemed balances, transactional history, appropriate for this assessment as it accountstatus best reects the strategic planning and EXISTING CONTROLS ACTION TAKEN 1.
Detailed migration plans in place budgeting process required for the implementation of the Groups strategy.
Phased migration via territories and labels 3.
Continuous management oversight, regular The Board has completed a thorough Board updates review of threats with the potential to compromise the Groups business model, 4.
Commercial impact of migrations future performance, solvency, liquidity monitoreddaily andits resilience to those risks.
RISK SCORE Key factors the Board considered within Impact 2 this review included: Completion of the synergies and Likelihood 2 integration ofthe bwin.
party business Residual Risk Score 4 acquired in February 2016 including the migration of customers on to a single PREVIOUS RISK SCORE technology platform: Impact 4 The secured nature of the Groups Likelihood 3 long-term debt facility comprising a 300m term loan anda 70m Residual Risk Score 12 revolvingcredit facility: RISK ACTION TREAT The diverse nature of the Groups revenue base across both ACTION REQUIRED 1.
Continue to monitor completed migrations geographicalmarkets and online and learn from each iteration gamingproduct segments: and 2.
One remaining territory remains to be migrated, to complete January 2018 The Groups ability to adapt to regulatorychange in regard to online DATE March 2018 gaming and increase in taxation that mayresult from suchchange.
RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP MEMBER COO Having completed this review, the Board has full confidence that the Company will be able to meet its liabilities over the three-year period to December 2020.
36 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED WHAT ARE OUR RISKS?
The principal risks and uncertainties, which are considered to have amaterial impact on the Groups long-term performance andachievement ofstrategy, are set out below.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive and extensive analysis of allrisks which may affect the Group.
Additional risks and uncertainties notpresently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
RISK1: RISK2: RISK3: DATA BREACH AND DISASTER RECOVERY AND IMPACT CYBERSECURITY BUSINESS CONTINUITY OF BREXIT Risk Category: Risk Category: Risk Category: Technology Technology Commercial Legal and Regulatory Commercial Legal and Regulatory Reputational Reputational Financial Why we need to manage this Why we need to manage this Why we need to manage this A large customer, corporate or employee data breach, A natural or man-made event may affect the The UKs departure from the EU as a consequence of from either an internal or an external cause, could continuity of operations of a business or location, the Brexit referendum may reduce the Groups ability result in formal investigation and material sanction due undermining player confidence.
to operate in certain EU markets.
to breach of EU General Data Protection Regulations.
How we manage and mitigate the risk How we manage and mitigate the risk How we manage and mitigate the risk The Group dedicates significant resources to ensure We regularly review our Business Continuity Plans The Groups Brexit task force, led by the Group Head security arrangements and systems are up-to-date and our IT Disaster Recovery capability, as part of the of Legal, Compliance and Secretariat alongside tocope with emerging threats.
members of senior executive management, continues to monitor the situation.
The Groups Technology Governance team Service level agreements are in place with third continuously assesses the risks and controls around parties where applicable, have failover solutions The purpose of the task force is to closely monitor security and IT operations alongside the Internal available and seek to limit single points of failure.
the situation, propose various contingency plans Auditfunction.
and, subject to Board approval where appropriate, execute them as the UK navigates through the EU GVC is committed to maintain certication under the exit process, with minimal business interruption and ISO 27001:2013 Information Management Security customer impact.
System standard it holds, and has expanded its scope across more Group locations during the year.
The Group established a GDPR steering committee, led by the Group Head of Compliance, Legal & Company Secretariat to work towards ensuring compliance with the new EU-wide General Data Protection Regulation, which comes into force in 2018.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 37 Risk Increased Risk Decreased Risk Static Statement of Directors RISK4: RISK5: Responsibilities The responsibility statement below has COMPLIANCE WITH IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL been prepared in connection with the APPLICABLE GAMING OR OTHER Companys Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Certain parts thereof are GAMING LAWS INDIRECTTAXES not included within this announcement.
Risk Category: Risk Category: We confirm to the best of our knowledge: Commercial Commercial The Group and Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with Reputational Legal and Regulatory IFRS as adopted by the European Union, Legal and Regulatory Financial give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Financial Group and Company: and The business review, which is incorporated Why we need to manage this Why we need to manage this into the Directors Report, includes a fair To maximise revenue streams from markets into Revenues earned from customers located in a review of the development and performance which the Group makes a gaming offering whilst particular jurisdiction may give rise to further taxes in of the business and the position of the avoiding regulatory sanction, particularly as there that jurisdiction.
If such taxes are levied, either on the are circumstances where the online gaming laws in basis of existing law or the current practice of any tax Group and Company, together with a the jurisdiction in which the Group provides licensed authority, or by reason of a change in law or practice, description of the principal risks and gaming services and the gaming is transacted conict then this may have a material adverse effect on the uncertainties they face.
with the laws of the territory in which some of the amount of tax payable by the Group.
The Directors of GVC Holdings PLC are listed Further taxes may include corporate income tax, in the Groups Annual Report and a list of value added tax VAT or other indirect taxes.
How we manage and mitigate the risk current Directors is also maintained on the Group companies may be subject to VAT or similar GVC focuses on nationally regulated and taxed Company website www.
taxes on transactions, which have been treated as markets and holds more than 40 gaming licences exempt supplies of gambling, or on supplies, which and 74% of the Groups revenues come from these By order of the Board have been exported outside the scope of VAT.
The Group maintains its own experienced compliance and licensing function.
Where Group companies have treated supplies of gambling as exempt based on exemptions available to ROBERT HOSKIN The Group is committed to meeting its licence comparable supplies in the place where the customer obligations and monitors its compliance with COMPANY SECRETARY is located, the right to exemption may be restricted regulatory requirements by performing reviews 8 March 2018 if the supplies do not have similar characteristics or in areas across licences, such as Anti-Money meet the same needs as other exempt gambling from Laundering policies and controls, with the results the customers point of view.
In such circumstances, reported to the Audit Committee.
the potential taxable amount is uncertain.
The Group also submits the licensed entities to The multi-location of the Group may lead to a series of external audits by regulators, third higher corporate income tax from transfer party auditors and industry specialists to ensure pricing adjustments.
that policies and procedures are being followed as intended.
How we manage and mitigate the risk By owning its own gaming technology, the Group is The Boards policy is that Group companies able to adapt its offerings quickly to be compliant with operate only where they are incorporated, domiciled new or amended licensing requirements.
The Boards policy is to manage transfer-pricing risk by requiring that all intra-group The Group closely monitors regulatory developments, transactions are documented and take place on assesses the impact on the Groups offering and an arms length basis unless local legislation or takes the necessary action where appropriate.
other business conditions make an arms length Management take external advice, which basis impossible or impractical.
The Group aims incorporates risk evaluation of individual territories.
to comply with all tax regulations in all countries in It also engages in promoting licensing solutions that which it operates and monitors and responds to provide commercially viable opportunities for online developments in tax law and practice.
This risk is diminishing as countries introduce their own licensing regimes specically During the year, the Board reviewed the Groups addressing online gaming.
Unless offering into a tax strategy and considered whether it was aligned market via a local licence, the Group provides its with the Groups commercial strategy, approach offer via its Gibraltar and or Malta gaming licences to corporate governance, attitude to risk and the on a point of supply basis and, in addition, where Groups business models.
that jurisdiction is an EU member state it relies on The Board reviewed and adopted a UK Tax statement the EU principle freedoms of establishment and to available on: http: www.
pdf and a new Anti-Tax Evasion Weekly compliance reports are circulated to senior Policy in line with the changing tax environment.
and operational management and to the Internal Owing to the dynamic nature of the online gaming Audit function, with regulatory update reports sector and the Groups business in particular, made to the Board and Audit Committee at each the Board has decided to review the Groups tax scheduled meeting.
