How we're doing Strategic report to share owners Assessing and managing our risks Risk management and internal control and external advisors where appropriate.
Group companies We recognise that the success of the strategic objectives of are also required to follow the Data Code of Conduct and the Group discussed in this report depends to a significant apply the Supplier Code of Conduct.
extent on understanding and responding to the risks that During 2017, we launched a sustainability selfthe Group faces.
The Board, with support from the Audit assessment questionnaire to many of the WPP offices Committee, has overall responsibility for the system of to help us identify gaps in implementation focusing on internal control and risk management in the Group.
It has governance, employment practices, environment and supply reviewed the design and effectiveness of the system during chain.
The Company will use the results of the assessment the year and up to the date of this report and carried out a to prioritise companies for further engagement including robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
The system of controls described below is designed to The Group has an independently operated helpline, Right manage or mitigate, but may not eliminate, the risks of to Speak, to enable our people and third parties to report failure to achieve WPPs strategic objectives and is not an issues that they feel unable to raise locally, and anonymously, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Through 106 calls to this helpline, a number of issues have been raised during 2017, all of which have Control, culture and anti-bribery been followed through and investigated where appropriate and corruption and reported to the Audit Committee.
The Compensation The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, Committee continues to review how the Groups ethics and behaviour and the culture embedded within performance rewards support the risk management and the Group are all vital to the maintenance of the Groups internal control systems.
Clawback provisions were adopted system of internal control which is maintained and reviewed in 2016 and underline the principles of the Code of Conduct.
in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and FRC guidance on risk management and internal control.
Risk assessment The Code of Business Conduct, which is regularly The Group uses a three lines of defence model in relation reviewed by the Board and was updated in 2016, sets out to risk management.
the principal obligations of all employees.
Senior executives First, each operating company undertakes monthly throughout the Group are required to sign this Code each and quarterly procedures and day-to-day management year and all employees are required on joining the Group, activities to review their operations and business risks, and at regular intervals, to complete the WPP How We supported by Group policies, training and guidance on Behave, Anti-Bribery & Corruption and Privacy & Data required internal controls over financial reporting and Security Awareness training modules, which embed all of monitoring controls and reviews within their network.
the principles of the Code in addition to operating company Secondly, the operating network reviews are formally training programs.
The Code is supplemented by the WPP communicated to the Executive Directors and senior Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy, which prohibits any parent company executives in monthly reports and form of bribery across the Group, the Advisor Payment quarterly review meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
Policy which restricts the use of advisors and details the At each Board meeting, the Executive Directors present due diligence that must be undertaken in the limited cases a Brand Check review of each of the business operations, where advisors may be used, the gifts and entertainment including an assessment of the risks in each business, policy which sets limits on values that may be given or providing feedback on the business risks and details received and circumstances which are supported in each of any change in the risk profile since the last Board Group company by a gift register.
In addition, the Code meeting.
The Brand Check includes the possibility of of Conduct for suppliers replicates these obligations in winning or losing major business, succession and the our supply chain.
The online WPP Policy Book, which is addition or loss of a key executive: introduction of updated with control bulletins, includes required practices new legislation in an important market: sustainability, in many operational, tax, legal and human resource areas.
including risks relating to marketing ethics, privacy, Breaches or alleged breaches of the Code are investigated diversity and employment: political instability and by the Director of Internal Audit, the Group Chief Counsel changes in accounting or corporate governance practice.
24 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Thirdly, internal audit at the Company, with Audit At each year-end, all operating companies supply their Committee oversight and external resource as required, full-year financial results with such additional information provides an independent review of risk management and as is appropriate.
This information is consolidated to internal control via internal audits and management of allow the Group to present the necessary disclosures for the testing program for SOX.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and issued by the IASB.
Control activities and monitoring The Disclosure Committee gives further assurance that Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set publicly-released information is free from material omission out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal or misstatement.
control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
The application of these policies and procedures is monitored within the Principal risks and uncertainties individual businesses and by the Director of Internal The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the Audit, compliance functions centrally and at the operating principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group companies and the Group Chief Counsel and heads as at 31 December 2017 and up to the date of this report of legal at the operating companies.
and which are described in the table on the following pages.
Operating companies are required to maintain and These risks relate to the Group and the industry in which update documentation of their internal controls and we operate and the strategic decisions taken by the Board.
This documentation incorporates an analysis A risk dashboard and map are discussed regularly by of business risks, detailed control activities and monitoring, the Audit Committee and bi-annually by the Board.
together with IT and financial controls and controls over This process is currently being reviewed by an external security of data and the provision of timely and reliable consultancy to ensure it is aligned with best practice information to management.
The internal audit department was responsible for reviews and testing of the documentation and the relevant controls for a majority of the Group during 2017, the results of which were reported to the Audit Committee.
Financial reporting Each operating company annually updates a three-year strategic plan, which incorporates financial objectives.
These are reviewed by the parent companys management and are agreed with the chief executive of the relevant operating company.
The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the development of operating company budgets, which build up the Groups budget.
During the final quarter of each financial year, operating companies prepare detailed budgets for the following year for review by the parent company.
The Groups budget is reviewed by the Board before being adopted formally.
Operating company results are reported monthly and are reviewed locally, regionally and globally by the business groups and by Group management on a consolidated basis and ultimately by the Board.
The results are compared to budget and the previous year, with full-year forecasts prepared and updated quarterly throughout the year.
25 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we're doing Strategic report to share owners Assessing and managing our risks How it is managed and reflected Principal risks Potential impact in our strategic priorities Clients The Group competes for clients in a The competitive landscape in our industry As explained in the strategic report, the Group highly-competitive and evolving industry is constantly evolving.
Competitors include is focused on simplifying its operating structure, which requires agency groups to offer multinational advertising and marketing increased client co-ordination across the Group seamlessly integrated services.
Client loss communication groups, regional and national and greater authority for Global Client Teams to competitors or as a consequence of marketing services companies, database and Country and Regional Managers: the client consolidation or a reduction in marketing and modelling companies, development of key cross-Group capabilities marketing budgets due to economic telemarketers, information and measurement, in digital marketing, production, ecommerce conditions may have a material adverse social media and professional services and shopper marketing.
effect on the Groups market share and its and advisory firms and consulting To continue to improve the creative capability business, revenues, results of operations, internet companies.
and reputation of the Groups businesses and financial condition or prospects.
Client contracts can generally be terminated embed an ethical culture that attracts and on 90days notice or are on an assignment retains talent and clients.
basis and clients put their business up for The development and implementation of competitive review from time to time.
The senior incentives to align more closely with ability to attract new clients and to retain or Group performance.
increase the amount of work from existing clients may be impacted by a failure by the Differentiation from competitors through Group to react quickly enough to changes in talent and creativity and by the application the market and to evolve its organisational of technology, integration of data investment structure and by loss of reputation and may management and investment in content.
be limited by clients policies on conflicts Brand Check at every Board meeting to of interest.
identify the potential risk of client loss.
The global economy continues to be volatile with uncertainties such as those caused by Brexit in the UK and Europe and technological disruption from disintermediators in certain sectors.
In the past clients have responded to weak economic and financial conditions by reducing their marketing budgets which are easier to reduce in the short term than their other operating expenses.
The risk of client loss or reduction in marketing budgets has increased.
The Group receives a significant portion A relatively small number of clients Global Client Leaders, horizontality and of its revenues from a limited number of contribute a significant percentage of the the Team model seeks to ensure the Group large clients and the net loss of one or Groups consolidated revenues.
The Groups maintains partnership relationship with major more of these clients could have a material 10 largest clients accounted for 14.9% of clients.
Operating companies seek to establish adverse effect on the Groups prospects, revenues in the year ended 31 December reputations, talent and technical capability in business, financial condition and results 2017.
Clients generally are able to reduce the industry and an ethical and diverse culture of operations.
advertising and marketing spend, terminate that attract and retain clients and key talent.
contracts, or cancel projects on short notice.
Increase flexibility in the cost structure The loss of one or more of the Groups including incentives, consultants and largest clients, if not replaced by new client freelancers.
accounts or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect Brand Check at every Board meeting and the Groups financial condition.
regular dialogue between Executive Directors of the Company and directors of the Groups largest clients.
26 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How it is managed and reflected Principal risks Potential impact in our strategic priorities Cyber and data security The Group is subject to strict data The Group may be subject to investigative or The Group assists the operating companies protection and privacy legislation in the enforcement action or legal claims or incur in developing principles on privacy and data jurisdictions in which it operates and relies fines, damages, or costs and client loss if the protection and compliance with local laws.
extensively on information technology Group fails to adequately protect data or The Group has implemented extensive training systems.
The Group stores, transmits and observe privacy legislation in every instance.
ahead of GDPR implementation in 2018 relies on critical and sensitive data such A system breakdown or intrusion could have and the roll out of a GDPR toolkit to assist as strategic plans, personally identifiable a material adverse effect on the Groups the operating companies to prepare for information and trade secrets.
Security of business, revenues, results of operations, implementation.
A Chief Privacy Officer this type of data is exposed to escalating financial condition or prospects.
has been appointed at the Company and external threats that are increasing Data Protection Officers are in place at a in sophistication as well as internal number of Group companies.
Our people are required to take Privacy & Data Existing and new data protection laws, in Security Awareness training and understand particular the GDPR and E-privacy regulation the WPP Data Code of Conduct and WPP in the EU concerning user privacy, use of policies on data privacy and security.
personal information, consent and online The WPP Data Health Checker survey is tracking may restrict some of the Groups performed annually to understand the activities and increase costs.
scale and breadth of data collected by WPP The Group is carrying out an IT agencies, so the level of risk associated with Transformation project and is reliant this can be assessed.
on third parties for the performance The IT Transformation project will enhance the of a significant portion of its worldwide Groups data security.
In addition, the Group information technology and operations has established a global internal IT company functions.
A failure to provide these responsible for providing core IT shared functions could have an adverse effect services to all Group companies and manage on the Groups business.
During the external technology providers.
transformation, the Group is still reliant on legacy systems which could restrict the Groups ability to change rapidly.
Financial The Group is subject to credit risk The Group is generally paid in arrears for Evaluating and monitoring clients ongoing through the default of a client or its services.
Invoices are typically payable creditworthiness and in some cases requiring other counterparty.
credit insurance or payments in advance.
The Group commits to media and production The Groups treasury position is a recurring purchases on behalf of some of its clients as agenda item for the Audit Committee and principal or agent depending on the client the Board.
If a client is unable The Group is cash generative and working to pay sums due, media and production capital management remains a key focus companies may look to the Group to pay for the Board.
such amounts to which it committed on behalf of those clients.
Key: Increased risk No change from last year Reduced risk 27 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we're doing Strategic report to share owners Assessing and managing our risks How it is managed and reflected Principal risks Potential impact in our strategic priorities Operational The Groups performance could be Failure to ensure that trading activities are The principles of adherence to the terms of adversely impacted if it failed to ensure compliant with client obligations where client contracts are embedded through the adequate internal control procedures relevant could adversely impact client networks and reinforced by audits at a WPP are in place in relation to the Groups relationships and business volumes.
Regular monitoring of KPIs for trading are undertaken to identify trends and issues.
An authorisation matrix on inventory trading is agreed with the Company and the Audit Committee.
People and succession The Groups performance could be The Group is highly dependent on the The Groups incentive plans are structured adversely affected if it does not react talent, creative abilities and technical to provide retention value, for example by quickly enough to changes in its market skills of our personnel as well as their paying part of annual incentives in shares and fails to attract, develop and retain relationships with clients.
The Group that vest two years after grant date.
key creative, commercial and management is vulnerable to the loss of personnel The Group is working across the businesses to talent at the parent and operating to competitors and clients leading embed horizontality and is investing in training companies, including but not limited to disruption to the business.
and development to retain and attract talented to long-serving members of the people.
The investment in colocated properties management team.
is increasing the co-operation across our companies and provides extremely attractive and motivating working environments.
Succession planning for the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and key executives of the Company is undertaken by the Board and Nomination and Governance Committee on a regular basis and a pool of potential internal and external candidates identified in emergency and planned scenarios.
Compensation Committee oversight for the Groups incentive plans and compensation.
Key: Increased risk No change from last year Reduced risk 28 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How it is managed and reflected Principal risks Potential impact in our strategic priorities Regulatory, sanctions, anti-trust and taxation The Group may be subject to regulations Changes in local or international tax rules, The Group actively monitors any proposed restricting its activities or effecting for example prompted by the OECDs Base regulatory or statutory changes and consults changes in taxation.
Erosion and Profit Shifting project a global with government agencies and regulatory initiative to improve the fairness and integrity bodies where possible on such proposed of tax systems, changes arising from the changes.
application of existing rules, or new challenges Annual briefings to the Audit Committee by tax or competition authorities, for example, of significant changes in tax laws and their the European Commissions State Aid application and regular briefings to the investigation into the UK CFC rules, may Executive Directors.
The Group engages expose the Group to significant additional tax advisors and legal counsel to obtain opinions liabilities or impact the carrying value of our on tax legislation and principles.
deferred tax assets, which would affect the future tax charge.
The Group is subject to strict antiThe Group operates in a number of markets Online and in-country ethics, anti-bribery, corruption, anti-bribery and anti-trust where the corruption risk has been identified corruption and anti-trust training on a legislation and enforcement in the as high by groups such as Transparency Group-wide basis to raise awareness and seek countries in which it operates.
Failure to comply or to create compliance with the WPP Code of Conduct a corporate environment opposed to and the Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy.
corruption or failing to instil business Confidential,  helpline practices that prevent corruption could for WPP staff to raise any concerns, which expose the Group and senior officers to are investigated and reported to the Audit civil and criminal sanctions.
Due diligence on acquisitions and on selecting and appointing suppliers and restrictions on the use of third party consultants in connection with any awards of client contracts.
Gift and hospitality register and approvals process.
The Group is subject to the laws of the Failure to comply with these laws could Online training on a Group-wide basis to raise US, the EU and other jurisdictions that expose the Group to civil and criminal awareness and seek compliance and updates impose sanctions and regulate the supply penalties including fines and the imposition to Group companies on any new sanctions.
of services to certain countries.
of economic sanctions against the Group Regular briefings to the Audit Committee and and reputational damage and withdrawal constant monitoring by the WPP legal team of banking facilities which could materially with assistance from external advisors of the impact the Groups results.
29 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we're doing Strategic report to share owners Assessing and managing our risks Our viability statement Going concern The directors are required to consider whether it is Assessment of prospects appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the An understanding of the Groups business model and basis that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
strategy is key to understanding its prospects and this As part of its normal business practice, the Group has been discussed in detail on pages 33 to 35. prepares annual and longer-term plans and in reviewing The Groups business model, diversification across this information and, in particular, the three-year plan marketing communication services sectors which operate and budget, the directors believe that the Company and in 112 countries worldwide and with a broad spectrum of the Group have adequate resources for the foreseeable clients and suppliers, provides resilience which is relevant future.
Therefore the Company and the Group continue to any consideration of prospects and viability.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the The directors assess the Groups prospects on a regular financial statements.
basis through the financial planning process which is detailed on page 87, the Brand Checks which take place Sustainability at WPP at each Board meeting, quarterly reviews of our businesses No business can be successful in todays world if it focuses by the executive team and ongoing reviews of the Groups purely on financial results or the next quarters figures.
profitability, cash flows and funding requirements.
The Every company needs to take the long-term view and to Board considers the longer-term risks and opportunities maximise the value it creates for its stakeholders from its for the Group discussed in the strategic report and the employees and share owners to its consumers, communities potential impact of economic volatility, technological and society at large.
The most successful businesses will disruption and regulation.
be those that help solve the great challenges of our age.
Within this, communications has a vital role to play Viability statement and is a powerful tool to bring about change on social The directors assessment of the Groups viability for and environmental issues.
the next three years has been made with reference to: At WPP were privileged to work with many pioneers the Groups current position and prospects: of sustainable business, helping them to create brands the short-term notice periods or assignment nature with purpose and to embed sustainability into products, of many of the client contracts: marketing and communications.
In doing so, we know the volatility of global economic conditions: that transparency and authenticity are critical to building the changing competitive landscape: and maintaining trust.
This is the advice we give our clients the long-term impact of technological disruption: and we apply it to our own business too.
We have been the need for simplification of the Group structure reporting on our sustainability performance since 2002, and integrated service offering to clients: and we set our first carbon target in 2006 and this year were the Companys ability to achieve the stated dividend further integrating sustainability into this report, enabling policy and cover interest payments on the Groups debt.
our share owners to gain a full picture of our performance.
This period has been chosen as it aligns with our three-year plan and budget.
Sensitivity analysis has been applied to reflect the potential impact of one or a combination of the principal risks on the Group and consequential contract breach, loss of reputation, client loss and inability to win new business and the impact of revenue loss.
Based on the results of this analysis the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
30 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Sustainability performance summary 2017 2016 2015 Value of client business supported by our 1 sustainability credentials 2.11bn 1.64bn 1.29bn Gender diversity % female employees 54% 54% 54% Gender diversity % female executive leaders 35% 34% 33% Investment in training 44.9m 45.1m 41.1m Carbon footprint tonnes of CO2e per employee 1.71 1.86 2.07 2,3 Social contribution 49.4m 42.3m 40.2m 1 Value of clients who requested information on our sustainability policies and performance through their supplier management process.
2 Includes free media space donations.
3 T he 2015 figure has been restated to reflect correct exchange rates in the calculation of free media space.
Human rights Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle for the Group.
We aim to prevent, identify and address any negative impacts on human rights associated with our business activities.
We look for opportunities to positively promote human rights, including through our pro bono work.
Our human rights policy statement summarises our approach.
It reflects international standards and principles, including the International Bill of Human Rights, the UNs Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Labour Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Childrens Rights and Business Principles.
It is published on our website, wpp.
We are a member of the United Nations Global Compact and committed to its 10 principles, including those relating to human rights.
Our sustainability performance is presented in detail on pages 36 to 61.
