F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Principal Risks and Future Prospects Each year the Board carries out a comprehensive, robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that could threaten the Company's success.
The consequences for its business model, liquidity, future prospects and viability form an integral part of this assessment.
As stated within the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead to page 34, the Board applies the principles detailed in the internal suspension of the Companys London Stock Exchange listing, control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council, and has financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular Environmental inadequate attendance to environmental needs of the Company in managing the risks and uncertainties to factors by the Managers, including those of a regulatory which it is exposed.
and market nature and particularly those relating to energy performance, health and safety, flood risk and environmental Principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company are liabilities, leading to the reputational damage of the Company, described below and in note 16, which provides detailed reduced liquidity in the portfolio, and or negative asset value explanations of the risks associated with the Companys financial impacts.
Tax structuring and compliance changes that cause the Market the Companys assets comprise direct investments management and control of the Company to be exercised in in UK commercial property and it is therefore exposed to the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming movements and changes in that market.
liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and capital gains.
Investment and strategic poor investment decisions and Changes to tax legislation could have an adverse financial incorrect strategy, including sector and geographic allocations, impact.
use of gearing, inadequate asset management activity and Operational failure of the Managers accounting systems or tenant defaults could lead to poor returns for shareholders.
disruption to its business, or that of other third party service The principal risks encountered during the year, how they are mitigated and actions taken to address these are set out in the table below.
Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken in the year Valuers have difficulty in valuing the property assets due to lack Professional external valuers are appointed to value the portfolio on a quarterly Valuing properties was challenging in the aftermath of market evidence or market uncertainty.
Error in the calculation basis.
There is regular liaison with the valuers regarding all elements of the of the Brexit vote in June 2016.
There has been more application of the Company Net Asset Value 'NAV' leads to a material portfolio.
There is attendance by one or more Directors at the valuation transactional based market evidence this year which the misstatement.
meetings and the Auditors attend the year end valuation meeting.
valuers have used to assist them in producing the quarterly valuations.
There was attendance by one or more Directors at the valuation meetings throughout the year.
Reduced in the year under review Unfavourable markets, poor stock selection, inappropriate asset The underlying investment strategy, performance, gearing and income The Board review the Manager's performance at quarterly allocation and under-performance against benchmark and or peer forecasts are reviewed with the Investment Manager at each Board Meeting.
Board Meetings against key performance indicators set out group.
This risk may be exacerbated by gearing levels.
The Company's portfolio is well diversified and of a high quality.
Gearing is on page 13 and is satisfied that the Manager's long-term kept at modest levels.
performance is in line with expectations.
Unchanged throughout the year under review Non-resident landlords will be taxable under the UK corporation tax Adoption of UK REIT status is under consideration.
Under current tax The changes in taxation were formalised in the UK regime from April 2020.
This change could have a material impact legislation, the principal tax advantage for the Company in doing this is that Chancellor's Budget in November 2017 and the on the Company's tax affairs.
Additionally, new capital gains tax rules the Group's net rental income derived from its property rental business would Company's professional advisors have been engaged are set to be implemented in April 2019 which will also impact the be exempt from UK taxation.
The same treatment would apply to capital gains to advise on these regulatory changes and look at the Company moving forward.
arising on the disposal of relevant rental properties.
feasibility of the Company adopting UK REIT status.
Increased in the year under review The retail market has witnessed a number of company voluntary The Manager provides regular information on the expected level of rental The portfolio has been lightly impacted to date and the income that will be generated from the underlying properties.
The Portfolio Manager has business plans in place to asset manage any arrangements, profit warning announcements and administrations is well diversified by geography and sector and the exposure to individual tenant default.
There is an increased risk of tenant defaults in this tenants is monitored and managed to ensure there is no over exposure.
sector which could put the level of dividend cover at risk.
Increased in the year under review 14 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a Viability Assessment and Statement loss of shareholders confidence.
The Board conducted this review over a five year time horizon, Financial inadequate controls by the Managers a period thought to be appropriate for a Company investing in or other third party service providers could lead commercial property with a long-term investment outlook: with to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate primary borrowings secured for a further seven years and a property accounting policies or failure to comply with portfolio with an average unexpired lease length of 7.3 years.
The accounting standards could lead to a qualified assessment has been undertaken, taking into account the principal audit report, misreporting or breaches of risks and uncertainties faced by the Group which could threaten its regulations.
Breaching Guernsey solvency test objective, strategy, future performance, liquidity and solvency.
requirements or loan covenants could lead to a The major risks identified as relevant to the viability assessment were loss of shareholders confidence and financial those relating to a downturn in the UK commercial property market loss for shareholders see note 12 for details of and its resultant effect on the valuation of the investment property the principal loan covenants.
portfolio, the level of rental income being received and the effect The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these that this would have on cash resources and financial covenants.
risks through continual review, policy-setting and The Board took into account the illiquid nature of the Companys enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also property portfolio, the existence of the long-term borrowing facility, regularly monitors the investment environment and the the effects of any significant future falls in investment property values management of the Companys property portfolio.
The and property income receipts on the ability to repay and re-negotiate Managers seek to mitigate these risks through active borrowings, maintain dividend payments and retain investors.
These asset management initiatives and carrying out due matters were assessed over a period to March 2023, and the diligence work on potential tenants before entering into Directors will continue to assess viability over five year rolling periods, any new lease agreements.
All of the properties in the taking account of foreseeable severe but plausible scenarios.
In the ordinary course of business, the Board reviews a detailed The principal risks encountered during the year, how they are mitigated and actions taken to address these are set out in the table below.
financial model on a quarterly basis, incorporating market consensus forecast returns, projected out to the maturity of its principal loan Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken in the year of 260 million which is due to mature in 2024 and coincides with Valuers have difficulty in valuing the property assets due to lack Professional external valuers are appointed to value the portfolio on a quarterly Valuing properties was challenging in the aftermath the next continuation vote.
This model uses prudent assumptions of market evidence or market uncertainty.
There has been more and factors in any potential capital commitments.
For the purpose application of the Company Net Asset Value 'NAV' leads to a material portfolio.
There is attendance by one or more Directors at the valuation transactional based market evidence this year which the of assessing the viability of the Group, the model has been adjusted misstatement.
valuers have used to assist them in producing the quarterly to look at the next five years and is stress tested with projected valuations.
returns comparable to the commercial property market crash Reduced in the year under review experienced between 2007 and 2009.
The model projects a worst Unfavourable markets, poor stock selection, inappropriate asset The underlying investment strategy, performance, gearing and income The Board review the Manager's performance at quarterly case scenario of an equivalent fall in capital and income values over allocation and under-performance against benchmark and or peer forecasts are reviewed with the Investment Manager at each Board Meeting.
Board Meetings against key performance indicators set out the next two years, followed by three years of zero growth.
Gearing is on page 13 and is satisfied that the Manager's long-term demonstrated that even under these extreme circumstances the kept at modest levels.
Based on their assessment, and in the context of the Groups Non-resident landlords will be taxable under the UK corporation tax Adoption of UK REIT status is under consideration.
Under current tax The changes in taxation were formalised in the UK business model, strategy and operational arrangements set out regime from April 2020.
This change could have a material impact legislation, the principal tax advantage for the Company in doing this is that Chancellor's Budget in November 2017 and the above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group on the Company's tax affairs.
The same treatment would apply to capital gains to advise on these regulatory changes and look at the will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall Company moving forward.
due over the five year period to March 2023.
For this reason, the Board also considers it appropriate to continue adopting the going Increased in the year under review concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Consolidated The retail market has witnessed a number of company voluntary The Manager provides regular information on the expected level of rental The portfolio has been lightly impacted to date and the Accounts as disclosed in the Directors Report on page 30. income that will be generated from the underlying properties.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 15 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED St Christophers Place, London
