PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 72 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial risk management a Financial instrument fair value estimation The Group holds a number of financial instruments that are held at fair value within the Financial Statements.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments utilised by the Group during the years ended 31 May 2017 and 31 May 2016, together with information regarding the methods and assumptions used to calculate fair values, can be summarised as follows: Current and non-current investments In accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, unlisted investments are held in the Groups Balance Sheet at cost because their fair value cannot be measured reliably due to the lack of quoted market prices.
Current assets and liabilities Financial instruments included within current assets and liabilities excluding cash and borrowings are generally short-term innature and accordingly their fair values approximate to their book values.
Borrowings and cash The carrying values of cash and short-term borrowings approximate to their fair values because of the short-term maturity ofthese instruments.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
In deriving the fair value, the derivative financial instruments are classified as level 1, level 2 or level 3 dependent on the valuation method applied in determining their fair value.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices 2 or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
Across the years ended 31 May 2017 and 31 May 2016 the financial instruments held at fair value by the Group relate to foreign currency contracts used as derivatives for hedging and the contingent consideration relating to the five:am acquisition in the year to 31 May 2015 that was settled in the year to 31 May 2016.
For both the year ended 31 May 2017 and 31 May 2016, the assets and liabilities arising from foreign currency contracts have beenclassified as level 2.
The contingent consideration that arose on the acquisition of five:am was classified as level 3 prior tosettlement.
There have been no transfers between either level 1 and 2 or level 2 and 3 in any period.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 73 b Financial liabilities and assets Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying values and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 May 2017 and 31 May 2016.
None of the financial assets and liabilities have been reclassified during the year.
2017 2016 Carrying Carrying amount and amount and fair value fair value m m Loans and receivables Cash and short-term deposits 150.6 175.1 Trade and other receivables 179.1 166.1 Fair value through profit and loss Derivative financial assets 1.5 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables 232.8 188.1 Bank overdrafts 34.5 70.5 Bank loans 260.2 252.0 Fair value through profit and loss Derivative financial liabilities 0.2 Included in cash and other short-term deposits is cash denominated in the Nigerian Naira of 52.5m 2016: 64.4m.
These cash balances are translated into Sterling using the interbank rate for Naira:US Dollar then converted at the closing US Dollar:Sterling rate.
Borrowings 2017 2016 m m Overdrafts due within one year 34.5 70.5 Bank loans due within one year 260.2 252.0 294.7 322.5 Loans due within one year includes the Groups main borrowing facility which is provided by a syndicate of three UK banks in the form of a 285m committed multi-currency revolving credit facility with a final termination date of February 2020.
In addition, the Group has a further 40m of bilateral facilities which are utilised for general working capital and trade finance purposes and of which 14m has been utilised at 31 May 2017 2016: 50m of bilateral facilities which are utilised for general working capital and trade finance purposes and of which 12m was utilised.
Overdrafts do not form part of the Groups main borrowing facilities and arise as part of the Groups composite banking arrangement with Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the terms of this arrangement cash and overdraft balances recognised by the Groups UK operations are considered as one cash pool with the net position being monitored by the Directors and by Barclays.
At 31 May 2017 these overdraft balances have been presented gross with a corresponding increase in cash at bank and in hand.
At 31 May 2017, the available Group-wide undrawn facilities totalled 187.6m 2016: 132.1m.
The terms of the Groups main facility reflect current market commercial terms and pricing for a loan of this nature for a credit score relating to PZ Cussons standing.
Drawn amounts under the facility attract a variable margin over LIBOR based on the Groups Net Debt EBITDA ratio.
Undrawn amounts attract a commitment fee.
The facility is unsecured but the lenders benefit from a guarantee from the principal operating subsidiaries of the Group.
2017 2016 Interest Interest 2017 rate 2016 rate m % m % Borrowing 294.7 1.4 322.5 1.4 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 74 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial risk management continued c Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments comprise all trading and hedging derivatives which include the Groups forward foreign exchange contracts.
These are fair valued as level 2 derivative financial instruments.
The forward foreign exchange contracts have been fair valued using exchange rates that are quoted in an active market.
The effects of discounting are generally insignificant for level 2 derivatives.
The gross valuation of the forward foreign exchange contracts at year end is: 2017 2016 m m Assets Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.5 Liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The net notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 May 2017 was 43.7m 2016: 44.0m.
The hedged highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates during the next 12 months.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as of 31May 2017 are recognised in the Income Statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the Income Statement.
This is generally within 12 months from the Balance Sheet date unless the gain or loss is included in the initial amount recognised for the purchase of fixed assets, in which case recognition is over the lifetime of the asset.
d Contingent consideration Contingent consideration arose on the acquisition of five:am in the year to 31 May 2015 and was payable subject to performance of the business in the prior year.
This was fair valued as a level 3 financial instrument.
2017 2016 m m Opening balance 3.9 Arising on acquisitions Paid in year 3.9 Closing balance e Financial risk management The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in exchange rates, credit risk, liquidity and interest rates.
The Groups treasury function reports to the Board at least annually with reference to the application of the Group treasury policy.
The policy addresses issues of liquidity, funding and investment as well as interest rate, currency and commodity risks.
The Groups risk management policies are designed to identify and analyse these risks, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor the risks and limits continually by means of reliable and up-to-date systems.
The Group modifies and enhances its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets and products.
The Audit & Risk Committee, under authority delegated by the Board, formulates the high level Group risk management policy, monitors risk and receives reports that allow it to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management policies.
i Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk that financial loss arises from the failure of a customer or counterparty to meet its obligations under a contract.
The Group has dedicated standards, policies and procedures to control and monitor all such risks.
Although the Group is potentially exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by counterparties, such credit risk is controlled through credit rating and equity price reviews of the counterparties and by limiting the total amount of exposure to any one party.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each aforementioned class of receivables.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 75 The Group does not believe it is exposed to any material concentrations of credit risk.
As an example the Groups borrowings are arranged with a syndicate of major banks and are committed until 2020.
An analysis of the international long-term credit ratings of counterparties where cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts are held is as follows: 2017 2016 m m AA 19.2 17.7 A 38.7 11.4 B 55.1 75.5 C 3.1 Total 116.1 104.6 ii Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group maintains astrong liquidity position and manages the liquidity profile of its assets, liabilities and commitments so that cash flows are appropriately balanced and all funding obligations are met when due.
iii Market risk management Market risk is the risk that movements in market rates, including foreign exchange rates, cash flow, interest rates and commodity prices will reduce the Groups income.
The management of market risk is undertaken by the operating unit Finance Directors under delegated authority using risk limits approved by the Board.
iv Foreign exchange risk management The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Subsidiary undertakings must ensure that all transactional exposures arising from commitments in a currency other than their functional currency are identified and monitored.
The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to manage these exposures.
The below sensitivity analysis was conducted by modelling a 10% weakening based on average annual fluctuations of Sterling against the following currencies at 31 May which would have increased equity and increased decreased profit by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
2017 2016 Income Income Equity statement Equity statement m m m m Nigerian Naira 23.7 2.0 39.6 1.3 Euro 4.5 0.4 3.7 0.1 Indonesian Rupiah 4.1 0.7 3.0 0.2 Australian Dollar 2.1 0.5 1.5 0.6 Polish Zloty 1.6 1.2 0.1 A 10% strengthening of Sterling against the above currencies would have had the equal and opposite effect on equity and profit by the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
v Price risk management Due to the nature of the business, the Group is exposed to commodity price risk.
The Group does take measures to protect against short-term impacts of these fluctuations: however, failure to recover higher costs could have a negative impact on profits.
vi Cash flow and interest rate risk The Groups variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
