PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 35 Principal risks and uncertainties Insight for effective risk management The Audit & Risk Committee assumes overall accountability for the management of risk and forreviewing the effectiveness of the Groups riskmanagement and internal control systems.
Viability statement Report on page 37, this risk has PZ Cussons has over 130 years of mitigating factors in respect of tosome extent occurred and trading history with a long-standing eachof those risks, described beenmitigated during the year tradition of sustainable growth in our onpages 36 to 39. to31May2017.
key regions of Europe, Africa and Asia.
Our in-depth local understanding, The viability assessment has two parts: A global economic downturn leading strong brand position and robust The Directors considered the period to a material reduction in profitability infrastructure within these markets, over which they have a reasonable in our main markets of Nigeria, UK, allied to a strong Group balance sheet, expectation that the Group will Indonesia and Australia, combined enable us to withstand short to continue to operate and meet its with an increase in funding costs.
medium-term political and financial liabilities: and instabilities that may adversely impact Findings The Directors considered the the Group.
potential impact of severe but A three year period is considered plausible scenarios over this period.
appropriate for this assessment Assessment Alternative forecasts have been because it is a period covered by the The business model and strategy as prepared which take account strategic plan and it enables a high level set out on pages 6 and 7 are central of the Groups principal risks and of confidence in assessing viability, to an understanding of the Groups uncertainties and the impact they even in the extreme scenarios prospects and provide the framework could have, both individually and described above.
for the strategic plan which is reviewed taken in aggregate, on the Groups and approved annually by the Board, performance, together with key The alternative scenarios assumed including detailed trading and cash mitigating actions.
reductions in revenue, margin, net flow forecasts covering that period.
profit and cash flow over the three year In order to report on the viability The most significant financial risk period, but in all cases the Group of the Group, the Directors: facing the Group in the short term is remained viable.
the potential political and financial 1.
Considered the Groups revenue uncertainty in some of our key profit projections, cash generation Conclusion emerging markets, particularly Nigeria, and financing position including Based on their assessment of which, if sustained, could have an headroom and covenants on existing prospects and viability, the Directors impact on the Groups trading and facilities : and confirm that they have a reasonable cashflows.
Carried out a robust assessment of expectation that the Group will be able reviewed were: the principal risks and uncertainties to continue in operation and meet its A devaluation of the currency and a facing the Group: including those that liabilities as they fall due over the three reduction in liquidity in Nigeria would threaten its business model, year period ending 31 May 2020. leading to nil profit from this market, future performance, solvency and combined with an increase in funding liquidity.
As referenced in the Strategic reviewing and understanding the PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 36 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Our risk management framework Risk Framework Oversight Audit & Risk Committee Review of Executive Committee principal risk assessment and risk portfolio review Regular deep-dive reviews of individual principal risks Review of internal audit providing assurance that risk framework operates effectively Executive Committee Review of principal risks Confirmation of assessments and mitigating activities Review of refresh of Principal Risk Portfolio using internal risk registers and external sources, insights andadvisors Risk assessments Principal risks For each risk identified in an endmarketrisk register we: These are the risks that the Assess likelihood of risk occurring ExecutiveCommittee believes could have the largest likely impact on the business.
Assess impact of risk occurring Each of the risks are: financialand non-financial Principal risk Assigned an Executive Committeeowner Assess the controls mitigating risk and senior management manager management Document control improvements or Assessed and reported regularly mitigating actions related to the risk Assigned risk performance indicators that Review any related incidents are monitored and reviewed regularly and issues Presented by the risk owner to Executive Committee at leastannually This is then reviewed and re-assessed regularly End markets businessunits Risk register of all risks Regular review of register assessments and mitigating activities Regular reporting to ExecutiveCommittee Risk Framework Support Risk management policies, best practice support and a network of risk champions embedded in to the business Risk reporting infrastructure and consolidation process Risk management support across investment, project and commercial activities PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 37 Risk management organisational structure Audit & Risk Committee Executive Committee End Market Business Units Overall accountability for reviewing Responsible for the operation of the risk Carry out day-to-day core risk theeffectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and definition, management activities and report management and internal control systems measurement and monitoring of risk emerging risks and risk mitigation D ischarges its responsibility through appetite against all the principal risks responses through risk registers to regular review of Executive Committee Ensures that the management of risk using theExecutive Committee actions and assessments, review of our common risk framework is embedded Supported by a framework of policy, deep-dive presentations from principal inour end markets, regions and functions bestpractice and expertise embedded risk owners and review of internal audits Considers the impact and likelihood of in the organisation requested on control environment of global emerging risks specific principal risks Examples of key risks Potential impact on business Measures to manage risks We are exposed to the financial impact of: The Group Treasury function is well Exchange rate volatility established and our Group Treasury Policy The international nature of our activities 1.
Market transactional exchange rate risk defines our non-speculative approach to gives rise to both transactional exchange on import export activity with the main management of foreign currency exposures.
rate risk with the main exposure relating exposure relating to US Dollar trade toUS Dollar trade balances and translation balances.
Currency exposures are managed within exposure when the results, assets and prescribed limits with short to medium- 2.
Translation exposure when the results, liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are term forward foreign exchange contracts assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries translated into Sterling.
taken, where currency markets allow, to are translated into Sterling for Group reduce our exposure to fluctuations.
This is particularly prevalent where we consolidation purposes.
haveactivities in emerging markets where currencies can be impacted by political and macroeconomic factors for example the price of crude oil and where we import and or export products.
The impact on our Nigeria businesses has In response there has been: Nigerian currency been a significant increase in input costs.
Increased Executive Committee and As stated in the Business and Financial GroupTreasury review and direction Review sections, the current year results This is in addition to the translation impact ontreasury management.
have been impacted by a significant onthe Groups consolidated results.
devaluation of the Nigeria currency In market insight and focus to ensure that andalack of liquidity for US dollars.
all treasury options are being considered and acted upon.
Operational measures to mitigate increased costs through pricing and othermargin improvement initiatives.
Political regimes, elections, natural disasters We have a diverse geographic portfolio: Political and social instability and local economic policies, for example, however, in developing its corporate We have operations in a number of mayaffect our business performance within strategy, and in order to help mitigate the countries around the globe, each of which acountry or region.
risk that could arise in any one particular have their own local issues, pressures and territory, the Board seeks to maintain an risks which can cause political, social or appropriate balance both between mature economic instability.
and emerging markets and, within the developing world, between its operations indifferent territories.
In addition, we have extensive and long established experience in all key markets and the Board continually monitors those markets to ensure that any specific risks or opportunities are identified and addressed as they arise.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 38 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks Potential impact on business Measures to manage risks The local interpretation of these rules A Group taxation policy is in place to underpin our Taxation differs across all of our markets, with transactional processes.
Taxation of global corporations is a complex tax authorities decision making being area where laws and their interpretation are Our in-house taxation expertise is complemented impacted by prevailing market changing regularly.
by the use of specialist tax consultants and conditions.
Therefore our ability to advisors to ensure compliance with all local and In addition, the global regulatory environment accurately determine the direct and international tax regulations and treaties.
for tax is evolving, with global OECD tax indirect tax consequences of our frameworks moving from work in progress transactions is complex and may result to finalised policies.
The loss of a third party supplier due We undertake a rigorous selection process prior Supply chain tofinancial, quality or disaster-related toengaging with new third party suppliers and We rely on third parties for manufacturing issues could impact our ability to deliver perform ongoing audits and performance and are exposed to external supply related orders to our customers, in turn monitoring to ensure that contracted standards risks such as failure of a key supplier.
are being maintained or exceeded.
We also use In addition, we are also exposed to the multiple suppliers where possible and have The market prices for oils, fats, plastics fluctuating price and availability of oils, fats, defined limits over the level of business we place and other key materials can have plastics and multiple other key materials with a single supplier or country to ensure our positive or negative impacts on our that we require to internally manufacture supply to market can be maintained in the event ability to meet our financial targets our products.
andbusiness objectives depending onourability to pass on price changes Our Group Procurement team has specialist to our customers.
knowledge and understanding of key raw materials and commodities markets and uses best practice procurement strategies to obtain value from the purchase of raw and packaging materials.
Trends are monitored and modelled regularly and integrated into our forecastingprocess.
In the event of an incident relating to Our manufacturing facilities meet or exceed local Consumer safety the safety of our consumers or the and international safety and quality standards.
The safety and quality of our products are of quality of our products, incident paramount importance to ensure consumer Our product quality processes and controls are management teams and processes are safety and to protect our reputation.
comprehensive, from product design to customer activated to ensure timely and effective The risk that raw materials are accidentally shelf.
The raw materials we use are fully traceable, market place action.
The resulting we monitor the quality of our finished products or maliciously contaminated throughout the impact of an incident could be loss of supply chain or that other product defects throughout the manufacturing and distribution revenue and profit, or fines, from process, and we have a dedicated consumer occur due to human error, equipment failure regulatory bodies.
or other factors cannot be excluded.
Any incidents relating to the safety of our consumers or the quality of our products are actively managed to ensure timely and effective action.
IT system dependency Disruption of our IT systems through A robust IT framework is in place which either cyber-attack or system failure encompasses network and data security, systems &cybersecurity could adversely affect the smooth maintenance and performance monitoring, From controlling machinery to managing operation of our business and in turn amongst other areas.
This is monitored by an internal and external communication, our directly impact revenue andprofit.
ITrisk management committee which monitors business relies heavily on secure and reliable and manages the risks we face.
There is also a threat from unauthorised access and misuse of sensitive information which could potentially disrupt our business.
We must compete to recruit and retain The Board believes that there is an attractive Staff retention and recruitment capable individuals within the business employment proposition in place across the We recognise that in order to deliver including training them in the skills and Group which will continue to attract capable sustained strong results we require the right competencies which are required to recruits and that key management and personnel calibre of people at all levels of the business.
deliver the profitable growth we are are sufficiently well recognised, incentivised and targeting.
challenged in order to retain them as far aspossible.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 39 Risks Potential impact on business Measures to manage risks Changes to laws and regulations could Our legal and regulatory specialists are heavily Legal and regulatory compliance have a material impact on the cost of involved in monitoring and reviewing the external We are subject to national and regional doing business.
Failure to modify our legal and regulatory environment and ensure that lawsand regulations across the diverse processes based on these changes we remain aware of and up to date with all geographies we operate in that impacts could impact our corporate reputation relevant laws and legal obligations.
In a number of and in turn our profitable growth.
our markets the regulatory and legal frameworks we operate within are dynamicand open to change.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose us to civil and or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and criminal sanctions against us and or our employees with possible consequences forour corporate reputation.
The UK leaving the single market and We are closely monitoring the Brexit process Brexit The UKs decision to leave the EU could have customs union would likely increase the across our commercial, supply chain, HR and legal cost of manufacturing our products in teams.
We are amending strategies and putting a number of impacts on our performance inplace contingency plans where appropriate.
due to the fact that our UK business imports the UK.
This could impact our profitable growth.
Additionally it is likely that the from, and exports to the EU, employs EUnationals and complies with EU laws move towards a new UK customs model would cause short-term supply chain andregulations.
Regulatory changes relating to our products or EU nationals we employ could also increase costs to lesser extents in longer term.
Sustainability By not implementing a sustainable Our Good4Business Committee ensures that business plan we risk suffering damage Corporate Social Responsibility is an integral part We believe that our success depends on achieving long-term growth using sustainable to our corporate reputation that has of our strategy and that our social, environmental anegative impact on revenue growth.
The riskis that we are unable to implement the sustainable business solutions required and that this will limit our growth.
The impact of fraud can be a direct cost We have established our internal control framework Fraud to the Group either through product to minimise the risk of business interruption, Due to the products we sell and the orcash theft or due to the associated financial loss or damage to our reputation.
markets we operate in we have a risk of business interruption or reputational Additionally, in the past year we have now gone fraud both from an internal and external damage that can follow.
live with a new ERP system that will facilitate perspective.
We also recognise the mitigation and the monitoring of fraud risks.
heightened risk of cyber-fraud that isincreasingly impacting corporations In addition we have internal policies and training andindividuals.
for our employees covering cyber security and anti-bribery.
There is the risk that if we do not We have well established relationships with joint Joint venture risk maintain good relations with our key venture partners and regularly communicate with In order to reduce the risk of new business partners the JVs objectives may not them to ensure that they continue to be aligned activities and markets or to gain access to remain consistent with that of the to our mission, values and objectives.
additional expertise we participate in joint Group which could lead to operational venture JV arrangements.
Strong difficulties and jeopardise the relationships with our JV partners are key to achievement of profitable growth.
the continued success of the JV businesses.
Public health In the event of a public health incident Should a public health incident occur, we have we may find it difficult to operate in business continuity procedures that would be An outbreak of disease or other public health issue in one or more of our markets that market with consequential impact implemented to protect our employees and on profitable growth.
ensure safe continued operation of our business could significantly impact the ability for us todo business and directly impact the health activities where possible.
We have had experience in recent years managing the impact of Ebola in Africa and SARS in Asia thathas tested and led to further development ofthese procedures.
