SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 How We Manage Our Risks.
Risk review process We understand the need for a system of internal control and risk management.
The identification and management of key risks for the Existing emerging risks 1 Group is the responsibility of the Risk Committee which oversees a Top down risk identication risk register that is reviewed formally and updated on a regular basis to ensure that it is focused on real, current and significant business risks, Departmental Risk Register that mitigating actions are feasible and effective and that the resulting net risk is appropriate.
Bottom up risk identication The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and includes the Global Retail Director, Director of IT, Risk & Assurance Manager, Head of Internal Audit, Group General Counsel, Group Financial Controller and Head of Business Transformation.
The Committee, which reports to the Executive Committee with oversight provided by the Audit Committee, meets monthly to co-ordinate the 2 Risk Committee evaluation risk management programme, and review the risk procedures and practices in place to ensure they reflect the growing scale, maturity and complexity of the Group.
Following the outcome of the UK referendum to leave the EU, there are a number of uncertainties regarding how the exit will be achieved.
Emerging Risks Horizon Scanning Accordingly, the extent to which our operations and financial performance may be affected in the longer term will only become clear Risk Assessment Review risk score as details are finalised.
Our consideration of the potential consequences on our business has concluded that it does not raise any new Independent Risk Assessment principal risks: however it does have the potential to impact a number of our existing risks at an individual level, for example foreign exchange, regulatory and fiscal frameworks including tariffs and duties and economic uncertainty.
We will continue to monitor the risks and uncertainties arising from Brexit within the Groups existing risk management and control process outlined below.
On an annual basis departmental heads are required to document and present their key risks to the Risk Committee as part of a 3 Executive Committee sign-off programme of departmental risk reviews.
These reviews serve to heighten awareness of risk and greater accountability for management of risk at all levels within the organisation and specifically, for each department, consider existing and emerging risks, current and planned Monitoring risks mitigations, together with a wider consideration of business continuity risks.
Principal Risks Following a review of our risks, we have further assessed our key risks and uncertainties which are reviewed and challenged robustly by and Uncertainties the Executive Committee and the Board twice a year.
We consider the following matters, which include the addition of risks related to management of our global supply chain and maintaining an advantaged e-commerce customer experience, to be the principal risks and Assessing risk uncertainties affecting the Group.
However, these may not be exhaustive and there might be additional unknown risks that could have an adverse effect on the Group.
4 Board sign-off Setting risk appetite Review and sign off Principal Risks and Uncertainties Approval of adequacy of controls www.
co. uk 48 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Change Change Financial in risk in risk Link to Statements 2016 2017 Strategy Risk Potential Impact Mitigation The Groups business The Group may The combination of an enhanced programme of customer research and the brand understanding may suffer if it is unable experience inventory embedded in the organisation and particularly in our founders provides a strong understanding of and connection to the market and our customers.
This combined understanding informs our range and product to predict or respond shortages or excesses development.
to fashion and design that could result in lower trends in a timely margins, lost revenue or We have continued to develop new product ranges including our Premium collection, in collaboration with manner.
This risk may customer goodwill.
Idris Elba, and Superdry Sport, each launched during the past year.
The ongoing launch of new ranges is become more significant expected to further broaden and strengthen customer appeal.
as Womenswear grows We have implemented improved planning and stock management processes and systems which are as a proportion of Group enabling the business to make better decisions on initial stock quantities, allocation across sales channels revenues.
and to respond more rapidly to inventory levels and opportunities.
We have established dedicated category management capability for all of our core product areas.
These teams are experienced in leading the improved design direction, range planning and critical path processes being introduced through the Design to Customer process.
Failure to achieve longFailure to achieve The four pillar strategy sets out how we will create a global lifestyle brand.
The effective implementation of term business growth planned growth targets this strategy continues, as laid out in the Strategic Report section of this report, including planned store expansion within Europe, continued E-commerce and Wholesale growth, and embedding the process as a result of the lack of could significantly impact changes and creating key points of infrastructure necessary to support our planned growth.
an effective strategy, the on brand and investor failure to successfully sentiment.
Our Executive team, which has been further strengthened during the year, has broad retail and business implement the strategy, experience with clearly defined ownership for each element of the strategic plan.
an inappropriate Our transformation function provides project management capability and discipline across all of our key business model in business change projects, reporting progress, risks and dependencies to the Executive Committee and key markets or the Board.
This ensures that progress against our plans is monitored, issues are resolved and opportunities failure to deliver critical pursued in a timely manner.
Strategic reviews also consider the balance of current and estimated sales in each channel within a key territory to ensure it remains optimal and reflects changes to customer shopping behaviours.
We continue to be strongly cash generative and able to fund our ongoing investment programme.
Key: NEW Enable Extend Embed Execute Increasing Stable Reducing New risk www.
co. uk 49 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 How We Manage Our Risks.
Change Change in risk in risk Link to 2016 2017 Strategy Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Failure to deliver on our Failure to successfully Each market entry was subject to extensive consumer, market and operational research, informing growth aspirations in establish the Superdry brand the optimal position for the brand in the local market and any necessary adaptation to the Groups the Groups key future and expand our operations existing business model to reflect local practices.
In both China and North America, the brand development markets.
in North America and China is marketed through local social media and marketing activity, including celebrity endorsement, could result in financial losses tailored to the specific market.
and or brand damage, which Furthermore, reflecting local market dynamics, mitigation strategies have been established specific could undermine the strategy to each market as follows: of becoming a global lifestyle North America brand.
During the year we have significantly strengthened the North American team creating an effective balance of local and global capabilities having completed the integration of key functions, including merchandising and replenishment, to the Groups shared global infrastructure.
Having repositioned the customer offer in all customer channels in our first year of ownership, a series of test retail stores that better represent the brand proposition were introduced in 2016.
These stores have performed well, delivering targeted levels of return on invested capital.
While remaining cautious regarding this opportunity further new stores are planned to commence trading in financial year 2018.
A dedicated regional warehouse was established during financial year 2017 to support the physical store chain and will be further developed to support all sales channels.
China The brand operates in China via a joint venture with Trendy International Group Trendy.
Trendy have extensive retail experience and operational capability and were selected as a partner after a full due diligence process.
The Joint Venture Board includes two SuperGroup representatives including Euan Sutherland, Chief Executive Officer, ensuring regular market visits and governance of senior management.
A full Board visit to China was completed in May 2017.
Future development will be concentrated on franchise expansion, limiting ongoing capital funding requirements.
co. uk 50 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Change Change Financial in risk in risk Link to Statements 2016 2017 Strategy Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Loss of key colleagues Lack of appropriately skilled Euan Sutherland as Chief Executive Officer and Julian Dunkerton as Founder and Brand and or the inability to attract and experienced resource Product Director provide the necessary leadership skills to drive our global strategic goals.
In addition, the appointment of the Group Marketing, E-commerce and Business Development and retain talent or could result in a delay in Director during the year has completed the Executive team and we now have a strong and highly preserve the Superdry achieving the Groups strategic experienced leadership team in place.
The founders each remain committed to the Group and the retention of James Holders unique design and creative skills on an exclusive consultancy basis via the SuperDesign Lab, established in May 2016, is a further example of the measured development of our leadership team over time.
Our ongoing resourcing, talent review and succession planning processes are providing the executive team with the necessary data and tools to understand the future skills requirements of the business.
This has led to the significant strengthening of key functions, particularly design and merchandising, during the year.
This process is also helping to ensure that all colleagues can benefit from rewarding careers.
Our approach to Remuneration see page 79 seeks to promote and reward long-term success within a suitable risk framework supporting recruitment, long-term retention and collaborative working of senior management.
Recognising the importance to the overall Superdry proposition of a service led customer experience, colleague retention and recruitment in stores is a priority.
Retention levels have improved in recent years as we have enhanced our training and development programmes.
We recognise that retaining the Superdry culture is key and have undertaken a colleague survey to understand better the level and drivers of engagement.
While this showed that our colleagues rate us as a really good place to work, we are developing an action plan to drive this to great.
Key: NEW Enable Extend Execute Embed Increasing Stable Reducing New risk www.
co. uk 51 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 How We Manage Our Risks.
Change Change in risk in risk Link to 2016 2017 Strategy Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Economic and financial Our results can be affected by Our increasingly diversified business model encompassing Retail including E-commerce and conditions or external events or circumstances which Wholesale along with our increasing global footprint, provides significant counter-economic protection.
Increased category breadth provides further insulation.
world events result in impact consumer confidence challenging trading and buying habits.
Regular reviews through customer research and a review of competitor pricing, together with conditions or economic forecasting disciplines, are in place to assess current market conditions and to ensure that any instability.
issues are dealt with in a timely manner.
Our wholesale team manages closely credit terms and use of insurance and bank guarantees with their trading customers to balance their ability to purchase goods with managing the risk of bad debts.
Our treasury function monitors the stability of financial institutions that hold our deposits or provide currency instruments.
These are spread over a number of institutions to mitigate this risk and ensure competitive terms.
The policy governing this is laid out in note 31 to the financial statements.
Failure to protect There is a potential for Our health and safety policies are enforced through regular training and audit activities in all Group locations.
Ethical trading matters are managed by our Ethical Trading Manager, reporting directly to the well-being of our SuperGroup to suffer negative the Head of Sourcing, and we are a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative.
customers and the customer and investor colleagues who work for sentiment.
We engage with our suppliers and expect them to operate in accordance with our Ethical Trading us or in support of our Code.
We assess the status of operating practices through a schedule of audits and visits and, business.
where necessary, work with suppliers on improvement plans.
We have upgraded our strategic supplier engagement programme during the year, which included holding our maiden global supplier conference.
Key infrastructure or Should any of our information The information technology replacement programme continues to introduce systems with improved information technology technology facilities be reliability and availability, including enhancements to our merchandise planning system capability.
In addition, a major focus in the past year has been the transitioning of many of our international systems may be unavailable for an extended operations onto our global infrastructure and applications, which benefit from greater resilience than unavailable due to period, our ability to trade local infrastructure.
operational problems or would be impaired.
incident impacted the peak Our information technology disaster recovery capabilities have been further enhanced and we have trading period from November now contracted for a business continuity capability to provide an alternative facility in the event of to January, then the impact the loss of our head office.
on earnings would be more We operate a strict change freeze during the Groups key trading period in order to minimise the risk severe.
co. uk 52 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Change Change Financial in risk in risk Link to Statements 2016 2017 Strategy Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Brand damage may The strength of the Superdry Our ongoing customer research insight programme continues to show that the Superdry brand occur due to distribution brand is fundamental to the has strong appeal in all of our major markets.
The research has shown that our addressable through inappropriate success of our business.
There customer market is broader than previously understood and more defined by attitude than age.
channels or the is a risk that the equity within The research programme will be extended further in the coming year to provide insight to all key existence of counterfeit the brand may be damaged operating markets.
by distribution through lower New distribution channels are approved internally to ensure that they meet our brand guidelines.
perceived quality points of sale Our in-house brand protection team also works closely with third party advisers and customs or the existence of counterfeit authorities throughout the world to monitor the production and sale of counterfeit product and, products with inferior quality where identified, remove it whether it be online or in the marketplace using all remedies available, and or design.
including takedown procedures and issuing proceedings.
We also monitor our supply chain to limit the risk of any supplier selling unauthorised product directly into the market.
Failure to comply with Failure to comply with legal Our in-house tax and legal functions work closely with the business to identify and mitigate legal legal and regulatory obligations or regulatory and regulatory risks using both internal resources and external advisers where either specialist or frameworks.
frameworks in the diverse local advice is needed.
markets in which we operate The Group is well progressed in a programme to simplify its legal entity structure.
could result in financial penalties, the inability to enforce contracts and or reputational damage.
Risk of cyber, system A failure to protect data We continue to invest in new information technology systems and infrastructure to enhance our or information security adequately could lead to security profile.
Security controls, including regular audits and penetration tests, are in place to breach.
financial losses, prosecution ensure that data is protected from corruption, unauthorised access or use through encryption.
and reputational damage to A detailed external review of the Groups security maturity was completed during the year.
of actions targeted to further enhance our security environment are being monitored via the Groups Risk Committee.
We are accredited, both in store and on-line, with the Payment Card Industry standards and do not hold any customer related payment information, even if encrypted, within our systems infrastructure.
A culture of information security awareness is critical and our global data protection training programme ensures that colleague responsibilities in this area and the specific requirements of data protection legislation are understood and built into operational processes.
co. uk 53 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 How We Manage Our Risks.
Change Change in risk in risk Link to 2016 2017 Strategy Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Risk of significant Our financial results could We maintain constant management oversight, including Board review, of foreign exchange changes in currency be impacted by changes in exposure and opportunities.
We use forward foreign exchange contracts to provide planning certainty in the major currencies in which we trade.
While mitigating currency translation exposure, the Board consider that this risk has heightened following the European Referendum.
This Groups policy on foreign currency risk is set out in note 31 to the financial statements.
The Group is reliant The Group may fail to Our sourcing strategy includes long-standing supplier relationships with a proven track record and includes dual sourcing where appropriate to facilitate continuous supply in the event of supplier upon a global supply maximise its revenues, limiting chain and logistics brand exposure and reducing failure.
Our supply relationships are formalised with a supplier manual and regular global supplier customer goodwill conferences providing clear expectations and a framework within which our partners operate.
infrastructure to maximise availability of Through implementing a series multi-channel distribution centres capable of serving all channels in a products, on time and specific geographic region the Group and with a common operating system has built in resilience in NEW to specified quality the event of the failure of a single regional centre.
We continue to develop our upstream inventory holding capability which allows inventory to be held closer to origin allowing for more flexible allocation to serve individual geographical markets.
In market hubs provide quality inspections to facilitate earlier identification and rectification of quality or compliance issues.
Multi-channel revenue Poor relative multi-channel We have a dynamic rolling programme of enhancements, each of which improves the customer growth driven by experience may lead to failure experience and will typically deploy several improvements to the sites each week.
attractive, functional to achieve growth targets and We have a comprehensive, multiple layered approach to our developments informed by both and reliable websites, reduce the attractiveness of quantitative and qualitative customer evaluation of our on-site customer experience advantaged service the brand with our customers.
We have a fast follower approach to digital marketing, leveraging new approaches, but not proposition and NEW embarking on higher risk untested techniques.
We constantly monitor customer response rates to effective marketing activity to ensure that we remain relevant in what we do to our target audience.
strategies is key to the ongoing development of We operate a Customer Scorecard which monitors overall customer experience including product the brand.
feedback from customers and any failures to meet delivery service levels or Contact Centre responsiveness.
This information is used to create action plans to rapidly address any issues that are impacting customers.
