Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance Split of revenue 6 Amec Foster Wheeler operates across the whole % 19 Americas of the oil & gas value chain from production NECIS to refining, processing and distribution of AMEASE Global Power Group derivative products in mining, clean energy 27 and the environment & infrastructure markets, employing around 40,000 people in more than 55 countries.
48 Total revenue 2015 5.5bn Office locations Split of employees Employees 2015 6 21 % Americas NECIS AMEASE 40k Global Power Group 32 41 Amec Foster Wheeler 02 Annual report and accounts 2015 Delivering ground breaking energy-related projects around Our operations the world.
Our operations are structured into four business units three with geographic remits and one with a global remit see overviews below.
This structure has been designed to further enable collaboration and promote greater growth opportunities.
Americas Northern Europe & CIS Asia, Middle East, Africa and Global Power Group The largest of our business NECIS Southern Europe AMEASE Operating three units, with around 16,000 Northern Europe & The Asia, Middle East, manufacturing facilities, employees and approximately the Commonwealth of Africa & Southern Europe two cogeneration plants, 150 offices in 10 countries, Independent States has AMEASE unit has over 8,000 10 engineering and service across North and around 12,500 employees employees, spread across centres in seven countries South America.
operating in more than 120 more than 40 locations, and employing around 2,500 locations across 20 countries, with strong capabilities and employees, this business unit The business is balanced with its expertise extending customer reach across each designs, supplies and erects across our markets.
of our oil & gas, environment steam generating, auxiliary & gas, we are delivering & infrastructure and and air pollution control world scale projects across The unit has broad-based mining markets.
equipment, as well as a wide a portfolio of upstream, customer reach across three range of aftermarket products midstream and downstream of our markets: in environment In addition to our regional and services.
business, with a leadership & infrastructure: clean energy locations, we also have our E&I position in the oil sands notably in the nuclear and clean energy group which Delivering projects and of Canada, a strong US industry, including asset works across all markets and services virtually anywhere position onshore and in support, decommissioning is focused on delivering major in the world, we enable the Gulf of Mexico and a and new-build programmes: construction projects and utilities, independent power growing presence in Mexico.
and oil & gas across the specialty consulting services producers and industrial We provide a full-service value chain and lifecycle for across key geographies customers to achieve their solution in the mining projects onshore and offshore, throughout AMEASE power, process steam and market from our leading from pre-feasibility consulting and beyond.
position in consulting, project to late-life management and delivery and remediation.
In clean energy, we have a strong renewables business supporting the development of solar and wind projects, a robust nuclear position and a growing development of gas power.
Throughout our geographies we are a leading environmental consultancy.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 03 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance continued Our customers include Our four markets Our diversified approach with operations across four markets BP KOC balances risk and maximises opportunity over the long term.
ConocoPhilips Kuwait National Petroleum Co We provide similar services across our markets see pages Duke Energy Louisville Gas & Electric Co 24 to 25, winning work through strong customer relationships and our proven ability to deliver projects successfully.
Many EDF Newmont of the skills and services we provide to our customers are Enterprise Products Operating LLC Owens Corning transferable across markets.
Equistar Chemicals LP PEMEX ExxonMobil Sempra Georgia Pacific Shell Georgia Power Talisman Sinopec Oil & Gas K&S Potash Canada Zadco We are involved in every part of the project delivery phase across the oil & gas value chain, but we specifically do not operate in early cycle exploration or drilling.
Order book 6 % 27 Americas NECIS AMEASE Clean Energy Global Power Group In renewables we provide a full-service engineering, 31 procurement and construction solution on wind, solar, biomass and biofuels projects.
We also support the full lifecycle of 36 nuclear energy and are a respected leader in the design and supply of combustion and steam generation equipment.
Order book Mining We offer mining consultancy including ore resource estimation, 6.6bn mine planning and feasibility studies, design, project and construction management services.
Environment & Infrastructure E&I We are a leading consulting, engineering and project management firm with strong market positions, especially in the water, transportation and infrastructure, government services and industrial sectors.
A diversified customer proposition in four distinct, yet complementary markets.
Amec Foster Wheeler 04 Annual report and accounts 2015 Our sectors Upstream Midstream Full lifecycle for the upstream Providing transportation oil & gas industry offshore for the midstream oil & and onshore gas industry Downstream Mining Executing downstream Expertise and delivery projects in refining, chemicals from concept to closure and petrochemicals Nuclear Renewables Bioprocess Expertise spanning the A century of experience entire lifecycle of complex supporting todays nuclear assets renewable energy Conventional Power Transmission & Distribution High-value services, Innovative and high-value equipment and technology added solutions for power plants Water Government Global expertise in every Comprehensive aspect of water, from environmental, engineering source to ocean services and design Industrial Pharmaceutical Transportation & Offering a whole world of Infrastructure technical expertise and full Innovative solutions for lifecycle services complex transportation needs Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 05 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
