STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our vision AVEVAs vision is to power Digital Assets that help shape our world Our mission AVEVAs mission is to unlock the potential of every customer with a Digital Asset that transforms their creation and operation of complex assets UNLOCK THE POWER OF YOUR DIGITAL ASSET The Digital Asset is the information core of every project and facility.
It unifies trusted information that runs through every system, populates every application, and is embedded in every document and model.
It removes barriers to information flow and provides access to that information, both for capital project execution and asset lifecycle management.
Digital Asset DigitalAsset Online Video Learn more about the Digital Asset To watch AVEVAs Digital Asset video, at www.
com video 1 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Highlights This has been a year of good strategic progress, delivering increased value to our customers through technology innovation and greater business efficiency inmore challenging markets.
Financial Revenue Profit before tax Audited profit margin 208.7m 54.9m 29.8% On an organic constant currency basis Adjusted to exclude certain non-cash 2014 33.0% 220.4 million 2014237.3 million and exceptionalitems 62.1 million 2014 78.3 million Recurring revenue Final dividend Net assets 158.2m 25 pence 189.9m On an organic constant currency basis up 14% from 2013 14 22 pence 166.6 million 2014167.0million Strong balance sheet 2014 185.0 million Strategic AVEVA Everything3D Global Accounts Acquisitions Adoption of AVEVA E3D by existing and We have made significant progress Acquisitions are a key part of AVEVAs new customers continues to accelerate.
indeepening our relationship with our growth strategy and this year we added In the past year AVEVA has announced Global Accounts, by offering a complete 8over8 to our organisation.
8over8s the adoption of AVEVA E3D by leading solution across all disciplines and flagship product is ProCon, a risk global companies including: AMEC Foster through continued innovation.
management software platform that Wheeler, Atkins, D3 Engineering, connects Owner Operators OOs, JSC NIIK, KBR, Tekfen Engineering, and Engineering, Procurement and Partners and Tianchen, among others.
Construction EPCs throughout the The development of solutions together www.
com news project life cycle.
com with key partners remains critical to our market strategy.
EMC, Capgemini and Innovation Meridium are just three such partners that are helping us to achieve our Digital We have an enviable reputation for Asset vision.
com partners providing creative software solutions.
Thisyear our greatly enhanced versions of AVEVA NET and AVEVA Engineering took centre stage, along with AVEVA E3D in the Cloud and new visualisation tools.
Operational One AVEVA Solutions & Technology Digital Asset Projects One AVEVA translates into greater Our Solutions & Technology R&D Our Digital Asset Projects team coordination of our global sales team operation provides a unified approach to focuses on maximising the value we with a focus on delivering a Digital Asset promoting the tighter integration of our can provide to our customers through approach across our customers entire software solutions, as well as providing a world-class professional services project and asset lifecycle.
natural efficiencies and flexibility as our and consulting offering.
Adjusted profit before tax, adjusted profit margin and adjusted basic earnings per share are calculated before amortisation of intangible assets excluding other software, share-based payments, gain loss on fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and exceptional items.
In addition, adjusted basic earnings per share also include the tax effects of these adjustments.
2 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
