strategic report Britvic at a glance making Britvics purpose is to make lifes everyday moments more enjoyable.
lifes everyday We offer a wide range of soft drinks to moments more meet the many and varied needs of our consumers: at home or out and enjoyable about, there is a great tasting, high quality Britvic brand for every occasion.
The Britvic of today has come a long way from its mid-19th century origins in a chemists shop in Essex.
The British Vitamin Product Company set the standard in the 1930s when it started bottling fruit juice to provide an easy and affordable source of vitamins to the local community.
Today Britvic is a leading international soft drinks company, with a strong heritage.
We have operations in GB, Ireland and France and now Brazil, having acquired Empresa Brasileira fide Bebidas e Alimentos SA Ebba on 30 September 2015.
We have also been taking our brands around the world, exporting to over 50 countries and working with carefully chosen partners in countries including the USA and India to franchise our brands.
We have an enviable portfolio of leading brands and strong market positions.
In GB and Ireland, we are the number one supplier of still soft drinks and the number two supplier of carbonates.
Robinsons has long been the UKs number one squash brand and J O is the number one premium juice 2 brand.
Other brands like Tango, R Whites Lemonade as well as Britvic juices and mixers, are staples in UK shopping baskets or on a trip to the pub.
Fruit Shoot is the number one kids soft drinks brand in the UK and is at the heart of our international expansion.
In France we have the leading syrup brand, Teisseire, and Teisseire Fruit Shoot is now the number one kids juice drink.
In Ireland, Ballygowan is the number one water brand, while MiWadi squash and the Club range are leaders in their categories.
We are proud of our longstanding partnership with PepsiCo, which began in 1987.
We make and sell a number of their brands, including Pepsi and 7UP in GB and Ireland, and are now partnering with PepsiCo as we roll out Fruit Shoot in the USA.
We are equally proud of our people who are critical to our success.
We are committed to building a great place to work and making Britvic an inspiring place to be for our employees.
Britvic is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the code BVIC.
Its market capitalisation at 27 September 2015 was 1.8 billion.
4 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements other information strategic report Britvic at a glance continued Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 5
