d n a b d a o r B T V e l i b V Our business in brief We are a full service communications provider operating across 18 countries in the Caribbean and Latin America.
Retail Markets We are the leading telecommunications opportunities and support the economies Our business in brief operator in most of the markets we serve.
and communities through our corporate Through increased investment in our social responsibility programmes.
Our networks, we are delivering best-in-class main markets are Panama, The Bahamas, services in mobile, broadband, fixed Seychelles and 15 Caribbean markets, voice, video services to consumers, and including Jamaica, Barbados, Cayman Islands connectivity and Managed Services to and Trinidad and Tobago.
We are We are geographically focused in the a strong economic contributor to the Caribbean and Latin America with our new countries in which we operate.
As a major operational hub in Miami.
Our Company is infrastructure provider, we have an headquartered in London and is listed on the extensive sub-sea cable network, which London Stock Exchange.
spans more than 42,000 kilometres the largest in the region.
We partner with governments, provide employment Our brands Panama The Bahamas Seychelles Caribbean Transforming our business Delivering world class through the acquisition of Business-to-Business and Columbus International Inc.  services in our markets Read more about Columbus on page 9 Read more about our Business-to-Business services on pages 13 to 15 02 Cable & Wireless Communications i o d M e o e n i l d e x i F Our services Mobile Broadband Fixed voice Video We are the leader in Our high-speed We are the leading We are the leader 10 out of 16 mobile broadband service landline service in 7 out of 10 video markets in which is a leader in 16 out provider in 17 out markets in which we we operate.
Through our newly of 18 broadband markets that of 18 markets.
With the acquisition of upgraded network infrastructure we serve.
We are delivering fixed line convergence capability Columbus, we plan to begin we enable customers to enjoy superfast fixed broadband to gives us a strategic advantage, offering video in several more leading, always on mobile and homes, workplaces and public enabling us to provide customers countries, by utilising our mobile data services to make spaces.
We will continue to with the best network quality extensive networks and calls, send and or receive increase broadband speed and experience.
We have 1.1 million customer service systems.
messages, and access the reliability to our 658,000 fixed line customers.
We now have 460,000 video Internet.
We have 3.8 million broadband customers.
Business solutions Wholesale solutions We have established a Using telecoms services we We own the most extensive successful Business Solutions help governments to improve sub-sea and terrestrial fibre stand-alone unit focused on efficiency and lower the cost optic cable network across the delivering a broad range of of delivering public services Caribbean and Latin America services for our business and in areas such as healthcare, region, enabling us to serve our government customers, from emergency services calling own customers as well as selling installing telecoms and IT platforms, CCTV surveillance to other telecommunications systems to managing services and online education.
In a number of are opportunities to expand markets we also store data our work and replicate it in securely for our customers.
Read more about our business regions on pages 28 to 35 Annual Report 2014 15 03
