Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information With a vision for sustainable and steady economic HIGHLIGHTS growth, the government has maintained stable legal Financial and fiscal frameworks which encourage investment in the region and which support the future development US$603 million m Group net cash at 31 December 2015. of the Cairn project.
Reserve Based Lending bank facility remains undrawn: debt availability to fund UK development assets increasing with project progress, with The Board of Directors met in Dakar in 2015 and availability expected to reach US$335m at peak and US$260m by 2017: visited the rig, port and local office: meeting the additional US$175m available in the form of Letters of Credit.
in-country Cairn team along with the shore base A total of 49.5 mmboe booked as 2P reserves and 196.5 mmboe operation.
Dakar is an attractive and exciting place booked as 2C Contingent Resources on a net working interest basis to operate as we focus on achieving commerciality from our two back-to-back discoveries.
Our approach in Senegal is consistent with Cairns Exploration Senegal strategic delivery in recent years: we are a highly Cairn resource estimates of the SNE-1 discovery in the Sangomar Deep experienced operator with a focus on health and Offshore block upgraded following the incorporation of SNE-2 well results to: safety and providing benefit to the communities in which we operate.
Central to this are the strong P90 1C increased by 30% to 200 mmbbls: partnerships we form with industry and government P50 2C increased by 20% to 385 mmbbls: alike.
The Board saw first hand not only the size and P10 3C increased to 690 mmbbls.
scale of opportunity in Senegal, but also the strength Successful testing of SNE-2, the first appraisal well with positive results, and depth of the team managing the project.
Joint Venture JV in Senegal brings many capabilities Successful testing of SNE-3, the second appraisal well, announced in that are being applied to the existing exploration and March 2016. appraisal programme and will also benefit future development.
Importantly, the JV shares a common BEL-1 exploration well commenced operations in March 2016. and universal commitment to health, safety, security, Resource upgrade does not include results of the SNE-3 appraisal well where environment and sustainable development.
Cairn data analysis is ongoing.
Any further resource revisions following full analysis is very familiar with operating at this stage of an of the results of SNE-3 and BEL-1 will be announced in due course.
emerging hydrocarbon province where there is a national desire to move steadily forward to hydrocarbon production whilst safeguarding the North Sea interests of local communities and the environment.
Catcher and Kraken developments in the UK North Sea on track for first oil from 2017.
We welcomed two new independent non-executive Additional 4.5% interest in Kraken acquired, after the year end, Directors to the Board in 2015 Keith Lough and from First Oil bringing Cairns total working interest to 29.5%.
Peter Kallos who both have a wealth of experience Peak net targeted production to Cairn for North Sea interests in the oil and gas industry and in the wider energy and resources sector.
During the year, we undertook of 25,000 boepd.
an external evaluation of board performance and Five new licences awarded in Norway in Q1 2016, including one effectiveness with a number of improvements as Operator.
I would like to recognise and thank all Kraken West, UK North Sea EnQuest Operator, Cairn 29.5% WI our employees and contractors for their effort, appraisal well confirmed the presence of oil with potential for upside.
commitment and hard work in 2015 in what has Further evaluation is ongoing.
been a very busy year, as we look forward to an Crossbill, Norwegian North Sea Wintershall Operator, Cairn 20% WI exciting year ahead.
Operations were completed in Q2 and the well was permanently plugged and abandoned.
India Tax Dispute International arbitration proceedings have commenced to settle the Indian tax dispute, with Cairn claiming full compensation for the US$1 billion value of which its shareholders have been deprived.
The total assets of the Cairn subsidiary against which the Indian Tax Authorities are seeking to pursue a tax claim are US$477m including principally the groups 10% shareholding in Cairn India Limited and any recovery by the Indian authorities would be limited to such assets.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 05
