STRATEGIC REPORT At a Glance The Group operates in nine different territories.
We have 218 cinema sites with 2,011 screens.
We are the second largest cinema business inEurope and the number one or two by number of screens ineachterritory of operation.
Our brands UK and Ireland 898 SCREENS 90 SITES 70 SCREENS 22 SITES Cineworld is one of the UKs leading cinema chains by Box Picturehouse provides a unique, local and intimate film viewing Office revenues.
The cinemas are modern, well designed experience having created cinemas of both high quality and of multiplexes with stadium and allocated seating, situated architectural merit.
Picturehouse operates in 13 towns and mostly in leisure and retail parks.
Cineworld provides a cities, with eight located in London villages, and continues to highlevel of customer service to a large volume and wide focus on cinemagoers aged 25 and over, students and those in demographic of customers and shows a very broad range the more affluent demographics.
These audiences are reached offilms: it is also offers the highly successful Unlimited card by showing a mix of quality blockbusters, alternative content which allows customers access to unlimited films for a monthly and specialised films.
With generally five screens or fewer, subscription.
During the period Cineworld continued the Picturehouse Cinemas create a cosy atmosphere, offering renovation of some of its older cinemas, completing the freshly-cooked food, bars and other special events, making renovation of Milton Keynes which included the first 4DX theexperience a bit different to the big multiplexes.
During the screen to be launched in the UK and Sheffield which includes period, our flagship site, Picturehouse Central was opened in our first VIP offering in the UK in addition to the opening the heart of Londons West End, close to Leicester Square with ofeight new cinema sites.
a unique offering including a restaurant and members bar.
Central & Eastern Europe and Israel 937 SCREENS 97 SITES 106 SCREENS 9 SITES Yes Planet and Rav-Chen are the two brands the Group Cinema City operates in six Central and Eastern European operates within Israel.
Yes Planet is the market leader, offering territories and is either the number one or two, measured IMAX, 4DX and VIP screens to its customers.
The styles and byscreens, in each of the markets in which it operates.
The designs of the cinemas are a mixture of modern, multiplexes cinemas are all modern, well designed multiplexes with four or and local community cinemas, some of which were the first more screens, have market leading technologies such as IMAX, cinemas to be built in Israel.
All cinemas have stadium seating, 4DX and VIP and cater for a high volume of customers.
The big screens and the latest digital technology.
The cinemas cinemas tend to have larger foyers than those in the UK, giving show a range of popular films in comfortable surroundings to an impressive and welcoming feel and its proud local teams alarge number of customers.
During 2015 a state-of-the art provide a great experience to their customers.
All cinemas have 16screen cinema was opened in Jerusalem with IMAX, 4DX, allocated seating as standard and offer a wide range of popular and VIP screens.
films, many of which are local to the territory in which the cinemas are situated.
Romania has been the focus market for expansion and development with five new cinema sites opened in 2015 and a further five scheduled for opening in2016.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 2 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT Theatre Operations UK, Ireland, Central Eastern Europe and Israel In 2015, there were over 93 million customer admissions across all our cinemas.
We are currently scheduled to open 465 screens over the next four years, 290 in CEE & Israel and 175 in the UK.
OF CINEMAS SCREENS 1 UK & Ireland 112 968 2 Poland 33 354 3 Romania 22 198 4 Hungary 20 176 5 Czech Republic 13 115 6 Israel 9 106 7 Bulgaria 6 65 8 Slovakia 3 29 Total 218 2,011 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 3
