DELIVERING OUR GLOBAL GROWTH STRATEGY Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 slugline Welcome to Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra is an international specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals and related products business.
Our expertise is in the development, manufacture, and sales and marketing of high quality products exclusively for veterinarians worldwide.
Investor Website We maintain a corporate website at www.
com containing a wide range of information of interest to both institutional and private investors including: Latest news and press releases Annual reports and investor presentations Getting Around the Report Below is a selection of icons you will see used within this report: Online Report For more information see Visit our online annual report at: More information online further pages within the at: www.
Glossary Terms used within this section Forward-Looking Statements: This document contains certain forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available to the Company during preparation and up to the publication of this document.
By their very nature, these statements depend upon circumstances and relate to events that may occur in the future and thereby involve a degree of uncertainty.
Therefore, nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast by the Company.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
A reconciliation of underlying to reported measures can be found on page 43.
Operational Highlights Strong financial performance with double digit revenue and Advances in the short term pipeline with approval of TAF Spray underlying profit growth at CER.
and Osphos in EU, and filing of Zycortal.
Good progress made on delivering our global growth strategy.
Investment made in sales resources, infrastructure and manufacturing to support our future growth.
EU Pharmaceuticals revenue grew by 3.9% at CER with a strong performance in Companion Animal Products CAP partly Conditional offer of 51.4 million made for Genera d. d. offset by a decline in Food producing Animal Products FAP.
announced on 3 August 2015 to enable us to enter the poultry vaccines market.
Excellent performance in North America Pharmaceuticals with a revenue increase of 59.9% at CER, driven by the growth of our Cash conversion of 107.1% and a net cash position of core brands, new product launches and the acquired product, 13.4 million.
Continued geographical expansion with trading commencing in two new subsidiaries in Canada and Poland.
