STRATEGIC REPORT Group at a glance We are driven day in, day out by our brand purpose: T TO FEED THE PO O FEED THE POWER OF POSSIBLE WER OF POSSIBLE ONE PIZZA A ONE PIZZA A ONE PIZZA AT A TIME T A TIME T A TIME This inspires and motivates uson three levels: ENTREPRENEURIAL DEDICATED TO KEEPING OUR 111 SPIRIT 222 INNOVATION 333 PROMISES It taps into the entrepreneurial spirit embodied It aligns with our desire never to stand still and It inspires us to commit relentlessly todelivering by our franchisees.
Itrecognises the opportunity innovate continually to improve our product, service, one pizza atatime.
Weknow that downtime is the brand has afforded to people to pursue their image and increasingly our use of technology.
precious, we know that money isstilltight, and own dream of business ownership, populating Innovation is in the DNA of the brand, be that we understand that delivered food cannot be a our company culture with stories of driver to from the invention of the spoodle, our patented disappointment.
We know that we have to deliver manager to single store franchisee tomulti-store heatwave technology, or the development a hot, fresh, tastypizza when we say we will.
ofonline and mobile ordering platforms.
How we operate: SUPPLY CHAIN FRANCHISEES Our passion for only the finest quality ingredients ensures we Our network of exceptional franchisees remains committed to continue to maintain an excellent relationship with oursuppliers.
Theirentrepreneurial spirit and We negotiate the best commercial terms and have many long-term drive ensure our continued success on the high street.
It is our supplier agreements in place.
Our Supply Chain Centres continue jobto support our franchisees intheir efforts to run profitable to lead the way in relation to standards ofexcellence throughout businesses andto ensure that high brand standards Dominosworldwide.
931 87 10.5 TOTAL STORES FRANCHISEES AVERAGE STORES PER FRANCHISEE STORES REVENUE m UK 869 UK 283.7 Republic of Ireland 47 Republic of Ireland 21.4 Switzerland 15 Switzerland 11.7 Corporate ownership.
93 5 2 z89 7 4 z Dominos Pizza Group plc 02 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leading the way in: PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY We take great pride in the quality of our We have made the transition from a products and we work hard withour bricks-and-mortar retailer to a genuine suppliers to make sure that each pizza e-commerce retailer.
We constantly strive % uses the best possible ingredients.
This tobe at the cutting edge of technological 100 10m means our customers can be confident innovation, as demonstrated by our initial MOZZARELLA APP DOWNLOADS that they are buying carefully sourced and commitment to online ordering inthe 1990s, CHEESE prepared foods without hydrogenated fats or the more recent development of our or artificial flavourings and colourings.
We are relentless inour pursuit of using technology to make our customers lives that little bit easier.
ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE We take pride in the image we portray We are driven, day in, day out by our brand tocustomers.
We invest our national purpose to feed the power of possible, one advertising fund to help build the profile of pizza at a time.
This desire to never stand % the brand amongst our target audience.
We still and push forward, be it in terms of store 1m 11.7 have recently refreshed our store design to openings, technological and product FACEBOOK FANS LFL SALES better celebrate the theatre of making fresh innovation, customer service and the GROWTH pizza.
Our new store design reflects the support for our franchisees underpins freshness of the ingredients and provides ourperformance.
customers with a window into the world of pizza making, showcasing that every one ofour pizzas is made fresh to order.
See more: 11 Our business model 14 Our strategy 12 Our markets Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 03
