Strategic report Chief Executives review 25 Highlights % % 3 5 Total revenue growth Full year dividend up 5% from continuing activities to 39.25 US cents per share Revenue and EBIT by region, EBIT margin 1 1 2015 2014 Total growth Organic growth US$m US$m % % Revenue North America 2,468 2,404 3 2 Latin America 857 925 3 3 UK and Ireland 999 944 5 4 EMEA Asia Pacific 486 499 4 3 Total continuing activities 4,810 4,772 3 1 2 Discontinuing activities 68 n a Total 4,810 4,840 2 EBIT North America 761 757 1 Latin America 313 344 2 UK and Ireland 314 284 11 EMEA Asia Pacific 1 7 30 Sub-total 1,387 1,392 3 Central Activities central corporate costs 81 83 n a Continuing activities 1,306 1,309 4 2 Discontinuing activities 3 n a Total 1,306 1,306 4 EBIT margin continuing activities 27.2% 27.4% 1 At constant exchange rates.
2 Discontinuing activities comprise small discontinuing businesses in Latin America and EMEA Asia Pacific.
See the Financial review for analysis of revenue, EBIT and EBIT margin by business segment and note 6 to the Group financial statements for definitions of non-GAAP measures.
26 Strategic report Chief Executives review Chief Executives review continued Latin America information, have contributed to a good Strategy In Latin America, growth was driven outcome for the year and bode well for the Earlier this year we laid out our plan aimed largely by our own efforts as the future.
The UK was a promising market for at delivering attractive rates of earnings macroeconomic backdrop continues to 41st Parameter deployments part of our growth and superior returns through a be weak, particularly in Brazil.
During the fraud detection suite, where weve had a strategy focused on five key priorities, and year we implemented a series of measures number client wins, several of which are while still at an early stage, we are making in Brazil to direct our efforts at market now starting to go live, and our pipeline good progress against our goals.
segments where growth is available.
This of prospects is building.
There were also helped sustain momentum in business encouraging signs in Marketing Services, Focus: is about concentrating on our information where weve seen good growth where our cross-channel marketing bigger businesses, with future growth through the introduction of new features platform saw good rates of adoption, more likely to come from within the and scores which help to enhance the and Consumer Services delivered further existing business footprint rather than value of our offers.
We also continue to growth in memberships, even as it any major step-out.
We have evaluated develop services for consumers, through compared against an exceptionally strong a number of smaller operations in the products such as Limpa Nome Clean My performance in the previous year.
portfolio, some of which are non-core, Name which, while still small in terms of and were examining options for reducing EMEA Asia Pacific revenue contribution, are establishing our our exposure in these areas.
Weve made good progress in EMEA credentials as a provider of services to Asia Pacific.
We saw a much improved Growth: were building a strong platform consumers in Brazil.
Were also investing performance in Asia Pacific, which for growth by investing in specific in talent and propositions to address returned to double-digit organic revenue opportunities.
These are in consumer emerging growth opportunities in areas growth.
We also delivered steady information, business information, like data quality and fraud prevention.
underlying progress in EMEA, masked health, fraud and identity management, These efforts, together with strong growth by the one-off item that weve previously and software and analytics, all of which in our other Latin American markets, referenced.
Momentum is building across contributed positively to Experians growth helped us withstand softer conditions some of our key product lines.
in the Brazilian retail lending sector, a very strong year for cross-channel where clients are focusing more on risk Improve performance: weve made marketing new business wins and saw mitigation strategies than on originating progress in addressing performance continuing momentum for PowerCurve, new loans.
We have also done a lot to issues in North America Consumer our flagship credit decisioning platform.
enhance operational efficiency, which Services, Brazil and Marketing Services, will help us address new growth markets EBIT margins as discussed above.
Delivering sustained more effectively while keeping a tight recovery in these areas will be critical to We faced a number of margin headwinds control on costs.
getting to our medium-term goal of mid this year, specifically from higher legal single-digit organic revenue growth.
and regulatory costs, the dilutive effect UK and Ireland of recent acquisitions and the reduction In the UK and Ireland we delivered growth Efficiency: were making changes to our in revenue in North America Consumer across all business lines and strong operating model to become more efficient Services.
Even so, at constant exchange progression in EBIT margins.
Recently we evolved rates we sustained margins due to the period of significant investment in Credit and simplified our matrix structure by strength of performance in the UK Services, were seeing good levels of consolidating three global business lines and Ireland, an improving outcome growth in both business and consumer with a remit to focus purely on strategic in EMEA Asia Pacific and a focus on information.
Business information is opportunities and global platforms.
Our cost containment across the Group.
At benefiting as we expand in the small and regions are now wholly responsible for constant currency, EBIT margins were up medium enterprise channel, and as we client engagement, execution and revenue 10 basis points to 27.5%.
Foreign exchange increase the sophistication of our product accountability.
This will help sharpen translation had an adverse effect on set for larger customers.
We see further our strategic focus, promote crossreported margins and at actual rates EBIT potential for growth from the provision of collaboration and eliminate complexity.
margins reduced by 20 basis points to international data, as we leverage our new These changes are aimed at enhancing 27.2%, mainly due to the weakening of the platform, called the Global Data Network.
organisational effectiveness and there is Brazilian real relative to the US dollar, and These measures, coupled with the success no change to external reporting segments.
the depreciation of the euro relative to the weve met with in newer areas such as US dollar.
credit pre-qualification in consumer Strategic Report Chief Executives review 27 27 Giving a helping hand.
Oiling the wheels in US automotive CREDIT SERVICES AUTOMOTIVE Mike Anderson Auto Group We received a phone call from Experian, saying they could tell us when a person was in the market for a car and that they would be able to buy it.
I figured why not give Experian a shot and see if their data was as good as they said.
They know that this persons in the market for a vehicle, right now... for me, thats priceless.
Jim Brennan Mike Anderson Auto Group The automotive industry is a major part of the US economy, with annual sales of 60 million vehicles valued at US$1.3 trillion.
By gathering and analysing data on every aspect of the industry from the market as a whole to individual buyers and vehicles, our automotive team supports manufacturers and lenders, as well as dealers such as the Mike Anderson Auto Group.
Our insights have helped them to identify new customers, so they can expand their business while meeting the needs of consumers to buy the car theyre looking for.
28 Strategic report Chief Executives review Chief Executives review continued Capital optimisation: earlier this year Return on capital employed we conducted a thorough review of our Return on capital employed ROCE capital plans to sharpen focus on capital for the year was 14.9% 2014: 15.6%.
Weve since implemented expected, ROCE reduced during the year changes in the way we assess risk and due to the effect of the Passport and 41st how we allocate capital internally, with Parameter acquisitions made during 2013. a more prominent focus on returns.
We Excluding this effect ROCE progressed by also seek to balance flexibility to invest, 110 basis points during the year.
with optimisation of our cost of capital Dividend and balance sheet prudence, and as a result we announced changes in January For the year ended 31 March 2015, were 2015 to our target debt ratios and dividend announcing a second interim dividend policy.
We also initiated a share repurchase of 27.00 US cents per share.
This gives a programme, which is targeted to complete full year dividend of 39.25 US cents per by 31 March 2016. share, up 5%, consistent with our policy of growing the dividend in line with or Other items ahead of Benchmark earnings.
The second Cash generation and uses of cash interim dividend will be paid on 24 July 2015 Cash generation during the year was to shareholders on the register at the close strong, with EBIT conversion into of business on 26 June 2015.
If the current operating cash flow of 104%, compared foreign exchange rate 1 US$1.54 as at to 101% in the previous year.
Operating 11 May 2015 prevails when the second cash flow increased to US$1,359m from interim dividend is translated, the full US$1,321m in 2014.
During the year, year dividend expressed in sterling would US$380m was utilised in organic capital increase by 16%.
investment, and US$67m supported People acquisitions, principally a small credit prequalification business in the UK.
Share Finally, I would like to acknowledge the purchases amounted to US$192m.
tremendous effort by all the people of Experian during the past financial year.
In January 2015 we announced a US$600m While it was a year of some challenges, share buyback programme, of which we delivered a successful outcome and US$64m had been completed by the I am incredibly proud of how committed end of March 2015. everyone is to pushing the business forward.
The energy I see across the Equity dividends paid amounted to business is palpable and I am confident US$374m, and after other small inflows a that well make great progress in the balance of US$592m was used to reduce coming year, delivering on the many net debt.
At 31 March 2015, net debt was exciting initiatives we have across US$3,217m, representing 1.9 times EBITDA the Group.
for the last twelve months, and just below our target debt range of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
Strategic report Chief Executives review 29 Giving a helping hand.
Helping Claire get control of her finances CONSUMER SERVICES Claire Barron My finances were a mess.
I had loans, student loans and rent to pay and I was defaulting on defaults, which is a really bad place to be.
From the outset, CreditExpert helped me gain control.
It helped me think about what I was doing with my money and what the outcome was, then gave me support and advice.
Claire Barron CreditExpert member When Claire Barron needed to get on top of her finances, she turned to our CreditExpert service in the UK.
We help people to understand their credit report and get the credit they need.
In fact, CreditExpert uses the same data that lenders use to assess peoples credit worthiness, so they can see what affects their credit score and follow our advice on how to improve it.
As Claire says, Its not just a credit report its a lifestyle really.
I think its an amazing service.
