Securing your world G4S plays an important role in society our 610,000 employees deliver services that create a G4S AT A safer and better environment in which millions of people live and work.
The breadth of our services and geographic coverage provides both resilience GLANCE and growth opportunities.
For a more detailed discussion of the security market growth drivers see page 14.
SECURE SOLUTIONS Security and facilities management FM services Security systems and technology Market and Security and facilities management We differentiate the G4S brand Security systems and technology strategy FM services is by far the largest by investing in service innovation, represented around 8% of group business segment in G4S, representing employee selection, training, revenue in 2015.
The 84 supervision, service delivery and The global security systems market markets in which we provide these customer service and relationship is a large and growing market, but services are usually highly fragmented.
regional markets vary widely in Our competitors are typically smaller Our manned security customer terms of competition, products local and regional companies, although and services sold and customer base is a valuable intangible asset.
we do compete with international We have historically had little segments.
Our technology strategy companies in some countries and seeks to market core products cross-selling in our secure solutions in some markets we compete with business segment and an important and services that are increasingly facilities management companies.
developed globally and configured long-term element of our strategy Competition is intense in manned is to offer our broad range of locally to meet each regions security and FM and customers unique requirements.
services on a stand-alone basis or can be extremely price sensitive.
in conjunction with other services In our security systems service line We position G4S as a high quality, to provide customers with an we compete against fire and alarm global security service provider integrated and more valuable system manufacturers, installers with the skills, expertise and market security solution see the case and security systems integrators.
coverage to offer our customers study and chart on pages 30 and integrated, cost effective and We promote outsourcing and 31.
This offers the opportunity to innovative security solutions increase customer longevity and enhance the value of traditional that protect or add value to security services through greater grow our margins.
We have begun their organisations.
to improve our cross-selling in the use of technology see page 23.
USA, UK, Middle East and Europe and will continue to focus on this in 2016 and into the future.
Services The secure solutions business covers a wide range of services, including: Security systems and technology includes: Risk services and consultancy Security installation and Monitoring and response maintenance CCTV and video Secure facilities management services and image analytics software, advanced access control systems Manned and mobile security services System software and integration RISK360, GIS, TravelAware Revenue underlying % % 3,752m 58 506m 8 2014 restated: 3,548m 2014 restated: 482m Includes 44,000 employees in businesses to be sold or exited.
2 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report G4S areas of operation SECURE SOLUTIONS CASH SOLUTIONS Care and justice services Specialist outsourced services Cash solutions & secure logistics Care and justice services Based mainly in the UK, G4S offers The cash solutions business accounted for around represented around 9% of group a range of outsourcing services, which 14% of group revenue in 2015.
We are the market revenue in 2015.
The market together accounted for around 11% leader or number two in 43 of our 48 cash solutions structure is typically consolidated on of group revenues in 2015.
The main providers of similar services are the supply side with a small number services include back office support a small number of international competitors in mainly of providers.
Larger companies are and custody suites to UK police forces developed markets.
Wherever possible our cash usually better equipped to deliver and utility services data collection solutions business shares facilities and back office such highly specialised services.
processes with our secure solutions businesses.
The will only offer custody and detention Wealsomanage welfare to work market is highly regulated, often by central banks, services where we can maintain programmesin the UK and to date and the business requires complex infrastructure and a qualified talent pool and where have helped 58,000 people find significant expertise.
Our strategy assumes that digital the political, legal, human rights and employment.
Theseare specialist payment technology will continue to grow in developed regulatory framework is consistent services and there tend to be just a markets and gain traction in emerging markets in the with our group values and results in small number of private companies medium term.
For more information see page 32. acceptable operational, commercial providing similar services in the UK.
We aim to: and reputational risk.
We aim to offer innovative position G4S as a reliable, innovative low cost G4Ss larger scale care and justice and cost-effective solutions to operator that helps our customers to reduce services are concentrated primarily customers, leveraging our scale their cash handling costs and increase the ease in the UK and Australia, and on and expertise.
of use of cash for their customers a smaller scale in a number of play a key role in the management of the cash cycle European markets.
For more on behalf of central banks, commercial banks and detail see page 34. retailers, allowing them to focus on their core business use our developed market cash cycle expertise and track record to encourage central bank and financial institution outsourcing in emerging markets continue the expansion of innovative technology such as CASH360 Retail Solutions for retail customers see page 32.
The cash solutions business covers Care and justice services offers Specialist services include: highly specialised services to a wide range of services including: Police services central and local governments and Cash management outsourcing government agencies and authorities: Employment services Cash consulting Adult custody and rehabilitation Utility services ATM management Prisoner escorting Secure health services Retail cash management CASH360 Retail Solutions Immigration services International transportation Electronic monitoring % % % 557m 9 738m 11 880m 14 2014 restated: 587m 2014: 698m 2014: 872m Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 3
