2 Genus at a Glance Pioneering Animal Genetic Improvement Genus is a world-leading animal genetics company.
We provide farmers with superior genetics that enable them to more efficiently produce higherquality animal protein, in the form of meat and milk.
Genus is the market leader in porcine, dairy and beefgenetics and is uniquely positioned as a global player, with a dedicated, multi-species research and development R&D function and an international distribution network.
m 130 market pig equivalents with our genetics taken to market MPEs Including Agroceres, our Brazilian joint venture JV.
PIC ABS 50 country operations 70 country operations m 18 doses of semen per year delivered m 2,600 28 employees spend on R&D per year Where We Operate Genus has a world-class strategic supply chain, with global reach.
Our bovine business owns bull studs Revenue by Geography Revenue by Species in Europe, North America, Latin % % America and India, and sells genetics in more than 70 countries, both 10 directly and through distributors.
Our porcine business has a network of over 500 breeding herds in 35 countries.
Approximately 98% of 46 46 these herds are owned by third- 29 54 parties or our customers.
Genuss head office in Basingstoke, UK, provides shared services support North America Bovine to our international operations.
Latin America Porcine OurR&D laboratories are based Europe 15 inMadison, Wisconsin, US.
Asia Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 3 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION What We Do How We Operate Our Values Genus applies biotechnology to Genus sells under well-known Our values are integral to our accelerate genetic improvement and trademarks: PIC for pigs and ABS for role, which is to meet a basic deliver it to our customers, quickly and dairy and beef cattle.
Our three human need: nourishment.
We breed and distribute business units are: the genes of the worlds best pigs and Genus PIC, which serves porcine Customer Centric bulls, scientifically selecting livestock customers in North America, Latin We are one team, dedicated to whose offspring is designed to increase America and Europe.
We the profitability of our customers, Genus ABS, which serves dairy and anticipate their needs and help who are some of the worlds biggest beef customers in North America, them seize opportunities, acting farmers and food producers.
as partners to improve quality, Genus Asia, which serves porcine, efficiency and output.
If were not In the porcine market, we sell dairy and beef customers in adding value for our customers, genetically superior boars and fast-growing Asian markets.
sows that produce offspring with desirable characteristics, such as Results Driven feed-efficient growth or leaner meat.
We are proactive, determined to be the best we can be and to In the dairy and beef markets, our exceed expectations.
We redefine primary product is bull semen, standards for ourselves, our which is delivered through artificial customers and our industry.
Every insemination to improve our one of us takes pride in delivering customers herds and their efficiency.
the highest level of performance.
We also offer genetically superior If something can be improved, we embryos through our subsidiary IVB.
find a simpler, better way to do it.
Pioneering We are an innovative, forwardthinking company.
We have the courage and confidence Corporate Goals Corporate Social to explore new ideas and the Responsibility Objectives energy and enthusiasm to deliver them.
We are creative, Our Corporate Social Responsibility Create Genetic tenacious and resourceful in CSR objectives directly support every area of our work.
our corporate goals and help to Improvement make us a successful and sustainable Being the pioneer and leading People Focused business in the long term.
in genetics is vital for our We are a business rooted in continued success.
science but built around our people.
We inspire, challenge and support everyone to perform, Food Quality Operate Deliver Volume Growth develop and grow.
We treat others and Safely Our market relevance is measured with respect and we invite views Abundance by the number of animals on and feedback to help us improve.
Responsible We are ethical to our core.
We Environment Employees Drive Profitability feel a deep sense of responsibility To capture our share of the value to our customers, colleagues, we create through superior genetics.
We are honest, reliable and trustworthy.
We mean Animal Generate Cash what we say and do what we say.
Community Welfare To reinvest in the business and provide returns to shareholders.
see page 14 see pages 4247 The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 7 September 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Karim Bitar Stephen Wilson Chief Executive Group Finance Director Genus plcAnnual Report 2015
