HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our Group at a glance Well positioned for future growth We develop, manufacture and market a broad range of branded and non-branded generic pharmaceutical products across the US, the MENA region and Europe.
We are also a leading licensing partner in the MENA region.
Our operations span over 50 countries and are conducted through three business segments.
Branded Injectables Generics Our Branded business sells branded Our Injectables business sells specialised Our Generics business sellsnon-injectable generics and in-licensed patented generic injectable products globally, generic products in the United States, products across the MENA region with state-of-the-art manufacturing with an increasingly differentiated and other emerging markets.
facilities in the US and Europe.
Highlights Highlights Highlights Fifth largest pharmaceutical A leading global manufacturer of Quality manufacturing and manufacturer in the MENA region quality sterile injectables high servicelevels 1,944 sales people targeting physicians US FDA approved manufacturing Strong emphasis on niche products and pharmacists across the region facilities in the US, Portugal and Germany Leverages our efficient and lower Strong anti-infective franchise and A range of manufacturing capabilities, cost US FDA approved manufacturing increasing focus on cardiovascular, including sterile liquid, powder, facilities in Jordan and Saudi Arabia diabetes and central nervous system lyophilised and cytotoxic products 26 products in 68 dosage strengths CNS products Broad product portfolio including and forms US Food and Drug Administration FDA controlled substances, anti-infective, Key products include Butalbitalapproved manufacturing facilities cardiovascular and oncology products , Captopril, in Jordan and Saudi Arabia 185 products in 488 dosage strengths Colchicine, Doxycycline, Prednisone 377 products in 1,125 dosage forms and forms and strengths Key products include Argatroban, Key products include Amoclan, Fentanyl, Glycopyrrolate, Nicardipine, Blopress, Omnicef, Prograf, Suprax Phenylephrine 2015 Branded revenue 2015 Injectables revenue 2015 Generics revenue $570m $710m $151m 40% 49% 10% of Group revenue of Group revenue of Group revenue 4 STRATEGIC REPORT Hikma has 642 employees Hikma has 5,465 employees Europe and rest MENA region in Europe primarily in in the MENA region.
We have of the world Portugal, Germany and Italy local manufacturing facilities 46% where we have injectable in seven MENA markets and 6% manufacturing facilities.
of Group revenue sales and marketing teams These facilities supply of Group revenue operating in 17 markets.
injectable products to our global markets.
In the US, we have 1,082 employees.
Key Our large state-of-the-art 27 Manufacturing plants manufacturing facilities United States in 11 countries one for sterile injectables and one for oral solids are 6 R&D centres 48% supplying a broad range of products in the US market.
