GLOBAL REACH GLOBAL IMPACT INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GLOBAL REACH WHAT DOES GLOBAL Inmarsat was founded on the vision of seamless, REACH, GLOBAL IMPACT reliable, globally available communications.
This focus remains at the heart of our business and today with the successful introduction of our fastest and most powerful high-speed broadband service Global Xpress we remain at the forefront of global connectivity.
Our services reach across every continent and every ocean, ensuring that wherever our customers are located on land, at sea and in the air they can be assured that Inmarsat is ready and available to support their operation.
Scan the image montage above using the Inmarsat App to watch our Global Reach, Global Impact video.
GLOBAL IMPACT For all our customers, reliable connectivity from voice services to high-speed broadband is a crucial enabler.
We continually invest in our networks and work with a unique community of partners to deliver a suite of solutions that are specific to each sector.
Through this strategy, we provide an environment in which ship operators can deploy advanced technologies to improve efficiency: we bring new opportunities for airlines to augment cockpit communications and deliver a new era in passenger services.
And, across our other core sectors, we are delivering globally available services tailored to make a real difference.
Inmarsat is the worlds leading mobile satellite ABOUT communications company.
Our global reach delivers INMARSAT connectivity to even the most remote locations on earth.
Our global impact is felt by businesses, governments and individuals who rely on our space-enabled technology to meet the rapidly evolving demands of our increasingly connected world on land, at sea or in the air.
WHATS INSIDE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 52 Board of Directors 95 Independent Auditors report IFC About Inmarsat 55 Report of the Directors 100 Consolidated income statement IFC What does Global Reach, Global Impact 58 Corporate governance report 100 Consolidated statement of mean to us?
comprehensive income 72 Relations with shareholders 01 Investor proposition 101 Consolidated balance sheet 73 Remuneration report 01 Financial highlights 102 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 93 Directors responsibility statement 01 Business highlights 103 Consolidated cash flow statement 02 At a glance 104 Notes to the consolidated 04 Chairmans review financial statements 133 Company financial statements STRATEGY 136 Notes to the Company financial statements 06 Chief Executives review 137 Glossary 13 Our key performance indicators 139 Additional information 14 Our markets 18 Our business model 20 Our strategy 22 Resources and relationships Business reviews: 28 Maritime 32 Enterprise 36 Aviation 40 Government 44 Financial review 48 Risk management Download the Inmarsat App to experience Get it on: more.
Where you see this icon, scan the GOOGLE PLAY image to view video content.
