Strategic Report Overview ITV at a Glance ITV, as an integrated producer broadcaster, creates, owns and distributes high-quality content on multiple platforms.
We operate the largest commercial family of channels in the UK Broadcast anddeliver our content through traditional television broadcasting & Online aswell as on demand via the ITV Hub.
ITV broadcasts a wide variety of content on its family of free-to-air channels.
We invest over 1 billion annually in programming for our channels which is primarily funded by 46.1% television advertising revenue.
ITV has the largest share of the UK television advertising largest share of market, and we estimate this share to be 46.1% in 2015 2014: 45.9%.
the UK TV ad market The family of channels attracted a total share of viewing SOV of 21.2% in 2015 2014: 22.0%, thelargest audience of any UK commercial broadcaster.
Our main channel is the largest commercial channel in the UK, delivering 98% of all commercial audiences over five million.
21.2% share of viewing for the ITV Family Our free-to-air digital channels provide more targeted demographics for advertisers in 2015 such as 16-34s, ABC1 Men and Housewives with Children, and consist of ITV2 and ITV3, the two largest digital channels in the UK, and ITV4, CITV and ITVBe.
We also have high definition versions of our digital channels available on pay platforms along with ITV Encore, our pay only channel available exclusively on Sky.
27 platforms that carry our content In addition to linear broadcast, ITV delivers its content across multiple platforms.
Thisis either through the newly launched ITV Hub, now available on over 27 platforms including ITVs website itv.
com and pay providers such as Virgin and Sky, or through direct content deals with services such as Amazon, Apple iTunes and Netflix.
6 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report ITV at a Glance Pictured left to right: Britains Got Talent returned for a ninth series in 2015 with a 43% share of viewing 2014: 43% : Loose Women has been broadcast as part of the ITV daytime schedule for 16 years and continues to drive good audiences.
ITV total revenue ITV adjusted EBITA Broadcast & Online 659m Broadcast & Online 2,146m ITV Studios 206m ITV Studios 1,237m Wehave built significant scale in key creative markets around the ITV Studios world, creating and producing programmes and formats that return and travel, namely drama, entertainment and factual entertainment.
ITV Studios creates and produces content in the UK and internationally, while ourdistribution business, Global Entertainment, sells finished programmes 7,000 andformats worldwide.
hours of original content produced ITV Studios UK and delivered in 2015 ITV Studios UK is the largest commercial producer in the UK.
We produce programming across a diverse range of genres such as drama, entertainment and factual for ITVs own channels, as well as for other UK broadcasters such as the BBC, Channel 4, Channel 5 and Sky.
ITV America ITV America is the largest unscripted independent producer of content in the US.
Wehave acquired a number of unscripted and reality producers and have grown 58 ourpresence in scripted content, using our strong cash flows to produce high profile dramas with the potential to travel and build international appeal.
labels ITV Studios Rest of World in 10 ITV Studios also operates in the Netherlands, Germany, France, Australia and the Nordics, producing content for local broadcasters in these regions.
This content different countries iseither created locally or are formats that have been created elsewhere by ITV, supplying over primarily the UK.
90 Global Entertainment Global Entertainment, ITVs distribution business, owns the rights of ITV programmes channels and formats and acquires third-party content and distributes this to other broadcasters and platforms internationally.
Within this business we also finance productions both onand off-ITV to acquire global distribution rights.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7
