4 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Year in Brief 2014 15 APRIL Emission Control Technologies wins Queens Award for Enterprise for Sustainable Development, 40 years after manufacturing its first autocatalyst.
This is our eighth Queens Award.
JUNE Groupwide launch of 3C Strategy to help employees understand our vision for our 3rd century.
6% growth in underlying earnings per share.
SEPTEMBER Health and safety is our priority recognised as a core value: leadership team sign a pledge confirming their commitment to this renewed focus.
SEPTEMBER OCTOBER Acquisition of battery Process Technologies Diagnostic materials manufacturing Services business Tracerco facility in Changzhou, China celebrates opening of its new from A123 strengthens 9 million measurement our position in the battery technology centre.
SEPTEMBER Construction completed of new plant in Emmerich, Germany to expand Process Technologies OCTOBER manufacturing capabilities.
Johnson Matthey achieves the highest A band ranking for its submission to the Carbon Disclosure Projects investor programme and enters the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for the first time.
Also awarded the prize for the most improved score in the FTSE.
NOVEMBER Process Technologies new biodiesel technology wins prestigious IChemE Sustainable Technology Award.
MARCH Johnson Matthey begins construction of new platinum group metal refinery in China to meet future demand in the region.
5 25% reduction in lost time injury and illness rate.
DECEMBER Johnson Matthey named Britains Most Admired Company in Management Todays peer voted awards.
FEBRUARY In the Carbon Disclosure Project's supply chain programme, Johnson Matthey achieves highest A band ranking for its submission.
MARCH In line with our long term strategy, Gold and Silver Refining business sold to Asahi Holdings, Inc. FEBRUARY Further strengthening of Battery Technologies business with acquisition of battery materials business from Clariant AG.
NOVEMBER Active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing site acquired in Annan, Scotland to support growth in Fine Chemicals.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
