Kier at a glance Kier offers a breadth of capabilities enabling us tobring together the right skills from across the business to provide an integrated offer toour clients.
pages pages Residential Property 38 to 40 41 to 43 The Property division encompasses property Kier Living, our residential business, includes development and structured finance.
The private house building and affordable mixed division operates across a number ofsectors tenure housing partnerships.
Its clients but particularly the industrial, commercial, include local authorities, housing retail and leisure sectors aswellas the associations and theprivate rented sector.
of employees 2014: 63 2014: 348 Revenue Revenue Property Private house development building Structured Mixed tenure finance housing 1 Stated before non-underlying items: see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial Our capabilities Our capabilities statements.
Asset management Affordable housing 2 Continuing operations.
Bespoke occupier solutions Living space Prioryear comparatives Joint ventures Mixed-use communities restated to reflect the reclassification of the Owner occupiers Private residential housing UKmining activities as Partnerships Regeneration discontinued operations.
Project development 3 Equates to average net debt.
Property development 4 Restated to reflect the Project investment creation of the Residential division, comprising Regeneration elements previously Structured finance included within theProperty and .
2 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Where we operate The Group operates internationally in the following geographies: UK & Ireland Middle East Australia Hong Kong Caribbean pages pages Construction Services 44 to 48 49 to 53 The Construction division comprises the UK The Services division comprises capabilities building and civil engineering businesses and in highways maintenance both local the international business.
The division has authority and strategic highways, utilities, an established position on strategic housing maintenance, facilities management frameworks supported by its regional building and environmental services.
The recently presence and strong local supply chain acquired activities of Mouchels consulting partners.
Kier is a sector leader in the and local authority business processing education, healthcare and transport markets.
operations, recently renamed Kier Business Services, are alsoincluded.
of employees 1,2, 4 1 operating margin 2014: 3,720 operating margin 2014: 10,813 2014: 2.0% 2014: 4.8% Revenue Revenue Building Highways Major projects Utilities Infrastructure Housing International maintenance Facilities management Consulting Other Our capabilities Our capabilities Building Design consultancy Civil engineering Energy management services Construction management Environmental services Engineering design Facilities management Interiors and refurbishment Highway maintenance and management Mechanical andelectrical Housing maintenance Rail services ICT and back-office services Technical services Utilities services Waterway services 3 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
