Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information At a Glance Summary In this section we set out our remuneration principles, the key to ensure that a significant proportion of variable pay is awarded elements of our Remuneration Policy and how the Policy will be in shares or share equivalents: and implemented in 2016.
We have also highlighted performance and to continue to meet regulatory and best practice guidelines remuneration outcomes for 2015, reported in full in the Annual onremuneration.
Our Remuneration Policy aims to encourage behaviours that will The Companys Remuneration Policy has been designed with the ensure the sustainability and long-term health of the business and following aims: avoid inappropriate risk taking, while recognising and rewarding to ensure that incentives and targets support the delivery of, thecreation of shareholder value.
Remuneration targets are and are fully aligned with, our key strategic objectives: designedtosupport the delivery of our key strategic objectives.
Ourremuneration packages also need to be appropriate to attract, to avoid complexity within the incentive structure while motivate and retain talent, both at Executive Director level and retaining flexibility to address changing market conditions: throughout the business.
A summary of the relevant elements of the Policy table is set out below.
Remuneration policy summary Element Policy summary description Opportunity maximum Fixed remuneration Base salary An Executive Directors basic salary is considered by the Committee The Remuneration Committee policy in relation to salary is: on appointment and reviewed annually or when an individual up to the median salary onappointment depending on the changes position or takes on additional responsibility.
In reviewing experience and background of the new Executive Director: base salary, the Committee considers remuneration practices within the Group as a whole and, where relevant, objective research on on promotion, up to themedian salary for thenewrole, companies within the Companys peer groups.
Other factors taken otherwise pay increases willnot exceed the higher into account include: ofinflation and or pay risesgenerally for Group employees:and the individual performance and experience of the ExecutiveDirector: individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until the general performance ofthe Company: and they become established in their role.
In such cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the the economic environment.
average until the target positioning is achieved.
Salary is paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
Benefits Benefits for Executive Directors are a fully expensed company car, The maximum value available is the cost of the benefits.
annual medical and private medical insurance including spouse and dependent children up to age 24, and death-in-service insurance.
Executive Directors may be entitled to claim travel and accommodation expenses subject to agreed limits on appointment.
The Company may carry permanent health insurance cover in respect of up to 100 per cent of an Executive Directors salary.
Although not a benefit to Executive Directors, thisinsurance offers comfort to Executive Directors in the event oflong-term ill health.
Pension salary Executive Directors are entitled to membership of the defined 20 per cent of base salary.
supplement in contribution section of the Marshalls plc Pension Scheme.
The lieuofpension Company contributes at an agreed percentage of basic salary.
Executive Directors may take a pensions allowance in place of theCompanys contribution to theScheme.
Pension allowances are excluded for the purposes of calculating any other element of remuneration based on a percentage of salary.
Marshalls plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance At a Glance Summary continued Remuneration policy summary continued Element Policy summary description Opportunity maximum Variable performance related remuneration The Marshalls Incentive Annual target set by reference to strategic and operational 150 per cent of salary.
Plan MIP objectives set by Remuneration Committee.
Ifconditions met, 50percent ofearned award is paid as cash and 50percent deferred Element A as shares intoindividual plan account.
50 per cent of accrued plan account balance paid out annually for 3years, provided forfeiture threshold exceeded each year, with the final balance paid at the end of the fourth year.
Awards subject to continued employment at end of the period.
The forfeiture thresholds, if not achieved, result in the loss of up to 50per cent of unpaid awards.
Malus and clawback provisions also apply.
MIP Element B Annual target set by reference to strategic and operational 100 per cent of salary.
objectives set by Remuneration Committee.
Awards are made annually in the form of nil-cost options or conditional shares, and aresubject to continued employment and a financial underpin for3years.
Awards become exercisable or unconditional after 3 years but, oncevested, may not be sold forafurther 2 years.
Participants build up a shareholding over 5 years.
There is a financial underpin which, if not achieved over 3 years, results in the loss of up to 50 per cent of unvested awards.
Shareholding requirement Executive Directors are required toretain 50 per cent of the net number of shares earned under the Companys incentive arrangements until the shareholding requirement is satisfied.
A new Executive Director may buildup the minimum requirement within the first 5 years from the yearofjoining.
Failure to meet theshareholding requirement within 5 years of appointment willresultin a reduction in the future levels of award under the Companysincentive plans.
The minimum shareholding requirement is 200 per cent of salary forthe CEO and 100 per cent for other Executive Directors.
NonExecutive The Chairmans fee is set by the Committee.
Fees are reviewed annually The Companys policy in relation to fees is: Directorsfees and periodically benchmarked against equivalent roles in the same up to median level fees on appointment depending comparator groups as are used for Executive Directors.
ontheexperience and background of the new Non-Executive Directors do not receive any bonus, do not Non-Executive Director: participate in awards under the Companys share plans, and are not increases during a term of office will not normally exceed the eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
lower of inflation or the general rise for employees: and Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for travel and fees may be adjusted to recognise significant change in accommodation costs in connection with the performance responsibility levels for example, if the Companys ranking oftheirduties.
asa constituent of the FTSE All Share Index changes.
Marshalls plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Implementation of policy during 2016 and any changes to Executive Director earnings for 2015 Decision Rationale Element fixed Salary 2.5 per cent salary increase for Chief Executive.
Chairman 2016 increase for Chief Executive and NonExecutive andNonExecutive Directors fees also rose by 2.5 per cent, Directors reflects 2.5 per cent inflation award for the bothwith effect from January 2016.
Finance Director workforce as a whole.
Finance Director salary was below salary increased by 16.75 per cent.
median: the increase brings the overall package closer to target positioning against median.
Benefits No overall change in range of benefits.
The current range and level of benefits remains appropriate.
Martyn Coffey receives travel and accommodation expenses within afixed 3year allowance.
Jack Clarke also received travel and accommodation expenses andrelocation assistance.
Pension Neither Director participates in the Company scheme: Principle of employer pension contributions remains valid  contribution entitlement nochangeneeded.
Element variable 2005 LTIP Historic longterm incentive scheme: awards outstanding Element B of MIP delivers awards in the form of shares based from 2013 and2014.
No further awards replaced by on achievement of targets set annually but with deferral Element B of the MIP.
and underpin condition over a period of up to 5 years.
MIP Combines annual deferred bonus Element A and EPS remains a good measure of performance against strategic longterm shareholding Element B.
Details of 2015 awards objectives and for 2016 the ratio of OCF to EBITDA has been are set out in theAnnual Remuneration Report.
2016 introduced as the secondary measure most closely aligned financial targets will be EPS 75 per cent and the ratio with strategic objectives.
Customer service and health and ofoperatingcash flow OCF to EBITDA 25 per cent.
Executive Director earnings for 2015 Chief Executive Finance Director Key Salary, benefits and pension MIP Element A MIP Element B Key Salary, benefits and pension MIP Element A MIP Element B Outperformance Outperformance 33% 40% 27% 33% 40% 27% 42% 35% 23% Target 42% 35% 23% Target Below threshold Below threshold 100% 100% 2015 actual 33% 40% 27% 33% 40% 27% 2015 actual 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 000 000 Notes a The base salary, benefits and pension information is taken from the single total figure of remuneration table on page 53. b Achievement of target financial conditions results in 70 per cent of the annual award under the MIP being earned.
c Below threshold assumes a performance that fails to meet the threshold for both Element A and Element B so is the level below which no variable pay under theMIPisearned.
d Outperformance represents the full 250 per cent of salary potential under the MIP.
e The 2015 actual excludes Martyn Coffey's 2013 LTIP award which may vest.
This award has been included on page 52 in the Directors interests in shares table.
Marshalls plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance At a Glance Summary continued Management Incentive Plan MIP The MIP incorporates: Element A, an annual bonus award carrying a maximum of 150 per cent of salary, of which 50 per cent must be deferred into shares: and Element B, an award normally in the form of a nilcost option to acquire shares, carrying a maximum of 100 per cent of salary, conditional on continued employment for 3 years from grant and 50 per cent of which is also subject to a financial condition over the 3year period.
Element B shares must be held for a further 2 years after vesting.
Both awards depend on achievement of the performance conditions set by the Committee at the date of award.
The table below shows the 2015 performance conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied.
Percentage of maximum Percentage Percentage contribution Percentage of salary of salary based on Minimum Maximum 2015 of target earned earned Measurement measurement target target Actual achieved Element A Element B EPS 75% 12.12p 14.14p 14.32p 100% 112.5 37.5 Net debt 25% 27.5m 22.5m 11.5m 100% 75.0 25.0 Nonfinancial targets 20% deduction 95% customer service N A All met 100% No No if not met 10% reduction deduction deduction health and safety Directors interests in shares Chief Executive Finance Director Key Requirement Actual Contingent Key Requirement Actual Contingent noncontingent noncontingent and deferred and deferred 200% 100% 213% 1% 500% 444% 0 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% 0 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% Percentage of salary Percentage of salary Notes: a The 2013 LTIP award for Martyn Coffey is assumed to have fully vested and is shown in Actual.
b The information in the above chart is taken from the table showing Directors shareholdings on page 59.
Marshalls plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
