Strategic Report At a Glance Our business The strategic focus is firmly on growth and to deliver benefits from operational gearing.
We provide exceptional customer service and manufacturing expertise driven by a commitment to our core values.
Our markets Public Sector andCommercial Domestic INTERIORS, GARDENS, SEATING AND LANDSCAPES INTERIORS, GARDENS AND DRIVEWAYS Marshalls is the leading innovator of hard landscaping Marshalls Domestic customers range from DIY solutions for the commercial construction sector, placing enthusiasts to professional landscapers, driveway a focus on developing new and innovative products.
Sales continue to be driven through the Marshalls Register of Accredited In the Public Sector and Commercial end market Landscapers and Driveway Installers.
Marshalls focuses on developing products which help architects, local authorities and contractors For homeowners Marshalls offers the inspiration they tocreate better spaces, whether it is street furniture, need for their garden and driveway projects.
natural stone paving for the internal or external environment, concrete block paving, water management or protective street furniture products.
12 Markets Public Sector andCommercial page 12 14 Markets Domestic page 14 M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Customers Products Marshalls is the market-leading supplier of hard Marshalls offers complete hard landscaping solutions for landscaping products to both the Domestic and the domestic and commercial hard landscaping markets, PublicSector and Commercial end markets.
as well as internal flooring, street furniture and lighting.
Public Sector and Commercial Public Sector and Commercial Customers: Local authorities, commercial architects, specifiers, Products: Paving, block paving, kerb, water management, contractors, housebuilders and builders merchants.
naturalstone cladding, street furniture, lighting, protective streetfurniture, walling and mortars.
Domestic Customers: National and independent builders merchants, Domestic DIYgroups, professional landscapers, garden designers and Products: Paving, block paving, paths, edgings, walling and patioand driveway installers.
Our innovation cycle Innovation The structure of the Marshalls Innovation Cycle gives us a greater ability to feed the Group Marketing Evolution Plan a necessity Future scapes Market intelligence for a healthy, sustainable and industry leading new product design NPD pipeline.
Technology drivers Materials R&D Sales feedback The new structure enables us to dynamically plug into a wider intelligence ofproduct ideas, market drivers, industry technology and manufacturing system and process improvements for the next generation of Marshalls NPD.
Innovation growth engine Product and process concepts will be engaged by stakeholders and brought to life and managed within the Innovation Growth Idea portfolio Engine.
Based on real commercial intelligence the best concepts will be prioritised by business leaders and will move forward with more speed and confidence before being managed through the Investment manufacturing or marketing process prior to manufacture.
Product management Manufacture 6 Innovation in Action pages 6 7 Our benchmarks Marshalls has been rated a Business Superbrand every year since 2010.
Superbrands is an annual initiative to identify and celebrate Britains strongest consumer and business-to-business brands.
M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Delivery Innovation Intelligence
