4 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Mitchells & Butlers at a glance We love building innovative brands and formats and run A brand for some of the countrys best-known restaurants and pubs.
youre in the mood for an unlimited hearty breakfast with your family close to home, or a pint and some tapas in a buzzing city centre restaurant, weve a brand for every occasion.
Revenue by region FY 2015 % of sales Harvester A welcoming place for families to spend time together, have fun and share the pleasure of good, honest food.
Enjoy our unlimited breakfast, free unlimited salad and fresh, Scotland North East tasty grilled meat and fish.
4% 3% 227 North West Yorkshire Humberside sites 10% 8% West Midlands East Midlands 14% 5% Ember Inns Relaxed and welcoming suburban pubs, Wales East of England where conversation flows.
We serve the best cask ales and classic pub food with a twist in stylish environments.
4% 7% South West Total London 7% 23% 144 sites South East ex.
London 15% Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 5 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Toby Carvery ALEX Nicholsons The home of the roast!
Every day, your local If youre out in a German city centre, these If you share our passion for real ale, hearty Toby Carvery lays on a family-sized feast of classic bars and brasseries are the perfect food and a friendly welcome, youll feel right at tender, slow-cooked meats, eight lots of places to stop for a beer and a bite to eat.
home at these traditional city and town centre vegetables including crispy, ruffled roasties Soak up the sun in the outside eating area pubs.
Enjoy the timeless atmosphere thats and all the trimmings.
Youll find lots more on and try the classic meals, salads and healthy been loved by groups of friends, colleagues offer, such as tasty specials, all-you-can-eat snacks that have made ALEX one of and shoppers since our first pub opened breakfasts and even comfy accommodation Germanys leading brands.
in 1873. at some of our restaurants.
171 43 80 sites sites sites All Bar One Castle Browns At All Bar One, weve been running stylish city If you like your pint served with real personality, Since the first Browns opened in 1973, its been bars in central locations since 1994.
Whether pull up a chair in one of our eclectic urban pubs providing delicious food and drink with superb you want to catch up over cocktails, share a serving the best draught beer and great pub service in beautiful surroundings with many bottle of well-chosen wine or enjoy an excellent food.
Each is decidedly individual, with a located in unique landmark buildings.
meal out, youll find something, and somewhere, character to suit its community and an to suit you.
independence that attracts regulars as diverse and discerning as the beers on tap.
51 115 25 sites sites sites Miller & Carter Heartland Country Pubs You will not experience a better steak than A collection of the UKs friendliest pubs We are proud to manage over 300 of the best that at Miller & Carter.
We put everything into and carveries.
What unites these pubs is country pubs in the UK, all offering modern pursuing the perfect steak, from the field to the unbeatable value for money, generosity pub food and outstanding drinks served butchers block to the grill, so only the finest, and big-hearted service.
with care and character by our teams.
most flavoursome cuts make it to your plate.
