Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Chairmans statement ensuring sustainable US$263 million 6% Free cash flow in 2015 Dividend yield in 2015 value for the future Increased focus on health and safety is vital Dear fellow stakeholders i am extremely sad to report that we lost six of our colleagues i am delighted to report that, despite the challenges A distinctive at our operations during 2015. i would like to offer my in end markets for our products and currency volatilty, personal condolences, along with those of the Board, investment opportunity Polymetal has again delivered a solid set of operating to all their families and friends.
Polymetal remains a distinctive name in our sector With the increased scope of underground mining across known for our high-grade assets, technological While depressed commodity prices and geopolitical our operating mines and the geotechnical complexities that expertise and capital discipline that result in both pressures continued to dominate in 2015, making market this entails, we must intensify our focus on improving the growth and dividends through the cycle.
By playing to conditions ever-more difficult for the global gold mining safety of underground operations and preventative risk our competitive strengths selective mining, processing industry, Polymetals fundamental strengths have enabled management.
With this objective, the Board has now refractory ores, trading precious metals concentrates us to continue making good progress.
established a dedicated Safety & Sustainability Committee.
and with our sound knowledge of the precious metals We are determined to turn the situation around in 2016 and mining space in russia and the Former Soviet union, we The price of gold declined by 8% in 2015.
The silver price the Committee has already begun an in-depth review of the have been able to pursue further attractive opportunities.
The price of copper and other non-precious safety and environmental management systems, along with minerals remained depressed suggesting an end of the the measures and incentives currently in place for better The Companys business model enables us to deliver commodity super-cycle.
dual value to our shareholders.
We are committed to maintaining a robust free cash flow that ensures The rapid decline in the price of oil had a major impact on the Capital discipline secures future sustainable, through-the-cycle cash returns in the form economies of both russia and Kazakhstan, where Polymetal The Board upholds the principles of good corporate of dividends for our shareholders.
at the same time, operates, resulting in currency devaluation, recession and governance with clear and accountable reporting practices the development of a strong portfolio of next-generation increased inflation levels.
The devaluation itself had a positive We are committed to maintaining that ensure proper balance sheet management and assets offers a long-term investment that will help us effect on the business, significantly reducing our roubleand a robust free cash flow that an appropriate approach to leverage by the Company.
sustain growth and create future wealth.
However, greater macroeconomic The capital discipline we impose on all investment and instability did impact our operations and created challenges ensures sustainable, throughoperational decisions has enabled us even in a depressed for local governments and our own employees the-cycle cash returns for our commodity cycle to be confident about the business as consumers.
in the current complex macroeconomic shareholders.
At the same time, conditions, we remain committed to maintaining a healthy Our group Chief executive, vitaly nesis, reports in more the development of a strong dividend stream whilst continuing to pursue value creating detail about our performance on the following pages.
growth opportunities and maintaining appropriate portfolio of next-generation assets leverage levels.
Dividends offers a long-term investment Strong free cash flow generation remains a key differentiator Bobby Godsell The Kyzyl project is a prime example of our business that will help us sustain growth for Polymetal.
generating a healthy free cash flow of fundamentals.
The feasibility study confirmed both the Chairman uS$263 million during the year coupled with a strong and create future wealth.
28 March 2016 robust economics and development approach of the project.
balance sheet, we continued to translate this into cash The Board approval was unequivocal and our task now returns for our investors.
is to ensure the timely construction of Kyzyl within the approved budget.
The Company paid out uS$127 million in special dividends in 2015.
This brings the total amount of dividends declared We are also well positioned to take advantage of new during 2015 to uS$216 million, an increase of almost 25% opportunities as they arise.
One such opportunity is the on last years total of uS$173 million.
Despite global and recently formed joint venture with Polyus gold for the local challenges, Polymetal remains fully committed development of the nezhdaninskoye deposit.
With to delivering value to its shareholders.
Polymetals management approach, this is another undertaking set to be characterised by low capital intensity.
12 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices group Chief executives review Todays resilient performance US$733 GE oz 1.27 Moz All-in sustaining cash cost -18% Gold equivalent production 2014: uS$893 ge oz 4% vs original guidance underpins future growth although currency movements were generally favourable Safety and sustainability at the forefront for us during 2015, we still had to contend with continued reviewing and reinforcing our health and safety procedures Summary pressure from depressed commodity prices in the gold continues to be a matter of urgency following the loss of six mining sector.
We retained our focus on preparing for the of our colleagues during 2015.
The establishment of the new Increased production next growth stage and fulfilled expectations with a year of Safety and Sustainability Committee and the in-depth study ge production 4% above original guidance strong operational delivery.
of our risk and environmental management systems is part of a concerted effort to improve this situation.
Management ge production at Dukat increased 14% year-on-year The start of 2016 saw a moderate upturn in the global gold at all levels are committed to radically improving the 260 Koz gold produced at amursk POX, now market and, while we are unlikely to see prices peak at 2011 Companys safety performance with zero fatalities a flagship operation levels, gold is certainly being viewed as a safe haven for still very much our aim.
investors during the continuing economic and political Development and acquisitions upheaval.
looking to the future, the gradual depletion of The increase in underground mining across our operations higher grade resources worldwide and the suspension has brought with it a heightened level of risk and we are economic viability of Kyzyl confirmed: production of costly expansion projects will become more evident, working hard to alleviate this.
at Mayskoye, one of our major to commence in 2018 with the reduction in supply serving to boost the gold price.
underground mining sites, we have initiated a change to the acquisition of lichkvaz, our first exploration mining method that aims to reduce geotechnical hazards.
asset in armenia Dynamic performance reaps rewards new joint venture at nezhdaninskoye, Polymetals gold equivalent production for 2015 based on We are very mindful of our duty of care towards all russias 4th largest gold deposit 1:80 ag au conversion ratio comprised 1.27 Moz.
This was employees and to the communities in which we operate, 4% above the original production guidance for the year and particularly given the currently depressed general economic Safety and sustainability the fourth year in a row in which we have exceeded our climate.
We take our social and environmental responsibilities Our resilient financial performance annual estimates.
very seriously and were honoured to receive recognition from new Safety and Sustainability Committee established today allows us the flexibility two significant bodies during 2015.
We were integrated into in-depth analysis of risk and environmental Whilst all our operations delivered in line with expectations, the euronext vigeo emerging 70 index, comprised of the top to develop our focused pipeline systems underway the gold equivalent production at Dukat made a significant 70 emerging market companies with the most advanced of long-life projects and continue contribution, increasing by 14% year-on-year.
The amursk corporate social responsibility programmes.
We were inclusions in the euronext vigeo emerging 70, pressure oxidation POX plant delivered a stable operating also included in both the FTSe4good global index and FTSe4good and FTSe4good europe indices to generate cash flow now and performance.
it has become a flagship operation, producing FTSe4good europe index for the first time: companies in the future.
260 Koz of gold in 2015. selected for both indices must meet stringent environmental, social and governance criteria.
Kyzyl the highlight of the year looking further ahead, we are actively engaged in putting Our top priority is clearly the launch of Kyzyl, one Investing in future growth together a portfolio of long-life projects with high-option of the highest grade and largest untapped gold deposits value, like that of Kyzyl, which will allow us to reap the benefit Our resilient financial performance today allows us the in the world.
Our confidence in Kyzyl as an investment that flexibility to develop our focused pipeline of future projects.
of major contributions to cash flow in the future.
However, this in no way detracts from our firm commitment of matched our strategic growth priorities, whilst leveraging During the year we expanded our portfolio of near-mine our core strengths, was fully validated by our audited advanced exploration projects through the acquisition of delivering considerable value to our shareholders through substantial dividend payments out of free cash flow.
Primorskoye, a silver gold site 215 km from our Omsukchan concentrator, and by acquiring lichkvaz, our first asset Our achievements to date are a testament to the quality, The feasibility study confirmed the economic viability of in armenia.
initial exploration drilling at lichkvaz has begun the project, which is now set to become one of the highest and a JOrC-compliant resource estimate is expected in skills and commitment of our management and employees.
i would like to thank them for all their efforts and i look grade and largest development projects in the sector 2016: drilling at Primorskoye will begin later in the year with globally.
it also endorsed Polymetals capabilities for handling an audited reserve estimate due by December 2016. forward to their continuing support and enthusiasm in helping Polymetal realise the next phase in its strategic plan.
complex refractory ores and the proposed low-capital intensity approach, maximising the return on invested capital.
at the end of 2015 we announced an exciting new joint venture with Polyus gold at nezhdaninskoye, the fourth Following Board approval, construction work is now under largest gold deposit in russia based on the russian reserves way and we are on track to bring Kyzyl into production and reporting system gKZ resources.
nezhdaninskoye fits in 2018, ramping it up to full capacity in 2019.
Kyzyl perfectly with Polymetals proven capabilities in developing is set to become a substantial free cash flow contributor remote assets, selective underground mining and refractory for Polymetal.
given the size of the deposit, there is Vitaly Nesis significant potential for high grade and a long mine Group CEO life operation.
28 March 2016 14 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 15
