Premier Farnell at a glance Premier Farnell plc is a global, high service technology company, 2014 15 at a glance Premier Farnell is committed to reducing the impact of its activities on the environment.
predominantly engaged in the marketing and distribution of products Group sales Group adjusted Adjusted earnings Dividend per share and services in the time-critical and innovation-focused electronic growth operating margin per share components distribution sector.
With over 4,500 employees, operating in 36 countries, the Group is comprised of three distinct % % business units that focus on specific market segments.
Akron Brass is our Industrial Products Division IPD.
Throughout this Annual Report, unless otherwise stated, sales growth is based on sales per day for continuing businesses at constant exchange rates and like for like periods.
Printed by CPI Colour This Report is printed on material derived from sustainable sources, and printed using vegetable based inks.
Both the manufacturing paper mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
CPI Colour is also a Carbon Neutral Printing Company and reduces element14 its CO omissions to net zero in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol.
This carbon offsetting supports the Uchindile 2 Mapanda reforestation programme in Tanzania, an environmental project to establish commercial forests at two locations in Africa.
80% This Report is recyclable and Bio-degradable - If you have finished with this document and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
Designed and produced by SampsonMay 357.1M element14 CPC & MCM Akron Brass Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.
com 46.4% element14 comprises both our Americas, CPC & MCM are also distribution Akron Brass is a global leader in Europe and Asia distribution business, businesses.
Focused on the sale of the sale and manufacture of high Europe CPC & MCM selling electronic components and electronic products, the division serves performance fire-fighting and tools to engineers and manufacturing a complementary marketplace to our emergency response equipment.
customers globally and our rapidly main element14 business in the UK growing technology offering from and North America.
12% Embest and AVID Technologies 117.1M to component manufacturers.
333.1M 960.1M Americas Global reorganisation Market leader in Raspberry Pi Integration of REACH Engineering 43.3% of element14 businesses 73.5M New global web platform CPC & MCM working Over 30% sales outside US rollout complete closer together 8% More technical expertise acquired New CPC catalogue launched Developed Tailored through AVID Technologies Customer Applications Asia Pacific Akron Brass 79.3M 10.3% Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 1 In this report, well discuss how Premier Farnell is supporting its Visit our online community here: customers and suppliers evolving needs, explain our strategy to www.
com deliver improved future financial performance and provide detail on how the Group operates and is governed.
Contents Strategic Report Governance Report 40.
Chief Executives Overview Corporate Governance Report 40.
Chairmans Overview Premier Farnell Business and Markets 44.
Directors Report Our Strategic Vision 62.
Building the Global Destination Financial Statements 14.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Performance and Risks 139.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 24.
Principal risks, uncertainties and opportunities 26.
Financial and operational review Further Information 33.
