At a glance Millions of consumers worldwide love and trust our brands.
We have The right markets, operations in more than 60 countries and sales in most countries across the globe.
We organise our business into two areas, centred on groups of countries with many similarities in consumer behaviour, brand development and how the retail trade is organised.
This structure helps us to be faster to market, with more consistent in-market activation.
KEY: ENA regions DvM regions ENA DvM Europe including Russia CIS and Israel, Africa, Middle East excluding Israel, Turkey, Asia North America and Australia New Zealand excluding Russia CIS and Latin America Net Revenue Like-for-like growth Net Revenue Like-for-like growth 5,830m 5% 2,695m 9% 2014: 5,891m 2014: 2,629m Food We run Food as a standalone business.
Net Revenue Like-for-like growth Its brands include Frenchs, the leading mustard brand in the US.
349m 4% 2014: 316m 2 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Net Revenue Like-for-like growth Health 2,942m 14% Health 2014: 2,701m Health and wellbeing are the key to Market positions happiness.
Our health brands are generally Nurofen and Gaviscon are leading sold over the counter and include products analgesic and gastro-intestinal brands targeting everyday issues such as pain, fever, Health in Europe and Australia cold, flu, sore throat or heartburn.
1 worldwide in condoms wellbeing products, including condoms, for both safe and more pleasurable sex lubricants and other aids, promote safe and Strepsils is No.
1 in medicated sore pleasurable sex.
The Health category also throat globally includes footcare, with products to address hard skin and other foot and nail conditions.
1 cough brand in the US Scholl has leading positions in many footcare markets Hygiene Net Revenue Like-for-like growth Hygiene 3,589m 3% 2014: 3,627m Hygiene is the foundation for healthy living.
Market positions Our brands promote personal hygiene RB is No.
1 globally in the overall Hygiene for good health and home hygiene, to category of surface care create a safe environment for families.
2 worldwide in lavatory care with Lysol Our range includes disinfectant cleaners, in North America and Harpic across Europe multipurpose and speciality cleaners, and Developing Markets lavatory care, automatic dishwashing Dettol is No.
1 worldwide in antiseptic liquids detergents, pest control, depilatory products and acne treatments.
1 worldwide in automatic dishwashing No.
2 worldwide in pest control with the Powerbrand Mortein, the Groups international brand, supported by local brand franchises like d-Con in North America Home Veet is No.
1 worldwide in depilatory products Home Net Revenue Like-for-like growth Home 1,715m 2% 2014: 1,810m Home is the centre of family life.
Our brands Market positions help create the right environment for families Vanish is No.
1 worldwide in fabric treatment to enjoy their time together.
Products in this Calgon is No.
1 worldwide in water softeners category include air care, water softeners, Woolite is No.
2 worldwide in garment care garment care and fabric treatment.
2 worldwide in air care Portfolio including Food The Portfolio category includes our Net Revenue Like-for-like growth laundry and fabric softener business, as well as our Food brands.
628m 1% 2014: 698m Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 3
