ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 02 AT A GLANCE LEADERS IN FLOW CONTROL Rotork, a leading global designer and ROTORK CONTROLS Rotork Controls specialises in electric valve actuators for all manufacturer of actuators used for the applications and is the largest independent manufacturer in automation of industrial valves and flow its sector.
It has manufacturing facilities located in the UK, control products, has managed the flow the USA, China, Malaysia, India, Germany and Spain.
of fluids and gases for nearly 60 years.
Rotork products are used in a wide range of 286.7m 85.5m activities ranging from offshore and onshore production, refining and petrochemicals, -11.7% -18.4% water treatment, nuclear energy and REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT concentrating solar power.
Rotork comprises four actuation and flow ROTORK FLUID SYSTEMS control divisions.
In addition, Rotork Site Rotork Fluid Systems manufactures and supplies fluid power Services provides worldwide planned and actuators and control systems that are used in a wide range of applications.
It has manufacturing facilities located in the UK, emergency actuation services.
Germany, Italy, Sweden and the USA.
149.2m 15.2m -17.2% -51.2% REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 03 END USER MARKETS Oil and gas Rotork products are used on upstream, midstream and downstream activities, ranging from offshore production facilities, to refining and processing, to transportation, storage and distribution.
Water Water treatment and distribution offers significant opportunities for Rotork through ROTORK GEARS modern state-of-the-art processes, which Rotork Gears manufactures and supplies gearboxes, maximise existing resources such as, accessories and custom adaptations for valve actuation desalination plants and water re-use projects throughout the world.
It has manufacturing facilities projects, together with conventional located in the UK, Netherlands, Italy, India, China and the USA.
Power Rotork products are found in traditional 58.6m 12.0m power stations, including nuclear power stations where its products are certified for 1.4% -7.8% use both inside and outside containment.
They are also used for renewable energy REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT generation systems such as thermal solar plants, and emission reduction processes such as flue gas desulphurisation.
ROTORK INSTRUMENTS Industrial and other Rotork Instruments manufactures and supplies instrumentation Other industries served by Rotork include, and control products for flow, pressure, temperature and surface and underground processing position measurement applications for a wide range of applications for mining, ship building, technologies including, pneumatic, hydraulic, electro-hydraulic, heating, ventilating and air conditioning, mechanical, electronic and wireless.
It has manufacturing pulp and paper, food and beverage, facilities located in the UK, Korea, Italy and the USA.
medical equipment, and tyre manufacturing.
67.3m 18.3m 46.5% 26.8% REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT See page 8 to find out more 11 about our end user markets
