Our business at a glance What we do and where As a global technology company we energise the success of businesses and their communities around the world through the use of smart technology and the imagination of our people.
We work with a thriving community of accountants, partners, developers andentrepreneurs, the engine room of economies around the world.
OUR PRODUCT FOCUS The Golden Triangle represents the strong value proposition Developing ever closer integration of our growth products is a we can provide to our customers in three mission critical key focus of our investment.
We are also investing in products areas Accounting, Payroll&HRand Payments through with open application programming interface API, such as solutions that are seamlessly integrated to automate Sage Live, so that independent software vendors ISVs can workow and the movement of money.
Our ecosystem develop their applications to integrate with our core product enables integration with our other applications, including as standard, maximising customer choice and driving mobile applications and features as a service so that customer experience.
customers can tailor our oering to their needs.
More information online at sage.
com products Payroll & HR Payments TheGolden Our Payroll & HRsolutions are simple, Our payments oeringsenable secure and ecient, helping our our customers to take payments Triangle customers to remain compliant, pay their through their websites, in person employees accurately and on time, and to using a card reader, or directly deliver a great employee experience.
Accounting Our range of desktop orcloud accounting solutions allows customers to issue invoices, analyse business performance and manage cashow, taxes, stock, budgets and more.
2 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 SMALL & MEDIUM BUSINESSES We are focused on delivering aconsistently exceptional experience to all of ourfour million customers, working to provide the most appropriate products and services to suit their needs.
We dont believe in labelling customers but we do think it is helpful to understand the characteristics of dierent sizes of business in order to better serve them: 0 to 9 employees 10 to 200 employees 200 employees Ranging from sole traders to small employers, Ranging from small owner managed Larger businesses, wheretheir scale and these entities constitute the vast majority of all businesses tolarger entitieswith multiple organisational complexity mean they businesses in our top geographies, numbering layers of organisational structure, adoption practically all use business management around 68 million.
It is estimated that only of software to manage nances is much solutions in some form.
The packaged around one in tenof these businesses uses more common in this size range where the solutions used by these entities may be more a packaged software solution to manage population of entities is around four million extensive, performing additional functions their business.
Adoption of software in this in our top geographies.
Businesses typically of business management and potentially size range is being driven by aordable, rely on software to maintain appropriate required to deal with cross-border operations.
mobile ready, easy-to-use cloud solutions records and to perform multiple functions Sage X3 is our global product for businesses like Sage One.
with a number of packaged solutions being with these characteristics where modules run, either independently or integrated.
Data can beused to perform everything from sharing betweenfunctions can be particularly monitoring the sales pipeline and customer powerful in organisations of this size and relationships to managing inventory.
Sage Live is designed with that in mind.
OUR GLOBAL REACH Our established market positions and presence in 23 countries around theworld 53% provides aplatform to bring products and services to both new and existing customers.
Europe Our investment focuses on our growth product portfolio which consists of our cloud deployable global products and our local growth products see page 30for more on product Total revenue 745m portfolio management.
Recurring revenuemix 75% 15% 32% North America International Total revenue 450m Total revenue 206m Recurring revenuemix 58% Recurring revenue mix 65% Charts represent regional proportion of group organic revenue The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3
