Our business ataglance Saga has become one of the UKs most trusted EBITDA by operating segment continuing operations businesses by providing customers with excellent products andleading customer service for more than 1.
We have successfully used our reputation 2.
Travel 26.0m and the brands strength tobroaden our product 31 3.
Healthcare 2.2m 2 offering and expand into new areas where we know the Saga approach to quality and service will succeed.
From a hotel in Folkestone we have evolved into the leading provider of high-quality insurance, financial services, travel, healthcare and media products.
We are the only commercial organisation of scale in the UK that focuses on the fast-growing over 50s market.
Note: excluding Media and Central Costs The Saga model Third party suppliers Product Customers Insights design In-house Motor underwriting Shipping Our strategic priorities 1 2 3 4 5 Expanding our Grow Travel Expand Personal Make more of Grow Insurance footprint Finance our database and innovation digital marketing For more information on principal risks For more information on KPIs go to pages 18-19 and uncertainties go to pages 24-29 Saga plc 04 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Financial Services Travel Our Financial Services division is the largest part Our high-quality, award-winning Travel business is of the Saga Group and, with a focuson customer at the core of Saga and it is from these origins that needs and service, has become a leading provider the business has evolved.
of Insurance and Personal Finance solutions.
Operations: Operations: Saga Cruises Insurance Saga Holidays Underwriting Titan Personal Finance Destinology For more information go to page 31 For more information go to page 33 Media Healthcare Services Saga Media produces the Saga Magazine, the Saga is committed to the market for private home Generated at: Thu Sep 11 15:03:52 2014 Generated at: Fri Aug 1 17:57:28 2014 UKs best-selling paid-for monthly magazine healthcare in the UK.
andmanages Sagas print and mailing house.
Operations: Operations: Patricia Whites Saga Publishing Country Cousins MetroMail Saga SOS For more information go to page 35 For more information go to page 35 Saga plc 05 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
