STRATEGIC REPORT | OUR GROUP AT A GLANCE What do we do?
We are a global business, serving customers through our two divisions: Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
1 Adjusted profit before tax We are dedicated to serving our customers from over 30 locations 224m 2014 322m worldwide 1 Adjusted sales Our operations include a network of corn wet mills in the US and Europe which are shared by our two business divisions.
We also operate two SPLENDA 2,694m Sucralose facilities in the US and Singapore, and a number of other ingredient 2014 3,147m processing plants and blending facilities worldwide.
We work closely with 2 Employees worldwide customers all over the world through our network of applications and technical facilities, centred around our global innovation hub, the Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
4,759 2014 4,523 1 Including proportionate consolidation of sales of joint ventures.
2 Includes employees of joint ventures on a proportionate basis.
Americas Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific Key: Tate & Lyle operations including manufacturing facilities, application technical services facilities and Group operations.
Our principal manufacturing assets in In Europe, our operations include five major In line with our strategy to grow our the US include four major corn wet mills.
corn wet mills, including our wholly-owned speciality food ingredients business in Three are located in the Midwest, and one plant in the Netherlands and four jointemerging markets, we have in recent years in Tennessee.
Other key sites include our venture plants located mainly in the Eastern significantly enhanced our presence in SPLENDA Sucralose facility in McIntosh, European corn belt.
In April 2015, we China through our Food Systems business, Alabama, a citric acid plant in Ohio and announced the re-alignment of this joint Tate & Lyle Howbetter.
During the year, a Food Systems blending facility in Illinois.
venture, see page 10 for more details.
we completed the acquisition of Winway Biotechnology a business in the We have expanded our presence in Our oat-based fibres facility in Sweden has fast-growing fibre category in China.
Latin America by the acquisition of a been key to enhancing Tate & Lyles health majority stake in Gemacom Tech in Brazil.
Other assets in Europe In April 2015 we announced the closure This Food Systems business includes include our four Food Systems facilities in of our SPLENDA Sucralose plant in both blending facilities and a customerItaly, Germany and the UK.
Singapore from spring 2016, as part facing applications laboratory.
Other of re-focusing and re-structuring our manufacturing assets in the region include In the Middle East and Africa, we operate SPLENDA Sucralose business see our citric acid plant in Brazil and our a corn wet mill in Morocco and a Food page 9.
In the region, we also have a joint-venture corn wet mill in Mexico.
Systems blending facility in South Africa.
Food Systems blending facility in Australia.
Manufacturing Applications technical Manufacturing Applications technical Manufacturing Applications technical facilities services facilities facilities services facilities facilities services facilities 12 7 14 5 4 4 02 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 1 2 Sales by geography Adjusted sales by division Adjusted operating profit 1.
Rest of world 25% 1 2 1 1 4 3 2 2 1 Sales by destination from continuing operations, 2 Excluding central costs.
see Note 4 to the Group Financial Statements.
SPECIALITY FOOD INGREDIENTS BULK INGREDIENTS Leveraging technology Efficient scale and applications expertise production What do we make?
Speciality Food Ingredients SFI provides food and beverage Our main Bulk Ingredients BI products are sweeteners for food customers with ingredients and solutions to address global and beverage customers and industrial starches mainly used in consumer trends including: convenience: health and wellness the paper and construction industries.
Other products include for example, lower calorie, lower fat, lower salt, higher fibre : acidulants which are used by food and beverage customers and and clean label.
We work across the range of food and beverage the personal care industry, and fuel ethanol sold to blenders.
categories, leveraging our manufacturing facilities, innovative We also sell our corn co-products, predominantly animal feed, technology and formulation expertise to help create great tasting, to agricultural customers.
BI also partners with bio-based cost-effective and better-for-you products.
materials companies to leverage our fermentation expertise.
Our product categories include: Our product categories include: Sweeteners Liquid sweeteners Texturants Industrial starches Health and wellness Citric acid Food systems Bio-fuels Animal feed Who do we do it for?
Large, multi-national food and beverage manufacturers Who do we do it for?
Smalland medium-sized food and beverage manufacturers Large, multi-national food and beverage manufacturers Private label food and beverage manufacturers Paper and board producers Gasoline suppliers Textile manufacturers Animal feed compounders p24 p26 Speciality Food Ingredients Bulk Ingredients For more detailed information, visit www.
com Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 03
