STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP AT A GLANCE Travis Perkins plc the Group is the UKs largest product supplier to the building, construction, and home improvement markets.
Having grown primarily through large acquisitions in the last decade, the Group is now focussed on extracting value from those acquisitions by growing organically though investing in more compelling customer propositions, optimising its network and using its scale advantage to improve returns for shareholders.
These investments should enable the Group to outperform the market on a sustainable basis, increasing market share and increasing returns.
This will ensure the Group continues with its mission to become the first choice distributor of building materials in the UK.
THE CORNERSTONES OF HOW THE GROUP DOES BUSINESS The Group has built an inclusive working environment Making decent returns creating value for where everyone can contribute because everyone is listened shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers to, valued and respected.
It is founded on five Cornerstones: Supporting our customers the Groups business is based Keeping people safe safety will always be at the top on strong relationships of the agenda Being the best setting the bar high and making Upholding family values a way of working and employees and customers feel special treating people 6 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE The Groups 20 businesses, across over 2,000 sites, are organised and managed through 4 divisions.
General Merchanting Consumer Contracts 2.0bn sales, 813 branches 1.4bn sales, 571 stores 1.2bn sales, 181 branches Fastest growing Leading specialist specialist distributor of distributor of pipeline and ceilings, insulation heating solutions Fastest growing and drywall national DIY retailer Market leading general merchant to trade customers Leading specialist distributor of Tile retailer Integrated multi-channel civils, heavy building materials Kitchen distributor to trade trade counter and drainage Plumbing & Heating 1.4bn sales, 433 branches Leading distributor to domestic installers Leading wholeseller to trade distributors Leading distributor to domestic installers Leading distributor to domestic installers More than 28,000 individual colleagues serving trade customers and retail customers from over 2,000 trading outlets throughout the UK.
Performance target setting is managed at a Group level with each business responsible for developing strategic plans to meet those ambitions.
As the Group grows, operational decision making is increasingly being devolved to strengthened management teams in each business, allowing every business to better respond to its customers needs, manage its costs and capital better and meet the challenges of each market.
The business management teams draw on a number of centrally based support teams including property, supply chain, IT, HR, legal and finance.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 7 STRATEGIC REPORT THE GROUPS BUSINESSES GENERAL MERCHANTING The Groups core business supplies products for all types of repair, maintenance and improvement projects RMI as well as new residential and commercial construction.
Market leading merchant for trade customers - supplying The customer base is largely made up of professional more than 100,000 product lines to trade professionals and tradesmen, ranging from sole traders to national self-builders.
Branches: 656 branches around the UK housebuilders whose key requirements are locally stocked product ranges immediately available for collection or delivery, acccess to extended ranges often delivered direct to site, competitive pricing, credit services and expertise in problem solving.
Distributor of kitchens to specialist joiners, kitchen installers, local authorities and national house builders.
Branches: 157 branches around the UK PLUMBING & HEATING Plumbing Trade Supplies and City Plumbing Supplies are the main brands in the Division.
They supply a wide range of customers including domestic plumbers, independent plumbing merchants, large contractors and local authorities.
A nationwide merchant serving the locally based domestic As well as selling branded products, the Division has plumbing and heating trades and bathroom installers.
developed successful own brand products including a Branches: 344 branches around the UK comprehensive range of plumbing and bathroom products under the iflo brand.
The Plumbing & Heating Division has four principal business streams.
A leading distributor of domestic heating spares in the UK.
DOMESTIC INSTALLER BUSINESS Branches: 1 trading unit which distributes around the UK A leading pure-play online supplier of plumbing and heating products.
Distribution centre: 1 distribution centre which distributes around the UK 8 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT 2.
CONTRACT INSTALLER BUSINESS Supplies a wide range of heating, plumbing and bathroom products serving private sector plumbing installation contracts, national house builders and the public sector.
Branches: 102 branches around the UK and Ireland 3.
INDEPENDENT WHOLESALERS A leading wholesaler of power tools, hand tools and site The combined leading distributor of heating, plumbing and equipment.
BPT develops products and brands which are sold both bathroom products to the independent merchant sector within the Group and through independent merchants and national and retailers of fires and bathrooms.
Location: 3 locations which distribute around the UK 12 across the UK 4.
RENEWABLE HEATING BUSINESSES A distributor of solar renewable technology An online pure-play distributor of underfloor heating systems Provider of integrated solutions for low carbon construction, energy efficient building and renewable energy projects ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 9 STRATEGIC REPORT THE GROUPS BUSINESSES continued CONTRACTS The customers of the three contracts businesses, Keyline, BSS and CCF, are typically large developers, main contractors and commercial sub-contractors.
The products supplied from the three businesses the Division operates Market leader in the distribution of pipeline, heating and are generally used in large construction projects ranging mechanical services equipment in the UK.
from new road and rail infrastructure, power generation Branches: 61 branches around the UK construction, public service infrastructure such as hospitals and schools, through to commercial and high rise residential construction and refurbishment Market leading supplier of civils, heavy building materials A fast growing distributor of interior building products to and drainage solutions in the UK for trade professionals and the construction industry in the UK.
Branches: 80 branches around the around the UK UK including Rudridge which was acquired in 2015 CONSUMER The consumer division supplies domestic building and decorative materials through its store network to DIY and trade customers.
It differentiates itself by providing the best A rapidly growing retailer of lightside building materials value in each of its respective channels through operating with a current network of 224 branches.
Its fully integrated lean and efficient business models, superior online multichannel operating model is class leading and enables propositions, high levels of availability of the brands and the business to offer the lowest prices and best availability products customers demand and fit-for-purpose customer shopping environments Fastest growing national DIY retailer, with 236 stores One of the UKs fastest growing suppliers of ceramic tiles available to both retail and trade customers through 111 throughout the UK and the market leading online stores around the UK with a rapidly expanding DIY proposition online presence 10 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Str Strateg ategic Repor ic Report t Go Governance & Rem vernance & Remuner uneration ation F Financial Statements inancial Statements Shar Shareho eholder Inf lder Information ormation STRATEGIC REPORT Paul Parker Travis Perkins, Shrewsbury ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 11
