02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group at a glance How and where Ultra operates During 2015 Ultra has reorganised to deliver and report its performance through three divisions: Aerospace & Infrastrucure, Revenue by region 4 1 United Kingdom 29 Communications & Security and Maritime & Land.
Ultras 1 3 2 North America 47 divisions deliver specialist capabilities to our key end markets of 3 Mainland Europe 10 Defence & Aerospace, Security & Cyber, Transport and Energy.
The 4 Rest of the world 14 Group addresses these end markets through eight distinct market 2 % of Group revenue segments, discussed on pages 12 to 21.
Market segment Ultras place in the market on its target regions of Australia, the Middle Ultra continues to focus on its main markets East, India, Turkey and for non-defence Aerospace of Defence & Aerospace, Security & Cyber, products China, while continuing to pursue Transport and Energy.
To explain its wide individual opportunities and business portfolio of capabilities more effectively, the relationships in many other nations.
These Read more on page 14 Group have adopted the market segmentation core markets and target regions allow Ultra to shown opposite.
Each of the eight segments access the largest addressable defence and generate highly differentiated, cost-effective security budgets in the world, positioning for Infrastructure and proven technologies at the system, long-term growth through well-considered sub-system and component level.
These partnerships and government relationships.
technologies are often fundamental to the Given Ultras relatively low exposure to Read more on page 15 performance, safety or mission success of the mainland Europe, a potential UK Exit from the platforms in which they are incorporated, EU Brexit is not expected to have a making Ultra a critical supplier on many significant specific impact on the Group, Nuclear complex platforms, enjoying long-term notwithstanding any global macroeconomic positions.
To sustain this advantage the Group impact.
harnesses both internal and customer-funded Ultras customers Read more on page 16 research and development to tailor solutions This market position, together with Ultras to changing customer needs and budgets.
independence, allows it to work very This sustains its reputation as an exceptional Communications effectively with the worlds prime contractors supplier of enabling technology.
This is based in the Groups chosen markets.
The graphic upon the development of a deep below shows the major customers for the understanding of individual customer Groups 2015 revenue.
Within these top Read more on page 17 requirements through open dialogue and customers, such as the US Department of long-term relationships.
Defense DoD, the UK Ministry of Defence The segment structure allows Ultra to harness MoD and BAE Systems, the Group supplies C2ISR the capabilities of its 24 businesses to to a wide range of different project ofces, provide technical expertise and domain integrated project teams and platform teams.
knowledge to deliver the more complete, Therefore, Ultra deals with a larger number of Read more on page 18 comprehensive and cost-effective solutions different partners and customers than the they demand.
Where needed, the Group graphic might at first suggest, executing Command & Control, Intelligence partners seamlessly with best-of-breed against tens of thousands of contracts and Surveillance and Reconnaissance suppliers to offer a more complete solution production orders on an annual basis.
Ultras Cyber capabilities sit primarily in C2ISR and and will happily lead or follow as a Communications, but run across all eight segments non-threatening mid-tier company in order to completely satisfy customer need.
Equally, individual businesses continue to develop and US DoD supply the specic, high-end technologies for Underwater Warfare UK MoD which they are well known, providing the BAESystems agility and responsiveness of a smaller, Lockheed Martin autonomous business unit.
The Group Read more on page 19 Boeing maintains its development focus on the eight Rolls Royce segments that it understands well while Airbus reviewing markets for new opportunities Maritime where Ultra can apply its existing technology Level 3 for US Navy edge or explore a sensible adjacency.
AustralianDoD EDFEnergy Where we operate Read more on page 20 Ultras core regional markets remain North USATF America and the United Kingdom.
In mainland Thales Land Europe the Group focuses on technologies UTC that are unavailable from indigenous suppliers GeneralDynamics e. g. sonobuoys.
Elsewhere in the world the Raytheon Group has developed its strategic positioning Read more on page 21 % 5 10 15 20 25 30 see footnote on page 136
