STRATEGIC REPORT HIGHLIGHTS A YEAR OF ACHIEVEMENT THE MOST TRUSTED BRAND During 2015, we continued Achieving Investors in to transform our buildings, People Gold accreditation, customer services and outlining our commitment digital platforms as part of to our employees our ongoing commitment Completing the roll-out of to deliver Home for Success.
key elements of PRISM, our Progress included: new IT system, covering On target to complete revenue and maintenance the 21m roll-out of our management LED programme, which will We opened an office in cut our energy consumption China and also established by 15% a Unite Students online Enhancing our Wi-Fi speed presence in the far east by 25% across all our Our University Partnership properties, with the Team has continued to option for students to build on our strong Higher upgrade to 50MB Education relationships, with The launch of the digital nominations agreements platform Student Life Hub: with partner Universities now a guide to student life standing at 57%, equating to designed to engage with 26,000 beds over the year and empower our students.
Confidence and trust in Unite The hub helps students Students has again translated with life skills, supports them into sales success, with over with wellbeing advice, 99% of beds let and more includes everyday advice rooms let than ever.
This from maintenance to delivered rental growth laundry and gives access of 3.8%.
to lifestyle content, written by students for students We achieved record scores on both our customer satisfaction Partnering with online and University Trust surveys, In addition to continued financial success experts John Smith to launch underlining our commitment throughout 2015, improvements across an exclusive online shop, to supporting students to the business resulted in endorsements being giving our students access achieve their potential.
to a wide range of student received in three key areas: the company essentials and unique offers achieved record results in our independent Winning an Education customer satisfaction survey and also with our Investor award in the Student University trust scores.
Additionally, we saw Accommodation Fund of our employee engagement survey levels increase the Year category yet again.
This illustrates how much progress has Being named as the Student been made since Home for Success was launched Accommodation Operator as our new purpose in 2014, contributing to our of the Year, winning Property objective of long-term sustainable growth.
Weeks RESI Award for the second time in three years Having our environmental achievements recognised with 12 Bronze NUS Green Impact awards 6 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information THE HIGHEST QUALITY PORTFOLIO We successfully delivered two We acquired four development sites: developments in 2015.
Both properties Far Gosford Street Coventry, Tara House were completed in line with budget and Liverpool, Old BRI and Brunel House Bristol, programme and have been fully let for and we secured four planning consents the 2015 16 academic year to Universities St Leonards Edinburgh, Tara House under nominations agreements.
Liverpool, Far Gosford Street Coventry, and Newgate Centre, Newcastle.
Orchard Heights, Bristol, was completed in August and has been let to the University The Unite UK Student Accommodation of Bristol and Angel Lane, Stratford, let Fund USAF acquired a 2,100 bed to Kings College London, under a portfolio for 271m from Ahli United Bank nomination agreement.
Both properties AUB, adding three new cities York, form part of the core accommodation Durham, Oxford, and further enhancing offerings to students and have been the overall quality of our portfolio.
In addition to this, we disposed of We continued to progress our 2016 pipeline non-core assets.
We sold Leighton Hall, and are on track to deliver five schemes: in Preston, and Charles Morton Court, Portsmouth, Aberdeen and Coventry and London, with the objective of recycling two in London.
the capital raised into stronger properties.
THE STRONGEST CAPITAL STRUCTURE We have continued to strengthen our In 2015, we continued along similar lines capital structure and have attracted to 2014, again delivering our best financial new capital into the business by: results, with recurring profits up 34% and also increasing our dividend by 34%.
Raising 115m before fees of capital through a placing in April 2015 We achieved rental growth of 3.8% in the year, enhancing our earnings and NAV.
Raising 306m through the USAF equity raise in June 2015, which enabled the The interest rate environment has acquisition of the AUB portfolio remained benign and we have been able to continue taking advantage of The completion of the forward sale historically low rates, both on new debt of Stratford One to LSAV for 84m facilities and by entering into forward starting interest rate swaps in respect Disposal of non-core assets continued of the future borrowing requirements of with the sale of Leighton Hall, Preston, our secured development pipeline.
As a and Charles Morton Court, London result of these activities our average cost Our LTV has reduced to 35% as a result of debt has fallen and we expect it to fall of activities to strengthen our capital further over the next few years.
structure The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7
