STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY AT A GLANCE MAXIMISING OUR VALUE CREATION OUR STRATEGIC PLAN STRATEGIC PRIORITY PERFORMANCE HOW WE MEASURE FUTURE OUTLOOK OUR STRATEGIC RISKS OUR PROGRESS Most trusted brand We installed LED lighting in 66 properties, updated 115 Our strategy is focused on being the Market risks In 2014, Unite Students launched its new purpose, common rooms and carried out 250 kitchen refurbishments most trusted brand in the sector, and to Reduction in demand driven 99% 79% Home for Success: a significant step change designed all contributing to improving the student experience.
continue to invest in our brand and build by government policy or other Beds sold Highest ever to positively impact all students living with us, and help upon our heritage dating back 25 years.
University trust We updated Wi-Fi to a minimum 25MB, introduced a bespoke us to become the most trusted brand with students score online shop and launched an additional digital platform, the We remain committed to the continued Reduction in demand due to and Universities.
Home for Success was introduced Student Life Hub, to engage with students with content that is development of our digital platforms and change in patterns of study through with an initial investment commitment of 40m, which relevant, interesting and useful.
our people, and will continue to focus on enhanced use of technology.
has enabled us to provide students with a home that the relationship between accommodation helps them achieve more from their time at University.
Our service satisfaction increased to its highest level everagain.
Increase in supply with increasing and success at University.
We will further 83% interest in the performance and This investment has been channelled into four key areas develop our physical and online We opened an office in Beijing, China and established Highest ever appeal of the purpose built student of the business: physical, digital, service and people.
customer presence in China having opened a web presence in the country.
satisfaction score Since launch, we have made significant progress in our marketing office in Beijing.
Operational risk Major health and safety H&S incident Read more in a property or a development site.
Information p20 Highest quality portfolio We completed two significant developments: Angel Lane We are committed to sourcing the Development risk During 2015, we continued to develop the quality of in Stratford and Orchard Heights in Bristol on time and to best development opportunities, in Inability to secure the best sites on 1,234 6,811 our portfolio through developing and delivering on budget and fully let for 2015 16. the strongest locations, and to carefully the right terms.
Failure or delay to Beds developed Secured bed time, disposing of non-core assets and through the managing our existing estate in order to complete a development within and delivered pipeline We have five planned properties openings, due Summer 2016 acquisition of quality portfolios, in line with our strategy.
benefit our students and business.
budget and on time for the scheduled in 2015 and a further seven schemes to open in 2017 and 2018. academic year.
We will continue to regularly review We disposed of two non-core assets.
the quality of our existing buildings Property market cycle risk and invest to make sure they provide Property markets are cyclical and Asset management activities 10m lifecycle capital the best accommodation for our performance depends on general across portfolio Read more students and are operationally and economic conditions.
Acquired Ahli United Bank AUB portfolio Information p22 environmentally efficient.
Strongest capital structure In April 2015, we raised 115 million before fees of new equity We remain committed to maintaining the Financing risk This year we further strengthened our capital structure via a placing.
strongest capital structure and delivering Expiring debt facilities cannot be 115M 306M via an increase in capital growth in our portfolio and Unite Group plc USAF equity raise attractive returns to our shareholders.
We replaced or only at high cost and or In May 2015, USAF raised 306 million of equity which was equity raise the raising of new equity capital for Unite Group plc recognise that as the competitive adverse interest rate movements.
used to complete the purchase of the Ahli United Bank and USAF.
environment continues to evolve, strong AUB Portfolio.
University partnerships will be crucial to success and therefore our portfolio and USAF continues to be Europes largest non-listed real pipeline will remain focused on Universities estate fund.
with the strongest growth prospects.
37% 49M Loan-to-value fell to 35% and net debt is now equivalent to Total Return EPRA Earnings As demand continues to outstrip supply, 6.9 times EBITDA and we intend to maintain our debt ratios Read more we will continue to utilise our scalable at around current levels.
Information p24 operating platform, accretive development pipeline and strong, flexible balance sheet, as we acknowledge that they underpin our longer term prospects for growth.
We will continue to strengthen our debt position through utilising diversified Read more Read more sources and maintaining a balanced KPIs p26 Principal risks and uncertainties p3134 maturity profile.
16 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information OUR STRATEGIC PLAN STRATEGIC PRIORITY PERFORMANCE HOW WE MEASURE FUTURE OUTLOOK OUR STRATEGIC RISKS OUR PROGRESS Most trusted brand We installed LED lighting in 66 properties, updated 115 Our strategy is focused on being the Market risks In 2014, Unite Students launched its new purpose, common rooms and carried out 250 kitchen refurbishments most trusted brand in the sector, and to Reduction in demand driven 99% 79% Home for Success: a significant step change designed all contributing to improving the student experience.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17
