6 Vesuvius plc Section One Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Americas Vesuvius 18 5 at a Glance Production sites R&D centres We are a global Group with 3,219 21 a business model based on Employees Sales offices offering customised products, solutions and services from production facilities in close Steel 22% Foundry proximity to our customers.
See our Business Model on p10-11 Americas Revenue See more about our Steel and 408.4m Foundry divisions on p42-53 2014: 454.0m 78% 38 Countries 6 Continents 69 Production sites 10,912 Employees North 92 America Sales offices 17 R&D centres South America Key to map Production and sales sites R&D centres Our Business 7 EMEA Asia-Pacific 32 10 19 2 Production sites R&D centres Production sites R&D centres 4,592 36 3,101 35 Employees Sales offices Employees Sales offices Steel Foundry Steel Foundry 35% 39% EMEA Asia-Pacic Revenue Revenue 555.7m 357.9m 2014: 638.8m 2014: 351.6m 65% 61% EMEA India and China and SE Asia North Asia Australasia 8 8 Vesuvius plc Section One Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Business Vesuvius at a Glance 3 Ladle Tundish Mould 1 Blast Furnace Iron Trough Tilter Torpedo ladle 3 2 Converter and refining ladles 4 Steel slab or bloom ready for sale Steel Flow Control Advanced Refractories Technical Services Steel Division supplies products used to produce specialised focuses on the capture Revenue channel and control the flow refractory materials for lining of key manufacturing data, of molten steel from ladle steelmaking vessels such complementing Vesuvius 897.6m to tundish and from tundish as blast furnaces, ladles and strong presence and expertise to mould: slide gate refractories tundishes, which are subject in molten metal engineering The continuous casting of for ladles and tundishes: to extreme temperatures, to create new technologies steel is a highly demanding slide gate systems: tundish corrosion and abrasion.
and integrate them into expert process that is critically and mould fluxes: and control These materials are in the process management systems.
dependent upon consistent devices to monitor and regulate form of powder mixes, which Applications focus on: furnace product quality and optimised steel flow into the mould.
are spray-applied or cast data acquisition using sensors production.
Vesuvius provides These products have been onto the vessel to be lined and laser scanner services: systems, products and services designed to resist extreme monolithics and refractory ladle data acquisition that allow steel mills to thermomechanical stress shapes e. g. bricks, pads and employing laser scanners contain the molten metal and corrosive environments.
Vesuvius is one of the and slag prevention technology: they produce, protect it from The majority of these products worlds largest manufacturers and caster data acquisition oxidation and chemical are consumed during the of monolithic refractory linings.
in the tundish and mould, contamination, and regulate process of making steel Advanced Refractories delivers which uses sensors to obtain its flow.
Vesuvius enables its and, consequently, demand installation technologies, temperature measurement, customers to increase efficiency is primarily linked to steel products adapted to fit metallurgical data, and other and productivity, enhance production volumes.
customers specific processes mould information.
quality, and improve the safety Continuing innovation allows and plants, and effective and reduce the environmental us to offer enriched solutions and efficient logistics footprint of the casting process.
that create additional value services.
These factors are in our customers processes.
combined with significant R&D, a deep knowledge of customers processes and project management capability to deliver market-leading solutions for our customers.
See Steel division operating review on p42-49 O Ou ur r B Bu usi sine fines ss s 9 9 3 Mould detail Riser Direct Pour Unit, sleeve including filtration 1 Sand core made with binder Mould and Furnace & and refractory coating core assembled melt shop refractories Fettling removal of gating Finished casting and riser systems and hence reduce Foundry Division labour-intensive fettling Revenue and machining, minimise metal usage requirements, 424.4m influence the metal 2 solidification process and Pouring ladle Vesuvius Foundry automate moulding and Melt shop refractories division, trading as Foseco, casting, thus reducing cost, Metal treatment is a world leader in the supply energy usage and mould size.
of consumable products, The conditioning of molten solutions and associated metal, the nature of the services related to the foundry mould used and, especially, industry.
The foundry process the design of the way metal is highly sequential and flows into the mould are key is critically dependent on parameters in a foundry, consistency of product determining both the quality quality and productivity of the finished castings and optimisation.
The Foundry the labour, energy and metal divisions products, solutions 3 usage efficiency of the foundry.
and use of advanced computer Mould Vesuvius products and simulation techniques allow associated services to foundries foundries to reduce defects improve these parameters.
See Foundry division operating review on p50-53
