Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Performance highlights A year of continued progress supported by increased investment Financial highlights This year saw strong growth in most of our emerging markets offset by a continued decline in Europe, though many European markets are showing signs of stabilisation.
Revenue Our significant investment programme, Revenue increased by 10.1% over the year, mostly due to the inclusion of Project Spring, has led to a sharp rise in our Vodafone Italy for a full year and the acquisition of Ono.
On an organic basis, capital expenditure and we have increased revenue declined by 0.8% as strong growth in our emerging markets was our dividend per share.
more than offset by a decline in Europe.
Our results this year include a full year of Vodafone Italy consolidated from 11.9bn 2.0bn February 2014, our acquisitions of Ono, EBITDA Operating profit Hellas Online and Cobra Automotive and EBITDA increased by 0.8 billion mainly through Our operating profit, which is our profit for the a full year of Kabel Deutschland.
the inclusion of Vodafone Italy and the acquisition year before interest and tax, was 2.0 billion.
On an organic basis EBITDA declined by 6.9%, This compares with an operating loss of 3.9 billion Organic movements in this report exclude reflecting ongoing revenue declines in Europe and last year, which included an impairment loss of the impact of recent acquisitions and the growth in operating expenses as a result of Project 6.6 billion.
disposals, movements in foreign exchange Spring, partially offset by operating efficiencies.
rates and certain other items.
See page 212 for more information.
9.2bn 11.22p More on financial performance: Page 38 Capital expenditure Dividends per share Capital expenditure increased significantly during We have announced a final dividend per share the year as we progressed with our Project Spring of 7.62 pence, giving total dividends per share of investment programme and from the inclusion 11.22 pence a 2.0% increase year-on-year.
Strategic highlights We have made significant progress this year, expanding our 4G coverage and customer base in Europe, increasing take-up of 3G in emerging markets and further developing our fixed business.
4G customers We now have over 20 million 4G customers across 18 markets, helping data traffic More on our strategy: grow by 80% across the Group.
Page 1427 446m 12m Mobile customers Fixed broadband customers We have grown our mobile customer base by We have grown our fixed broadband base by 15 million over the year, with significant growth 2.8 million over the year, through organic growth in our emerging markets.
and the acquisitions of Ono and Hellas Online.
19m 72% 3G customers in India European 4G population coverage We have grown our 3G customer base from 7 million We now have 72% 4G coverage compared with 46% to 19 million in India, supported by the expansion a year ago and will reach over 90% by next year.
