02 Strategic Report Group at a glance Good results and continued progress towards our 8% margin goal.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 03 Group at a glance continued Our business segments The Group is segmented on a regional and sector basis and this is reflected in our management structure.
United Kingdom and Europe North America Middle East We deliver engineering and technically We provide infrastructure planning, We provide a full range of design, integrated design, together with engineering, construction management, engineering and project management project and cost management services, environmental consulting, urban services for buildings, transportation to a wide range of clients in the public, planning and programme management and other infrastructure programmes regulated and private sectors.
Our services to state and local government from our eight centres across the region.
areas of operation include aerospace, clients, federal agencies and private defence, education, environment, businesses.
infrastructure design, transportation and water.
Our European business comprises operations in Denmark, Ireland, Norway, Portugal and Sweden.
Revenue Revenue Revenue 903.8m 341.4m 216.7m 1 1 1 Employees Employees Employees 9,642 2,735 2,668 Find out more on page 25 Find out more on page 32 Find out more on page 35 Notes: Asia Pacific Energy 1.
Full time equivalent staff at 31 March 2015 including agency staff.
We provide engineering, planning, We operate across multiple 2.
There are an additional 81 staff undertaking urban design, architecture and rail geographies with our main centres Group functions.
In mainland China our in the UK, North America, Australia focus is on urban planning, alongside and the Middle East.
We provide architecture and landscape architecture engineering and project management design.
In Hong Kong we deliver services and we are actively increasing services in urban rail development our presence and capabilities in the and highways bridges design.
energy market, including addressing allied issues such as climate change, sustainability and energy security.
Revenue Revenue 109.7m 182.0m 1 1 Employees Employees 1,523 1,813 Find out more on page 38 Find out more on page 41 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
