Highlights Against a backdrop of market volatility and weak investor sentiment towards emerging markets, we have continued our progress in diversifying the Groups business.
While markets are likely to remain uncertain in the near term, it is that volatility which underpins the merits of active asset management and our commitment to a disciplined, long term approach to investing.
Our focus on managing our balance sheet and costs remains.
As a pure asset manager, without the distractions of wider financial services activities, we are able to concentrate all of our resources on our core investment management business.
We have 38 offices in 25 countries and around 2,800 staff, of whom 720 are investment professionals.
Our assets under management were 284 billion as at 30 September 2015.
Our investment processes are simple and clear.
We aim to invest based on these qualities too, as well as focusing on taking a long term view.
What we do Our culture Our responsibilities Our business is predominantly We believe there is an Our primary focus is serving our the active management of information advantage in customers well.
We believe we financial assets for our clients.
understanding global markets are transparent and approachable We use first-hand research to from the local level up, with and we aim to deliver the highest make investment decisions.
investment and client services standards of client service.
teams based in or near the We do our utmost to provide Active investment spans equities, countries in which we invest.
the best working conditions fixed income, property and the for our employees, to limit our alternatives part of our Aberdeen The Group has grown rapidly over impact on the environment and solutions capability.
the last 30 years but maintains a to manage our business in a fair flat management structure and Our multi asset team can and responsible manner.
values being an open, diverse and blend our abilities across inclusive employer.
different asset classes to provide More information can be found tailored investment outcomes We champion local decision on our corporate responsibility to meet specific client needs.
making, close-knit teams and website aberdeen-asset.
com csr This can incorporate skills in both interdependence among our quantitative investments offices worldwide.
4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Corporate information Contents Overview Highlights 3 Chairmans statement 6 Strategic report Overview of strategic report 12 The market context 14 Business model 18 Where we operate 20 Strategic priorities 22 Our investment process 28 Business review 30 Our people 34 Financial review 36 Risk management 44 Corporate governance Corporate governance overview 54 Board of directors 56 Group management board 60 Corporate governance report 62 Audit committee 65 Innovation committee 68 Nominations committee 69 Risk committee 70 Remuneration report 72 Directors' report 89 Directors' responsibilities 91 Financial statements Accounting policies 94 Financial statements 101 Notes to financial statements 107 Independent auditors report 156 Responsibility statement 159 Five year summary 160 Annual report online We are delighted to announce the launch of the Aberdeen Asset Management app.
It enables instant access to key PLC information such as a live share price feed, recent news, financial calendar, presentations and annual reports.
The app is available to download Corporate information free via the Apple App Store and Google Play for use on iPhones, Principal offices 161 iPads and Android devices.
Corporate information 163 This report is also available in digital format on the investor Financial calendar 163 relations section of our website: Appendix - Related undertakings 164 aberdeen-asset.
