Admiral at a glance Our business and operations Admirals brands and markets In the UK, Admiral is one of the largest and mostrecognised car insurance providers, and theGroup includes Confused.
com, a leading 6 5 pricecomparison website, as well as a growing household insurance business.
Outside the UK, the Group has exported the knowledge and experience gained from its UK businesses, and owns four insurance and three price comparison businesses.
UK Insurance International Car Insurance UK Insurance review INTRODUCTION International Car Insurance review INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION Admiral is one of the largest Growing car insurance Market discipline Continuing to grow our international presence UK Insurance strategy Achievements and goals This will be my last UK insurance review before taking over from Henry as CEO later International Car Insurance strategy this year.
Next year hell be leaving me the responsibility of choosing just the right analogy, after years of Henrys always entertaining, sometimes illuminating, The strategy for Admirals UK business is UK Insurance achievements in 2015 occasionally enigmatic, choices.
Thats just one of the challenges of taking 40% of the UK car insurance Admirals strategy is to exploit the knowledge, skills and unchangedand remains simple: Profit before tax increased 11% to 443 million over from Henry, after his 25 years of pretty much faultless stewardship of market is in the hands of the quoted resources attached to the established UK businesses to 2014: 398 million the company.
Perhaps the biggest single advantage I have in tackling this and most profitable private promote expansion overseas in private car insurance.
businesses in Spain, Italy, The Group aims to grow profitably its share of challenge is having watched Henry, over those years, mix the brilliant blend personal line players.
Admirals objective is to create profitable, sustainable Spain Italy USA France theUK private motor insurance market whilst Record number of vehicles insured up 5% at 3.30 million o something special f inspiration, determina for station, sensitivity ff and shareholders alik and vision e. that creates, in Admiral, and growing businesses.
2014: 3.15 million Sarah Harris Milena Mondini Kevin Chidwick Pascal Gonzalvez Combined ratio improved in 2015 to 78% 2014: 80% Given its my last UK Insurance Review, Ill take the long view and start by So whats the downside of more quoted focused personal lines players?
Achievements CEO, Admiral Seguros CEO, ConTe CEO, Elephant Auto CEO, Lolivier assurance auto At the same time, Admiral endeavours always going back to our early days as a quoted company.
togive excellent service to customers, whilst Profit generated from the portfolio of insurance products For a while, after our flotation, we were without comparison.
Or perhaps, more Market discipline should not only make them more rational managers of providing a positive environment in which staff that complement the core car insurance product of accurately, without comparables.
We were, for a number of years, the only their business, it should also make them more effective competitors more International Car Insurance achievements in 2015 175million 2014: 182 million quoted direct personal lines insurer.
Analysts and commentators could only sophisticated pricers, better claims handlers, lower cost operators.
It should, Admiral insured 673,000 customers across its Spanish, canwork and develop.
Strong policy growth in Household to 310,000 2014: 162,600 half-heartedly benchmark us against a couple of battle-scarred, multi-national, in short, help gap between ourselv them narr es and ow the long themselvstanding and substan es.
tial combined ratio Italian, American and French operations 2014: 592,600 Launched in October 2006 Launched in May 2008 Launched in October 2009 serving Launched in December 2010 multi-line composites and a mixed selection of Lloyds managing agencies.
th themostmature of the Groups the largest international fourUS states Virginia, Maryland, the Groups youngest international 95% of customers who have submitted a claim would Roll on ten years and the stock market is awash with companies that are Not on expense ratios.
The market and our own car insurance expense ratio 4 Best Multinational Place to Work in Europe, awarded international businesses.
renew with Admiral, based on their claims experience primarily direct personal lines insurance companies: ourselves: Direct Line: have oscillated, but our relative outperformance has stayed consistent at by Great Place to Work The highlight of 2015 in Spain?
ConTe recorded its second consecutive year Comprehensive 2015 market data is not yet 2015 was the year of a new law in France 2014: 95% Esure: most recently Hastings: and, notwithstanding its initial reluctance 1214 percentage points below market averages.
While on household, despite Admiral Seguros achieved break-even on an underwriting ofprofit in 2015.
Despite challenging market available, but it is fair to assume that the US market loiHamon making switching motor insurance toacknowledge its insurance-ness, Saga.
Ten years ago quoted focused our sub-scale circa 1% market share and our big share of new business car insurers in the UK year basis We successfully hit our target of breaking-even on conditions prices decreasing by 6% we grew again from a market ofover $180 billion much easier for consumers.
This new regulation the US andFrance 96% of staff say that Admiral is a friendly place to work personal lines pla accounted for 5% o yers f the UK mo ourselves and a c tor market.
ouple o The o f L ther loy 95% ds mo was buried tor operations within versus renewals, were already beating the market average expense ratio.
an underwriting year basis: a meaningful achievement grewthe customer count by 11% to 315,300. premium in 2014 to around $190 billion in 2015.
The was in-force from 1January 2015 and was rolled according to the Great Place to Work survey massive global insurers and banks for whom the UK car insurance result was What about on claims ratios?
Admiral Seguros voted 4th Best Company to Work for in given the small size of the Spanish book.
market isstable with low cyclicality, but in 2015 out progressively all year at each renewal date.
5th Best Big Company to Work For, The Sunday Times 100 not that big a deal.
Now 40% of the UK car insurance market is in the hands Its hard to know, to be honest.
It takes a good three years for enough claims Spain between 250 and 499 employees, awarded by Our focus during the year was on improving portfolio For the first time in more than 10 years the average the major players complained of increasing claims Best Companies to Work For of the quoted personal line players.
to settle, or at least stabilise, for us to be able to compare ourselves reliably Great Place to Work Institute quality, strong cost control and making improvements pr was emium fierce, for with a lar the mark get e media spend, r fell below 380.
C atompetition e cuts, frequency and talked about raising rates.
T incr o aease pric void losing mark es much, a et shar t least no e, largt enough e players didn to t to the market as a whole.
What we can say is the 2011 12 years look to be in infrastructure and customer processes.
Having special promotions and product innovations, Distribution channel shift remains slow but inevitable.
compensate for the higher cost of claims.
As a 4th Best Large Workplace in the UK, Great Place Good news for Admiral?
delivering loss ratios of 1112 percentage points below market averages: less ConTe reported its second full year profit used 2015 to consolidate, we now have a strong liketelematics and alternate payment methods.
Market surveys suggest c. 25% of all premiums are consequence, the market combined ratio kept toWorkInstitute Or bad?
than the 20 percentage points advantage in 2009 when price comparison ConTe grew customer base by 11% foundation from which to scale up the business However, with a market combined ratio still well written direct with new business being c. 40%.
But it is deteriorating, reaching 107%.
One would expect Well, both to be honest.
neophytes were severely punished : but no less than 2005 6, when we th over coming years.
below 100%, it should not come as any surprise a sticky market, with only 10% of customers switching 2016 to be a continuation of 2015.
Market profitability Best Car Insurance Provider in the Personal Finance outperformed by 1011 percentage points.
ConTe voted 9 Best Medium Company to Work for in Italy Improvements in the Spanish economy during 2015 that many firms would be trying to increase the annually, so the overall shift in distribution is modest.
is unlikely to improve, as claims cost are expected Awards for the third year in a row The investment community has tended to look askance at a sector whose We insured about 1.2 million cars in the UK in 2006, and 3.0 million in 2012.
Elephant Auto 40% growth in net written premium drove increases in claims frequency in a context size of their portfolios.
I expect further rate cuts For Elephant this is somewhat academic as the direct to keep rising, while prices will be stable as a defence extreme cyclicality has, over the decades, delivered an unappetising combination If youd asked me back in 2006 if we could insure almost three times as many of continuing price competition.
The result was that inthe first half of 2016 but the pace should slow market is enormous and more than enough to satisfy against the new law that is now fully effective.
UK Insurance goals for 2016 of very modest average returns on capital, combined with extreme volatility cars in 2011 12, and still maintain the same claims ratio advantage versus Elephant Auto became a top 100 auto insurer in the US the Spanish market may have entered unprofitable as claims frequency is now on the rise.
40% of new business represents 8 million Lolivier assurance auto benefited both from the Appropriate rate changes in response to claims trends and ar transpar ound tha ency t a, v the bett erage.
Migh er alignmen t the mark t of et discipline, manager and o the e wner xtra scrutin interests, mean y and the market, Id have said probably not.
Lolivier assurance auto customer base grew by 66% underwriting territory for the first time in more than Transition towards direct distribution progressed at new business opportunities each year.
new regulatory environment and the growth of the market conditions that, in this new world, UK car insurers could lift their game enough, both If you ask me now if we have maintained the same claims advantage versus 10 years.
The market combined ratio was 96% at a slower pace than in the past, given that traditional One feature of 2015 was the emergence of online price comparison market.
It was a year of strong Continued reserve releases if back years develop topush up cross-cycle average returns, and to moderate the ups and the market in 2015 now with 3.3 million cars on cover as in 2006 and in Lolivier assurance auto continued to develop its brand the end of 2014.
It rose to 99% in H1 2015, and companies led the price and advertising war.
Mobile price comparison whilst still modest in the US growth as our policy base grew by more than 60%.
2012, Id again say probably not.
awareness, launching on TV looks to have continued an upward trend in H2.
is becoming a major force with around one third mark growing pr et, it clearly oportion o made an impact and is a f our quote volumes.
fast Weve been developing our brand awareness with asexpected The other big news in 2015 was the passing of an of visits to insurance websites coming from mobile a new TV presence.
At the same time, operations Successful transition to new IT system Guidewire Its too early to make a call, but I am somewhat encouraged by premium But I have been proved wrong before.
Goals update to the claims Baremo law by the Spanish devices and price comparison sites grew around 12%.
For Elephant, 2015 was a good year.
We grew the were fully in-sourced and a new cutting edge IT mo and vemen throughout 2015 should mean ts over the last 18 months.
M tha ark t etthe c wide pric ombined r e incr aeases tio forfr ac om mid 2014 cident year parliament.
Baremo regulates compensation ConTe followed the market with some price business substantially again with more than 40% system was developed and implemented.
2015, the most recent worst point of the car insurance cycle, will be materially David Stevens payouts in bodily injury cases and the change, reductions but resisted drastic rate cutting.
growth we wrote $135 million and now have over 2016 should be another year of strong growth for below the 120% plus combined ratios on a pure year, before reserve release, Chief Operating Officer International Car Insurance goals for 2016 effective from January 2016, makes large bodily Instead we focused on finding profitable niches 140,000 customers.
Acquisition economics improved Lolivier assurance auto.
basis that marked the last two worst points 1998 9, 2009 10.
If sustained 2 March 2016 Admiral Seguros to increase market share and grow injury claims significantly more expensive.
This within the book, selling other products and services as brand awareness and perception increased over a decent period of time, evidence of higher and less volatile returns consumer awareness of Qualitas brand will pr claims c ovide osts.
further upward pressure on market to our customers and retaining customers at renewal.
nic deliv ely er in our ed w c ell.
N was particularly ew marketing campaigns significant must ultimately increase investor interest in non-life insurance as a whole.
In 2016 ConTe will invest more in its brand, which in Virginia and in the USs 2nd largest auto insurance ConTe increasing investment in brand and technology We expect that the Baremo change will bring started in 2015 with our sponsorship of the Serie B state, Texas.
We have moved into the top 100 US toleverage the expected cycle turn and grow customers some market price reaction and opportunities for football league.
We will also invest in technology auto insurers with a market share that rounds to a and revenue growth during 2016.
Our focus will be on increasing to help us grow in the future when the market massive 0.1%.
The loss ratio came under pressure Elephant Auto to focus on continued growth our market share within the price comparison channel, turns and prices rise once again.
with increased frequency across the board, but Henry andimproving its combined ratio and gr Qualitas br owing c and.
onsumer awareness of our flagship Technical results were positive, with encouraging particularly in Texas.
Like others, we implemented claims development.
Improved actuarial projections price increases in the latter part of the year to David: Henry challenges established wisdom Lolivier assurance auto to grow customers and revenue resulted, not only in a profitable 2015 on the back address the loss ratio.
We will be monitoring this rejecting doing something a certain way because of reserve releases, but also turned 2014 into carefully as we seek further growth in 2016.
Admiral is different is an another profitable underwriting year.
have plenty of market share to go after both in e the righ xpression o t wayf, H the best enry's cw ommitmen ay, rather than t to do the things existing states and beyond and we will probably apparently obvious way.
expand into new states in the next year or so.
David Stevens, CBE We believe the Elephant culture and operating model gives us an opportunity for a competitive advantage in a high expense ratio market.
Adjusted for our current ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ADMIRAL GROUP PLC lack of scale, Elephant already compares favourably.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 20 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 21 26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 27 UK Car Insurance review International Car Insurance review From page 20 From page 26 1.71 billion 232 million Turnover 2014: 1.60 billion Turnover 2014: 206 million 443 million 22 million Pre-tax profit 2014: 398 million Pre-tax loss 2014: 20 million 3.30 million 673,000 Customers 2014: 3.15 million Customers 2014: 592,600 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 06 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
