Strategic report Overview BGEO Group at a glance The structure of our business We are a Georgia - focused banking group with an investment arm, aiming to deliver on 4x20 strategy.
We are uniquely positioned to capture growth opportunities in the underpenetrated banking sector and wider corporate landscape in Georgia.
Banking Business Retail Banking Corporate Banking Investment Management Client-centric, multi-brand strategy for Integrated solutions for our CB clients At the forefront of capital markets our c. 2 million clients development in Georgia We are the largest retail banking player in Our bank is long-standing and the largest Our Investment Management business Georgia, serving c. 2.0 million customers corporate lender in the country with deep combines Wealth Management and our through the widest network of 266 sector knowledge and local expertise.
brokerage arm, a wholly owned subsidiary branches, 746 ATMs and 2,589 Express Our Corporate Banking business is of Bank of Georgia, Galt & Taggart.
An Pay self-service terminals, a salesforce characterised by outstanding flexibility in established leader of investment banking of more than 3,000 people, along with our meeting our corporate clients needs and and investment management services in diverse products and services.
Our Retail offers the most comprehensive range of Georgia, Galt & Taggart is at the forefront Banking business, the prominent ingredient products and services in the country.
We of capital markets development in the of our business, runs a client-centric, multiare proud to accommodate more than country, bringing corporate advisory, private brand strategy which reaches the entire 5,000 businesses in Georgia and play our equity and brokerage services under one spectrum of retail customers through three part in developing various sectors of the brand.
Accommodating international clients well-established and recognised brands: economy such as trade, energy, industry from more than 70 countries, our Wealth and tourism, among others.
Corporate Management business provides private 1 Express designed to magnetise Banking additionally serves as the banking services to our high-net-worth emerging retail customers with minimal countrys leading trade finance business individual clients and offers investment incremental operational costs through and provides leasing services through management products internationally cost-efficient distance channels such as the Groups wholly owned subsidiary, through representative offices in London, our Express Pay terminals, internet and Georgian Leasing Company GLC.
Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv.
These mobile banking and technology-intensive businesses leverage our superior knowledge Express branches: Note: In February 2016, we announced and capabilities in the Georgian and 2 Bank of Georgia providing the combination of our Corporate Banking and neighbouring markets both in terms of long-established traditional banking Investment Management businesses into reach and our expertise.
Galt & Taggart services to our mass retail and MSME a Corporate Investment Banking business Research currently covers the Georgian clients: CIB.
See page 37 for details about CIB.
and Azeri economies and publishes 3 Solo targeting mass of affluent Georgian sector research subscription to customers and providing a unique blend the research on www.
of banking and lifestyle products and services.
4 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Share in Groups revenue 2015 Share in Groups profit 2015 Share in Groups assets 2015 % % % Retail Banking 10.8 8.2 0.5 7.0 1.3 2.6 2.4 3.5 Corporate Banking 7.2 7.5 1.1 Investment Management 11.0 GHG 4.6 47.2 44.0 2 3.3 m 48.4 GGU 27.8 37.5 Teliani Valley 24.1 Note: Excludes inter-segment eliminations Investment Business 2 2 Georgia Healthcare m Real Estate m Georgian Global Teliani Valley Group GHG Utilities GGU A long-term, high-growth A fast-growing, leading real Major utility and energy Creating a leading investment story estate developer in Georgia company, with more beverages producer and efficiency and clear growth distributor in Caucasus opportunities GHG is the largest healthcare Our real estate business, GGU, in which we acquired We operate the largest services and medical insurance the Groups wholly owned a 25% minority interest in wine business in Georgia, 2 provider operating in the subsidiary, m Real Estate, December 2014, has two Teliani, where we have a 71% fast-growing, predominantly develops residential property in main business lines - water shareholding.
Teliani has a privately owned, Georgian Georgia.
For the past couple of utility and electric power strong existing franchise, being healthcare market, which is years it has established itself as generationand is a major a leading wine producer with characterised by low utilisation one of the most recognisable player on both markets.
In its a wide distribution platform.
and high fragmentation, leaving and trustworthy residential water utility business, GGU Teliani sells 3 million bottles significant room for medium housing brands in the country.
is a natural monopoly that of wine annually, with 60% of 2 to long-term growth.
Our m Real Estate outsources the supplies water and provides sales coming from exports.
healthcare services business construction and architecture a wastewater service to 1.4 Building on its existing had a 26.6% market share as works while focusing on project million people approximately franchise of distribution, of 31 December 2015, with management and sales.
The one-third of Georgias Teliani is currently expanding 2,670 hospital beds and it Groups real estate business population in three cities: into a new business line has the widest geographic was founded to meet the Tbilisi, Mtskheta and Rustavi.
of beer and soft beverage coverage among its peers with unsatisfied demand for housing In electric power business, production, with ten-year facilities located in six regions through our well-established GGU owns and operates three exclusivity from Heineken to that contain three-quarters branch network and salesforce, hydropower generation facilities sell in three countries: Georgia, of the population of Georgia.
while stimulating our mortgage with a total capacity of 143MW.
Armenia and Azerbaijan 2 GHG is also the largest lending business.
m Real Generated power is primarily a total population of 17 medical insurer in Georgia with Estate completed sales of used by GGUs water business, million people.
With strong a 38.4% market share as of 1,660 apartments worth US$ with the excess amount of management team and a 31 December 2015, based on 142.3 million since 2011 with generated capacity sold to third proven track record, Teliani revenue and with approximately 85% of apartments sold in parties.
GGU posted EBITDA aims to become a leading 234,000 people holding six successfully completed of GEL 63.2 million in 2015. beverages producer and GHGs medical insurance projects and 36% pre-sales Since 2014, BGEO Group put distributor in the Caucasus.
policies as of 31 December in two ongoing projects.
The in place a strong management 2015.
In November 2015, number of apartments financed team and streamlined 2 GHG completed an initial with our mortgages in all m operations, however we see public offering on the premium Real Estate projects as of the room for further improvement.
segment of the London Stock date of this announcement Exchange GHG:LN.
BGEO totalled 788, with an aggregate holds a 65% stake in GHG amount of GEL 86.7 million.
as of the date of this report.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 5
