02 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT AT A GLANCE VALUE THE INVESTING INVESTMENTS BENCHMARK Your money is principally invested Your money is principally invested in four Our Investment Manager picks good value in companies with three key features: types of companies: investments wherever they can find them.
Their shares trade at discounts Holding Companies The return of the portfolio is measured to net asset value Investment Companies against the MSCI World ex-US Index return.
They have quality underlying Property Companies assets and strong balance sheets Conglomerates There is likely to be a catalyst that will narrow the discount Our Investment Manager can invest anywhere in the world.
In practice, they find most opportunities in Europe and the Far East.
See information on AVI, page 18 See Investment Managers Review, page 18 See Chart, page 5 DISCOUNTS DIVIDENDS AND BUY-BACKS Our Investment Manager focuses on The Companys shares have been trading capital growth, but the Company has at a discount to their net asset value.
The either maintained or increased its ordinary Company manages the volatility of the dividends for the past 30 years.
When discount through a policy of buying back there are exceptionally high income its own shares.
receipts, the Company occasionally pays a special dividend.
See Chairmans Statement, page 6 See Chairmans Statement, page 6 03 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 PERFORMANCE FEES Over the past 10 years, British Empire Our Investment Manager charges 0.7% has produced an average annual return of net assets.
There is no performance fee.
Against the benchmark there has Our total annual costs known as Ongoing been a recent period of under-performance.
Charges are 0.9% of net assets.
Longer-term, we believe our Investment Manager's style of investing will provide higher than average returns for investors.
See KPIs, page 10 See KPIs, page 10 See Investment Managers Review, page 18 GOVERNANCE GEARING AND RISK ACCOUNTS Though the Company has some The Company has a Board of The Company has net assets of 697.5m Debenture Stock in issue, it has, in recent Directors responsible for oversight and revenue earnings of 16.3m.
years, normally held a net cash position, of the Investment Manager and also although more recently it has been fully the risks and controls operated by the invested.
The Board is currently assessing Company.
the merits of further long-term borrowing.
The aim is to secure adequate returns without undue risk.
See Strategic Report, page 12 See Chairmans statement, page 6 See financial statements, page 46 See Governance, page 32 All figures are as at 30 September 2015, or for the year ended on that date, except where stated otherwise.
