Group at a glance Protecting our customers We have multiple brands, products and distribution channels.
Each allows ourcustomersto choose the right cover to protect their cars, homes, holidays, businessesandpets.
Personal lines Motor We are Britains leading personal motor insurer measured 1,406.7m 3.7m 1 by in-force policies, mainly represented through our highly Gross written premium In-force policies recognised brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and also through our partners.
We insure around one in seven cars on the road, representing 3.7 million in-force policies.
92.4% 338.0m Combined operating ratio Operating profit Home We are Britains leading personal home insurer measured 866.3m 3.4m 1 by in-force policies.
We reach our customers by selling Gross written premium In-force policies home insurance products through our brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and our partners Sainsburys Bank, RBS, NatWest and Prudential.
92.2% 109.9m Combined operating ratio Operating profit Rescue and other personal lines We are one of the leading providers of rescue and other 394.1m 8.3m 2,3 personal lines insurance in the UK with 8.3 million in-force Gross written premium In-force policies policies.
This includes providing roadside assistance and recovery for customers through Green Flag, the UKs third- 2 largest roadside recovery provider.
We also offer customers 91.2% 52.0m protection for their pets and holidays, and we are the third Combined operating ratio Operating profit 3 largest insurer in the UK for these insurance products.
Commercial We protect small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs through our brands, NIG, Direct Line for Business and 485.3m 655k Churchill, and through our partners RBS and NatWest.
Gross written premium In-force policies NIG sells its products exclusively through brokers operating across the UK.
Direct Line for Business provides business, van and landlord insurance products direct to customers.
104.5% 20.8m Churchill sells van insurance direct to customers and through Combined operating ratio Operating profit price comparison websites PCWs.
Includes Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege and partner brands: RBS, Nationwide home only, NatWest, Prudential and Sainsburys GfK Financial Research Survey FRS 6 months ending December 2015, 13,729 adults interviewed for motor insurance and 13,148 for home insurance 2.
Mintel Vehicle Recovery UK, September 2015 3.
Mintel Pet Insurance UK, August 2015 and Mintel Travel Insurance UK, February 2015 4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our brands Direct Line has maintained its brand Churchill is a household name.
Privilege targets customers who heritage by selling products direct Wemarket our products by phone mainly buy through PCWs.
We focus to customers exclusively by phone andinternet, including PCWs.
on making sure they experience and internet.
We target customers We target customers who have a quick service at the best price.
with ahighaffinity to the brand, a high affinity to the brand, and and focusonproviding a fast and who need an extra helping hand.
com Green Flag is our roadside Direct Line for Business NIG is our specialist Brand Partners is the rescue and recovery provider.
is an extension of our Direct commercial insurance brand, Groupspartnerships arm.
We sell it as a standalone Line brand.
It is our direct focused on SMEs.
We sell We specialise in providing service and an additional commercial insurance brand our products through brokers, personal lines insurance, optional product alongside for small businesses that have including an in-house androadside rescue and motor insurance.
straightforward commercial intermediary that arranges recovery products to some 1 insurance requirements.
RBS and NatWest well-known brands.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, including National Westminster Bank plc www.
