Investment Highlights This has been another year of strong performance with a total NAV return of 25%, and a 10-year annualised net return on equity of 13%.
We have continued to be busy with new investment, investing 188 million of Electras capital as well as a further 125 million of portfolio companies capital in ten bolt-on acquisitions.
Investment performance again reflects our approach of buying attractive assets well and then accelerating their development by applying our proven active ownership model.
Electras portfolio offers considerable potential as the growth strategies we have in place at each portfolio company continue to take effect.
Performance for the Year During the year, Electras share price total return was 25% compared to a total return of -2% for the FTSE All-Share Index and a 13% total return for the Morningstar Private Equity Index over the same period.
Electras diluted net asset value NAV per share was 3,914p at the end of the financial year having continued to grow strongly, delivering a total return of 25% compared to a 10% NAV per share total return for the Morningstar Private Equity Index.
The total return from the investment portfolio over the year amounted to 429 million or 34%.
Further information regarding the effect of this strong investment performance on Electras NAV is included in the Financial Review on pages 61 to 63.
Long-Term Performance Over the last ten years, Electras shares have delivered a total return of 210%.
This compares favourably to the total return over the same period of both the FTSE All-Share 72% and the Morningstar Private Equity Index 10%.
Over the last ten years, Electras NAV per share total return has been 244%.
This again compares favourably to the NAV per share total return over the same period for the Morningstar Private Equity Index of 35%.
Investment Activity New investment for the year totalled 188 million, compared to 410 million in the previous year.
The lower level of new investment reflects the high volume of portfolio company M&A which has offered more attractive value creation opportunities than many of the new standalone investments that have been considered.
The direct unlisted portfolio accounted for 167 million of this investment, where activity included one new investment, in TGI Fridays, and follow-on investments in Park Resorts, PINE and Allflex Corporation.
Realisations from the portfolio during the year reached 259 million, compared to 352 million in the previous year.
The largest individual realisations were 72 million from the sale of Nuaire and 53 million in respect of AXIO Data Group, following its sale of JOC Group and Breakbulk in December 2014.
54 million was realised from funds and secondaries and 15 million was realised by the sale of listed securities.
24 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 Outlook The year to 30 September 2015 has been another period of strong investment performance.
The foundations of this performance are to be found in our success in buying attractive assets well, often by taking advantage of complexity: in developing a clear strategy for each investment centred on organic growth, operational improvement and M&A: and, together with portfolio company management teams, in actively implementing these strategies with energy and focus.
We expect further strong performance from the investment portfolio as a result of this approach.
New investment has been slower this year.
Our customary discipline has led us to focus on the relative value offered by portfolio company add-ons compared to new standalone investments this year.
The former often take just as much time to complete as the latter.
Nonetheless we continue to see opportunities to deploy Electras capital to add to its portfolio of attractive private equity assets.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 25 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview
