Greggs at a glance With 1,698 shops, 12 bakeries and 20,000 employees who serve millions of customers each week, Greggs is the UKs leading bakery food-on-the-go retailer.
Bakeries Distribution centre Manufacturing centre of excellence for savouries Shops 02 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Our vision Our business model is to be a winning brand in the food-on-the-go market.
Our  operations Our market locations We own and operate a  is key in the food-onintegrated supply chain, from the-go market and we continue to How will we achieve this?
production through distribution to open and relocate shops to ensure Our people... are what makes our point-of-sale.
This means we can that our estate is well positioned.
We aim to provide make great tasting, high quality A high proportion of our openings them with a great place to work, where bakery food at great prices offering are in areas away from traditional high they feel valued.
streets as we diversify our portfolio in line with market trends.
Working with Our food... is made with high quality, Our target market franchise partners, we have extended wholesome ingredients.
Our daily-fresh Food on-the-go is a growing market.
the Greggs offer to previously sandwiches and freshly-baked savouries Greggs is a brand with broad appeal, inaccessible travel, workplace and ensure that we deliver food that is both attracting customers of all types and other convenience locations.
high quality and great value for money we have the opportunity to fulfil more to our customers.
of their needs by focusing on great tasting food-on-the-go, at all times Our shops... are being remodelled and of the day.
relocated to meet the demands of busy food-on-the-go customers.
Our  supply Our  operations network... currently comprises 12 bakeries, one distribution centre and one manufacturing centre of excellence for savouries.
This allows us to make and deliver great value, fresh products to our Central Manufacturing Delivery Shops shops every day.
support logistics Our values... commit us to being enthusiastic and supportive in all that we do, open, honest and appreciative, treating everyone with fairness, Our target markets consideration and respect.
Our commitment to sharing the benefits of our success... is deeprooted and was cemented by the Food-on-the-go All consumer United Kingdom establishment of the Greggs Foundation demographics in 1987.
Along with our values it forms the bedrock of our approach to social responsibility.
Our market locations Shopping Work Travel Leisure Our offering to customers High quality Great value Convenient Great service Happy food and shops customers drinks Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03
