Jupiter at a glance About Jupiter We have a leading position in the UK mutual fund industry and an increasing presence in Europe and Asia.
We also run segregated mandates and investment trusts.
Jupiter is a focused Many of our clients are individuals, who make their own investment mutual fund provider decisions or follow guidance from financial advisers or wealth managers.
They mainly invest in our products through with a strong record of intermediated platforms, rather than directly with us.
We also serve institutional investors, including pension funds.
organic growth Jupiter listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange in 2010 and is a member of the FTSE 250.
Our people and culture are key We believe that talented individuals who are free to pursue their own investment styles can make a positive difference for clients.
With no house view to constrain them, our fund managers actively seek the best investment opportunities through fundamental stockpicking, with the aim of delivering outperformance after fees.
We organise our fund managers into 12 strategy teams, so they can share ideas and information, while remaining individually accountable for their funds performance.
As we grow, this approach gives us a more balanced business by asset allocation, geography and investment style.
Our values underpin our approach As Jupiter grows, our values help our people understand how to drive change through their behaviour.
Our primary responsibility is to our clients, who entrust their savings to our management.
We aim to protect and grow their assets and provide an excellent service.
Our conduct seeks always to provide the best outcomes for our clients.
Every employee can make a difference to Jupiter.
We value individual talent and independent thought and seek to give freedom to employees to deliver.
We do this within a team framework where respect, high standards and innovation are key to our high-performance culture.
We aim to make a positive contribution to society, as managers of other peoples money.
We seek to do so by increasing the value of our clients savings, in the way we run money and by behaving ethically.
We believe that if we live by our values, Jupiter will be a profitable and sustainable company which provides fair returns to clients, employees and shareholders.
4 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Our aim is Our scalable platform outperformance turns growth into profit We aim to create value for our stakeholders through Jupiter has a single, scalable infrastructure platform.
This allows us to grow our revenues faster than our fixed costs, Adding value for our clients through active fund management that creating comparative outperformance for our shareholders that achieves above-market returns after fees is at the heart of our reflects the outperformance we expect from our fund managers.
This focus helps us to grow our assets under Our platform gives our fund managers the essential tools to management, by ensuring we keep existing clients and attract new outperform, while managing key risks to support shareholder and ones.
Growing the assets we manage leads to increased revenues client needs.
and profits, so we can reward our employees and add value for shareholders through dividends and capital appreciation.
Our distribution reach Our stakeholders share is expanding in the rewards of growth Our strong position in the UK provides a stable and profitable We look to use available profit to benefit all our stakeholders.
base from which we can grow internationally.
We believe that successfully implementing our growth and capital allocation strategies will deliver attractive capital and In recent years, we have increasingly complemented our UK cash returns.
business with overseas growth, as we follow our clients by leveraging existing relationships with large fund distributors in new We target a robust and sustainable net cash position on our countries and by creating products that appeal to clients in multiple balance sheet, with sufficient capital and reserves to fund organic countries, thereby improving our diversification by product, client growth.
We are committed to distributing excess cash generated by We will continue to expand our geographic footprint where it is in earnings to shareholders each year, through a progressive ordinary our stakeholders interests.
dividend and a special dividend when earnings allow.
Where we operate Our investment team and infrastructure platform are based in London.
We distribute our products in a number of key financial centres in Europe and Asia, either through our own teams or through agency relationships.
United Europe Asia Kingdom Distribution presence Key investment and operational hub Distribution presence Austria, France, Germany, Hong Kong and Singapore Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland 5 Agency relationship Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
