Strategic report 02 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 At a glance We have achieved market leadership with a range of innovative products and through our professional services businesses, Just Retirement Solutions JRS and The Open Market Annuity Service TOMAS Competitive position New entrant Developing Professional services A leader What we offer customers Competitive JRS Retirement position Just Retirement has developed an innovative advice approach enabling people with modest pension A regulated financial advice service savings to access an affordable regulated for people who want a personal advice service.
recommendation on how to use their pension savings.
What we offer customers Competitive JRS LTM advice position Just Retirement delivers face to face nationwide A regulated financial advice service advice at a time and place to suit the client.
for people wanting a personal recommendation when considering releasing some of the value from their home.
What we offer customers Competitive TOMAS position A range of business services tailored to the needs Support for organisations wanting to of the organisation, ranging from consultancy deliver whole-of-market shopping around and software development to fully outsourced services to source retirement income customer service delivery and marketing services.
products for their customers, employees or pension scheme members.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 03 Marketed products What we offer customers Competitive Defined Benefit position Just Retirements innovative approach to use fide-risking Solutions individual medical underwriting in this segment delivers better prices for trustees.
DB Solutions for pension scheme trustees to remove the financial risks of operating pension schemes and create certainty that members pensions will be paid in the future.
What we offer customers Competitive Guaranteed Income position By using our unrivalled intellectual property, for Life Solutions Just Retirement provides an individually tailored solution providing customers typically with 25% GIfL more income compared to standard products.
A solution for a person or couple who want the security of knowing they will receive a guaranteed income for life.
What we offer customers Competitive Flexible Pension Plan position Just Retirements Flexible Pension Plan has been FPP developed to enable people with modest pension A solution for a customer wanting to retain savings access to an affordable service.
The FPP greater flexibility from their pension savings can be used in conjunction with GIfL enabling by enabling irregular withdrawals.
customers to mix and match to meet their needs.
What we offer customers Competitive Lifetime mortgages position The Group currently provides a range of lifetime LTM mortgages that equip people with the financial Solutions designed for people who want to resources to meet a range of needs in later life.
release some of the value of their home.
What we offer customers Competitive Care Plans CP position Just Retirements Care Plans can be tailored to A solution for people moving to residential the individual and offer a tax-efficient solution care who want the security of knowing a to making payments to residential care providers.
regular payment will be made to the care provider for the rest of their life.
