Strategic report Highlights and strategic priorities HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED STRENGTH Supporting ACROSS THE WHOLE BUSINESS 1 in 5 Underlying profit up 5% to of new business start-ups in the UK via our Retail Business Banking Segment 8.
1 bn Celebrating 2 50 ye ars of helping the people, businesses and communities of Britain Statutory profit before tax 1.
6bn Statutory profit before tax of 1.6billion, despite 4.0billion of PPI charges Strong balance sheet and liquidity position.
Strong capital generation with pro forma CET1 ratio of Expanding our Environmental, Social and Governance ESG programme by issuing 1 3.0% our second Ordinary dividend per share ESG Bond to finance SMEs, healthcare 2.25p providers and renewable energy projects with an additional special dividend of 0.5p per share Read more on page 35 or visit www.
com 35 02 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES GOOD START TO THE NEXT PHASE OF OUR STRATEGIC JOURNEY Creating the best customer experience We are improving customer experience with our multi-brand, multi-channel approach, combining digital capabilities with face-to-face services.
We are transforming our digital presence, providing simpler, seamless interactions across online and mobile while sustaining extensive customer reach through our leading branch network.
Becoming simpler and more efficient We are creating operational capability which is simpler andmore efficient than today through further system enhancement and integration and are becoming more responsive to changing customer expectations while maintaining our cost leadership amongst UK high street banks.
This cost leadership enables us to provide increased value to our customers and competitive differentiation.
Delivering sustainable growth As the UK economy continues to recover, we are further developing Groupwide growth opportunities within our prudent risk appetite.
We are maintaining market leadership in our main retail businesses, making the most of our multi-brand, multi-channel strategy whilst also focusing onareas where we can grow.
Read more on page 20 or visit www.
