02 02 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 At a glance Our business Residential Retail Buy-to-Let mortgage savings SME lending lending Online Buy-to-Let mortgages We attract retail savings deposits via We lend to individuals and limited the internet.
companies secured on residential Bespoke first charge property held for investment We provide loans to individuals, Direct purposes.
Our target market is secured by a first charge against their The direct channel sources savings experienced and professional residential home.
Our target market products via the telephone and post.
landlords or High Net Worth includes High Net Worth and Complex individuals with established and Income customers.
High Street branches extensive property portfolios.
Our Kent Reliance branded network Second charge operates in the South East of England Commercial mortgages We provide loans to individuals and offers a variety of fixed, notice, We provide loans to limited seeking to raise additional funds easy access and regular savings companies and individuals secured by a second charge products, including ISAs.
secured on commercial and againsttheir residential home.
semi-commercial properties Wepredominantly target good held for investment purposes credit quality borrowers.
Shared ownership Residential development We lend to first-time buyers and We provide development loans to key workers buying a property small and medium sized developers in conjunction with a Housing ofresidential property.
staged with independent chartered surveyors signing off each stage of the development before funds are released.
Funding lines The bank provides funding lines loans to non-bank finance companies secured against portfolios of financial assets, principally mortgages and leases.
Retail savings balance bychannel 2014 2015 Buy-to-Let SME 2014 2015 Residential 2014 2015 Direct 49% 44% Loans & advances bn 2.1 3.1 Loans & advances bn 1.8 2.0 Online 32% 35% Gross new lending bn 1.2 1.5 Gross new lending bn 0.3 0.3 Average book LTV Average book LTV Branches 19% 21% at31 December % 68 66 at31 December % 54 56 For more For more For more information go to information go to information go to Our business the Operating the Operating model inaction and financial review and financial review p10 p18 p18 Personal loans OneSavings Bank OSB acquired the performing former Northern Rock consumer loan portfolio from Northern Rock Asset Management plc in July 2013.
This portfolio of high-margin, seasoned loans currently represents the Groups only unsecured lending and is serviced by a third party specialist servicer.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03 Our trading brands OneSavings Bank is made up of a family Largest lending business in the Kent Reliance is also an of specialist financial Group, offering Buy-to-Let and first established, stable and award charge residential loans.
Its strong customer focus delivers high levels of customer satisfaction, resulting in strong customer loyalty and customer retention.
Specialist semi-commercial and Experienced team providing Long standing second charge commercial mortgage lender specialist residential development lender, which offers an providing Buy-to-Let loans, finance to small and medium sized award-winning range of specialist alongside owner-occupied and developers with a proven track secured loans throughout the UK investor commercial mortgages record commenced trading in acquired in September 2012. throughout England and Wales January 2014. acquired in August 2012.
Specialist residential and Specialist residential and Buy-to-Let mortgages for its Buy-to-Let mortgages for its local market since 2005. local market since 2002.
Based in Bangalore, India, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of OneSavings Bank: provides primary processing for our Kent Reliance, Jersey and Guernsey brands.
