Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements At a Glance Key elements of our story 1 2 3 4 We own modern assets We operate in carefully We monitor the major We have a simple capable of servicing a chosen locations market drivers to inform business model and wide variety of customers across Europe our decisions afocused strategy SEGRO owns European industrial Our portfolio is concentrated The performance of real estate is We invest in high-quality real estate, and warehouse properties.
in areas expected to benefit driven by the interplay of demand actively manage our portfolio and, if Our modern, well-located from strong customer demand and supply on the part of occupiers appropriate, sell assets tocrystallise attractive returns.
properties are capable of servicing with a limited supply of and investors.
We monitor and an extraordinary variety of activities.
respond to changing drivers of Our strategy is based on occupier demand economic Disciplined Capital Allocation Big boxes in major environment, e-commerce and Operational Excellence, transport hubs and investor demand reflected underpinned by an efficient in property yields and supply capital structure.
Our warehouses vary in size from over 90,000 sq m to less Our goal is to be the leading than 2,000 sq m European owner of industrial and warehouse assets and a leading income-focused REIT Smaller warehouses on the edge of towns and cities Improving Our Goal economic environment GDP growth forecast for our major markets % p. a.
201517e Disciplined 3.5% 2.3% 1.9% 1.8% 1.5% 1.4% Capital Operational Allocation Excellence Efficient capital and corporate structure Poland UK Germany Euro France Italy Area Source: OECD 13 February 2016 Read more on page Read more on page Read more on page Read more on page 10 12 6 19 04 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5 6 7 8 Strong governance is Managing risk is central We work responsibly We measure our essential to support to our success across our portfolio and performance against delivery of our strategy in our business ourtarget KPIs Good governance is essential Our risk management approach Our customers, employees, Our objective is to deliver attractive returns to our shareholders through to support the delivery of our is critical to ensure that we suppliers and shareholders are strategic priorities.
The Board is the understand the risks we take vital to SEGROs long-term the execution of our strategy.
custodian of the business and seeks in our decisions and that we success.
We seek to ensure that There are a number of Key to secure the long-term future of consider possible outcomes both our interaction with all of our Performance Indicators on which the Company.
at a project or asset level and at stakeholders is professional and we report, and against which acorporate level.
In return, we expect them to management and employees are uphold our own rigorous standards.
remunerated, to track our progress.
We strive to ensure that our existing and new buildings comply with the highest possible environmental standards.
20.1% Total shareholder return 18.4P Adjusted EPS 463P EPRA net asset value per share 4.8% Vacancy rate 18.4% Total property return 38% We benefit from an Loan to value ratio experienced Board Read more on page Read more on page Read more on page Read more on page 71 62 44 16 05 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
