CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MEGGITT IS COMMITTED TO: Upholding sound corporate Supporting our local governance principles communities Providing a supportive, Minimising the environmental rewarding and safe work impact of products and environment processes Conducting business Acting as a responsible relationships in an supplier and encouraging our ethical manner contractors and suppliers to meet our standards At Meggitt we recognise our Governance and compliance planning to achieve accreditation by 2010 responsibility to shareholders, In 2007, Meggitts Board approved a employees, customers, suppliers corporate responsibility CR policy setting Meggitt is signatory to the Sustainable out the values underpinning the way we Aviation Strategy of the Society of and the wider community.
We manage social, ethical and environmental British Aerospace Companies and will comply with all relevant issues.
In 2008, it approved a Group policy is represented on its Environmental national laws and regulations encompassing our commitments to health Working Group and aim for continual and safety.
This, with the Group In January 2008, Meggitt appointed its first improvement of our financial, environmental policy adopted in 2006, is Group Health, Safety & Environmental being championed by our recently appointed social and environmental Manager to bring a new strategic impetus Group Health, Safety & Environmental performance.
to our performance on health, safety and Manager.
These policies are published the environment.
Meggitt already has on our website, www.
programmes in place at business unit level At Meggitt, effective governance and but we must ensure they are conducted compliance are key business enablers.
in a Group context and comply with laws We devote signi cant resources to ensuring and regulations that can have an impact our business units comply with our CR beyond individual business boundaries.
This is supported by a rolling Standardising and enhancing our programme of independent export environmental and health and safety compliance, environmental and health and management systems, policies and safety audits which identify and manage procedures will enable us to improve our compliance issues across all units.
products, processes and performance, strengthening links in the chain that form Our Group Corporate Affairs Director our commitment to achieve the best oversees our CR programme and managing environmental, health and safety directors, presidents and general managers performance possible.
are responsible for local implementation.
In 2008, we convened intra-group health, Corporate responsibility in action safety and environment conferences to Health, safety and the environment help coordinate business unit preparation 35% of sites audited by external for forthcoming legislation and share environmental consultants in 2008 best practice.
This was supported by a new global health, safety and environment 28% of sites audited by external health intranet site to increase informationand safety consultants in 2008 gathering and sharing.
In 2009, we will 69% of sites certi ed for environmental pilot new all-employee health and safety management standard ISO14001 by the training in the UK, before launching a year-end with the remaining sites global standard for the whole Group.
30 Corporate responsibility Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 GOVERNANCE DYNAMIC PROGRAMMES IN A GLOBAL CONTEXT I know what it takes to run a plant safely.
My first US Navy role was to ensure our ships steam turbines were always ready and to design safety operating procedures in line with the United States first OSHA regulations.
Later, a career in environmental and maritime law showed me how companies get into trouble and the penalties that go with it.
Some 20 years on, I went in-house to help an acquisitive corporation establish sustainable health, safety and environment programmes across the group.
At Meggitt, dynamic programmes are less about reducing liability than ensuring the safest operations for our employees, raising morale and improving product quality and ef ciency.
Now we have a Group strategy, we will be enlisting the skills and practices of our best people to deliver uniformly high environmental, health and safety standards within a global context.
Our boundaries extend beyond individual sites.
There must be no weak links in the chain in our quest for the best performance possible.
GEORGE MARKULIS Group Health, Safety & Environmental Manager Meggitt business units continued to practices more ef cient, reduced costs Meggitt is committed to maintaining full implement initiatives to reduce environmental and embodies a more holistic approach compliance with the laws and regulations impact and improve health and safety.
governing export control in all the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Meggitt Fluid Controls, UK exceeded We are committed to working with all our Board formally adopted Meggitts export its target of reducing trichloroethylene businesses to develop a long-term strategy control policy in 2005 and appointed a consumption by 75% to less than one to minimise our environmental impacts Group Export Compliance Manager to tonne per year, aided by new automated and improve health and safety performance, oversee its implementation.
In 2007, we aqueous cleaning plants with wash aided by the data we have collected from updated the policy, appointing an export water recycling systems.
Since the compliance manager for Europe and acquisition of K & F Industries Holdings Meggitt Sensing Systems in New Asia and, in 2009, an export compliance in 2007, utilities consumption and waste Hampshire, US, installed a compactor manager for North America.
generation has risen on an absolute for corrugated paper products which basis.
In 2008, however, we reduced our Meggitts company-wide programme is should double recycling volumes and environmental impacts relative to rising based on the globally accepted model of completed a project to reduce liquid production see Fig.
1. excellence outlined in the Nunn-Wolfowitz nitrogen consumption by 50%, recouping Task Force Report of 2000the in uential the investment in one year.
In line with the development of the Group survey of export compliance best practice health, safety and environment function, Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, UK and incorporates the elements data collection and veri cation processes replaced solvent paint strippers with identi ed in guidance published by the are being improved.
Some of our aqueous water re-circulating systems, US Government on effective compliance engineering processes cannot be reducing solvent use since 2007 by programmes.
We achieve multiple levels substituted for those with less 60%.
Its waste heat recovery system of accountability using five key process environmental impact because of the should save around 21,000 per year.
toolsassessment, compliance extreme environments in which our New paint spray booths are reducing improvement, veri cation, corrective products are designed to operate.
potential exposure to spray and action and auditwhich are applied in a Our products reputation for safety and lowering noise levels.
Plans arising from the review reliability is key to sales, so appropriate elements enable 16 sub-processes for Meggitt Defense Systems, US achieved environmental targets will be set within 39 businesses to be tracked by managers ISO 14001 certi cation for its this context.
at all levels, including the executive environmental management systems Export compliance leadership team.
In turn, Meggitts export in September 2008, a substantial 60% of main sites completed control teams receive training and access achievement following the consolidation implementation of our export to key subject matter experts inside the of three Meggitt businesses into a compliance programme Group and from global trade compliance single operation.
advisors, JP Morgan Trade Management 34% of main sites audited by external Our compact heat exchanger operation Consulting.
Meggitts own export export compliance consultants in 2008 in Poole, UK implemented an integrated compliance website, a customised management system for health and Quarterly North America and Europe database of training modules, forms, safety, environment and quality.
The and Asia export compliance councils templates, regulations, editorial and combined system has made working convened company policy and procedures, is Corporate responsibility 31 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED FIG 1 KEY ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS FOR 2008 Full corporate responsibility dataset available on www.
com 2008 2007 Carbon dioxide emitted tonnes 000 revenue 0.10 0.12 Tonnes 111,165 107,389 Volatile organic compounds emitted tonnes 000 revenue 0.0002 0.0003 Tonnes 222 255 Water purchased and abstracted 3 m 000 revenue 0.76 0.94 3 m 879,700 826,280 Non-hazardous waste recycled Tonnes 000 revenue 0.0023 0.0027 Tonnes 2,724 2,379 Hazardous waste generated Tonnes 000 revenue 0.0013 0.0014 Tonnes 1,560 1,193 comprehensive and well-respected by and we continue to receive commendations FIG 2 experts in the eld.
EMPLOYEES BY LENGTH OF SERVICE YEARS Ethics Meggitt Defence Systems Canada won 97.5% of employees have completed our an Exporter of the Year award from the 3,886 Less than 5 Code of Conduct training and during 2008 Economic Development Alliance of 1,340 5-10 we conducted a refresher course, Southeast Alberta, Canada.
829 10-15 458 15-20 supported by six Ethical Moments A Meggitt Sensing Systems facility in 474 20-25 training lms on topics including France was voted Best Quality Supplier 1,156 Over 25 con dential information and bullying.
of the Year from Turbomeca for the 8,143 The US-based Ethisphere Institute, which world-class manufacture of sensors is dedicated to researching, creating and for severe environments.
sharing best practice in business ethics, Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems EMPLOYEES BY REGION compliance, sustainability, corporate continues to set new standards in governance and citizenship, surveyed performance, reliability and service, 2,341 UK 1,000 companies worldwide doing business earning Gulfstream Supplier of the Year 4,371 North America with the US government.
It ranked Meggitt awards two years running.
Meggitt 1,179 Mainland Europe second of the Five Best Foreign Company Aircraft Braking Systems was also 252 Rest of world Ethics Programmes and number one 8,143 recognised by Embraer for outstanding in Europe.
performance supporting operators and In July 2008, Meggitt launched a policy and developing wheels and brakes for the protocols to strengthen the management Phenom 300, a new light executive jet.
of sales representatives and intermediaries.
Meggitt Sensing Systems in Switzerland EMPLOYEES BY DIVISION This places Meggitt at the forefront of was voted Outstanding Supplier on the anti-corruption thinking and reinforces ARJ21 programme from the Peoples the standards set by international treaties 4,892 Aerospace Republic of China AVIC I Commercial equipment and national legislation.
Aircraft Company for the timely roll-out 850 Defence systems Customers and suppliers of engine monitoring and control equipment.
2,319 Sensing Supplying safe, mission-critical products A Meggitt Fluid Controls operation in systems requires the highest standards of 82 Group California and Meggitt Sensing Systems performance, delivery and quality if we 8,143 in New Hampshire were Defense Supply are to sustain and win new business.
Center Richmond Best Value Medallists.
We promote a robust quality ethos and are Meggitt Fluid Controls won its tenth committed to encouraging our contractors consecutive gold medal and Meggitt and suppliers to adopt and implement Sensing Systems its fifth silver.
medals are awarded for scores of at Our relationships with aerospace and least 99 out of 100. defence customers are well established 32 Corporate responsibility Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 VALUES SATISFYING EMPLOYEES Over the year, I will have had a cup of tea with all our employees.
I want to know how they feel about working at Meggitt and I want to improve that experience.
Its my job to foster and promote the values that make a business successful but everyone has to be engaged with their teams.
We embrace lean manufacturing and continuous improvement initiatives on the shop oor but this approach should pervade every function.
Thats why every manager has an employee engagement action plan.
Our formal annual appraisals are simply one of the conversations taking place each week between managers and teams on how best to get things done.
Its about solving problems with people, not for people.
Our next employee survey will show whether the approach is working but I know already that sales, attendance and productivity are up.
And the business feels better.
No one is going to persuade me that an unhappy person is more productive than a happy one.
BERNIE STEVENS General Manager, Meggitt Avionics Meggitt Safety Systems won the assessed using data collected from Meggitt Sensing Systems operation in Westinghouse Nuclear Services management pro ling.
This combination California gave its employees and their Certi ed Supplier Award.
of on-line psychometrics and aptitude tests families free access to over 80 online is designed to identify appropriate roles courses ranging from supervisory training Business continuity and opportunities for existing staff and help to personal finance management.
76% of Group sites have implemented select external candidates.
During 2008, and embedded business continuity Local communities and many of Meggitts senior managers were plans with the remainder in the training charitable donations assessed and appointments made using stages of the programme Meggitt makes an important economic this process.
The same management contribution to local communities.
Its Recent acquisitions increased the model forms the basis of the review facility in Poole UK was recognised by percentage of sites in the training phase of process for all professional staff.
the South West of England Regional our business continuity programme.
The During the year, Meggitts first leadership Development Agency as a Beacon remainder of Meggitts sites have implemented programme was delivered to senior company signalling its status as a forward plans and are progressing through the managers over three week-long events, run thinking and ambitious business.
The award more advanced stages of the programme.
by Oxford Universitys Sad Business School is given only to those who can demonstrate and supported by Meggitts management outstanding achievement across a range FIG 3 board.
Content mirrored the primary of criteria.
Meggitt scored highly on THE MEGGITT MANAGEMENT MODEL elements of the management model innovative approaches to business STRATEGIC strategy, operations and the interpersonal processes and design and the use of THINKING dimensionand resulted in signi cant human behavioural analysis for all staff.
STRATEGY project plans being approved for execution Each business is responsible for by the Board.
In 2009, a second leadership undertaking local charitable initiatives.
Participants PLANNING AND CREATING The Meggitt Group supports charities and ORGANISING ALIGNMENT will be selected to achieve a balance of organisations relevant to our people and styles from different divisions, functions, our businesses.
These include local hospitals, levels and geographic locations.
LEADERSHIP hospices, schools and funding of the Many businesses have implemented Meggitt Trust, which is administered by ADAPTABILITY DELIVERING modern manufacturing processes.
This the Community Foundation in Dorset, UK.
RESULTS TEAM includes the business improvement team In 2008, we continued our sponsorship WORKING at Meggitt Fluid Controls, UK.
It delivered under the Arkwright Scholarship Trust, lean manufacturing awareness training which encourages high calibre students OPERATIONAL INTERPERSONAL throughout the factory and worked with into engineering careers by awarding CAPABILITY SKILLS Coventry University to provide accredited scholarships over the A-level Scottish academic modules.
There are Training and development numerous examples worldwide of In 2008, Meggitt launched a leadership We use E-learning tools to deliver training signi cant funding for health care and development programme.
Working with across the Group on topics such as ethics research raised through the efforts of business psychologists, we developed and business conduct and export control dedicated Meggitt volunteers.
a model of management attributes see and at business unit level on subjects Figure 3 against which individuals are relevant to speci c site requirements.
Corporate responsibility 33 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
