Business review Corporate and social responsibility The board is committed to running the Company in accordance regularly within each department.
The Company maintains both with best practice in corporate governance.
This commitment an Internet website which is freely accessible and an Intranet site includes recognition by the Company of the importance of accessible to all employees.
During the year, a second Sharesave taking into account its corporate social responsibilities CSR scheme and a US ESPP scheme were introduced and the directors in operating the business.
In this context, Micro Focus seeks actively encourage employee equity participation, subject to to integrate CSR considerations relating particularly to social, compliance with the Groups share dealing policy.
Details of the ethical and health, safety and environment HS&E issues current employee share option schemes and options granted in its day-to-day operations.
The board acknowledges its duty during the year are given in note 24. to ensure the Company conducts its activities responsibly and with proper regard for all its stakeholders including employees, Ethical shareholders, business partners, suppliers and the local The Company manages its resources prudently to ensure communities.
The Company is a member company of the appropriate investment is made in its research and development FTSE4Good Index Series.
This index identies companies that programmes and its commercialisation activities.
Up-to-date meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
security systems are utilised to protect the Companys IT systems.
The Companys intellectual property is protected through an In exercising its corporate social responsibility, Micro Focus seeks appropriate trademark registration and patenting programme.
to ensure that: Close attention is paid to maintaining relationships with key stakeholders including business partners, suppliers The board takes account of the signicance of social, ethical and shareholders.
and HS&E issues: The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct Business practices are managed ethically: and Ethics policy with which all Company staff are required to comply.
The business is focused on delivering value to stakeholders: Health and safety Existing legislation, regulations and guidelines are adhered The Company has well-developed health and safety policies to as a minimum: and procedures, safeguarding staff, contractors and visitors in compliance with applicable legislation and best practice.
Employees are recognised as key to the business with individual skills and experience being valued and developed: Environment and Micro Focus complies with applicable environmental legislation.
Health, safety and environmental issues are treated as critical The directors acknowledge that the Companys business as areas of concern for the business.
a provider of enterprise application management solutions has a minimal direct impact on the environment but there are areas Social in which the Company does have an impact on the environment.
The health, welfare and development of the Companys The Company has introduced a number of automated processes employees remain a priority.
With the intent of attracting, to reduce the quantity of paper and packaging that is used in the recruiting, developing and retaining key employees, Micro Focus business.
Employees are encouraged to eliminate unnecessary maintains a number of policies and procedures for the benefit travel and use video conferencing facilities and other methods of its employees, for example an equal opportunities policy of communication in its place.
Computer and other ofce approved by Acas.
Employee development is encouraged through equipment that has reached the end of its working life are resold, appropriate training.
Regular and open communication between recycled or donated to local organisations as appropriate.
Having management and employees is viewed as essential for motivating many ofces worldwide, the Company is conscious of its total a highly educated workforce.
Briengs are held regularly to energy consumption and the amount of waste materials generated provide updates on Company business and to provide opportunity and is actively working to reduce both energy usage and the for questions and feedback.
Review meetings are also held quantity of waste materials produced that cannot be recycled.
Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 23
