corporate SocIaL reSponSIBILIty corporate SocIaL reSponSIBILIty Introduction our EMS system which will represent 24% of the Groups hotels.
As part Responsible Hospitality of our wider roll-out programme we will be looking to accreditation This is the Groups first Responsible Hospitality report which describes of our health and safety management systems to OHSAS 18001. our activities regarding safety, health and environmental, our Attainment and maintenance of these accreditations will enable us to employees and the wider community.
It provides information on demonstrate the robustness of our management systems and provide our performance, engagement with stakeholders and addresses the a structured working framework.
We will build on the experience environmental and social impacts that are pertinent to our business.
gained in developing these systems and progressively extend the At the moment this report primarily reflects what is happening within accreditations process to other regions.
We will be expanding our reporting to cover what is happening in our other operating regions.
Responsible Hospitality and the Environment Excerpt from M&C Environmental Policy 2008.
2008 was a key year for the development of the Responsible Hospitality ethos within the Group, although we began our Corporate M&C is committed to reducing its impact on the environment and Social Responsibility CSR journey some years ago.
The Group has by recognising its legal and moral obligations to help create a developed an outline corporate responsibility framework and work is sustainable environment.
We will strive to educate, train and motivate underway rolling out our aims and policies for our safety, health and our employees and stakeholders to work with an environmentally environmental performance.
Our Group represents more than just friendly approach.
Everyone will be encouraged to be involved in the the day to day operation of quality hotel assets.
We are aware of the development of new ideas and initiatives.
impact that we have environmentally, socially and economically.
We believe that people are going to become increasingly conscious of the M&C aims to improve its environmental performance by a number of choices they make and we want those people to opt for Millennium & ways, including:- Copthorne: because we are becoming, and will be seen as becoming, a responsible choice.
Reducing: Energy consumption, Waste, Water consumption and Use of Paper Strategy and Values We believe that all our stakeholders make a choice in staying with us, Increasing: Use of recycled paper and use of products from sustainable supplying us with food or investing in our shares: a choice that reflects sources our responsibility values of outstanding services, open mindedness and respect.
Our Responsible Hospitality strategy is still being developed As a basic requirement, environmental legislation in each country will and whilst much effort has been made to collate the information in be met and resources will be provided on a regional basis to ensure this report we recognise that there is still much work to be done.
With that the environmental policy is met and adhered to.
Objectives will this report we are setting targets not only to improve our social and be set on a regional basis to ensure effective management of the environmental performance but also to start tracking and measuring policy and we will strive to continual improvement and monitor our our efforts where possible.
We aim to keep our stakeholders abreast of progress.
our activities and performance so demonstrating our commitment to be a Responsible Hospitality company.
We will continue to invest time We have begun our Responsible Hospitality reporting efforts in earnest and resources to sustain our responsibility activities and initiatives.
We this year starting with the area where we felt there was most traction are working towards an ecologically and socially sustainable society already within the Group, namely the environment.
In collaboration and we are beginning to incorporate this into everything we do.
with the Carbon Trust we began a thorough analysis of our hotels reviewing all current and potential environmental impacts.
The main 2008 CSR Developments and Plans for 2009-2010 criteria impacting the environment are: The Group has adopted a stepped-up approach to CSR.
We entered into a working relationship with the Carbon Trust to help us to understand Waste Management Glass, computer equipment, and refine our approach to Responsible Hospitality at a corporate fluorescent tubes, refrigeration, as well as an individual stakeholder level.
Working committees have pressurised canisters, paper and been established and the members of these committees span all card, plastic, fats and oils aspects of the Groups business from senior management, finance, secretariat, health and safety, procurement, engineering and sales and Water Management Use, reduction marketing.
Air Emissions Gas burning emissions boiler, Over the next two years we will be adding further scope to our policies cooling towers, dust from building and committees and establishing targets and reporting performance works, kitchen extraction criteria that will touch on every aspect of the Group.
In line with our safety, health and environmental policy, employees from across the Energy Use Gas, oil, electricity Group will be incentivised and committed to improve environmental performance.
As such we have embarked upon formalising our Noise Building works, extraction and Environmental Management System EMS to help set the framework ventilation systems, deliveries and for effective implementation and sustainability.
The EMS is an integral collections, functions part of our overall management system.
We are using it as a structured and systematic approach to manage our impact on the environment.
Asbestos Disposal, accidental release We believe that we should be regularly evaluating our performance in order to understand what is working well and what needs further Laundry Fumes, detergents etc.
In Europe we are working towards attainment of ISO 14001 for 52 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 53 corporate SocIaL reSponSIBILIty corporate SocIaL reSponSIBILIty We are improving our systems for logging energy consumption, water I have been in a 12 month placement since September 2007.
in order to track and measure our carbon footprint.
placement was an opportunity to get some hands on, real life Initial estimates have determined that the carbon footprint of the experience, working in the M&C Marketing department for Europe.
My Groups UK portfolio of hotels amounts to approximately 39,000 tonnes role has included loyalty scheme management - managing databases, of CO per annum.
We are taking action to reduce consumption at our dealing with membership applications, renewals and benefits - as well 2 hotels.
In 2009 we are targeting the Groups UK hotels to reduce gas as looking after the Marketing intranet site and creating promotion and electricity consumption by 2.5%.
Additional targets and KPIs are collateral: putting my input into artwork, liaising with hotels and being developed for our other environmental impacts.
Our hotels are designers to create point of sale posters and advertisements.
Ive regularly reporting their consumption of resources so that comparisons learnt a lot about design techniques, the different formats used and can be made with other hotels to determine where improvements can all the jargon too, which is useful to know!
Ive also really had a chance be made.
Our aim is to encourage and motivate our management and to improve my communications skills, speaking regularly to designers all our employees to improve their own results.
Ultimately we will be on the one hand and customers on the other, two very different looking at measuring the amount of fossil carbon dioxide per guest audiences.
The best experience has to be the satisfaction of seeing my per night and using that as our key reporting metric and adopting work in hotels campaigns Ive worked on and implemented, like the carbon offsetting initiatives in order to reduce our overall impact on big Christmas campaign.
It was great seeing my ideas through from the environment.
In the future, I would certainly be interested in working in the leisure industry, given my experiences at M&C.
Responsible Hospitality and our Social impacts Our employees represent the foundation of our business and as such, Responsible Hospitality and our impact on the wider Community we strongly believe in cultivating and enhancing this valuable human Responsible Hospitality in the wider community is something that is asset.
We are committed to creating a positive workplace where taken seriously at M&C.
We have extensive links with the community employees work in an inclusive environment and are rewarded fairly.
through partnerships established by employees and management, M&C has a workforce of approximately 13,000 employees the bulk of at hotels and at a corporate level.
Across the Group, staff and which are deployed as hotel operating staff.
In addition to upholding the management are involved with a range of charitable organisations International Labour Organisation and UN Global Compact on human and the Group donated 119,000 to charities during the last financial rights and labour, the Group practices fair employment with a policy to year.
Our employees are actively encouraged and we provide provide equality of opportunity for all without discrimination.
sponsorship programmes for them to get involved with volunteering and fundraising.
M&C Staff Breakdown 2008 2007 Through consultations at our hotels, team members take part and get Hotel Operating Staff 10,186 10,412 involved in active initiatives for effectively helping local communities Management Admin 1,376 1,344 rather than making monetary donations.
We want to create the right Sales and Marketing 575 578 values that we share with our team members, guests and suppliers Repairs and Maintenance 641 623 which will help further our efforts with the aim of being a responsible 555 555 company in a responsible industry.
Total 12,778 12,957 555 555 Beyond our business operations we believe in giving back to society and thats why we are putting in place a range of plans and activities to Gender foster environmental and community harmony in the areas we serve.
% Male 49.64 49.64 We have begun our journey and now have a top level commitment to % Female 50.36 50.36 our stakeholders as a Responsible Hospitality Company.
It is our goal to be transparent and accountable to our stakeholders that have an Age in years interest in our operations.
For our customers and guests it is our goal % Below 30 40.84 36.30 to provide outstanding quality services as well as value for money.
For % 30-50 44.98 45.81 our investors it is our aim to maintain and wherever possible improve % Above 50 14.18 17.89 returns.
For our employees it is our aim to maximise their potential and care for their personal wellbeing and career development.
For We are proud of having a strong workforce with a diverse background our suppliers it is our goal to ensure we team with complementary and we value highly the rich ethnic and cultural diversity of our thinking and acting organisations that have the suitable approach to people.
The strength and success of our Group is not attributed to any Responsible Hospitality.
And for the wider community, it is our ultimate one individual but to the competent and resilient team that works goal to be a leading responsibility player in a responsible industry.
We also recognise the benefit of having a well trained workforce and offer a wide variety of internally managed programmes covering human resource issues and industry specific training including recognised qualifications.
We support our employees that wish to further their academic studies through sponsorship of part time academic or certifiable courses and we regularly take placement students to facilitate knowledge sharing and young professional development within the hospitality industry.
Dean Jones was one Richard Hartman such Marketing Placement Student from Birmingham City University, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER UK, and here is what Dean had to say about this placement.
We wish 17 February 2009 Dean all the success for the continuation of his studies.
52 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 53
