PeOPle And cOrPOrAte resPOnsiBility PEOPLE AND HIGHLIGHTS CORPORATE Driving change through the strong One Misys culture RESPONSIBILITy Employee survey results show employee engagement improving in all areas Achieving major improvements by consolidating systems Supporting the community through Misys Foundation and volunteering DOREEN TyBURSkI Acting head of human resources People we are also committed to encouraging employee share ownership.
for many years We are strengthening the One Misys we have operated tax-efficient savingsculture related share option plans sharesave this company has transformed itself over plans for all eligible uK employees and for Employee Survey: the past year and that is testament to the overseas employees in jurisdictions where 82% response rate: 5% increase on quality and commitment of our 4,500 last year it is practical to do so.
cash-based phantom 56% of employees responded people.
the improvements we saw in our share option plans, which operate in a favourably: 27% neutral 2008 employee survey ratings underline similar manner to sharesave plans, are Perceptions improving on our strategy the progress we have made engaging our offered in several jurisdictions where local up 20%, leadership up 12% and employees on our strategy, strengthening regulations prohibit share-based plans.
communications up 7%, all areas our commitment to our customers employees are also frequently provided identified for improvement from last and building employees trust in the with information about benefits such as years survey results.
Our focus now is on sustaining this momentum.
communicating effectively with our We are reducing cost by creating common employees will always be a priority for systems and processes Misys.
we have made some significant in the united Kingdom we are consolidating Employment policies improvements over the last 12 months.
we We treat all employees and job our disparate sites into one new applicants fairly and on merit have invested in our internal web portal, headquarters at One Kingdom street, regardless of gender, sexual inside Misys, where employees can learn Paddington in london.
this is a much more orientation, age, race, nationality, about the latest developments, policies and efficient use of resources and it provides us physical ability, political beliefs procedures, collaborate with colleagues with a strong symbol for the One Misys or religion.
We do not tolerate globally and provide their feedback to culture.
we are also moving to a single harassment or discrimination of any management.
the executive team has been common system for managing everything kind.
People with disabilities are given very active in engaging with employees and from accounting and pay, to recruitment and the same consideration as others have held a number of town hall meetings grading.
not only will this create better ways when applying for jobs.
If an employee across the uK, usA, Asia and india.
becomes disabled we will make of working, it will enable us to reinvest the every effort to retain them in their cost efficiencies in our solutions for current role or provide retraining or We have maintained clear alignment customers and deliver the level of margin redeployment within the Group.
between executive and shareholder expected by our shareholders.
reward People here are rewarded for meeting and We have extended our performance Our values are CLEAR, they start with exceeding stretch targets.
the financial management process client focus and end in results: incentives for the executive team remain At the heart of our culture is a determination Client focus We look from the directly aligned to the interests of to win.
last year we put a clear performance outside-in, and think about our shareholders and we continue to embed the management process in place for our senior customers and markets at all times culture of accountability we initiated last year.
management team, helping us to enhance Leadership We lead by example: we the contribution made by every individual to work with honesty and integrity and We are attracting and retaining the company.
believe in plain talk, based on facts great people Excellence We value excellence, this year we recruited more than 500 this year we have extended the process to quality and competence high-calibre people individuals who all employees across the company, Aspiration We aspire to be the worlds can make a significant contribution to our replacing the various processes that existed leading application and software transformation for growth.
with tough across the company with a single process services provider and believe that competition for talent, we are committed that clearly maps employees objectives to innovation is the lifeblood of our to providing employees and potential our strategy and emphasises the importance organisation employees with a range of incentives as of behaving in line with our company values.
Results We are committed to success well as personal development and growth and have a passion for winning opportunities to ensure that Misys is seen as an employer of choice.
24 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 Code of Ethics we believe Misys, our employees, advisers and agents should meet a high ethical standard wherever we operate.
ethical conduct promotes trust and encourages collaboration.
we have a clear code of ethics, a whistle-blowing Policy and reporting mechanisms for employees.
for more details please see misys.
com The Misys Charitable Foundation.
since its launch over 10 years ago the foundation has donated over 1.25m to support it education in the community, and helps charities which give it training to the disabled.
Corporate responsibility We have a good record on the environment We support the wider community and health & safety we recognise the importance of building We support education through the Misys we have a relatively small and light and nurturing our reputation as a Foundation environmental footprint but we improve responsible corporate citizen.
Misys has a established in 1997, the Misys foundation our performance wherever we can.
we try give-as-you-earn policy, and our employees is a charitable trust set up to support it and reduce the environmental impact of are active in community activities around education and extend the benefits of Misys business activities and increase the globe, here are just some examples: information and communications where possible the procurement of technology to the wider community.
products, equipment and utilities, which Our staff in india identify a different Misys is its sole funder.
are the most environmentally friendly.
charity in the community to support each we encourage our employees to use green month.
charitable efforts range from for over 10 years the foundation has forms of transport, utilise video conference helping refugee and orphaned children to provided funding support for: to reduce travel, encouraging home providing contributions for aged, disabled working where appropriate.
Students the employee-backed Misys caring club t he foundation supports able students Misys is consolidating our uK offices into in Bangalore collected toys, clothes, studying it-related subjects at university one location, which will reduce business books, pens and other items to provide in the uK and abroad, with priority given travel, reduce our carbon footprint and also gifts for children in area schools.
they to those in greatest financial need.
lead to better collaborative working.
Our also conducted a blood donation camp in since it was established over 10 years new headquarters at One Kingdom street which 180 employees participated and ago the foundation has supported has earned the highest possible BreeAM donated blood.
362 students at home and overseas.
Building research establishments Our us healthcare employees in raleigh environmental Assessment Method rating were honoured as the largest corporate Schools of excellent, due to the focus on donor in the rex Blood drive initiative.
t he foundation supports schools, mainly sustainability in its design and construction.
for nearly a decade, our staff in raleigh primary, that are finding it difficult to BreeAM is the worlds most widely used have also organised a team of supporters raise the money required for their it environmental assessment method for to participate in the Komen n. c. triangle education programme.
At all Misys locations we actively race for the cure, a global charity event encourages employees to nominate encourage and promote recycling.
supporting breast cancer research, schools in need of support, adding an education, and screening and treatment important employee engagement aspect we have a consistent set of health and programmes.
safety policies for all jurisdictions.
the in the uK we support the emergency policies cover people, processes and services magazine and our staff actively Charities training and we meet all current legal support children in need.
the foundation helps organisations requirements wherever we operate.
working to further it education and the Over 10 Years of the Misys Foundation benefits of it to the wider community, in the Misys environmental, health & safety Since 1997 particular charities giving it training to working Group supports the Board in 1.25m total funding distributed the disabled.
the working 318 university students funded 16 schools funded Group also helps to identify and mitigate 29 community projects funded during the calendar year the foundation related risk and highlights performance donated: improvement opportunities that might FTSE4Good 121,000 in scholarships to students benefit the business and the environment.
Misys is a constituent member of the 20,000 to three schools the Group met several times this year.
Companies in the 22, 000 to seven community projects FTSE4Good Index Series are doing more to manage their social, ethical and in total 38 Misys foundation scholarships environmental impacts, and are better were awarded to students studying at positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
12 British universities and colleges and at three universities and colleges overseas.
eight students had their awards extended.
