415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility Mitchells & Butlers core social responsibility belief is that sustainable business success in the pub sector is achieved through experienced, professional licensed retailing which builds upon the reputation and appeal of each individual pub in its own community.
The Swan, Vintage Inns, Horning, Norwich We operate in a highly regulated industry and The Board is responsible for the Companys receive training in respect of such matters.
In recognise that attached to the legal grant of internal control and risk management system addition, a quarterly internal report is submitted our licences is a primary obligation, to our and our Executive Directors and entire to the Executive Committee on CSR activity, customers, investors, employees, suppliers, Executive Committee have adopted a Code of which includes responsible retailing practices.
neighbours and key authorities, to ensure the Ethics to promote honest and ethical conduct responsible operation of our premises at all throughout our business.
The code requires: Identification and assessment of risks to the times.
Therefore, we strive to ensure that compliance with all applicable rules and Companys short and long-term value arising responsible retailing underpins our business regulations that apply to the Company and from social, ethical and environmental matters operation and culture at every level.
its officers: are achieved through the Companys Major the full, fair, accurate, timely and Risk and Assurance Review, updated regularly We have consistently responded to the understandable disclosure in periodic and presented to the Board bi-annually.
changing demands of both the market and reports required to be filed by Mitchells The Board considers, as an intrinsic part our customers by developing and evolving & Butlers plc: of this Review, whether the steps taken a range of leading brands and formats to the ethical handling of actual or apparent to address these risks are appropriate.
appeal to our customers who want informal and conflicts of interest between internal and Opportunities to enhance the Companys sociable places to eat, drink and meet.
We are external personal and professional value on a sustainable basis are considered as focused on the long-term growth of informal, relationships: and part of that review and at strategy discussions.
value-for-money eating and drinking out.
that any hospitality from suppliers must be approved, with a presumption against The former Mitchells & Butlers Risk Please note that the following section provides its acceptance.
Management and Disclosure Forum was a summary only of our policies in respect this year superseded by an Executive of our corporate social responsibility CSR In 2007, the Code of Ethics was extended sub committee, the Risk Committee.
A more detailed account of Mitchells to cover all senior managers within Mitchells The Risk Committees objective is to assist & Butlers CSR practices can be found in & Butlers, so that the highest standards of the Executive Committee in the review our separately published Corporate Social business conduct apply throughout the senior of the risk management processes and Responsibility Review 2008 at management level of the business.
in the consideration of major risks.
com csrreview In addition, Mitchells & Butlers offers an Primary responsibilities are to: Corporate governance independently administered confidential review the operation of the risk Our businesses and employees are part hotline, also known as a whistleblowing management process and report of a wider community, each and all of hotline, for any employee wishing to report annually to the Executive Committee whom carry the responsibility to act in any concern that they feel is inappropriate on its effectiveness: a way that respects the social, economic and to raise with their line manager.
All whistleconsideration of the Companys major and environmental wellbeing of the wider world.
blowing allegations are reported to and other significant risks and the adequacy of Our corporate reputation depends upon considered by the Executive Committee and the mitigation actions: us acting in good conscience and behaving Audit Committee.
review and comment on the updates on with integrity in our dealings with employees, risks prepared by Group Assurance prior shareholders, customers, suppliers and all The Board takes regular account of social, to submission to the Executive and Audit other stakeholders.
environmental and ethical matters concerning Committees: and the Company through the Chief Executives review and comment on the Group regular reports to the Board and presentations Assurance audit plan prior to submission to the Board at its strategy meetings.
for approval to the Executive and The Company Secretary is responsible for Audit Committees.
ensuring that Directors are made aware of and For more detailed CSR information, go to: www.
com socialresponsibility Mitchells & Butlers 33 Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility continued Mitchells & Butlers was pleased to have been awarded the title of Britains Most Responsible The Challenge 21 policy helps our retail Best Bar None schemes recognise teams to prevent underage sales and is firmly excellence in responsible retailing and, over Managed Pub Company in both embedded in our Company culture.
the last year, our city centre and suburban 2005 and 2007 at the Responsible pubs have won both awards and accreditations in many local schemes.
In September 2008, Mitchells & Butlers was pleased to sponsor the first National Best Bar None Conference, to celebrate best practice across the country.
We are a major funder of the Drinkaware Trust, an independent UK-wide charitable trust, which aims to tackle alcohol-related harms.
The Board also receives regular updates on our staff can easily access information Our full ASR Policy including the operational significant legislative change or development about units of alcohol and alcohol by guidelines on our under 18s policy is available in corporate governance best practice.
volume ABV in order to provide that at www.
com socialresponsibility The Companys social, environmental information to guests: and ethical disclosures are reviewed for we value and respect the partnerships our Pricing and promotions accuracy through a combination of detailed managers have with local authorities: and As part of our ASR policy we have strict verification by members of management our senior managers are actively involved guidelines in place regarding the pricing responsible for the individual areas of in setting industry standards and lead and promotion of our drinks.
Any promotional corporate social responsibility and high level by example.
activity must be approved by the Marketing review by the members of the Board and Director and observe the guidelines outlined Executive Committee.
Our ASR policy is updated annually to ensure in our ASR Policy.
It is important to note that it remains effective and relevant.
Senior the promotional practices for which some pubs Alcohol and Social Responsibility policy management, Retail Business Managers RBMs are criticised today have not been permitted Mitchells & Butlers was one of the first and pub managers are fully briefed, with each in Mitchells & Butlers pubs for many years.
companies to establish a comprehensive of our businesses receiving copies of the policy for retailing alcohol in a responsible policy booklet and a back-of-house retail staff The guiding principles of our promotions manner.
The policy ensures that all of our poster communicating the policy highlights.
policy are: licensed premises are operated responsibly, the maximum serve of spirits in one glass safely and within the parameters of the law, In recognition of the design and is a double measure: providing an inclusive environment for the implementation of this policy, Mitchells & no initial payment to obtain reduced price sensible, controlled sale and consumption Butlers was pleased to have been awarded the alcohol e. g. pay 10 and drink all you can: of alcohol.
Our practices have been widely title of Britains Most Responsible Managed no free alcohol inducements e. g. no 2 for adopted across the sector.
Pub Company in both 2005 and 2007 at the 1s, or buy 2 glasses, get the rest of the Responsible Drinks Retailing Awards.
bottle free: and Our Alcohol and Social Responsibility ASR no time limited promotions e. g. policy includes clear guidelines on the Challenge 21 happy hours.
responsible operation of our pubs, the sale The creation and implementation of a and promotion of alcohol, and our under 18s Challenge 21 policy across the estate is a Alcohol awareness policy, and is underpinned by our employee fundamental tool for retail staff to prevent Mitchells & Butlers is a major funder of the training and development programmes, under age sales and deal with such service Drinkaware Trust, an independent UK-wide which ensure that this policy lives in all our matters professionally.
As a result, the charitable trust which has the objective businesses on a day-to-day basis.
discipline is now firmly embedded in our of positively changing public behaviour Company culture.
and the national drinking culture, to tackle The ASR policy highlights are as follows: alcohol-related harms.
Our Chief Executive is a the Company is committed to the Our Challenge 21 policy is reinforced through member of the Drinkaware Board of Trustees.
responsible retailing of alcohol and training at both Company and pub level and recognises that it is a fundamental part Company test purchasing visits.
We also now We support the communication of clear, of what we do every day: have systems in place to register those unambiguous information to consumers we do not serve alcohol to anyone whom instances where service is refused because to help them make better choices about their we believe to be intoxicated: no proof of age can be produced.
Our ASR Policy includes we do not serve customers whom we around 70,000 such refusals a month and we details of units of alcohol in relation to the believe to be under 18 nor anyone also refuse service to some 17,000 people a ABV of every alcoholic product sold in our whom we suspect of passing alcohol month believed to be intoxicated: these pubs, to ensure staff can assist customers who to under 18s: figures reflect the challenges faced by our ask for guidance.
if a customer looks under 21 we will ask retail employees every day.
for a recognised form of ID: we do not offer any incentives to our customers to drink irresponsibly: Mitchells & Butlers 34 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating and financial review Full nutritional information for every item on Harvester's menu is available on its website.
The Harvester menu includes the 'healthy heart' icon, helping our customers to make informed choices about healthy options.
On a number of drinks menus we have also Industry and relationship building Good food incorporated ABV information, as well as Mitchells & Butlers is an active member of As the leading operator of around 2,000 signposting the Drinkaware Trust website, the British Beer & Pub Association BBPA managed pubs and Pub Restaurants in the which enables customers to access more and has senior managers representing the UK, we take our responsibility towards food detailed information on responsible drinking Company at policy-making level.
We played and nutrition seriously.
and the hazards of alcohol misuse.
a central role in the formation of the BBPAs former code governing promotional activity, Mitchells & Butlers is the largest on-trade We are supporting the National Schools which in turn influenced the creation of the caterer in the country, selling over 110 Project, a British Institute of Innkeeping Social Responsibility Standards document, million meals in the UK this year and around education project, helping schoolchildren signed by all of the relevant trade associations two-thirds of our sales are generated by throughout the country understand the and launched in 2007 in conjunction with the a food-related visit.
Our market leading growing importance of the hospitality industry Home Office.
brands and formats have proven strength and encouraging them to adopt more and longevity and our large, mainly residential responsible attitudes to alcohol.
Mitchells & Mitchells & Butlers supports a number pubs have the scale and capacity to serve Butlers is the first Birmingham partner to of Business Improvement District schemes high volumes of food at low prices.
This means sign up to this important initiative and, during BIDs, including Broad Street, Birmingham that we can offer our customers real value, 2008, we supported five Birmingham-based and also Nottingham, the first BID solely whenever and wherever they want to eat out.
schools with classroom materials distributed for, and supported by, the licensed trade.
free to encourage young people to adopt Our customers are able to access full responsible attitudes towards alcohol.
We strongly support many local Best Bar analytical, nutritional information for every None schemes and, over the last year, menu item via the Harvester website and Conflict management have received a number of awards and a full breakdown for carving deck items We recognise our responsibility to ensure that accreditations in both our city centre and on the Toby Carvery website.
In addition, our employees work in a safe environment suburban businesses.
In September 2008, our Harvester menu includes the healthy and have the appropriate techniques to deal we sponsored the first National Best Bar heart icon signposting healthier options with issues of conflict if they arise.
This aimed to highlight with controlled levels of calories and fat.
the benefits of Best Bar None, celebrate best Contained within our manager training practice and encourage the development We continue to work closely with our food programme, Managing a Safe Environment, is of schemes across the country.
suppliers to develop our range of menu items, a session which communicates the Company's again with the focus on enhancing nutritional security policies and procedures, including It is Company policy for all managers to content.
We are setting up a series of working managing conflict, assessment and reduction join and support their local Pubwatch, parties with our suppliers to discuss nutritional of risk, communication skills, escalation, if one exists, which we believe both builds development in line with our Company policy.
defusing and calming, and post-incident relationships within the area and helps staff considerations.
The session is practically identify and resolve potential issues before We have taken the opportunity, where based and uses role-play exercises to allow they escalate.
possible, to incorporate healthy cooking the delegates to practise in the learning practices into our kitchens, for example environment.
Every new manager receives In addition we have a structured programme offering customers jacket potatoes instead this training and in addition we organise to build Whitehall and Westminster relations, of chips with a meal.
In addition we have bespoke in-house courses for any businesses meeting regularly with MPs to discuss and removed Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil HVO that require specialist training for retail staff.
promote responsible retailing best practice.
from our frying oil and we have a programme of reducing HVOs in place with our suppliers.
Vegetarian options are also available in all of our pubs.
Mitchells & Butlers 35 Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility continued Toby's focus on locally sourced vegetables means our customers are assured of the freshest, top quality produce.
All our growers have to adhere to strict standards.
We are also working closely with the Food Case Study: Toby Carvery Chef School The initiative was launched with Year five Standards Agency FSA as members of a As part of the Year of Food and Farming, Toby students from Brownhills West Primary forum working on best practice and guidance Carvery launched a new campaign aimed at School in Norton Canes who were invited for the family pub industry.
In addition we are teaching schoolchildren about the food they to their local Toby Carvery in Cannock to taking FSA advice to enhance the nutritional eat and its origins.
discover more about the journey vegetables content of our menus.
We have a salt make from the farm to their fork, including reduction programme in place and have Toby Carvery offered pupils a unique behind how and where different vegetables grow.
already adopted the FSA targets on sausages the scenes experience at its Pub Restaurants and burgers.
We aim to place the FSA salt up and down the country by enabling them Head teacher Mr Fairclough said: The reduction targets on other product items over to meet a professional chef, learn about session was a brilliant way for the children the next year.
where food comes from and how it is to learn more about healthy eating in a real prepared before it reaches the plate.
The chef school was In addition, we carry out an assessment of the really well organised and the kids have learnt environmental policies and practices of our lots about how to cook different types of major food suppliers.
All growers supplying the vegetable and the nutrients they contain.
Company are required to meet the established worldwide standard for good agricultural practice, known as the GLOBALGAP Standard or equivalent.
This is an integrated agricultural standard primarily designed to reassure consumers about how food is produced on the farm by minimising detrimental environmental impacts of farming operations, reducing the use of chemical inputs and ensuring a responsible approach to worker health and safety, as well as animal welfare.
The session was a brilliant way for the children to learn more Furthermore, all of our food suppliers must about healthy eating in a real comply with the British Retail Consortiums restaurant environment.
technical standard which requires staff to Head teacher Mr Fairclough be properly trained and supervised and for the supplier to meet high standards of food safety.
More detail on our supplier policies and our Code of Ethics can be found on our website www.
com socialresponsibility under the Corporate governance pages.
Environment Mitchells & Butlers aims to minimise the impact our business has on the environment.
This commitment involves our understanding of, and responsibility for, the resources we use and the waste we produce.
Wherever possible, we want to incorporate energy efficient and recycling practices across our businesses and are currently working on a number of projects and systems with the aim Toby Carvery, Cannock of reducing our carbon emissions.
Mitchells & Butlers 36 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating and financial review 50% 6,000tns Mitchells & Butlers pubs have Over the last year, we have collected recycled 50% more waste in 2008 1,800 tonnes of cooking oil, which when converted into bio-diesel, reduces UK carbon emissions by 6,000 tonnes 75% 75% of our estate is now recycling glass and cardboard We are working to establish a coherent In September 2007 we opened our first green We also collect and recycle waste cooking Company-wide energy management strategy, business designed to trial a number of energy oil across the entire estate, which is converted with immediate medium and long-term goals saving measures at the Toby Carvery, Banbury.
into bio-diesel or renewable energy.
Over the for the reduction of energy usage across The results of the trial have given us a valuable last year we have collected 1,800 tonnes of our business.
We have appointed a Head insight into the performance of the various used cooking oil from our pubs which, when of Energy, who is responsible for the energy efficient systems and how they work, converted into bio-diesel, reduces UK CO 2 development and maintenance of Mitchells both in isolation and in relation to each other.
emissions by around 6,000 tonnes per annum.
Some of these have now been identified as This includes all aspects of consumption being suitable for inclusion on new build Health and safety management, business support co-ordination, projects and other initiatives can be installed Mitchells & Butlers complies fully with all the assessment of new technologies available into established pubs.
Voltage stabilisers are relevant health and safety legislation and we on the market and driving the specification of currently being rolled out to those sites with understand our responsibility both to staff and energy efficient equipment.
the highest electricity consumption and the customers to ensure safe working practices trial of low energy lighting will be extended are in place across our businesses.
Monitoring energy usage is a valuable device further across the estate.
to help drive significant energy savings.
Almost The Company requires managers to keep 100% of our estate now has Automated Meter We have seen significant improvements in records of all safety checks for food, fire Reading AMR systems installed for our recycling programme and around 75% and health and safety.
Business and kitchen managing electricity consumption.
We have of our retail estate is now recycling glass and Due Diligence Manuals are kept on site around 100 sites participating in a gas AMR cardboard.
In the past 12 months, over 350 and managers record safety checks on a daily, trial and, dependent upon the results, will additional sites are participating in cardboard weekly and monthly basis.
The manuals seek to expand this over the next year.
In collections and some further 290 sites have contain sections for RBMs to inspect and addition trials of energy efficient lighting have commenced recycling glass.
Mitchells & Butlers verify the managers adherence to the been underway for some time.
pubs have recycled 50% more waste in FY 2008.
Company's safety policies and procedures.
They are also audited by an independent specialist company.
Each year we operate designated safety weeks aimed at reinforcing the Companys policies and making our pubs and Pub Restaurants even safer places for our customers and employees.
Annually we run two Fire Safety weeks, one Health and Safety week, one Food Safety week, two Licensing weeks and two Security weeks.
During these awareness weeks, staff receive appropriate refresher training and specific topics or areas of best practice are highlighted, for example, fire evacuation drills, hazard spotting exercises, food safety messages, Challenge 21 policy and robbery prevention training.
Toby Carvery, Huddersfield Mitchells & Butlers 37 Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility continued 242,000 Over the past three years, Mitchells & Butlers has donated 242,000 to the childrens charity, Barnardos Each year, our pubs and Pub Restaurants raise thousands of pounds for charity, supporting those causes closest to the hearts of their communities.
Community involvement and charitable donations Our pubs are long-established at the centre of many local communities.
Through our community involvement, charity and sponsorship programmes we aim to encourage, support and enhance our pubs positive local impact and to build a strong network of community relationships across the UK.
National charitable donations are supported at a corporate level through a centrally managed budget.
In addition our selection of Community Award schemes encourages our employees and our pubs to support a charity through their own fundraising activity or voluntary work.
Our pubs and Pub Restaurants raise thousands I would like to say thank you on of pounds for charity every year, and our annual Heart of the Community Awards has behalf of Barnardo's for the huge been created to celebrate and recognise the efforts which went into making efforts of our pub teams in forging good this fundraising possible.
relations with their local communities.
Rachel Jones, Barnardo's corporate partnership manager For the third year running Ember Inns Drink Pink campaign, launched to raise money for national charity Against Breast Cancer, has Every pub team was busy collecting surpassed the previous years efforts with a Case Study Ember Inns BUPA donations with many going the extra mile by fantastic 30,854 being raised.
Hollywood National Run organising additional fund raising activities Bowl has launched a novel numeracy pack, 120 team members from Ember Inns South including sponsored runs and sofa sits, to Cornerstone pubs are selling Blackpool style joined forces to compete in the BUPA Great name but a few.
rock for their chosen Local Pub charity and Capital Run in July, raising over 50,000 for Harvester businesses are again fundraising Barnardos.
Barnardos corporate partnership manager, for Make a Wish Foundation, through a Rachel Jones, added: I would like to series of balloon launches.
The team, which included Ember general say thank you on behalf of Barnardos for managers and members of the marketing and the huge efforts which went in to making Mitchells & Butlers' relationship with our operations teams, donned their running shoes this fundraising possible.
We have been charity partner Barnardo's came to a close for the 10km run through Hyde Park.
genuinely touched by the extent to which in September 2008 and we celebrated the both the pub managers and senior donation of nearly a quarter of a million Retail business manager for Ember Inns, management team embraced this campaign.
Colin Hawkins, comments: Ember Inns pubs The money raised will make a big difference are renowned for their fundraising efforts but to children at a grass roots level and never before had we attempted anything on everyone involved should feel very proud such a grand scale.
of what they have achieved.
Mitchells & Butlers 38 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating and financial review We have supported the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra for 28 years and our CBSO On the Road community concerts continue to be greatly enjoyed by a wide range of audiences.
Mitchells & Butlers selected Barnardo's National Arts & Business award in recognition Mitchells & Butlers CSR publications as its corporate charity partner in 2005, by of this long-term relationship.
Our CBSO On More detailed information on Mitchells launching the Routes to a Brighter Future' the Road series of community-based concerts & Butlers CSR policies and activities fundraising campaign.
The Company has continues to go from strength to strength.
We can be accessed on the web at: supported two Barnardo's projects in the are pleased to be able to expand our support Midlands, Dudley Community Routes in 2009 through additional funding for the www.
com CSR in the West Midlands and the South project, to continue to meet the growing West Birmingham Family Project in Bartley audience demand for concerts.
The following publications Green, and one project in Harrogate, are also available online: Dr B's Restaurant and Coffee Shop.
We are again supporting the Birmingham Royal Ballet and we remain an active Annual corporate social responsibility review Over the past three years, Mitchells & Butlers corporate patron of the Birmingham REP Mitchells & Butlers publishes an annual integrated corporate social responsibility review every December.
has donated 242,000 to the children's and ExCathedra.
This report covers five areas that are of key importance charity, of which Company employees to us as a Company, as well as to our customers, have helped raise 100,000 by taking part Our role as good neighbours employees, local communities, suppliers and shareholders: in Barnardo's activities and events.
Staff have Our pubs and Pub Restaurants play an taken part in marathons, sponsored cycles, important role at the heart of thousands of Marketplace Environment a firewalk and a dragon boat race.
Most communities across the UK.
As a Company Employees Corporate governance Community recently 120 Ember Inns managers raised we are committed to encouraging and an astonishing 50,000 in one go by taking supporting our businesses in this community part in the BUPA Capital Run.
Through schemes such as Pubwatch, we are able to establish better communication We started a new charity partnership with and develop valuable discussion forums for Marie Curie in October this year.
The aim is to handling and resolving local issues.
focus on regional funding which will engage our mobile workers based across the UK as Over the last 12 months Mitchells & Butlers well as our annual corporate donation, which has invested significantly in our community will go towards nursing hours for Marie Curie pub formats as we believe that by developing at a national level.
a strong network of Local Pubs, we are not only investing in our businesses but also Proud of our Midlands heritage, we continue in the pubs role within the community.
to be keen to support Birmingham and its Whether its winning a Best Bar None award, Alcohol and Social Responsibility Policy culture.
We have built a portfolio of arts creating jobs or providing a meeting point, Our Alcohol and Social Responsibility Policy partners to help us establish a comprehensive, we recognise the pub really must be an asset covers our clear guidelines on: robust community arts programme.
to its community to ensure its survival into the responsible operation of our pubs the next century.
the sale and promotion of alcohol We are now entering our 28th year of our under 18s policy sponsorship with the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra CBSO and were delighted to have been short-listed for a Mitchells & Butlers 39 Annual report and accounts 2008
