We have consciously structured our included: Working Safely, Managing Safely, Management of Work at programme with an emphasis on Corporate the development of skills and the Height and Safe Driving.
As an employer of responsibility The results of our efforts are there over 49,000 people working in the to see.
In addition to the positive At MITIE, we are committed to the built environment, these two areas feedback we have had from our are particularly important to us, and operation of a responsible business employee surveys, we achieved a have helped to shape our activities model and to the delivery of our 23% reduction in major injuries during and business model to meet the CR strategy.
For us, it makes sound the year, with a 22% reduction in the ever changing demands of our business sense.
Regrettably markets and our stakeholders.
we received four enforcement Every year we set challenging notices during the year and we targets to drive our business forward.
have put in place remedial actions Our ambitions in CR are no different.
to address the issues raised and learn We have the same passionate the lessons across the Group.
commitment to protecting our We have now held four Health people, enhancing our workplaces, Awareness Days at our of ces our communities, our marketplaces across the UK, giving our people and the environments in which we access to medical information and all work.
They can have a MITIE endorses the Business for full check-up on-site during working Social Responsibility fide nition hours, including body mass index, of Corporate Responsibility as: cholesterol checks, diabetes test, achieving commercial success in and lung capacity testing.
ways that honour ethical values During the year we increased and respect people, communities, our focus on teleconferencing, and the natural environment.
This car pooling and public transport year, by working closely with our as ways to cut down our eets stakeholders to improve our CR carbon emissions, and reduce policies, practices and procedures, the risks to our people from driving we managed to continue our related incidents.
That said, driving success in improving our CR will always be a necessary part performance and achieved an of our business, especially for our overall score of 81.5% 2007: 70.0% in emergency response vehicles.
the Business in the Community BiTC However, there is still a great deal CR Index.
For the second year in a we can do to make it as safe and row, we are featured as one of the ef cient as possible.
Top 100 Companies that Count for companies who completed One way were doing this is through the BiTC CR Index.
Were pleased the government-backed safe and to announce that this year, MITIE fuel ef cient driving scheme, or has improved on its bronze award SAFED.
Some of our people have last year and is now listed in the now attended this course, which silver section of the Companies gives them tips on safer and more that Count survey published in the environmentally friendly driving.
Workplace This year we have again published As a people business, we treat every a separate CR Report which will be one of our 49,505 people who work issued to all of our shareholders.
Were passionate report provides more detail on our about helping our people reach CR activity and related performance their full potential, because the measures during the year.
more successful they are, the more successful we are.
We ensure they Health and safety have the skills, training and support The health and safety of our people they need to excel, and a fair, is of principal importance for us at equal and responsible environment MITIE.
We set high standards and to work in.
we expect everyone to play their part in maintaining them.
MITIE has Training is important for everyone, at a team of over 60 dedicated health every stage of their career.
We offer and safety professionals working an integrated career and personal in our business, engaged in formal development programme to all programmes to improve our health levels of our workforce.
Last year and safety performance across our over 21,000 MITIE people undertook business on an ongoing basis.
one or more of our wide range of training courses.
Furthermore, As a Company of world-class people since the start of our relationship delivering world-class services, we with the Institute of Leadership and have an extensive range of training Management ILM in April 2006, programmes available to all our almost 1,000 MITIE people have people, including over 25 health completed ILM courses, including and safety training courses.
In the ILM Level 2 in Team Leading, ILM year over 2,000 people successfully Level 3 in First Line Management completed these courses that and ILM Level 5 in Management.
36 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 quietrevolution We have now made quietrevolution turbines a key component of many of our low carbon schemes, and an integral part of our Engineering Services divisions new microgeneration offering.
In the past, many wind generation schemes were often refused planning permission because of noise, vibration, or the impact on their surroundings.
However, quietrevolutions designs have managed to deal with almost all of these objections, which is why so many local councils across the UK recommend them for smallscale urban wind generators.
quietrevolution turbines are virtually silent, and can generate 10,000kWh a year, equivalent to 10% of the energy 2 requirements of a 600m of ce building.
In the UK, this is equivalent to displacing 4,0006,000kg of annual CO emissions 2 associated with grid-generated electricity.
Alternative energy is a key ingredient in our low carbon schemes.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 Going the extra mile MITIEs Stephanie Winn, nishing this years London Marathon.
Her sponsorship donation for Great Ormond Street Hospital, along with all other money raised for our regional charities, was match-funded by MITIE.
2 quali cation, equal to five GCSEs We have also developed our inCorporate responsibility house Navigator mens personal at A C. Speaking at the launch continued last year Gordon Brown said: In development programme and SpringBoard womens personal the future, skills will be the only route to prosperity and jobs.
Our development programme which were launched in April 2007.
These commitment to the Skills Pledge is a key part of our strategy: we will programmes have been speci cally developed for non-managerial only deliver world-class services if we have skilled, competent and people and give advice on a wide range of issues both in and out of the able people who can seize all the opportunities offered to them.
workplace, from getting a promotion to building self-con dence.
Coming Signing up to the Skills Pledge gives out of the programme, candidates us the opportunity to demonstrate moved forward with their action publicly the importance MITIE places plans and were offered individual on investing in the skills of our people.
trained mentors to support their MITIEs commitment to developing future development.
a better skilled and quali ed On 14 June 2007 MITIE became one workforce bene ts our business of the first employers to make the UK competitive advantage, as well as government Skills Pledge a speci c aiding the training, development and voluntary promise, made by and employability requirements of an employer to its employees, that our people.
every eligible member of staff will Our award-winning Real Apprentice be helped to gain basic literacy scheme is now in its third year and numeracy skills and a full Level 38 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 and were pleased to announce pro ts up while at the same time our products and services to meet improving our own sustainability that its just received Big Tick rethe environmental demands of our accreditation for 2008.
In the last performance, and satisfying clients clients and are proud to help them demands for more sustainable three years the scheme has won achieve their environmental targets.
prestigious Big Tick Excellence products.
By simply changing our In November 2007 our work in energy confectionery supplier to a main Awards, the 2006 PFM Partners with management and sustainability with People Award and the Greater grocery chain, our catering business the Department for Culture, Media th saved approximately 64,000 food London Training Award.
The 59 and Sport was recognised at the apprentice to go through the miles of deliveries to our sites.
Premises and Facilities Management Likewise, by sourcing our bakery programme has recently been annual awards, where we picked up offered a full-time job with us, and products locally, were investing in the Partners in Sustainability Award the surrounding communities and 29 young people found work with 2007.
We were also awarded a MITIE in London last year, the highest getting the freshest food available.
Green Apple Award for our work on number so far.
It doesnt stop there though, over the same contract.
At the beginning 70% of our 57,000 black waste sacks of the year we implemented an Marketplace are now made from bio-degradable energy action plan and a number of We know that selecting the right materials as are the 4.5m napkins we other sustainability initiatives, helping suppliers and subcontractors is a use in our restaurants, and the 50,000 to support the department in its drive key way to reduce business risk and disposable takeaway bags we give to achieve its environmental targets.
In fact we out with our deli-food.
Additionally, To date the plan has identi ed see our suppliers as partners in our our 160,000 fruit and yoghurt pots savings of 83,000 per year and the own success, and we demand the are now packaged in plastic cups equivalent of 546 tonnes of CO. 2 same standards from those partners made from polylactic acid.
Our work has also helped them MITIE also endorses the International become the first Whitehall In 2007 we set up a new Supplier Labour Organisations Declaration government department to Improvement Programme to ensure on Fundamental Principles and be accredited by the Carbon that our main suppliers are aligned Rights at Work and the Ethical Trusts Energy Ef ciency with our CR principles and apply Trading Initiative Base Code.
downstream accountability in their ensure that employment with us is own supply chains.
Our partnering Last year we won a highly always freely chosen, freedom of relationship with national building commended certi cate in the FM association is respected, working products supplier Wolseley has Excellence Awards for Sustainability, conditions are safe and hygienic, proven to be particularly rewarding.
to recognise our partnership with child labour is not used, pay is not We see each other not just as Castle Vale School in Birmingham, lower than the minimum wage, trading partners and exchange home to one of our Skills Centres.
The working hours are not excessive, CR knowledge and practice by award was for our support for their regular employment is provided, participating in each others CR entry in the Go Green challenge and no harsh or inhumane treatment and Environment Forums.
generously support our Construction energy managers, voted NEMEX Skills Centres by providing materials Energy Manager of the Year 2007, Environment and employment opportunities for worked closely with both staff and We know our business can have an the student apprentices.
Wolseley pupils to help them reduce their impact on the natural environment, also participate in our employee electricity and gas use by 10% in a and we do what we can to volunteering events.
The total amount saved minimise and mitigate this by using came to 51 tonnes of CO, and over Last year, our catering business  materials 2 8,000 per year.
managed to drive costs down and and practices.
We have developed Over 1,000 students have bene ted from our World of Work days.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39 and our time, as well as money to Our work with the Bansang Saving Corporate responsibility supporting employee volunteering Lives Appeal continued.
From its continued and fundraising.
We play our part base in a remote area of the African in communities across the world, bush, Bansang Hospital looks after as well as at home in the UK.
the healthcare needs of some As part of the governments 600,000 people from the Gambia, Our Skills Centres are particularly renewable energy drive every major Senegal, Mali, Guinea Bissau, Guinea close to our hearts, and are our most new building in the UK must now Conakry and refugees important and visible commitment generate at least 10% of its power from Sierra Leone.
to supporting the development of on-site from renewable sources.
The first Skills Centre The most recent work with the Faced with this challenge Standard was opened in Portsmouth in 2001 hospital was a complete re t of Life Investments came to us to help and was hailed at the time as a the old colonial building to create them install a geothermal energy revolutionary new way to tackle the twelve single bedrooms and two selfsystem at their new Guildford of ces.
vocational skills shortage facing the contained units for married medical The project is due for completion in UK by bridging the gap between staff.
Our mechanical and electrical October 2008, and we will also be education and employment.
The engineers worked alongside local carrying out the mechanical and centres give school children an workers on the new MITIE House, electrical elements of the design introduction to construction and which opened in early 2008. and build.
Over 500 students The project used local materials In addition to this, we have now are currently studying on nationally wherever possible, as well as other made quietrevolution turbines a recognised construction vocational items donated by our UK suppliers.
key component of many of our low courses in the MITIE Skills Centres.
As we continue to grow into a worldcarbon schemes, and an integral During the year we opened a further class Company delivering worldpart of the engineering services Skills Centre at Caldervale High class services, our commitment, teams new microgeneration School in Airdrie the first of its kind responsibility and levels of investment offering.
A single turbine can in Scotland.
to our communities grows with us.
generate 10,000kWh a year, equivalent to 10% of the energy MITIEs people have a wealth of skills 2 requirements of a 600m of ce and experience that we can share building.
The first project to go live with the community.
Since 2005, was at Merton Abbey Mills in London over 1,000 students have bene ted which is used to power The Colour from our World of Work days, House Childrens Theatre.
which are designed to increase their employability skills.
Community We believe in giving something back We are keen to expand the to the many communities we work understanding of opportunities in: building links with local businesses, within the workplace to more supporting our people in their own young people, and in 2008 09 neighbourhoods, and reinforcing well build upon the World of Work our reputation as a responsible programme.
This initiative will be Company.
The value of our designed to help young people community investment during the to understand the roles that could year amounted to nearly 600,000. be available to them when they We will continue to give our skills leave school.
Skills for life Over 500 students are currently studying on nationally recognised construction vocational courses in the MITIE Skills Centres.
40 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
