Business review Sustainability review Aerial view of South African forest in KwaZuluNatal province.
in line with our commitment to use only wood from controlled Overview sources, we completed the implementation of our wood tracing system, sourced 52% of our virgin fibre from credibly certified Creating a sustainable business helps us fulfil sources and used no fibre from areas defined as high risk by the our obligation to deliver long-term value for FSC standard: shareholders: by securing our continuing access our South African forests maintained their FSC certification and we to raw materials and human talent: maintaining achieved FSC certification of an additional 861,000 hectares of our licence to operate in communities around the forests in the Komi Republic in Russia: world: and enhancing our ability to mitigate risks we achieved improvements in our air, water and land emissions and to our business.
set up special task groups to ensure that we meet our commitments on these impacts by the target dates: we reduced our total chemical oxygen demand COD emissions Mondi aspires to be the best paper and packaging company in the world.
To this end we have introduced the Mondi Diamond, a to water by a further 6%, our chlorinated organics AOX emissions to water by a further 2%, our total reduced sulphate TRS emissions framework aligned to the Groups strategic goals and business priorities that enables our operations to optimise their results by focusing on five to air by a further 9% and our waste to landfill by a further 3%, all from 2007 levels: dimensions: operational excellence, people development, customer focus, cutting edge products and sustainable development.
we signed the first corporate forestry land restitution settlement in South Africa, agreeing the transfer of over 4,000 hectares of Mondi The sustainable development dimension is increasingly important to us because we need to build sustainable businesses to secure future land to two forest communities: success.
We have already made significant progress in this area but we launched pilot studies for our innovative Food 4 Forests feeding there is much more to do.
initiative in South Africa and in partnership with local NGOs and We believe we have the necessary processes in place to ensure that clinics, offered voluntary HIV AIDS counselling and testing to our South African forestry contractors for the first time: we address current issues effectively, while also remaining sensitive to any new challenges and opportunities that may arise.
Details of our we signed the United Nations Global Compact, committing to align progress against our sustainable development SD commitments are operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles summarised in the tables that follow.
covering human rights, labour and anti-corruption: A number of specific events and achievements stand out as significant we participated in the Ethical Investment Research Services highlights of our sustainability journey during 2008: assessment and were included in the FTSE4GOOD UK, we were the gold sponsor of the 2008 Forest Stewardship Council FTSE4GOOD Europe, FTSE4GOOD Global and JSE socially responsible investment indices: and FSC GA and David Hathorn, our chief executive, became a member of the world Business Council for Sustainable Developments we completed the implementation of our SD reporting and Ecosystem Fact Focus Area Action Team: information system, MORIS, which provided all data for our we achieved a lost-time injury frequency rate of 0.18 against a target 2008 sustainability reporting.
of 0.19, a 22% improvement on 2007: Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 25 Directors report Business review Sustainability review continued Our sustainability commitments In 2007, we revised and extended our sustainability commitments to cover key sustainable development SD aspects of our operations and set clear targets to measure our progress.
The table below summarises the progress we made in 2008 towards meeting our commitments.
Mondi commitment Target date Status Governance Achieve compliance with the integrated 2008 2010 In progress: our safety compliance audit scores this year can be SD management standards with follow-up found at: www.
com sustainability compliance audits from 2008.
Establish an audit programme, set targets 2007 2008 Achieved: we have established an audit programme and completed and report against these.
Ensure that 25% our planned safety peer reviews.
of all second-party audits are carried out as peer reviews.
Develop an SD reporting tool in 2007, 2007 2008 In progress: we have introduced the Mondi reporting and information followed by an information management system MORIS, which covers all aspects of non-financial SD tool in 2008. reporting and plan to evaluate an information management tool during 2009.
Report progress against our sustainability Ongoing Achieved.
Mondi commitment Target date Status Sustainable forestry Certify all existing Mondi forestry to FSC.
Ongoing Achieved: all of our South African forests and 3.1 million hectares in Russia are certified, including a total of 861,000 hectares which were New forestry will be subject to a time-bound plan for certification.
The Udora region 306,000 hectares and an additional area 310,000 hectares are planned for certification in 2009.
Implement the minimum procurement 2008 Achieved: we have introduced comprehensive guidelines covering standard for wood, virgin fibre and biomass.
the responsible procurement of wood, virgin fibre and biomass.
Achieve traceability for procurement of wood 2008 Achieved: we have developed our Wood Information Platform WIP and now report on wood tracing data.
Monitor, set targets and report on the 2008 Achieved: we are reporting wood tracing data at: procurement of credibly certified wood, www.
com sustainability virgin fibre and biomass products.
Work with certification bodies and small Ongoing In progress: in 2008, Mondi participated in and contributed to the funding of the Lisbon FSC workshop on small grower certification.
growers to find a practical solution to their certification.
Mondi was also the gold sponsor of the FSC General Assembly in Cape Town where small grower certification was an agenda topic.
26 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: Focus on Food programme Mondi is committed to providing balanced nutrition for its forestry workers in South Africa.
In 2008 the Group launched a pilot scheme Food 4 Forests, the aim of which is to ensure workers receive sufficient calories during their working day, by providing them with a nutritionally balanced meal during their lunch break.
More information is available at www.
com food4forests Mondi commitment Target date Status Cleaner production and energy Maintain independent verification of the effectiveness of Ongoing Achieved: all of our significant environmentally the environmental management systems and objectives at material mills are ISO14001 certified.
Reduce specific energy usage by 15% against a 2004 baseline.
2014 In progress: we have reduced our specific energy use by 4% against a 2004 baseline.
Reduce specific fossil carbon dioxide CO emissions by 15% 2014 In progress: we have reduced our specific CO 2 2 against a 2004 baseline.
emissions from fossil fuels by 11% against a 2004 baseline.
Reduce the total effluent load measured as COD into receiving 2010 In progress: we have reduced our total COD waters by 30% against a 2005 baseline.
Reduce the total AOX emission levels by 30% against a 2005 2010 Achieved: we have reduced our total AOX baseline.
Reduce the Total Reduced Sulphides TRS emissions to the 2010 Achieved: we have reduced our total TRS atmosphere by 65% against a 2005 baseline.
emission levels by 71% against a 2005 baseline.
Reduce the total waste to landfill by 20% against a 2005 baseline.
2010 Achieved: we have reduced our total waste to landfill by 22% against a 2005 baseline.
Cease the disposal of hazardous waste into landfills.
2009 In progress: we are currently investigating the viability of alternative waste disposal solutions at our Richards Bay pulp and containerboard mill in order to meet this commitment in full, becoming effective in 2010.
Monitor and report fresh water usage of material operations Ongoing Achieved: detailed water usage data can be found in water-stressed regions.
com sustainability Further develop a culture of zero process incidents and continue Ongoing In progress: all level I incidents are reported to report losses of containment that cause or have the potential internally while the total number of level ll and to cause harm.
level lll incidents are reported at: www.
com sustainability Monitor and report the percentage of recycled fibre used in the Ongoing In progress: we have incorporated recycled fibre final product as raw material and as tonnes sold.
as a raw material in our MORIS reporting requirements and published relevant data are available at: www.
com sustainability Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 27 Directors report Business review Sustainability review continued Mondi commitment Target date Status Social Enhancing employee wellbeing Monitor and report gender and national diversity at management 2007 2008 In progress: we have incorporated gender and level.
national diversity into our MORIS reporting requirements and published data are available at: www.
com sustainability Encourage employees to take part in business unit or regional Ongoing Achieved: we expanded our employee surveys to employee surveys.
make them effective peer review surveys, enabling us to benchmark against other businesses.
Prevent all work-related fatal injuries.
Ongoing Not achieved: following two contractor fatalities in 2008 we initiated full investigations and have taken action to ensure similar incidents are avoided in future.
Reduce the LTIFR for employees and contractors by 70% to 0.1 2008 2009 In progress: our reported LTIFR in 2008 was 0.18 against a target of 0.19. in 2010 against the 2006 baseline.
The target for 2009 is an LTIFR of 0.14.
Report sickness and absence rates in relation to the relevant 2007 2008 In progress: we have incorporated sickness and national average at all operations.
absence into our MORIS reporting requirements and reported sickness data internally this year.
Mondi commitment Target date Status Social Caring for local communities All material operations to continue to have a community Ongoing Achieved: we have commissioned a rolling plan engagement plan in place, supported by a SEAT process for SEAT assessments.
No SEAT reports were on a three-yearly cycle.
published in 2008, but a SEAT review will be carried out in South Africa and in our Russian logging operations in 2009.
Monitor and report complaints from the public.
Ongoing Achieved: all complaints are reported at: www.
com sustainability Continue to make anti-retroviral treatment available to all Ongoing Achieved: full details of our HIV AIDS-related employees in South Africa.
Provide resources for training and activities are reported at: awareness campaigns and continue to build partnerships with www.
com sustainability local clinics and NGOs.
28 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: The sustainable development committee of the Boards continues to improve sustainable forestry management practices such as overseeing the completion of the implementation of our wood tracing system.
Employees Mondi is committed to the development and wellbeing of its employees.
The Groups health and safety policies and standards are fundamental to this commitment.
Mondis goal is to achieve zero harm to its employees and contractors in the operation of its business and the Group undertakes significant initiatives on a continuing basis to achieve further improvements in safety performance and occupational health.
Mondi also places a strong emphasis on the training and development of employees and on employee communication and involvement.
Reviews have been conducted of the Groups organisation structure and talent management processes to maximise effectiveness and efficiency.
Operation at Syktyvkar pulp The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its and paper mill in Russia.
employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and informal Donations meetings and through a range of other internal communication channels, including publications and electronic communications.
The Groups policy is that no company in the Group shall make Employee representatives are consulted regularly on the range of contributions or donations for political purposes.
matters affecting their current and future interests.
In the UK, the Group During 2008 the Group made charitable donations and community operates a Share Incentive Plan and a Sharesave plan, described on social investments totalling 5.3 million 2007: 6.5 million.
Operating pages 42 and 43. within guidelines set by the Group, Mondis local businesses are The main focus of the Groups diversity initiatives is in South Africa.
responsible for choosing and funding their own causes through Mondi is committed to meeting the requirements of the Broad-Based discretionary volunteering, donations and sponsorships.
This devolved Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE Acts charter and has taken approach has resulted in support for a variety of programmes that have active steps to this end.
an impact on Mondis employees and the communities in which they work and live.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event Research and development of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate The Group has a dedicated central resource focused on identifying and training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, seeking profit enhancing opportunities through the application of new career development and promotion of disabled persons should, technologies.
The research and development activities aim to provide as far as possible, be consistent with that of other employees.
continuous and proactive improvements in processes and products.
Research is focused on improving the quality and range of products in Full details of Mondi Groups sustainability practices, including terms of both cost and environmental factors.
Expenditure on research a detailed update on our progress in 2008, can be found on our web site at: www.
com sustainability and development during 2008 was 9.6 million 2007: 8.9 million.
Safety CO emissions 2 Lost time injury Total CO emissions 2 000 tonnes frequency rate LTIFR 2006 0.30 2006 6,135 2007 0.23 2007 6,242 2008 0.18 2008 6,002 LTIFR is calculated by multiplying the number of reported lost time injuries by a factor of 200,000 divided by the total man hours worked across the Group during the year.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 29 Directors report
