Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Report The Group operates with an underlying awareness of its wider Employees The Group actively encourages employee involvement and responsibilities to society.
consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed of the Groups activities via its intranet which was Communities and charities In addition to the Groups Charity of the Year, during 2008 the launched in 2008, regular briefings and the circulation to employees of relevant information including corporate Group launched a new initiative called.
Community aimed at harnessing the energy and enthusiasm of its employees to announcements.
This also helps to achieve a common awareness amongst employees of the financial and economic benefit the communities in which it operates.
factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Community initiative is focused on helping charities within a few miles of the Groups offices in Ewloe and so support is targeted The Group also operates an employee forum through which nominated representatives ensure that employees views are taken primarily in Flintshire and Cheshire.
From the inception of the.
Community scheme the Group has set aside 7,680 in 2008 and into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
An employee opinion survey process is also in place to ensure that expects to set aside 2,000 per month in 2009 via the Charities Aid Foundation.
Community initiative is administered by the employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
Groups employees who identify causes and make donations.
The Group is committed to an equal opportunities policy.
Since its launch in August 2008 the.
Community scheme has already supported the following charities: The Group aims to ensure that no employee is discriminated against, directly or indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, Miles of Smiles ethnic and national origins, nationality citizenship, sex, sexual orientation or gender, marital status, disability, religion or belief, The Club House, Mold St Johns Ambulance Cheshire Young Carers being part time or on the grounds of age.
Chester Gang Show Scouts and Guides Denbighshire Home Start The Group recognises the importance of health and safety and the positive benefits to the Group.
Therefore the Groups commitment Delyn Womens Aid to health and safety makes good business sense.
Community initiative, the Group continues to select and support a charity on an annual basis.
The 2007 08 The Group has a health and safety policy which is communicated to all employees through a health and safety handbook, which is Charity of the Year was Brain Injury Rehabilitation and Development BIRD.
BIRD is a Chester based charity which provides a unique regularly reviewed and updated.
programme to aid the rehabilitation of people with neurological impairment.
Over the course of the year employees raised 9,976 Supporting students In order to build links between the Group and local schools and for BIRD with the Group donating 13,042 making a total donation in the year of 23,018. colleges, work experience and placements are offered to a number of students.
In doing so, the Group strives to make work Employees have selected the Hospice of the Good Shepherd placements positive, challenging and relevant to participants current studies and their future job prospects.
for the Groups 2008 09 Charity of the Year.
The Hospice, which is on the outskirts of Chester, exists to provide highly specialised Customers palliative care for people living with advanced diseases from the communities of Chester, Deeside, Ellesmere Port and rural The Group is committed to providing a high quality price comparison service to its customers, enabling them to compare Cheshire.
During the year, employees raised 2,227 for the Hospice with the Group donating 3,760 making a total donation in the year a wide range of products in the money, insurance, travel and home services markets, and to find the product most suited to of 5,987. their needs.
Environment The Group strives to reduce energy and raw material usage To maintain high levels of customer satisfaction, the Group is constantly assessing the views of its customers and undertaking to support environmental and financial performance.
customer testing of its website.
The Group provides customers with information from a variety of sources such as editorial content, The Group has launched a new initiative called Team Green to focus on environmental and sustainability improvements in the customer and expert reviews, forums and community features to enrich their experience.
The team is focusing on recycling and energy use within the Group as well as other areas such as local and ethical sourcing.
The Group has chosen not to set environmental key performance indicators due to its relative size and the limited impact it has on the environment.
The Group does however participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
