Corporate Sustainability corporate sustainability activities and performance.
Introduction An executive corporate sustainability reporting As explained in the Chairmans Statement on page committee has also been established.
7 and the Business Review on page 11, the Board continues to place importance on a range of This section focuses on the key corporate considerations including health and safety, sustainability matters which have received attention environmental matters, community relations and during 2008 in respect of its operations and capital management of human resources.
During 2008 the Group published its first development forms an important element of the separate sustainability report covering its activities in Groups decision-making process and it adopts a respect of 2007, and intends to also report on activities long-term view in formulating strategy, company in respect of 2008 during 2009. policy and everyday business procedures.
Corporate Sustainability Governance With the growth of the Group in Chile and the The corporate sustainability governance acquisition of opportunities abroad, the Board arrangements exist within the overall Group decided in 2007 to develop a set of Group Sustainable governance arrangements described in the Corporate Development principles to provide a structured Governance report on pages 58 to 64.
Corporate framework through which its strategy and growth procedures, management structures and risk plans could be achieved.
These principles were management procedures are in place at both a adopted during 2008 together with social and Group level and in the business units.
As stated environmental policies for the mining division and above, elements of the corporate sustainability have been framed within the context of the Groups governance structure were reviewed during 2008. strategic plan for 2009 2015.
As explained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7, this plan The Directors responsibilities, including responsibilities is based on the three pillars of: relating to risk management and control are described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on securing and strengthening the core business of the page 69.
Group, comprising its operations and development projects including the Los Pelambres expansion and Management systems are in place at the majority of Esperanza: the Groups principal operations for quality of process and products ISO 9001, health and safety OHSAS continuing to grow this core business in a 18001, and environmental management ISO 14001. sustainable manner in the longer-term with To supplement these, during 2008 Antofagasta particular focus on the significant Sierra Gorda Minerals S. A. AMSA, the corporate centre for the and Los Pelambres districts: and mining division, developed social and environmental continuing to develop and search for additional policies to provide a framework for managing these opportunities for early stage growth in copper both matters.
in Chile and abroad, such as the Groups interest in In addition, the Group has a risk management the prospective Reko Diq joint venture in Pakistan.
system in place which is described in the Corporate The strategic plan recognises the continued importance Governance statement on page 62.
Its purpose is to of ensuring the Group generates social value by centrally monitor the risks arising from each operating building and consolidating its contribution to society company to enable management to mitigate and and environmental value by achieving efficient use prevent potential situations and incidents which might of natural resources, in order to achieve the aim of have a negative impact on business objectives.
Risk continuing to grow the business in a sustainable manner.
maps identifying key risk areas are prepared within In order to support this, a Corporate Sustainability each division and risk management processes are committee was formed during 2008 at Board level embedded at all levels across the Groups operations to provide direction and oversight of the Groups and projects.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 44 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Direct engagement exists primarily at the divisional Ethics and operating company levels.
Engagement exercises The Group is committed to conducting business in during 2008 included several programmes which are an accountable and transparent way and demands core to the business in particular: honesty, integrity and responsibility from its employees and others involved with it.
It strives to ensure that the employee survey programmes across the divisions: human rights, customs and values of its employees, customer engagement programmes in ADASA and contractors and the communities close to its FCAB: and operations are respected.
community engagement by all operating companies, The Board has a Corporate Code of Ethics aimed at all but in particular at the mine operations where employees and contractors.
This Code was reviewed ongoing, regular local dialogue processes are during 2008, including benchmarking against peers.
For example Los Pelambres has The Code is monitored by an Ethics Committee, which developed a formal procedure to help maintain reports to the Chief Executive of AMSA and comprises strong relationships with local communities.
the Head of Risk, Head of Human Resources and Head of Corporate Affairs.
Its responsibilities include Human Capital investigation of any alleged major instances of nonThe Group is committed to ensuring that its employees compliance.
are provided with a safe, healthy and respectful working environment, the training to perform their responsibilities, Engagement and Communication equal opportunity for development and fair reward with Stakeholders which reflects their contribution and potential.
The Group believes that communication and Contractors form a significant element of the Groups consultation are important for the achievement total workforce.
Under Chilean law, they are subject to of its goals and therefore works closely with local the same obligations and responsibilities as employees.
communities where it communicates its views to The Group operations have human resource as well as governmental agencies either directly or through health and safety policies, guidelines and management industry associations and representative bodies procedures.
at both national and international levels.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 45 Corporate Sustainability continued In line with its Social Relations Policy, the Group During 2008, the following areas of focus within this continues to source employees from within local area were: communities as far as practical, this is particularly safety and occupational health among employees evident at Esperanza see case study on page 49. and contractors: The success of its approach in human capital compensation and reward arrangements: management is reflected in some of the awards received in 2008 including: employee development and engagement: and for El Tesoro: Honours from the Antofagasta labour relations.
Association of Industries for support and commitment to the Social Responsibility for Safety and occupational health Businesses Programme: Empowerment of The safety and health of employees and contractors is Human Capital in the Region 2007: and a priority and the Group seeks to go beyond relevant legislative requirements in this area.
for Los Pelambres: the award from INACAP Technological University for developing Human The principal Group operations have occupational Capital in Choapa Province.
safety and health policies and management arrangements in place.
The Group is committed to comply with legal requirements contained within employment laws The Group has an established safety and health culture in Chile relating to child labour, discrimination and based on the following concepts: equal opportunity.
senior management leadership commitment to Human rights considerations form part of human safety and health, with these matters considered capital management programmes.
No cases of human at monthly divisional board meetings: rights breaches have been identified in 2008.
AIFR Number of accidents with and without lost time during the year per million hours worked.
Chilean mining industry source Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera.
Comparative figures for 2007 have been updated to reflect the full year: 2008 full year figures have not yet been released by Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera and therefore are not shown above.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 46 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY safety and health management systems, with the In 2008, programmes have included: majority of the Groups operations certified under in AMSA, the Talent Management Programme OHSAS 18001: to develop leadership ability and promote high regular training to employees and contractors, performance.
In addition to the Talent Management to ensure awareness and improve attitudes and Programme there are specific training programmes behaviours to achieve safe working practices: and conducted at a project and mine level.
Individual development plans should be finalised in AMSA incident investigation and response, with internal during 2009: investigation of all serious incidents and follow up action plans prepared.
in ADASA a management and technical skills programme has been established to develop the Key safety indices for the Group are shown below.
specific competencies required within teams: and During 2008, the investment in preventative health FCAB commenced a leadership training programme programmes has continued, while also providing in addition to continuing its sponsorship of preand ongoing support where there are identified postgraduate training courses.
Examples of the initiatives established in 2008 include: Employee engagement has also been increased in 2008 with a workplace survey conducted by AMSA.
AMSA undertook annual preventative health In response to feedback from the survey the Group examinations for all employees who have been plans to focus more attention on work-life balance with the company for at least 12 months: initiatives in 2009.
FCAB completed a qualitative survey during 2008 of staff exposed to potential occupational illnesses Labour relations such as deafness and ergonomic injury: specific The Group respects freedom of association and union training has been provided to these staff to help membership by its work force.
Collective bargaining them understand the risks and protection processes have resulted in collective employment measures: and agreements establishing remuneration levels as well as terms and conditions of employment.
Labour ADASA established an occupational health relations are managed at an operating company level programme as well as a campaign focusing on with management working to maintain compliance preventative behaviours.
with the requirements of the Chilean Labour Codes.
Some of the Groups operating companies received There are thirteen labour unions across the Group.
awards for safety and health management in 2008 Community Relations including: The Group is committed to managing the social eleven new distinctions from the National Safety impact of its activities through promoting respect Council at Los Pelambres: and for its people, local capacity building, and developing accreditation of El Tesoro by the Ministries of Health dialogue with key stakeholders.
It uses its operating and Labour and Social Welfare as Workplace Health companies to become a social and economic platform Promoter Level 3 the first company in Chile to for local communities, and contributes to long term receive this accreditation as well as three awards development through building socio-economic capital.
from the Chilean National Safety Council.
During 2008, the Board of AMSA approved a Social Employee development and engagement Relations Policy which brings together the areas of The Group continues to make a significant investment community priority and focus for the mining division.
in employee training and development.
This policy will be supported by a social management Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 47 Corporate Sustainability continued AMSA actively participated in the Mining Council's programme in 2008, aimed at giving support to 150 mine workers from Tocopilla affected by the November 2007 earthquake in the Antofagasta Region.
The Mining Council's programme benefited the small-scale and artisanal miners who were members of the Mine Worker's Union before the earthquake occurred.
Environmental Management and Protection The Group is committed to managing the environmental impacts of its activities from mine Work with the community of Los Pelambres.
It promotes efficient natural resource management and seeks to generate system which is expected to be developed further in environmental benefits where possible.
The 2009 together with performance measures.
environmental impacts of mine closure are considered In 2008, AMSA has focused on the following areas at the planning stage for each operation, in line with which all form part of the Social Relations Policy: local regulatory requirements.
ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders see During 2008, the Board approved an Environmental Engagement : Policy for AMSA which brings together the areas of environmental priority and focus for the promotion of local capacity building: Mining division.
promotion of respect amongst employees and In 2008, AMSA focused on the following areas contractors towards local communities: and which are all within the Environmental Policy: training to acquire new skills to neighbouring developing an overarching environmental communities.
management system including establishing The Groups data for economic contributions such as performance indicators: employee salaries and payments to government are managing natural resources efficiently with provided in Notes 7 and 8 to the financial statements.
a focus on energy and water resources: and The Group operating companies are responsible for the respecting the environment and encouraging design and execution of their social programmes with conservation, protection of natural and social each having areas of focus relevant to their local diversity and heritage.
For example during 2008: the Los Pelambres Foundation focused on three Environmental management system main areas: water conservation, local production and The management of environmental matters is carried education.
Programmes in 2008 have ranged from out jointly by the environment department at AMSA supporting micro-enterprise projects in Choapa, and the environmental departments at each of the providing skills training to 200 people, obtaining operating companies.
ISO14001 certified systems approval for the development of the Los Vilos are in place or underway across the Groups principal Maritime Vocational School and completing a operating companies.
tender process for building a digital network in In 2008, in addition to the development of the new the Choapa Valley: and Environmental Policy, progress has been made by AMSA in the following areas: Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 48 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable Development at Esperanza In 2008, construction at the Esperanza operations began.
Sustainable development was a key consideration when applying for the permits and approvals and is a priority for the management at Esperanza.
The Environmental Impact Assessment was approved by the Regional Commission of the Environment COREMA for Chiles Antofagasta Region in June 2008: social and environmental commitments are being undertaken by management under the terms of this approval.
A Health, Safety and Environmental HSE management committee has been established as well as emergency and clinical services established and a HSE management system designed.
In addition social management processes have been developed to manage and support the interests and needs of employees, contractors and local communities.
During 2008, development of the workforce and local communities has been the priority and the following steps have been taken: establishing a multiple skills Apprentice Programme.
This will focus on the workforce from the Antofagasta Region who will receive training from the experienced hires: completing quarterly performance evaluations for all staff: developing a three year programme to address the concerns of the local communities.
This has included a number of workshops entitled My Life, My Hope: completing health and cultural awareness workshops with employees and contractors.
In 2008 these were held with the construction project teams: and initiating a Road Safety Campaign for local communities and drivers for Esperanza: this includes for a bi-annual survey by the police into road accidents and incidents which have involved mine related traffic.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 49 Corporate Sustainability continued El Manque, Choapa Valley near Los Pelambres.
a registry of the significant environmental aspects Contracts have been signed for long term energy for every mining operation has been created and a supply and a joint venture with ENAP for geothermal response plan prepared: energy.
an early warning system has been developed Water management and supply to provide a further level of supervision over the The efficient use of water is fundamental for ensuring operations and drive high level of consistency in its availability for Group operations and neighbouring environmental management across the operating communities.
Water consumption and quality are both companies: and closely monitored across the Groups operations in environmental performance indicators have been accordance with legislative requirements.
defined in three main areas: operational efficiency, The operating companies have established water impact control and value creation.
supply arrangements that seek to minimise the demand on water resources, in particular through Energy security and management water recycling.
For example, Los Pelambres recycles The Group is committed to conserving energy and the majority of the water used, while Michilla, and aims to use and develop energy efficient technologies Esperanza in due course, rely on use of sea water.
ADASA is also seeking to increase its use of sea Energy efficiency programmes are established in water for provision of potable water to customers the Groups operations.
In recognition of the work in the Antofagasta Region.
completed at Los Pelambres during 2008, it received the Confederation of Production and Trade and Waste management Ministry of Energy distinction for Commitment The Group is committed to implementing solutions to Energy Efficiency.
to enable waste reduction and reuse where possible.
The Group continues to undertake significant work to The Groups operations have arrangements in place secure alternative supplies and establish longer term to dispose of waste according to applicable legal agreements and contracts with energy suppliers.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 50 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY At Los Pelambres, the Mauro tailings dam is now AMSAs carbon impact has begun in 2008.
Carbon operational providing sufficient waste disposal capacity measurement systems will be developed by AMSA for the remaining 28 year mine life.
Due to Esperanzas during 2009. geographical and meteorological location, it will be Biodiversity able to use technology to develop thickened tailings.
The Group aims to maintain existing ecosystems This system of tailings management will reduce water and biodiversity and minimise habitat disturbance.
consumption and enable improved evaporation so Biodiversity plans exist for the Group operations reducing the potential for soil contamination: it will also in accordance with relevant legislative requirements help ensure a high level of stability for the tailings both and conditions of environmental approvals.
The during and after the cessation of the operations.
management approach adopted, for example at Los Carbon emissions management Pelambres, comprises four main elements: mitigation The Group is committed to developing a suitable plans, compensation plans, internal management response to climate change that recognises the needs procedures to prevent impact and monitoring of the business.
The energy efficiency programmes schedules.
Los Pelambres has more than 25,000 already underway are a means to achieve carbon hectares of protected areas, including a Ramsar emission reduction.
An assessment to measure Convention site.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 51
