The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 32 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility Business ethics The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups Ethics Policy, and reports to the Board on its effectiveness.
Taking our The existing Morgan Crucible Ethics Policy is going through a review and update process and an updated policy together with a new training programme will be rolled out across responsibilities the Group in the coming year.
The Groups Ethics Policy, Core Values Statement and the related training programme provide employees with guidance for both their everyday activities and other circumstances.
seriously... Our Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy oblige all employees to operate in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and specically prohibits the giving or receiving of bribes.
These policies At Morgan Crucible, corporate apply, so far as is appropriate, to our responsibility is integral to our business, business partners, including contractors, supporting each of our five strategic agents, joint ventures and suppliers.
In this section we report on our Company also requires that no employee policies, procedures and performance in shall suffer discrimination as a result of respect of business ethics, community refusing to pay or receive a bribe.
relations and suppliers and customers.
The Our Anti-Trust Compliance Programme helps following pages cover Environment, Health ensure that we comply with anti-trust and and Safety and Our People.
In addition, our competition laws around the world.
The 2008 EHS Report, planned for publication programme has been in place since 2002 on our website in April 2009, will provide and was refreshed during the year to include a more comprehensive review of our 2008 new training materials and an updated environmental and health and safety programme structure.
Community The Board is accountable for corporate Our practice is to engage with local responsibility policies and procedures.
The communities in relation to matters of mutual Chief Executive officer, Mark Robertshaw, interest and concern.
At a local level, where is the executive in charge of all corporate Morgan Crucible often has long-established responsibility matters including internal roots and is frequently a major employer, and external stakeholders.
this helps to foster mutual understanding Corporate responsibility policies and credibility.
In addition, Morgan Crucible and procedures engages with local and national governments Core values and agencies, both directly, and through Morgan Crucibles approach to corporate professional bodies.
Donations to political responsibility is encapsulated in our Core parties or causes are prohibited.
Values Statement which was first published Customers and suppliers in 2004 and is regularly reviewed.
As we Morgan Crucibles customer service strategy work to implement our strategic priorities is to respond quickly to changing customer our Core Values Statement provides the demand, to identify emerging needs and framework for our policies, programmes to continuously improve product availability, and relevant procedures.
The statement is quality and value.
We stay close to our available on our website and applies to all current and potential customers, building Morgan Crucible businesses and employees long term relationships.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 33 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility Morgan commits to ACFA project policy implementation The implementation of our corporate Morgan Crucible has made a three year responsibility related policies and procedures commitment to help support the Army Cadet is aligned with the overall governance Force Association Outreach Project.
This UK-wide and ambitious project helps socially disadvantaged structure of the Group.
The implementation young people who are vulnerable to crime to of our environmental, health and safety and become better citizens.
Young people, usually aged people related policies is covered in more between 12 and 14, are referred by youth offending detail on the following pages.
teams, referral panels, police and schools.
Typically they have been subject to a police reprimand, or Below we describe some of the processes warning, excluded from school, or are showing for implementing and monitoring our behavioural problems.
Statistics indicate that the key corporate responsibility policies and behaviour or attitude of 60% of the young people referred shows a significant improvement after procedures and in respect of verication nine months.
The Army Cadet Force uses 8,000 of our ESG disclosures.
volunteer instructors and Morgan Crucible is proud to be able to help.
For further details see www.
com The Board of Morgan Crucible is committed to ensuring that the Companys policies relating to business integrity are upheld.
Our Morgan helps extend literacy in South Africa Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy are to be translated into appropriate languages Literacy is a national priority in South Africa.
The statement and Thermal Ceramics in Springs has been supporting the National Skills Development Strategy with an policy are promoted to employees globally, hour of training included at the beginning or end in particular through coverage in the global of the working day.
Employees match this time employee magazine which is available in commitment and start with reading and writing eight languages.
Appropriate training is before moving on to computer, maths and life provided, including induction training for skills such as financial budgeting.
Over the past new employees and via e-learning.
Both the seven years many have been awarded certicates of competence and a number have completed Ethics Policy and the Core Values Statement post-school qualications.
Most employees have are available on our website.
completed their literacy and maths training and the focus for 2009 will be on technical and work-related The Morgan Crucible Ethics and Compliance subjects.
The benets of the programme are two Helpline enables employees and other Over 90% of the Groups manufacturing way as employees grow their skills, helping the stakeholders who are aware of, or suspect, capacity is accredited to ISO 9001 and our Company to meet the need for an educated and misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse quality management systems help ensure motivated workforce.
of Company assets or violations of Morgan that our products meet or exceed customer Crucibles Ethics Policy to report these requirements.
Management of the supply condentially without fear of retribution should chain is a key part of ISO9001 and they feel they cannot use a local channel.
ISO14001 accreditation and includes supplier questionnaires as appropriate.
Morgan Crucibles global Anti-Trust Compliance Programme is ongoing with We aim to work with our customers, training for appropriate employees across suppliers and other partners in mutually the Group.
Anti-Trust Compliance Ofcers beneficial ways, and, so far as is practicable, within each business report to the Company require that our customers and suppliers, Secretary as Global Compliance Director joint venture partners and contractors in this regard.
The Anti-Trust Compliance throughout the supply chain, act in Programme includes independent audits, accordance with our policies and values.
the results of which are considered by the Our support for the Universal Declaration Company Secretary who reports to the of Human Rights, referred to in the Our Executive Committee and the Board on People section below, commits us in respect the effectiveness of the programme and of all those who work for the Company and those who have dealings with it, on any issues arising.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 34 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued Community provided.
In respect of the Anti-Trust Our staff also support a variety of local and The implementation of our communityCompliance Programme, the independent national initiatives and projects, helping to related policies and procedures is aligned audits referred to above confirm the raise funds and giving their time.
Examples with the management of our overall continued effectiveness of the programme.
of employee activities include: business and is focused at site level on Customers and suppliers 3 Employees at the Technical Ceramics engagement and initiatives which are Morgan Crucible continues to benefit from New Bedford, MA, USA site continue relevant to the local community and to long term relationships with many customers to be strong community supporters.
Divisional and Group support and suppliers, reecting the effectiveness Working closely with United Way, is made available where appropriate.
of our customer service and supplier related employees pledge payroll deductions All charitable and other donations are strategies.
Some examples of our customer to local charities, make donations to fully accounted for.
relationships are included on pages 8 and 9 the local United Way Food Pantry and Customers and suppliers and elsewhere in this Annual Report.
participate in the United Way Day The Chief Executive of each of our Divisions of Caring, when they help with Community has specic responsibility for customers landscaping, painting, and other In 2008 Morgan Crucible made charitable and suppliers and the related policies and community tasks.
donations of 114,736 2007: 193,598. procedures within their respective Divisions.
This is in addition to the time given and 3 One of the finance team at Carbons Verication of ESG disclosures donations made by Morgan Crucible Durham, CT, USA facility works with Our Company Secretary and the Director employees around the world.
Covenant to Care for Children, a of Risk Assurance work with external non-denominational organisation, During 2008, Morgan Crucible supported independent consultants to review and to help abused, neglected and a number of initiatives at Group, Divisional where appropriate verify our environmental, impoverished children.
Through their and site level.
The main emphasis of this social and governance ESG disclosures.
Adopt a social worker programme over support is to help disadvantaged young This process covers the environmental, 27,000 children have received help in people and sponsor local community health and safety and human resources the past year.
projects which can also engage and involve related non-financial key performance employees.
Example initiatives include: 3 Employees from the Technical Ceramics indicators included in this report.
plants at Corby and Derby in the UK 3 The Groups most significant All Morgan Crucible businesses are regularly collaborated to raise over 2,000 to commitment in 2008 was to provide reviewed under the Groups Compliance combat breast cancer by participating 60,000 over three years to support the Audit Programme and those sites and in the Edinburgh Moon Walk and Breast Army Cadet Force Association ACFA businesses certied to ISO9001, ISO14001, Cancer Awareness Day.
Outreach Project as detailed in the case OHSAS18001 and other standards have study on page 33.
3 Mark Moore, Technical Ceramics Director regular external audits.
The Group also uses of Strategy Implementation, ran the external professional advisers in relation to 3 Morgan continues to support the joint 2008 Dublin marathon to raise funds for specic health and safety and environmental Barnardos Outward Bound initiative the Alzheimers Society.
He achieved his matters as required.
which provides opportunities for young target time under 3 hours 50 minutes people to develop life skills at a centre in The Board considers that these procedures and, sponsored by a number of Ullswater, UK.
provide a reasonable level of assurance that colleagues, raised over 1,000. the Groups ESG disclosures are free from 3 Our Divisions sponsor a number of local 3 Two days after the Wenchuan earthquake material misstatement whether caused sports facilities and the teams that use in May 2008, the staff at the plant in by fraud or other irregularity or error.
For instance, Technical Ceramics Yixing, China, organised a donation to Stourport, UK provides a football pitch Corporate responsibility help support the earthquake victims.
for the local team, and in the USA, the policy effectiveness The employees and the company jointly Carbon Division supports a number of Business ethics donated 50,000RMB approx 5,000. athletic teams in St Marys, PA. Ethics-related issues raised through the Ethics and Compliance help line or via 3 In South Africa, Thermal Ceramics other channels are initially investigated continues to run its voluntary literacy by the Director of Risk Assurance.
Further and life skills programme for shop oor investigations may be conducted through employees as detailed in the case study the Audit Committee as required.
Where on page 33. appropriate disciplinary action is taken and or additional guidance and training The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 35 Business review Governance Financial statements Environment Our Environmental Policy and implementation Environmental management systems are in CO intensity 2 Tonnes m revenue programmes support our five strategic place at 84 sites worldwide, representing priorities and our Core Values Statement over 90% of production capacity, including 578 537 which commits us to strive to minimise the 28 major sites or 41% of capacity certied 482 impact of our operations on the environment to ISO14001.
The nine sites acquired from and to environmental sustainability in our the Carpenter Technology Corporation were product development programmes.
not certied and two ISO14001 certied sites were closed during the year.
Plans This report includes a summary of our are in place for a number of the former Environmental Policy and its effectiveness as 2006 2007 2008 Carpenter sites and a number of other sites demonstrated through our performance and to achieve certication in 2009-10.
Further detail will be included in addition to the ongoing programme of Waste intensity in our 2008 EHS Report to be published re-certications.
Tonnes m revenue on our website in April 2009.
The EHS 104 Report will also include case studies to help Morgan Crucibles environmental 96 demonstrate our approach to enhancing management processes also include the 78 the sustainability of our business.
This programme provides assurance and helps Environmental policy ensure compliance with local regulations The Groups Environmental Policy forms and good management practice using part of our EHS Policy Statement which external auditors in Europe and Asia and 2006 2007 2008 is available throughout the Group and in-house resources in North America.
We is published on our website and in our audit all the Groups manufacturing facilities Water intensity EHS Report.
on a three year rolling cycle and audited 3 m m revenue 23 sites during 2008, including the nine sites Our policy applies Group-wide and requires 4,948 acquired from the Carpenter Technology high standards at all sites with the objective Corporation, having deferred scheduled of continuous improvement in environmental 3,716 audits of the Groups Chinese facilities 3,039 performance in support of our strategic pending completion of the EHS training priorities and is based on risk assessment programme see below.
Our target for 2009 and the management and mitigation of is to audit a further 36 sites.
2006 2007 2008 Training is an integral part of our EHS policy In the coming year we plan to review and implementation programme and during externally benchmark our EHS policies and 2008 we implemented an in-depth EHS any revisions will be agreed by the Executive assessment and training programme at Committee and approved by the Board.
all of the Groups Chinese facilities.
The work was carried out with the assistance Environmental policy implementation of external consultants and included Our Group Environmental Policy forms the comprehensive training of senior management basis of our environmental management and the development and installation of systems and processes.
The management an EHS management system at all sites.
of our environmental performance is aligned with the operation of our day-to-day business.
Environmental policy effectiveness The Chief Financial officer has specic The Group monitors the effectiveness of its responsibility for EHS policy and performance, environmental policy through a series of supported by the Director of Risk Assurance.
environmental key performance indicators Operational responsibility is delegated to the KPIs which are reported Group-wide on Chief Executive of each Division and the a monthly basis.
The Executive Committee manager of each operation.
In practice all and the Board review environmental employees are responsible for ensuring that matters regularly.
our EHS policies are implemented and for identifying additional areas and opportunities Verication of our environmental, social for further development.
and governance disclosures is discussed CO equivalent from all energy sources, including 2 country specic electricity.
Constant currency basis, includes inter-company sales.
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 36 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued Wherever possible we work to minimise the Case study heading Reducing CO emissions through energy efficiency 2 impact of our business on the environment and to maximise the positive environmental Across the Group many sites improved their energy benefit of our products.
Selected examples efficiency to help reduce Morgan Crucibles emissions of this work are included here, on pages 8, intensity in 2008.
Example initiatives include: 10 and 11 and in the Review of operations.
3 The efficiency programme at the Technical Ceramics site at New Bedford, OH, USA resulted During 2008 we extended our in the replacement of two old air compressors environmental reporting to cover the with one oil free variable speed drive compressor.
nine production sites acquired from This saved 69,000 kWh of electricity, cutting the Carpenter Technology Corporation related CO emissions by some 40 tonnes.
2 and the data in this report includes the 3 The new automated Thermal Ceramics insulating environmental impacts of these businesses rebrick plant in Yixing, China incorporates best during their nine months of ownership.
manufacturing practice from Thermal plants Where necessary, historic data has been around the world.
The new plant uses 20% less restated to reect changes to the business energy per unit of output relative to the existing and the KPIs reported are at constant Yixing plant.
The summary KPI charts on the previous page present our performance in Saving water worldwide real terms, covering 100% of production site sales during the year.
Morgan Crucible has been working to reduce its use of this nite and increasingly scarce resource Our target for the two years 2007-8 was to and has been cutting water use worldwide.
reduce the intensity of our CO emissions 2 due to all sources of energy use by 5% in 3 The Technical Ceramics site in Rugby, UK uses real terms.
Including the former Carpenter waste fide-ionised water from its processes businesses CO intensity was down by 17% to service the site toilets.
This was previously 2 discharged to the sewer.
Combined with other over the two years 9% reduction excluding reduction initiatives this helped reduce site water Carpenter.
In absolute terms total CO 2 use by 19% and 25% relative to sales.
emissions due to energy use were some 453,000 tonnes 437,000 tonnes excluding 3 MMS in Brazil has been working to maximise water recycling in their production processes.
Carpenter, against 437,000 tonnes in 2007 3 This sites annual water use is down by 1,500m and 422,000 tonnes in 2006.
Our waste since 2006, a 40% reduction in water use intensity was down by 25% over the two intensity over two years.
years 18% down excluding Carpenter, ahead of our 5% reduction target.
The proportion of total waste which was recycled was 29% in 2008, the same as the prior year and we did not achieve our target to recycle 35% of total waste excluding the Carpenter businesses 30% of total waste was recycled.
Our water intensity was down 39% over the two years 31% down excluding Carpenter.
This was ahead of the targeted 10% reduction over the two years, with improved measurement and a variety of reduction programmes helping to improve performance.
We will again be targeting reductions in our energy, emissions, waste and water intensity over the two year period 2009-10.
Further details will be included in our EHS report to be published on our website in April 2009.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 37 Business review Governance Financial statements Health and Safety Morgan Crucible is committed to Our health and safety management Lost time accident frequency LTAs 100,000 hours conducting all its activities in a manner processes also include the EHS Compliance which achieves the highest practicable Audit Programme which is described in more 0.70 0.69 standards of health and safety for its detail under the Environmental section.
0.55 employees and others affected by our The training programmes mentioned in the operations.
This commitment aligns environmental section also cover health with our five strategic objectives and and safety.
Health and Safety policy effectiveness In this report we summarise our policy 2006 2007 2008 Our health and safety key performance implementation and effectiveness with indicators include accident frequencies and further detail and case studies to be included Lost time causes and related lost working time.
These in our 2008 EHS report which will be % of total working time are used to monitor the effectiveness of our published in April 2009. health and safety policy and related systems 0.15 Health and Safety policy on a monthly basis.
The Executive The Groups Health and Safety Policy forms Committee and the Board receive regular 0.08 part of our EHS policy statement which reports.
During the year, reporting was is available throughout the Group and extended to cover 100% of all employees 0.03 is published on our website and in our 2007: 99%, including the businesses EHS report.
acquired from the Carpenter Technology 2006 2007 2008 Corporation.
Verication of our health and Our policy applies Group-wide and requires safety and other ESG disclosures is covered Lost time per LTA high standards at all sites with the objective on page 34.
Days per LTA of continuous improvement in health and safety performance.
Our long-term objective is to have no 26.3 accidents and we are working to extend In the coming year we plan to review and 19.2 our accident preventative and training externally benchmark our EHS policies and programmes, for example in China.
One 13.8 any revisions will be agreed by the Executive impact of this has been an increase in Committee and approved by the Board.
accident reporting rates, which, when combined with the effect of the former Health and Safety policy 2006 2007 2008 Carpenter businesses saw 2008 increase to implementation 0.69 lost time accidents per 100,000 hours Our Group Health and Safety Policy worked.
This is a marginal improvement on forms the basis of our health and safety the 2006 rate of 0.70.
Manual handling cuts management systems and processes.
and abrasions are the most common cause As with environmental performance, of accidents and a small number of more the management of our health and safety severe cases, combined with the impact of performance is aligned with the operation the Carpenter businesses, saw health and of the business.
In practice all employees safety related lost time up to 0.15% of total are responsible for ensuring that our health working time.
and safety policies are implemented and for identifying additional areas and Our objectives for 2009 are to work towards opportunities for further development.
our long-term goal of zero accidents and to continue coverage of 100% of our All of our major sites worldwide have employees.
The emphasis on increasing health and safety management systems reporting rates will continue with particular in place, with nine sites certied or working focus on those sites with below average to OHSAS18001.
performance and on reductions in the average time lost per lost time accident.
Lost time accident LTA : accidents resulting in one or more days lost time.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 38 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued Our people To keep ahead of our competitors and briengs, employee forums, Divisional Total lost time % of working time to grow our businesses we rely on the newsletters and through the Morgan capabilities of our people to deliver added Crucible 360 magazine.
In addition 2.5 2.4 value to our customers.
We leverage the we undertake regular employee surveys, diversity and creativity of our people around as highlighted opposite.
the world to create a network that reaches We believe in celebrating the success of the our customers and supports their individual business with our employees in recognition needs globally.
Hence, our people are key of their commitment.
In 2008 we marked to our success and one of the five strategic the 50th anniversary of the Morgan Crucible 2007 2008 priorities for Morgan Crucible is nding, businesses in Brazil and Mexico, and keeping and developing the right people.
of the GBC Materials business in Latrobe, Employee tenure Assessing the capabilities of our people, Pennsylvania, USA.
Our Thermal Ceramics years meeting development needs and creating business in Wissembourg, France celebrated 7.1 an effective organisational structure are its 40th anniversary and our Diamond 7.0 essential as we empower our people to Crucible Company in Mehsana, India be successful.
During this period 20 employees around the world People policies celebrated 40 years of loyal service with Our policy is to provide equal opportunities Morgan Crucible.
for employees in recruitment, learning and 2007 2008 development and reward, including for People development those with disabilities.
Should existing We provide blended learning solutions Training employees become disabled, our policy for employees at all levels.
This helps them hours employee is to provide continuing employment and achieve their full potential by developing training, wherever practicable.
the depth and breadth of various skill sets.
14.9 13.5 Development opportunities are aligned with We support the Universal Declaration of our vision of being one of the very best Human Rights and our policy commits us advanced materials companies in the world.
to protect the rights of everyone who works Our individual annual performance review for the Company and all those who have process sets goals for the forthcoming year, dealings with it.
The principles of our policy identifying development necessary to help 2007 2008 cover: child labour, forced labour, health ensure the successful completion of and safety, freedom of association, those goals.
discrimination, discipline, working hours and compensation and the policy is Our organisation talent review process links published on our website.
We aim regularly the long-term strategy of our businesses to communicate the policy and provide with the capabilities needed now and in the training to ensure its implementation in our future so that we can develop the skills of businesses.
Our Ethics and Compliance our employees to support the development Helpline enables employees who are aware and growth of our businesses.
of or suspect issues under our Human Rights We are growing our Group-wide development Policy to report these condentially.
programmes, including e-learning via the Implementation of our internet, to reach our employees globally.
people-related polices We launched a Business English learning People engagement programme in 2008 and have 290 participants The retention of employees is closely related from over 15 countries across all regions, to their degree of engagement with the including over 100 participants in China.
Ensuring our people are informed We are hugely encouraged by the of what is happening throughout the enthusiasm of our employees to grow their Company and enabling them to connect ability to operate in a global environment.
with one another across businesses and In 2009 we will have a number of compliance disciplines supports Morgan Crucibles training programmes available via e-learning, 2008 data covers 96% of employees 2007: 66%.
strategy to keep the right people.
We for comparison purposes these KPIs exclude the Indian including Ethics and Human Rights.
communicate regularly through team facility which was subject to a lock-out during part of 2007 and 2008.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 39 Business review Governance Financial statements People policy effectiveness With a decentralised organisation, engaging People surveys Key performance indicators people at site level to understand how they Agree Neither Disagree On average during the year, Morgan Crucible can contribute directly to the success of their employed 10,621 people, up from 9,607, site is critical and the feedback confirms that I understand how my job role including the employees who joined the our managers are continuing to work very contributes to site goals: Group as a result of the acquisition of the hard on this initiative.
Results from the technical ceramics businesses of Carpenter survey indicate that 84% of our employees 2008 84%10% 6% Technology Corporation, with 33% of understand how their job role contributes to employees in Europe, Middle East and the site goals.
Additionally, over two thirds Africa, 32% in the Americas, and 35% in stated that there are opportunities for them Asia-Pacic.
Of these employees 90% are to suggest improvements to do things better.
2007 81% 11% 8% Involving our employees by utilising their permanent and 74% are male.
During the knowledge, skills and understanding of year we extended our processes to gather our products and processes supports the and benchmark employee metrics 2005 80% 13% 7% engagement and retention of talent in Group-wide and to cover businesses our organisation.
These metrics support our strategic priority to nd, keep Heath and safety and the environment and develop the right people and as is are critical to all our businesses around shown in the charts on the previous page There are opportunities for me the world and this is reinforced with every lost time as a proportion of total working to suggest ideas for improvements employee on a continuous basis.
The survey time was down in the year and training how we could do things better : results confirm that 70% of participants levels were increased.
Average employee 2008 67% 17% 16% stated that they have received sufficient tenure, including both voluntary leavers information and training on health and and redundancies, fell from 7.1 to 7.0 years.
safety matters and understand their role People surveys in this respect.
2007 65% 19% 16% Since 2003, our people have provided We value the feedback we receive from feedback through our regular global our employees and will endeavour to employee surveys.
Listening to our people 2005 63% 21% 16% reach as many Morgan Crucible employees with their significant knowledge and throughout the world as possible as we experience of Morgan Crucible is essential continue to involve our people whenever if we are to continuously improve and grow and wherever possible in building a robust our business over the long-term.
I receive sufficient information and The 2008 survey was conducted in 16 training on H&S matters and languages with 40 questions covering: understand my role in this respect: Vision, direction and goals: Communication: 2008 70% 16% 14% the global company and Your work and 69% 18% 13% your site.
The survey could be completed online or in hard-copy.
This generated a 75% response rate, a year-on-year 2007 69% 18% 13% improvement of 30% with almost 2,000 more participants than in the previous year.
With more people participating this has 2005 67% 20% 13% created additional challenges as some employees are both new to the process and to Morgan Crucible following recent acquisitions.
Consequently, whilst the overall results are very positive, there are some areas for further attention.
We see this as an opportunity to involve our employees in creatively developing new methods of communicating globally and to further develop initiatives on employee development, reward and recognition.
An employee survey was not conducted in 2006.
Thus 2005 is used as the base year.
