Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility signs displaying useful environmental CSR is fast becoming one of the key benchmarks of information which has proved very an organisations overall success and reputation in the popular with staff.
marketplace and our commitment to CSR is a reflection of its importance to staff, customers, local communities and the One of the key operational goals was the environment in which our business operates.
reduction of our electricity consumption.
A pilot scheme that was introduced in our Community Israel office in 2007 was subsequently Our goal is to serve as a positive influence on the fully implemented and the following steps were taken: communities in which we operate.
l Installation of energy efficient light sources During December 2008, 888 held its second Charity Day.
We l Automated control of air conditioning and lighting raised a significant sum which will be donated to global charity systems with motion sensors in meeting rooms World for World which focuses on improving the nutrition and l Installation of solar energy device for water heating living standards of some of the worlds poorest communities.
l Optimisation system installed to our air conditioning saving 15% of energy used As part of the Groups ongoing community projects, our staff l Anti-sun stickers installed on windows improving air have been involved in a number of projects throughout the year.
conditioning efficiency In Gibraltar donations were made throughout the year to We have, through these actions, reduced our energy a number of local charities including the Research into consumption by 11%.
Childhood Cancer charity and Childline Gibraltar.
We continue to support St Martins School through various All our offices recycle as many materials as possible and activities including a Gardening Day in March and the employees are discouraged from using disposable cups.
We use only ecological detergents in our offices and have installed a number of water saving devices.
In Antigua we organised a poster competition for the Adele School for Special Children, a days event for the whole school In order to minimise the impact of travel on the environment and we held a Christmas lunch for the residents and donated we encourage employees to cycle by providing allocated much-needed supplies for craft activities to the National parking, showers and changing rooms.
In order to minimise Vocational and Rehabilitation Centre for the Disabled.
international travel 888 has invested in state-of-the-art teleconferencing facilities which encourages staff to use In Israel, for the second year running 45 employees joined virtual conference meetings instead of travel.
the Ruach Hatova the Good Wind national volunteering organisation for a day of goodwill comprising an outing for Employees refugees.
We continue to support the Netanya-based nonIn a fast-moving and competitive industry the management, profit charity Derech HaEtgar that helps disadvantaged communication, reward and retention of our employees is teenagers.
In June we held a days cycle outing and in a key factor in our continued success.
We strive to be an December we held a Hanukah party for the children and employer of choice where employees have an opportunity to donated games, prizes and holiday treats.
We have also be successful and fulfil their potential.
helped to redecorate the centre.
We recognise that our employees represent a centre of Environment excellence for the online gaming industry and we are keen 888 has been a constituent member since 2007 of the to nurture and maintain that pool of talent.
We adopt a FTSE4Good Index, which aims to provide a tool for investors consultative approach with our employees through various to identify and invest in companies that meet globally means including the intranet and employee surveys.
In 2008 our focus was on employee engagement levels and Whilst pure online-based businesses have a low impact on how to improve employee satisfaction.
We conducted a the environment, the Group is still committed to taking a global employee opinion survey to understand, in a formal, proactive approach to minimise its environmental footprint.
In well-structured, measurable and traceable manner, our 2008 we established a global green forum, the Bee Green employees feedback towards different aspects of their daily Forum.
The forum meets monthly to discuss and implement work, atmosphere and culture.
The surveys findings have environmental policies and initiatives throughout the Groups formed the basis for defining objectives for improvement and operational sites.
a number of actions are being taken across the business as a direct result.
This will become an annual event.
The first of these initiatives was an awareness campaign to encourage employees to think about the impact of their Professional Development actions on the environment and to recycle and save energy Beyond financial rewards, 888 aims to provide clear opportunities for development and progression enabling by switching off machinery and lights when appropriate.
We produced a Bee logo to front the campaign with posters and Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31 16254888COM FRONT.
indd 31 08 04 2009 17:47 08 04 2009 17:47 16254 08 04 2009 Proof 8 Corporate Social Responsibility continued employees to improve their skill set and performance.
We development is encouraged and advancement is based have implemented an annual global appraisal system called solely on merit.
We must always invest in developing our talking@888 using a web-based platform.
The main target of employees so that they can achieve their personal aspirations.
the appraisal & goals process is to conduct an open dialogue All employees should expect their managers to be capable, between employees and their managers, while examining knowledgeable and motivating.
We must always treat our performance and achievement of goals throughout the past year suppliers and other partners with respect, enabling them to and defining goals for the upcoming year.
Each employee is also make a fair profit.
We will never expose our employees to evaluated on the expression of the values in their everyday work.
regulatory risk and all employees should be comfortable that their actions are just and ethical.
We hold an annual business leadership convention to keep senior managers informed of strategy and business performance: this Responsibility@888 We must use our financial success information is then cascaded down to all employees.
We are in a great position to invest back in to the charities and organizations that are important In 2008 we also sent our key managers from different to our employees and to our customers.
We must especially locations and divisions on an executive development encourage and support the social responsibility that programme for companies competing in global markets.
We are committed to provide a fair and responsible gaming environment and to guide our Training customers to play responsibly.
Training and development programmes help employees develop their skills and experience and to reach their full Investors@888 We must strive to operate as efficiently potential, benefiting both themselves and the Group.
During as possible, achieving profitable excellence always ensuring 2008 over 80% of all Group employees participated in that we treat their capital as if it was our own.
We must take internal and or external training courses including soft skills, risks that allow step-changes in performance while always technology and industry led training.
calculating the risk and measuring our results, retaining knowledge and learning from our experiences.
By doing all of Equal opportunity the above we will increase shareholder value.
We believe that inclusion is about ensuring everyone has an equal opportunity to access 888 as an employer.
We value Our Values: everyones contribution, regardless of their background or Excellence: We consistently challenge ourselves to reach the gender, and firmly believe that our diverse workforce helps us highest performance level in everything we do.
to meet the needs of our global customers.
Innovation: We dare to question our own way of doing At the year end, the Group had 931 employees 2007: 805 in things, keeping an open mind, experimenting, and constantly the following locations: Gibraltar, Israel, Antigua and London.
creating new surprising and effective solutions.
Life@888 the 888 Creed Caring: We value every employee, colleague and customer.
Entertainment@888 We believe that entertainment is what We show it by creating a nurturing environment of respect completes our lives.
After the challenges and routine that occupy and sensitivity to the needs of others.
We do not forget our most of our time, everyone is entitled to some fun and excitement.
commitment to provide a responsible gaming environment to all.
Customers@888 We believe that our first responsibility Customer centricity: We keep our customers both internal is to provide the best experience and world-class service to and external at the centre of all decision-making processes, our customers and business partners at all levels.
This means we strive to exceed customer expectations and provide the tailoring the most perfect offering for each customer, client and best customer experience.
partner from the high level of the business down to each and every player, at all locations at any given time.
Leading: We strive to remain one step ahead of the competition.
This means we are constantly on our toes, thinking ahead and 888 is proud to both develop and acquire new products to keeping a close eye on industry developments.
We are always mindful of the complex regulatory environment that we operate in and the social Collaboration: We know our success depends on our ability to responsibility that comes with our industry.
888 understands work as a single unit while sharing our knowledge, capabilities that in order to create value, it must protect values and that and opinions in an open, respectful and trusting environment.
demands an investment of time and resources in caring for its more vulnerable customers.
These values underpin the Groups strategic goals, giving all employees a sense of identification and a defined way Employees@888 We are responsible for our employees of behaving as well as ensuring alignment between the who work with us worldwide.
We must provide an enjoyable organizations business objectives and those of individual work environment where people are challenged and motivated employees.
These values serve us as our guidelines and we to excel, where flair is rewarded, compensation is fair and strive to obtain a high level of integrity in the way we work, the balance between work and family is respected.
