Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility Corporate responsibility lies at the heart of warns bus drivers if they approach low our business.
We define this as being about structures, such as bridges.
Following this Environment what we do and then how we do it.
Our trial, we intend to fit our double-deck bus services are key in keeping the economy fleet in the West Midlands with the system.
Climate change is a huge challenge and going we keep people moving in these During the year, ALSA was the first there are already ambitious targets in place challenging times helping to avoid social European operator to fit the new universal for reducing emissions of greenhouse gases exclusion by offering value.
However, we seat belt in its vehicles.
In the UK, where in the UK and Spain.
This is a great do not just offer great economic and social seat belts are already standard on coaches, opportunity for our business as we believe benefits.
Our services have huge net we made child booster seats available on use of public transport will need to increase benefits for the environment and we believe every scheduled service.
if we are to reduce total emissions from we have a key role in shaping a low carbon transport.
We are not complacent about the economy.
We do this by training and Across bus and rail we have continued to need to improve our own efficiency we supporting our staff, investing in our services support initiatives which tackle issues of have a great track record on this and have and delivering this in a way that meets anti-social behaviour and vandalism.
Our targets for making further improvement.
the needs of the communities we serve.
involvement with the Safer Travel initiative However, our greatest contribution is in the West Midlands, Dundee and Surrey, We report more widely on these activities through the net savings that arise when working with the police and local councils, on our group website customers choose to use our services continues to prove successful in tackling www.
com which instead of the car or plane.
During 2008, we will be updated at the start of May 2009. successfully prosecuted nearly 60 people During 2008 we published More is Less caught smoking on board buses in the our vision for an integrated transport system West Midlands.
by 2020 that is consistent with a carbon constrained world.
We are committed to On c2c, we ran a joint initiative with British Safety and security shaping the debate about how we reduce Transport Police and Network Rail during the greenhouse gas emissions from transport school summer holidays to reduce crime, As always, safety and security remains at with policy makers.
In the medium term we stone throwing and vandalism to trains and the forefront of everything we do.
We are expect our absolute emissions to increase stations.
Called Operation Shellshock, this committed to ensuring that our safety record as we aim to increase our operations.
involved a special team of four Police improves across all our operations.
We have Officers travelling on trains working While walking and cycling are the most a robust health and safety policy and undercover, an unmarked police car and the environmentally sound ways of travelling, controls in place to monitor performance.
Network Rail helicopter, equipped with an they are only practical for a small amount of In the UK, we are committed to introducing infra-red camera, supported by a c2c staff journeys.
Next to these, coaches offer the new technology which fosters safety.
During hotline to report incidents in real-time to the lowest carbon way to travel, with train and the year, we trialled the use of Alcolock units police.
It achieved significant improvements bus close behind.
By attracting more people on around 40 vehicles.
The unit links a in reducing incidents and delay minutes in to use our services, instead of the car, breathalyser to the vehicle immobiliser, the six weeks of last years school summer there are considerable CO savings.
2 preventing the coach being driven if the holidays compared with 2007. driver has been drinking alcohol.
We now plan to roll out the Alcolock units progressively across the coach fleet.
We also trialled a GPS-based system which Making travel simpler for all our customers Our vision for an integrated transport system 34 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Pages 01 p 03 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Pages 04 Pages 04 pp 35 35 Governance Pages 36 p 56 Financial statements Pages 58 p 130 Shareholder information Pages 131 p 132 Supporting our communities People Public transport plays a critical role in the Investing in our people through appropriate communities we serve.
Our bus, coach and training and development is how we build rail services connect people in their daily capability across the business.
lives and we never forget how important it During 2008, we brought our UK leadership is that our services run on schedule and and development teams together and now provide value for money, particularly in have three academies in Birmingham, challenging economic times.
Our Team Leader and Our services are readily accessible and First Level Leaders programmes continue provide an essential link for those who could to develop talent from within the business.
be prevented from accessing key services A key challenge during 2008 was to because they do not have use of a car.
communicate our promise and our values to Many everyday services, such as education, our people and to reflect these elements in health or retail, are now situated outside the personal objectives of our management of town centres.
Transport is essential to and customer-facing teams.
We now access them and people without a car have a combined set of management could easily be prevented from using them.
competencies, values and behaviours Travelling on public transport also offers which are measured and reviewed benefits over the car.
As a passenger, consistently across the UK.
you can use your time more productively, In Spain, we have introduced innovative whether you are relaxing or have work to do.
For the first time, It also helps cut congestion on our roads, we are delivering training online.
This makes reducing the need to build and widen roads.
training more accessible to a geographically We are working hard to improve the widespread workforce.
punctuality of our trains, and where delays In North America, we introduced a occur we have improved ways for customers centralised recruitment team for all staff to access real-time information, such as by and leaders positions which has helped text message.
At a local level we continue to support initiatives which relate to our business.
More available online at $ www.
com On the East Coast, we launched the Connectors community engagement programme which brings together young people and our employees to debate and act on issues such as sustainability and the environment.
The programme provides teaching resources which encourage We encourage customers to cycle to stations debate about sustainability and is building links with schools along the East Coast route.
National Express Group PLC 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
