Directors Report and Business Review SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Next is committed to the principles of responsible business.
For Next this means delivering value to customers and stakeholders, recruiting and retaining the best people to work for the Group, developing positive relationships with suppliers and developing healthy links with the communities in which it operates.
Next has a Corporate Responsibility CR forum of 15 senior managers and directors representing key areas of the business, coordinated by a CR Manager, to develop and implement its strategy.
The forum works to identify potential issues and opportunities and to evaluate Nexts performance in responding to these.
The CR Manager holds regular updates with the executive director responsible for CR matters.
A third party provides independent assurance on the content of the Groups CR report which is published on the Companys website each year.
Nexts commitment to CR matters is also recognised externally by its continuing membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Suppliers Nexts Code of Practice COP, is an established set of ethical trading standards which forms an integral part of the Groups operations.
The Next COP has ten key principles which stipulate the minimum standards with which suppliers are required to comply in relation to workers rights and conditions of work including working hours, minimum age of employment, health, safety, welfare and environmental issues.
Through its COP Next seeks to ensure all products bearing the Next brand are produced in a clean and safe environment and in accordance with all relevant laws.
Next is committed to its internal supplier audit and management programme and has further expanded its global COP audit team to 37 staff 2007: 31.
The COP team works directly with suppliers to identify and address causes of non-compliance.
This direct approach also allows Next to build knowledge and understanding in the local communities, as well as monitoring suppliers through its auditing process.
Nexts policy for the payment of suppliers is either to agree terms of payment at the start of business or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the Groups payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditor days of the Next group at 26 January 2008 were 24 days 2007: 24 days based on the ratio of the trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts paid during the year to trade creditors.
The Company had no trade creditors at 26 January 2008 or 27 January 2007.
Customers Next is committed to offering stylish, excellent quality products to its customers and aims to ensure they are safe and fit for purpose.
Its team of technologists works closely with buyers, designers and suppliers to ensure Next products comply with all relevant legislation.
The expertise of independent safety specialists for clothing, footwear, accessories, beauty and home products is used where required.
Next endeavours to provide inclusive, high quality service to all customers, whether they are shopping through its stores, catalogues or website.
The different methods of shopping must be easily accessible for all customers and be responsive to their particular needs.
Next Customer Services interacts with Retail and Directory customers to resolve enquiries and issues.
Findings are documented and the information is used by other areas of the business to review how a product or service can be improved going forward.
Health and safety Next recognises the importance of health and safety at work and its management is designed to contribute to improving business performance.
Policies and procedures are reviewed and audited regularly to make safety management more robust and fully up to date.
The Groups objective is to manage all aspects of its business in a safe manner and take practical measures to ensure that its activities and products do not harm customers, employees, contractors, sites or equipment.
Procedures are in place to enable effective two way communication and consultation about health, safety and welfare issues in order to achieve a high level of safety awareness.
