Directors Report and Business Review Call centre capacity & service levels Next is dependent on the efficient operation of its call centres to receive and respond to customer orders and enquiries in its home shopping and customer service management businesses.
Insufficient manpower and interruption in the availability of telephony systems to meet customer service requirements are the principal risks.
Treasury & risk management The main financial risks of Next relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs, default by counter-parties to financial transactions credit risk, and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
In addition, Nexts business expansion and share buyback strategy may necessitate the raising of additional finance, which would in turn increase interest costs and could give rise to fluctuations in profit.
Higher debt levels would also result in an increase in the proportion of cash flow dedicated to servicing debt and potentially increase its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Next operates a centralised treasury function which is responsible for managing its liquidity, interest and foreign currency risks.
The Groups treasury policy allows the use of derivative instruments provided they are not entered into for speculative purposes.
Further details of the Groups treasury operations are given in Notes 29 to 33 to the financial statements.
EMPLOYEES People are key to achieving the Groups business objectives.
Next has established policies for recruitment, training and development of personnel and is committed to achieving excellence in the areas of health, safety, welfare and protection of employees and their working environment.
Equal opportunities Next is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to ensure it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
Full consideration is given to application for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Group has continued the employment wherever possible of any person who becomes disabled during their employment.
Opportunities for training, career development and promotion do not operate to the detriment of disabled employees.
Training and development Next aims to realise the potential of its employees by supporting their career progression and promotion wherever possible.
It makes significant investment in the training and development of staff and in training and education programmes which contribute to the internal promotion prospects of employees.
Employee communication Next has a policy of providing employees with financial and other information about the business and ensures that the suggestions and views of employees are taken into account.
Next has an employee forum made up of a network of elected representatives from throughout the business who attend meetings at least twice a year with senior managers and directors.
This forum enables and encourages open discussion on key business issues, policies and the working environment.
Employee share ownership More than 10,000 Next employees held options over a total of 9.4 million shares in Next plc at January 2008.
Its employee share ownership trust ESOT has purchased shares in the market and issues them to employees when options are exercised.
At the year end the ESOT held 4.6 million shares, the voting rights of which are exercisable by the Trustee.
Pension provision The Next Pension Scheme provides a valuable pension benefit to its participating employees, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 and 31 and in Note 22 to the financial statements.
As at 26 January 2008, there were 2,088 2007: 2,321 active members in the Final Salary Section and 2,042 2007: 2,063 members in the Money Purchase Section.
