Corporate social responsibility report Northern Foods is committed to making great tasting food in a responsible and sustainable manner Overview Community In 2007 08 we continued to make good As a major provider of food to UK and progress in our Corporate social Irish consumers, and an employer of responsibility CSR agenda, with the 11,000 people across 21 operating sites, ongoing fulfilment of key programmes, Northern Foods can have a positive impact the identification of new opportunities on the community both at a national and local level.
We have sought to strengthen and the introduction of more robust this engagement through focused projects management and reporting structures.
which enhance our links with the local community and contribute to consumer Every day, the Group has to address a wide range of issues from well-being in the area of food.
the well-being and development of our people through to the protection of the environment and ensuring food safety.
Central to our approach is the expectation that all CSR activity is aligned with, and supports our overall business strategy.
As such, we Phunky Foods expect individual programmes to have a positive impact, not In 2007 08 we continued our support of Phunky Foods, the only on our people or wider society, but also on our operational unique primary school programme which delivers healthy performance and our risk management profile.
To facilitate lifestyle education for 5 to 11 year olds.
The programme supports overall delivery of the Groups responsibility agenda, a director the development of informed choice by introducing children, of CSR was appointed in January 2008 who reports directly to their families and their teachers to the science of healthy the chief executive.
The year round programme has been developed by qualified British nutritionalists, delivers to the National We also continued to build on our relationship with Business in Curriculum and is underpinned by significant academic the Community BITC, the UKs acknowledged thought leaders research.
As founder sponsor, Northern Foods has supported in CSR.
This years review of activities corresponds more closely the programme since its pilot stage and has encouraged with BITCs key impact framework of community, environment, the participation of other food businesses to help spread the workplace and marketplace.
We believe this cross referencing programme more widely.
As a result, the 2007 08 academic will support better engagement with our stakeholders who year has seen Phunky Foods delivered into 282 schools across include employees, shareholders, customers, regulators and England.
Northern Foods will continue its support for a fourth the communities in which we operate.
year in 2008 09, with a focus on 50 schools within close proximity to four operating sites.
Highlights 2007 08 Work placements With an acknowledged skills shortage in the food sector, 1.
Supporting primary school teaching on healthy Northern Foods believes it can play a role in introducing eating through our Phunky Foods sponsorship students to the opportunities within the industry.
Sponsoring 30 food science undergraduates of achieving this is through work placements.
The Group has been active in this area during the year and is working in 2007 with a further 120 planned over the next to extend the opportunity across the business in 2008 09. four years 3.
Engaging with over 30 policy making and An example of our approach can be found at Pennine Foods, industry bodies to shape future good practice our ready meals site based near Sheffield, which has strong this included chairing DEFRAs Department links with the Education Business Partnership EBP.
In line for Environmental, Food and Rural Affairs with the EBPs goal of offering high quality work experience for Food Industry Sustainability Strategy Waste students from age 14 to 20 years, Pennine Foods has delivered Champions Group work experience to approximately 60 students ranging from a two week Year 10 placement to the tailored delivery of business 4.
Improving energy efficiency and on course to specific projects to Further Education college students studying meet the fourth Climate Change Levy target for their BTECH BTECH is a vocational based qualification which 5.
Sustaining a strong performance on Health gives access to the student into higher education or work.
and Safety Sponsorship of undergraduate food scientists 6.
Signing the Skills Pledge to reinforce our Skills shortages are particularly acute in the area of food commitment to skills training science.
It is estimated that one in four food science roles are 7.
Delivering well-being programmes in 9 of our vacant at any one time.
Northern Foods launched a Foundation 21 manufacturing sites for food science and technology in January 2007 to help tackle this industry wide problem by providing bursary support for 8.
Launching an all employee sharesave scheme food science and technology undergraduates.
Maintaining our status as the only food this move should encourage more sixth formers to consider manufacturer to have achieved UKAS United a career in food science.
Targeted to run for five years and Kingdom Accreditation Services accreditation for developed in partnership with Leeds, Nottingham and Reading both our food testing and site certification Universities, the Foundation will provide support for up to 150 activities, for the seventh year running undergraduates for the duration of their courses.
Working for Northern Foods is not a condition of the scheme but bursary 10.
Meeting our salt reduction targets ahead students will gain preferential access to potential industrial of schedule.
placements or graduate training opportunities.
Northern Foods Northern Foods plc | Corporate social responsibility report 27 is seeking to build interest in the sector as a whole, believing that it will benefit in the long term from a wider pool of qualified Environment food scientists.
The first intake of 30 undergraduates received As outlined earlier, we have sought to align their grants in 2007 08 and the impact on applications for food our CSR programme management and science degrees will be monitored with interest.
reporting more closely to BITCs impact Stakeholder engagement framework.
This separate section on the We believe that effective stakeholder management can help environment supports this approach and us to manage risk and optimise our performance.
Throughout reflects our recognition of environmental the year continued active involvement in relevant industry and regulatory bodies has allowed us to respond effectively to issues as an area of considerable interest emerging challenges.
During 2007 08 our involvement included, for our stakeholders.
but was not limited to: chairing the waste champions group for DEFRA in support of the development of the Food Industry Sustainability Strategy FISS : In 2007 08, the Group continued to build on its record of good chief executive membership of the Princes Rural Action environmental practice implementing project findings to reduce Programme: the business carbon footprint.
This Carbon Trust funded project board membership of Improve, the sector skills council for identified energy usage as the biggest contributor to our food manufacturing: footprint, accounting for over 60% of our carbon emissions.
acting as a member of a pilot project for the Health & Safety Northern Foods is taking positive action to reduce energy use Executive HSE : through its internal Operational Excellence Group, which drives furthering the food chain safety and sustainability activities of effective environmental management across the business and the executive committee of the Chilled Food Association CFA : is supported by the Groups environmental affairs controller.
chairing the Microbiological Assurance Quality Control working We have also accelerated our efforts on waste management party for the world renowned Camden Chorleywood Food by minimising the quantity of waste produced and reducing the Research Association CCFRA : quantity of waste disposed to landfill.
We believe that these two acting as treasurer for the Irish Institute for Training areas of improved waste management will provide us with both and Development.
Overall Northern Foods is involved with more than 30 external Progress on environmental issues is assessed by the Operating bodies, to which it devoted an estimated 14 months of senior board on a regular basis.
External energy and waste reduction executive time.
This investment helps the sector to share best targets are under review awaiting publication of DEFRAs Food practice and support the consumers needs as efficiently as Industry Sustainability Strategy.
An example of this was the speech given by Stefan Barden to the IGD in October 2007 regarding the re-engineering Energy of our Goodfellas pizza packaging.
By modifying the pizza box Dedicated energy efficiency teams at our sites continued we are able to deliver better stacking on the pallet and a net to identify areas for further efficiency gains and a number decrease in packaging of 4,000 tonnes per year, as well as a of projects are underway, including increased monitoring and reduction of one million transport miles.
Performance against target is routinely monitored and the Group is on course to meet the fourth Climate Change In addition to the community investment outlined above, Levy target in 2008 09.
Northern Foods also donated 60,000 2006 07: 59,600 to various charities during 2007 08.
The Group is a silver We have also provided an annual update to the Carbon member of the Give as You Earn scheme with more than Disclosure Project, an initiative which benchmarks progress of 10% of employees involved.
Over the next 12 months we will UK plc in mitigating the impact of climate change.
Our efforts be encouraging more individuals to sign onto the scheme on energy efficiency were recognised externally when Northern and further increase our involvement.
Foods were runners up in the energy efficiency category of the Food Processing awards.
Rural action awards The year saw the Groups inaugural sponsorship of the Waste Rural Action Award, one of BITCs Awards for Excellence Reductions in the use of resources can bring environmental which showcase CSR best practice in the UK.
In the area of waste, Northern Foods was one of the first food manufacturers to sign the Courtauld Supporting British agriculture has always been important for Commitment in November 2006.
In doing so the Group Northern Foods.
By sponsoring the award, Northern Foods is committed to delivering targets on reducing packaging growth supporting the recognition of companies which are addressing through design, delivering an absolute packaging reduction by issues faced by rural communities and helping to create and 2010 and tackling the issue of food waste.
We have worked with maintain a vibrant, sustainable rural economy.
We have continued the Waste Resources Action Programme WRAP, the architects of this sponsorship in 2008 09. the Courtauld Commitment, to agree targets and report results.
28 Corporate social responsibility report | Northern Foods plc Our expectation is Our aim during the that all CSR activity year was to better is aligned with, and integrate CSRinitiatives supports, our overall into our daily activity business strategy and this has been achieved Our continued support of Encycle LLP, a waste to energy The Group has also contributed during the year to the CFAs infrastructure initiative, has helped it to obtain planning approval sustainability agenda and to the IGD working party on the for a plant in Immingham which will become operational in 2009. practicalities of product carbon footprint measurement.
We are This plant will convert non-recyclable waste from Northern Foods committed to understanding both the Groups and individual UK sites, and other food manufacturers, into biofuel which will be sites carbon footprints, but, in line with industry sentiment as used to generate electricity.
Northern Foods waste will power articulated by the CFA, we are sceptical of the practicality and approximately 6,000 households, and the technology will enable benefits of individual product carbon labelling to the consumer.
Northern Foods UK operations to become zero waste to landfill An audit by the Environment Agency demonstrated that we in 2009 10. had robust procedures in place to comply with the UK Producer On a number of manufacturing sites Northern Foods has teamed Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations.
up with the charity FareShare to distribute safe but non-specification Internal compliance checks have also ensured that compliance short shelf life products to the needy that would otherwise have procedures at all sites are satisfactory.
Our two registered been wasted.
The Group is hoping to roll out this partnership to ISO 14001 sites have retained their certification to the standard.
all the sites where FareShare operates.
The Green Isle Longford facility is now diverting raw dough, previously sent to landfill, to an animal feed provider.
This has enabled it to achieve a 90% reduction in material going to landfill over the last 12 months.
Northern Foods plc | Corporate social responsibility report 29 Food industry average As a direct result of these strategy initiatives individual businesses have clear ownership and accountability for their Workplace own H&S targets.
Our approach has delivered a significant The Group remains committed to making saving on the Groups insurance costs.
Training, capability Northern Foods a great place to work.
development and behavioural change programmes have With quality and service core to our value been introduced and performance is tracked through a rigorous monthly review process from site to CEO level.
H&S is discussed proposition, we understand that skilled in detail at Operating and plc Board meetings.
and motivated people are fundamental to Group performance.
As such, we invest The development of high standards is promoted through internal best practice awards.
The years award went to the considerable time and resource in ensuring Gunstones Bakery facility which recognised that the daily pre-start that the safety, well-being and development H&S checks for machinery were not consistent across the site needs of our people are addressed.
and were difficult to audit.
A pioneering equipment tagging approach, controlled using departmental safety stations, has ensured that management and employees now have the tools and systems in place to ensure that a complex production line, Health & Safety H&S with around 136 pre-start check points, is safe before use.
An intensive risk improvement programme has helped the Group achieve a 50% reduction in Accident Frequency Rates Training AFR over the two years prior to this report.
Building on this To develop and retain talent to deliver the quality, service strong H&S performance has been an area of significant focus and efficiency standards demanded by our customers and for Northern Foods in 2007 08. consumers, Northern Foods must ensure our employees have the skills they need, both to be efficient in their current role and Our goal during the year was to maintain this improvement to develop their careers.
whilst ensuring we have very robust reporting standards in place.
In addition, we embarked on a programme of training and With a goal of getting more people more skilled, the Company development and the recruitment of new talent to support the signed the Skills Pledge in 2007 08.
This government led initiative delivery of our new standards.
We also completed an intensive is aimed at increasing the skills of the entire workforce, from the behavioural safety trial at our Pennine site to help us define and basics of reading, writing and counting to advanced technical roll out a Group wide behavioural safety programme in 2008 09. skills in science, engineering and finance.
By signing the Skills Our objective is to create a sustainable H&S culture with an Pledge, the Group has access to the Government funded increasing focus on proactive improvement initiatives and Train to Gain network, enabling it to build a training programme we are pleased with the progress that has been made.
which is being progressively rolled out across the business.
As can be seen from the chart below, a long term reduction As the first food manufacturing company to sign this pledge, in Accident Frequency Rates AFR has been achieved by May 2007 saw Northern Foods host the Governments skills envoy, the Group, ahead of the industry average.
The AFR figures for Sir Digby Jones, at its Foxs biscuit site in Batley.
The visit, arranged 2007 08 increased from 0.56 to 0.66 per hundred thousand hours in conjunction with Improve, the UK Food and Drink sector skills worked due to an increased focus on reporting all incidents council, highlighted the career opportunities within the sector.
Well-being The detailed H&S improvement strategy was further developed Northern Foods believes that the health and well-being of its throughout 2007 08 with an increasing focus on local management employees can contribute to the health of the business.
It also ownership of H&S and clear visibility of key proactive deliverables recognises that proactive management of this can help reduce including talent recruitment and development, leadership absence costs and improve productivity.
processes improvement, business continuity planning, behavioural safety programmes and management H&S training.
Across the Group an increasing number of well-being initiatives are taking place.
For example, our Green Isle employees in Ireland benefit from annual medicals, health screening sessions, 12 month rolling accident frequency rates cancer awareness activity and a subsidised sports and social Per hundred thousand hours worked club.
Similarly, 700 health checks and the roll out of the Fit for Life programme at Solway Foods, our Sandwiches and Salads 1.30 business, has increased employee health awareness.
Currently 1.20 1.23 9 of our 21 operating sites are running well-being initiatives 1.10 and our aim over the next 12 months is to consolidate these 1.12 1.00 programmes and ensure the best practice is available for all 0.90 employees across the entire Group.
0.80 0.88 0.70 Employee sharesave scheme 0.60 0.66 To help align employees with the Groups performance 0.50 ambitions, and to give all employees the opportunity of sharing 0.56 in planned future success, the Group launched the Savings- 0.40 related share option scheme in November 2007.
This scheme 0.30 gives employees the opportunity to buy shares at a discounted 0.20 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 price and provides a simple way of saving.
The Board allocated 0.00 ten million shares for this launch, which was oversubscribed, indicating the high level of confidence that employees have in Northern Foods future.
30 Corporate social responsibility report | Northern Foods plc Supply chain impact Recipe reformulation The Group continues to recognise the potential impact it has In line with national policy to encourage healthy eating, the on those in our wider supply chain.
We have contracts with Group continued its systematic reformulation of recipes to approximately 4,000 suppliers and 75% of our raw materials are reduce salt content, initiated in 2004.
As a result the Group purchased within the UK.
To maintain appropriate transparent is on course to meet the national targets for salt reduction sourcing strategies, we continue to champion best practice ahead of the FSAs 2010 schedule.
through our Farm Assurance and Agents & Suppliers Codes of Practice.
We are founding members of Sedex, a secure web The Group completed its removal of hydrogenated vegetable based system on which companies can make data regarding oils HVOs from all branded products and continues to work their labour standards at production sites available to trading with its customers to help them achieve their targets in this area.
Sedex is now the largest Ethical Trading database in the world, active in 132 countries with over 18,000 companies Providing healthy choices participating.
Strong collaboration between our Technical and In line with our objective of providing a balanced range of Procurement teams, including auditing, supports the maintenance products aligned with the three macro trends of convenience, of these high sourcing standards.
health and indulgence, the Group continued to provide healthy eating options across the portfolio such as low fat alternatives, An updated labour policy, finalised in June 2007, is now fully special allergen dietary needs, vegetarian recipe dishes, new in place to ensure that agency staff, including migrant labour, salad recipes and simple fish fillets.
are sourced from selected licensed operators and that Northern Foods commitments on the health and safety of its employees Supporting informed purchasing are extended to our agency staff, including the provision of The Group continued with its two year commitment to move full training.
all Guideline Daily Amounts GDA labelling to front of pack.
Initiatives, such as the creation of a new identity for the Foxs brand, have supported this move and this work was completed in July 2007.
Marketplace Our marketplace activities cover the The 2007 relaunch of the Goodfellas Deeply Delicious range demonstrated how different streams of the healthy eating Groups responsibilities to create food agenda are being addressed.
Recipe reformulation included that is safe to eat, reflects the healthy a 16% reduction in saturated fat, a 20% reduction in fat, eating agenda and helps consumers a 10% reduction in salt and confirmation that one third of the recommended daily amount RDA of calcium was included make informed purchasing decisions.
GDA labelling was moved to front of pack in We continued our work in this area in September 2007 and the recommended portion size is a 2007 08 across both our branded ranges healthier half a pizza.
and in conjunction with our retailer customers.
Conclusion Food safety Our aim during the year was to integrate Having appropriate testing and audit procedures in place to better our CSR initiatives into our daily assure food safety and quality is core to the Groups proposition.
activity and this has been achieved.
The Northern Foods Nottingham based accredited, central testing laboratory conducts over 30,000 tests every week, with further approach is delivering measurable benefits tests taking place on our sites and at external contract in the reduction of energy, packaging laboratories.
and waste, as well as a greater focus on employee development and community Unique in the industry, Northern Foods has dual accreditation from the national body UKAS, for both our product testing and commitment.
As ever, there is much more site certification activities.
These sector leading standards were to do and this will be the focus of our reconfirmed in 2007 08 with not only accreditation maintained activity in the coming 12 months.
but also continuous improvement demonstrated.
In national trials of laboratory competence in the detection, identification With a structured approach to the and enumeration of major food pathogens, we have a 100% performance, maintained for three years.
responsibility agenda now firmly rooted in the management framework of the To support the continuous development of leading standards Group, Northern Foods was pleased to in the safe production of wholesome food, the Group continued to share expert microbiological and technical knowledge with be recognised in May 2008 for the second key organisations such as the Food Standards Agency FSA, year running, with a bronze rating in the the CFA, DEFRA, the British Retail Consortium and the CCFRA.
BITC 100 Companies That Count rankings.
Specifically, Northern Foods supplied scientific guidance to the CFA, and in turn Codex Alimentarius the Joint Food & Agricultural Organization of the United Nations World Health Organization Food Standards Programme.
The Codex is a series of food standards and related texts that aim to provide a high level of consumer protection and fair practice in the international trade of food and agricultural products.
Northern Foods plc | Corporate social responsibility report 31
