Northgate AR&A 2008 Front AW:x69614 Rhouse front p2 cg 23 7 08 16:31 Page 26 CORPORATE HEALTH&SAFETY GOVERNANCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls MONITORING VEHICLE FLEET THE BOARD RECOGNISES THAT which aims to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper accounting records The Board has delegated to executive management implementation of The total fleet in the UK and Republic of Ireland at 30 April 2008 was 68,600 are maintained and that the financial information used within the business the system of internal control.
The Board, including the Audit Committee, THE MONITORING AND CONTROL vehicles with an average age of 16 months, of which 15% were cars and the and for publication is reliable.
Although no system of internal controls receives reports on the system of control from the external auditors and remainder commercial vehicles.
The total fleet in Spain at 30 April 2008 was OF ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, from management.
An independent internal audit function reports bi-annually 62,750 vehicles with an average age of 19 months, of which 33% were cars the Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable to the Audit Committee primarily on the key areas of risk within the business.
AND SAFETY EHS AND STRICT and the remainder commercial vehicles.
assurance that, should any problems occur, these are identified on a timely The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system ADHERENCE TO LEGISLATIVE basis and dealt with appropriately.
The key features of the Groups system of internal controls covering financial, operational and compliance matters Cars are sold after an average life of 20 months in the UK and 35 months of internal controls, which was in place throughout the period covered by and risk management, for the period covered by these financial statements in Spain.
Commercial vehicles are sold after an average life of 32 months REQUIREMENTS IN ALL AREAS the financial statements, are described below: in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
in the UK and 38 months in Spain.
OF OPERATION FORMS A KEY Our fleet is, therefore, comprised entirely of modern vehicles.
All purchases CONTROL ENVIRONMENT AUDIT PART OF ITS RISK MANAGEMENT in the year ended 30 April 2008 were Euro IV compliant.
The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure within which individual An account of the work of the Audit Committee is given in the Audit PROGRAMME.
responsibilities of line and financial management for the maintenance of Committee Report on page 22. strong internal controls and the production of accurate and timely financial PROPERTY The Board has designated the Chief Executive as the person ultimately management information are identified and can be monitored.
Where As at 30 April 2008, the vehicle rental business in the UK and Republic of 4 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS responsible to the Board for all health, safety and environmental matters appropriate, the business is required to comply with the procedures set Ireland operated out of 87 properties, of which 21 are primary sites and 66 Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular dialogue with throughout the Group.
Responsibility for implementing the Groups policy out in written manuals.
All but 9 of these sites all of which are branches are located institutional investors and brokers analysts, providing them with such is devolved to operational management.
on industrial estates, so our activities have minimal impact on the local information on the Companys progress and future plans as is permitted To demonstrate the Boards commitment to maintaining the highest business community of the areas in which we operate.
Our sites vary in size from within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, at the In the UK the principles set out in the management model HSG 65 and ethical standards and to promote a culture of honesty and integrity the larger sites which will typically have an area of 1.2 acres, will comprise time of announcing the Companys interim and full year results, they are Successful Health and Safety Management have been adopted.
This amongst all staff, the Board has established a confidential telephone service, approximately 9,000 sq.
ft. of workshops and office facilities, with the invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
enables consistent health and safety standards and disciplines to be operated by an independent external organisation, which may be used by remainder hard-standing and will employ approximately 35 people.
The applied at all locations.
all staff to report any issues of concern relating to dishonesty or malpractice The Companys major institutional shareholders have been advised by smaller sites will have an area of approximately 0.3 acres, have a small within the Group.
All issues reported are investigated by senior management.
the Chief Executive that, in line with the provisions of the Code, the Senior The Group is committed to pursuing sound EHS management policies office often of the portacabin type, a valet washbay and in some cases a Independent Director and other non-executives may attend these briefings and practices and continually seeks to improve EHS standards in the workshop facility, again, often a modular building.
They employ an average IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS and, in any event, would attend if requested to do so.
Four of the larger sites share premises with Northgate Vehicle The Board and the Groups management have a clearly defined responsibility Sales who have a further six dedicated sales sites.
Fleet Technique operate for identifying the major business risks facing the Group and for developing Monitoring and managing the EHS impacts, risks and opportunities All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters for discussion from offices in Gateshead and the Groups head office building in Darlington systems to mitigate and manage those risks.
The control of key risk is for the business for the benefit of employees, customers and the at the Annual General Meeting, of which more than the recommended accommodates all central administrative and support services.
reviewed by the Board and the Groups management at their monthly local communities in which we operate: minimum 20 working days notice is given.
In compliance with the meetings.
The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing Transparency Rules, introduced in January 2007, the Company publishes Promoting awareness of EHS policy across the business to During the year all UK locations underwent comprehensive internal EHS process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Interim Management Statements in March and September each year.
assess performance and to set objectives for improvement: and audits and, having completed an evaluation of EHS arrangements in Fualsa the Group, that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the and Record, we have now established an EHS function in Spain based on Reporting on the status of the EHS performance of the business.
date of approval of these accounts and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Details of proxies lodged in respect of the Annual General Meeting will be the same standards and general principles as the UK.
Both Fualsa and published on the Companys website immediately following the meeting.
Common standards are applied to a wide range of EHS matters, and Record are certified to the internationally recognised Environmental INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION legislative requirements are the minimum standard accepted.
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE practices and procedures are continually assessed to ensure that everything Board.
Each operating unit prepares monthly accounts with a comparison In both the UK and Spain all waste products from our workshops and is being done to meet the highest possible standards of safety using The Board considers that the Company complied with the provisions against their business plan and against the previous year, with regular review bodyshops are collected by registered waste contractors: 100% of tyres comprehensive and robust safety operating procedures manuals.
of the Code throughout the year with the exception that the Code states by management of variances from targeted performance levels.
A business are recycled and 95% of all other such waste.
that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be comprised plan is prepared by management and approved by the Board annually.
Group policies are agreed through a Steering Committee, which meets at of independent non-executive Directors, and that the Chairman should The Group are sponsors of Brake, the road safety charity, and are members Each operating unit prepares a three-year business plan with performance regular intervals to consider EHS issues, review performance and to determine not be a member of the Audit Committee.
of the British Safety Council and the Royal Society for the Prevention of reported against key performance indicators on a monthly basis together the necessary controls for compliance with all legislative requirements.
We have received a Silver Award from RoSPA in recognition of with comparisons to plan and prior year.
These are reviewed regularly Since the retirement through illness of Mr Ballinger as Chairman in In the UK we are licensed to carry out a number of training courses for the the Groups EHS arrangements in the UK and have also been recognised by management.
Forecasts are updated regularly throughout the year.
November 2006, Mr Rogerson acted as Chairman on a temporary basis British Safety Council BSC and the Institute of Occupational Safety and by RoadSafe, the Government backed Driving for Better Business campaign, while retaining his roles as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Health IOSH.
During this reporting period over five hundred employees CONTROL PROCEDURES with an award for our fleet road safety programme.
Following his appointment as Chairman on a permanent have attended BSC Level one health & safety training courses and have The Board and the Groups management have adopted a schedule of basis in June 2007, Mr Brown was appointed Senior Independent Director.
During the year under review, no incidents resulting in fatality or significant successfully gained this recognised qualification.
The Group remains matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring In September 2007 Mr Allner was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee pollution occurred at any of our locations.
No health and safety enforcement committed to continually raising safety standards through training and that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, at which time Mr Rogerson ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee.
notices were served on any company in the Group.
has begun a process of training at least one employee within each hire organisational and compliance issues.
Measures taken include clearly company to a Nebosh General Certificate standard.
defined procedures for capital expenditure appraisal and authorisation, physical controls, segregation of duties and routine and ad hoc checks.
Health and safety and environmental issues impact on the Groups operations in two main areas: 24 25 NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT&ACCOUNTS2008
