32 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Our impact on society continued Valuing our people Highlights include: As a creative business, everything we do can only be as International mobility: We have continued our drive good as the imagination and the minds of everyone who to be a truly international company and we now have works at Pearson.
Our companies consistently feature in almost 34,000 people operational in 66 countries.
4 annual best to work for lists because we nurture our Our NewDirections programme has developed in step people and continue our progress towards harnessing with our company, moving 102 people on short-term the enormous benefits of a diverse workforce.
We have assignments between companies and countries in 2008 a Group level health and safety policy, with numerous up from 67 people in 2007 and beating our target of awareness days and other good practice examples at 100 moves.
The past two years have kick-started our work across our offices.
We work hard to keep our people international mobility policy and given more Pearson fulfilled in their roles, giving them opportunities to people a taste of the experience of working in another increase their skills, to take on international projects and country, helping us to share valuable knowledge and move between businesses, and to ensure they are able find synergies between our businesses around the world.
Our people feel a genuine Diversity: We want to reflect the societies in which we sense of ownership at Pearson we would like everyone operate and while we dont set specific targets, we do who works here to own shares in the company, and more work very hard to have as diverse a pool of applicants for than half have become shareholders through our jobs and suppliers as we can.
We will always seek participating in our employee share plans.
We also know the best candidates for a role without regard for race, that the best ideas often come from our own people, so gender, age, physical ability, religion or sexual each operating company continues to ask its people for orientation, and have set new targets for tracking our ideas, suggestions and constructive criticism to improve progress on specific elements of that aim.
We will make the way we work.
Our pan-company communications reasonable adjustment to premises or employment programme incorporates large-scale presentations from arrangements if these substantially disadvantage a our senior managers to staff around the world, and we disabled current or prospective member of staff, and encourage our people to use informal social networking make every effort to locate a suitable alternative role tools to feed suggestions back and share good practice and or training for people unable to continue in their around the business.
existing role due to disability.
Our diversity teams on The following table shows for 2008 and 2007 the both sides of the Atlantic are focused on expanding our average number of people employed in each of our internship programmes for minority groups, and our operating divisions.
publishing lists grow ever more varied across both Penguin and Pearson Education: we are the first and Average number employed 2008 2007 only major publisher working in almost 60 languages North American Education 15,412 14,327 in southern and central Africa.
We must continue to International Education 5,718 5,291 improve on our recruitment and promotion of executives from minority backgrounds to middle and senior Professional 2,641 2,540 management levels, and we still have much to achieve FT Group 4,792 4,383 in this area.
Penguin 4,112 4,163 People for the future: We are lucky to have a lot of Other 909 918 talented people at every level of our company and we Continuing businesses 33,584 31,622 strive to identify, nurture and promote them in a number Discontinued businesses 96 1,070 of ways.
Our annual Forum brings together more than Total 33,680 32,692 100 of our newest and brightest managers from all over the world for a three-day session with the Pearson Management Committee and other senior managers, and will soon be supported by the Emerging Leaders Programme for Forum alumni we plan to launch in 2009.
The turnover in our talent pool a group of some of the most able people in the company has declined over the last three years, from 6% in 2005 to 2.8% in 2007, as has the turnover of women and people from minority ethnic backgrounds within that group.
4 See Recognition and awards in Live and Learn: Our Impact on Society 2008 report for examples.
