Section 4 Our impact on society 31 Our impact on society Strategy Sustainable business practice Focus on paper: Penguin UK and Pearson Education helped to found PREPS in the UK an initiative that We will continue to aim to meet the needs of the present brings together 15 of the UKs leading publishers to share without compromising the ability of future generations to 1 the technical specifications and details of the sources for meet their own needs and we agree that business is each of the papers they use and Penguin is now the good for sustainable development and sustainable 2 first publisher to do this for the North American market.
development is good for business.
Pearson plans to be Weve continued to invest in paper-free products and a climate neutral company and were making progress processes across Pearson, including the purchase of towards that target through policy changes and staff-led digital reading devices for Penguins sales force US and initiatives.
Since its inception in 1992, our formal editorial and marketing staff US and UK.
We are environmental policy has been reviewed and updated a tracking and measuring our in-house work towards a number of times, most recently in 2008, which you can paperless pre-press environment.
Our efforts include read in full on our website.
cutting the number of printer proofs, transmitting files electronically, using online editing and proofing for Learn more at www.
com environment both publisher and author, and increasing digital Were using less paper as we digitize more of our workflow practices.
processes and products, and work within our supply chain to find the most  way of Staff activity: Green Teams and Eco Teams have producing the books and newspapers we print.
We place continued to grow in size, structure and activity at great importance on not compromising our standards of various Pearson offices in India, the US, Australia, the quality or causing harm to our suppliers and their UK and Canada, as more and more members of staff workers, wherever they may be in the world.
We are volunteer to come together to take greater responsibility committed to complying with the laws and regulations in for the environmental impact of their department or all countries in which we operate and our director for building.
Longman ELT launched a new going green people has board responsibility for matters relating to website: Corporate Responsibility.
com Highlights include: The site offers Tips of the Week, a link to an Policy implementation: In the UK, Pearson is switching to  Whats New 2009 catalogue the international environment standard ISO 14001, an with fewer pages, printed on recycled paper and mailed Environmental Management System EMS that enables to only those who request it, and an outline of green us to address the delicate balance between maintaining activities going on at Longman ELT around the US.
Planet our profitability and minimising our environmental Pearson, a cross-company environmental intranet site, impact.
Initial assessments have been successfully has been launched as a pilot in the US, with a view to completed across the FT, Pearson Education and expanding its usage across our international business.
Penguin in the UK, Pearson companies in India have The site serves as a communications hub where Pearson begun the ISO 14001 process and our companies in the people can share ideas, resources and suggestions on US have been considering implementing this EMS.
As a the many eco-friendly initiatives taking place around the founder signatory of the UN Global Compact which sets company.
out a series of principles on labour standards, human rights, the environment and anti-corruption we have written to our key suppliers to advise them of our commitments to the Compact and our code of conduct, and managed an ongoing programme of key supplier 3 visits to assess their compliance against both the Compact and our contractual commitments.
1 UN World Commission on Environment and Development: Our Common Future.
2 World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
3 See Other Financial Information, p27, for our supplier payment policy.
