SouthWestWater Chairmansstatement Staff across the company deliver a company EMPLOYEES talk to community groups and water CUSTOMERS, COMMUNITYAND The company is focused on developing well conservation staff provide a school talks EMPLOYEES trained and motivated employees in order to service for young people.
achieve the Pure Water, Pure Service and Pure Environment vision and to successfully meet Our monthly customer satisfaction survey CUSTOMERS the growing expectations in customer service, shows rising satisfaction with South West  operational outputs and cost efficiency.
newspaperWaterlevel, leaflets, the media A new employee development framework andourwebsite, www.
co. uk  co-ordinates training and development for  been South West Water concentrates its sponsorship all employees and better outlines and  stakeholdersin on community projects and organisations explains what the company offers and what .
within its service area which are linked to employees are required to do in support water, benefit the environment or promote of their own personal development.
graduate development programme was the  as created and launched in early 2008 involving .
Highlights in 2007 08 included the companys around 60 current graduate employees within  provide first involvement in green arts as lead sponsor the company.
All training activities are informationabout waterconservationand how of TRAIL an exhibition of environmental undertaken under the Investor in People we  and services.
sculptures on the South West Coastal Path IIP standard, which is closely aligned with and a joint project with South West Lakes business requirements.
 Trust to plant a new natural woodland at for Water CCWater, whichchampionswater Wimbleball Lake.
South West Water continues to drive change customers.
 management programmes and take advantage  pensioners forums The company also took the opportunity to of new technology.
Two examples are the , priortomajor co-sponsor South West Tourism's annual creation of a new service centre at the changesorinitiatives.
awards and fund a new sustainable tourism companys headquarters in Exeter and further prize to demonstrate how the Clean Sweep deployment of mobile computing to improve  project has helped underpin the renaissance of the efficient operation of its workforce in at  the regions number one industry since 1989. the field.
 investing Youth participation projects included In pursuing efficiency projects, the company .
sponsoring a national junior championship in is engaging employees in the design and Cornwall run by the Surf Life Saving development of business improvements.
, settingout Association of Great Britain and Exmouths  first kite festival.
In total 64 organisations and wrong .
individuals across the region were sponsored.
Above: Land yachting on the beach Left: Wimbleball Lake Far left: Enjoying high quality rivers Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 13
