18 Business Review 2008: Corporate Responsibility Building Sustainable Homes Since the inception of our Our approach is to imbed sustainability issues into all aspects approach to corporate responsibility of the construction of new homes.
We do so in a practical and the emergence of the broader way to make sure that, as we create sustainable homes and communities, they are both affordable to our customers and sustainability agenda we have efficient in environmental terms.
continued to develop our strategy Whilst we do not aim for a fixed percentage of brownfield and communicate our approach to development, favouring a flexible approach based on demand, the decontamination and remediation of brownfield sites our stakeholders to reflect our has a very positive impact on the local environment.
In 2008 responsibilities as a national 62% of the homes we built were on previously developed brownfield land 2007: 52% which exceeded the housebuilder.
Responsibility Committee Overall the homes that we built during 2008 were coordinates activities across the significantly more energy efficient than the homes that we were building a decade ago.
The energy efficiency of homes Group with implementation being is measured by a Government standard assessment procedure carried out by our management SAP and during 2008 the average SAP rating for all properties we completed was 86 out of a maximum rating teams in each operating business.
During the year we constructed 1,653 homes to Eco-homes standards, being over 16% of the homes we built, a significant increase on the 10% of homes we constructed to this standard in 2007.
The proportion of our Eco-homes constructed to very good or excellent standard increased by 74%.
Recent changes in the SAP ratings scales and the introduction of the Code for Sustainable Homes are being monitored and assessed by our commercial directors, who provide advice and guidance to our operating businesses on their implementation.
During the course of 2008 we have continued to promote the use of modern methods of construction techniques with our pre-fabricated timber frame manufacturing subsidiary Space4 producing our new and highly efficient Eco-housing range.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008 19 Business Review 2008: Corporate Responsibility continued Environmental Management Sustainability issues We have an Environmental Management System EMS that ensures our Environmental Policy is integrated into our operational activity.
Space4 has its own Environmental remain key in a Management System certified to ISO 14001.
The implementation of our policy and procedures is directly discerning market.
monitored by our Health and Safety Management teams and we are pleased to report that during 2008 we had no environmental prosecutions.
The generation and disposal of waste is our most significant operational environmental impact.
We have a dedicated Waste Management policy, developed in consultation with the GovernmentsWaste and Resources Action Programme WRAP which is implemented across the Group.
In addition, since April 2008 all of our new sites have SiteWaste Management Plans ensuring that our approach to waste management on each new site is documented with detailed records maintained.
We minimise the waste we produce through careful ordering of materials and if possible by pre-specifying the size and dimensions of components, such as pre-fabricated support beams rather than traditional timber joists.
All waste generated is subject to either onsite or offsite segregation and recycling.
In 2008 our sites generated just over 91,000 tonnes of construction waste, a 40% reduction on the prior year, with the amount of waste that we recycled increasing to 70% 2007: 68%.
Whilst we are pleased with this performance, a better indication of our efficiency is the amount of waste generated per home completed.
In 2008 we generated 8.9 tonnes of waste per home completed, compared to 9.5 tonnes in 2007, a reduction of just over 6%.
These figures demonstrate that even though we built fewer homes in 2008, we are building them more efficiently and producing less waste as a consequence.
In accordance with our Climate Change Position Statement, we can again report on operational carbon footprint relating to emissions produced through the use of fuel in our offices and our company vehicle fleet.
Our CO emissions have 2 reduced by 19% to 11.8 thousand tonnes 2007: 14.7 thousand tonnes.
During 2008 we have for the first time collated data on water use in our offices and we are currently undertaking a review of this data and how we use water across our businesses.
Above QE3 building, Glasgow Below Space4 homes Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008 20 Business Review 2008: Corporate Responsibility continued Working with Local Communities Promoting Health and Safety Our operating businesses are firmly rooted in the We use a proactive approach based on the risk assessment communities which they serve.
We have a regional principle of implementing reasonably practical health and structure which allows our operating businesses to act in a safety control measures, to minimise the likelihood of semi-autonomous way.
This means we are able to respond incidents happening on our building sites and to promote a in a collaborative way to take into account the needs of the healthy and safe working environment for our employees.
Health and safety is incorporated into our daily management processes across our operating businesses to ensure that As an example at Ironstone in Lawley, Telford we have management and staff understand their responsibilities.
recently opened a visitor centre at the new sustainable village During the year we also carried out 274 days of specialist we are developing with our joint venture partners.
centre will play a pivotal role in helping to create and strengthen a community spirit and bring the people of We are pleased to report that during 2008 the number Ironstone together in actively managing their of incidents reportable under the UK Reporting of neighbourhood.
Incidents Disease and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDORs fell from 172 in 2007 to 78 in 2008.
Whilst We substantially increased the number of social affordable this was in part due to fewer houses completed and therefore homes we built to 2,389, representing over 23% of our homes fewer workers on site, there has been a significant reduction sold last year.
We have also continued to promote our shared in the number of reportable incidents per home we equity scheme which helps first time buyers to purchase their completed.
In 2007 the Group experienced an average first property.
This is a scheme where the Group retains a of one RIDDOR per 92 house completions, which had substantial equity share enabling first time buyers to obtain improved to one RIDDOR per 131 house completions mortgages at favourable interest rates.
in 2008, showing that our sites are significantly safer.
We also continued our charitable support and in particular, our support of theYork Minster Fund and the training of apprentices in the ancient crafts used to repair and conserve the Minster.
Ironstone visitors centre Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008 21 Business Review 2008: Corporate Responsibility continued Non-financial Key Performance Indicators Caring for our Customers We continue to develop our management systems to ensure Waste generated per home sold tonnes that the quality of the houses that we build for our customers improves and the service that they receive satisfies their aspirations.
We undertake regular customer satisfaction surveys, the results of which we monitor to ensure that we 10.1 9.5 are maintaining our high standards.
9.0 8.9 We are pleased to report that during 2008 the number of customers who would recommend Persimmon to a friend increased by 3% over the prior year to 89%.
This demonstrates our ongoing commitment to ensuring that customers have the best possible experience when purchasing a Persimmon or Charles Church home.
2005 2006 2007 2008 Conclusion Although 2008 has been a very challenging year for our Customers that would recommend Persimmon to a friend % business, we have again shown our commitment to building sustainable homes and we remain committed to our key responsibilities set out in our sustainability strategy.
89 Further information is contained within our Sustainability 86 86 86 Report 2008 which can be found on our website at www.
com, together with information on our sustainability and other policies.
Neil Davidson Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee 2005 2006 2007 2008 2 March 2009 RIDDORS per 1,000 employees 12.9 12.2 10.3 9.1 2005 2006 2007 2008 The Reportable Injuries Disease and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008
