Corporate social responsibility 51 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 People 1 2 1.
S taff in the Kuala Lumpur office People 2008 review Strategy The year once again saw an increase in headcount, from 9,800 at As part of our vision for 2012 Petrofac aims to become a best-inthe end of 2007 to 11,100 at the end of 2008, through principally class employer in the diverse markets in which we operate.
to achieve this we need to combine a clear organisational structure with good processes and policies, as well as a strong framework We believe that our workforce and recruitment practices should of behaviours.
reflect the diverse communities in which we operate and this is demonstrated through our graduate recruitment programme.
To The link between organisational clarity where staff clearly support our ongoing growth we continue to place importance on understand the Companys structure and their role in it with good recruiting and developing talented graduates and recruited around performance allowing people to develop and do their best within, 100 in 2008, from Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
and for, the organisation is widely recognised.
Our philosophy is to ensure that our structure, processes and behaviours all work A key highlight of the year and an expression of our commitment together to make Petrofac an employer of choice within our chosen to our people was the appointment of our first Group Head of sectors and a Company that people are proud to work for.
1 While we hope that over the course of the next few years these Approximately 27% of employees across the world now participate elements will become more recognisable across the group, we also in at least one of our share incentive schemes.
Further details strongly believe it is, and will remain, appropriate for there to be can be found in the Remuneration Report, on pages 66 to 74 differences between locations and business units.
understand where overall consistency in what we do is appropriate and where it is not.
We also encourage our people to engage with the Company on other, less mainstream, levels.
For example, we launched the The HR challenge lies in getting that balance right over the next few Picture Petrofac competition in 2008.
Open to all employees, this years.
This involves looking in detail and further improving how we photography competition resulted in the creation of a 2009 recruit, retain, performance-manage and develop our people, calendar.
The theme was left open while being mindful of Petrofacs together with assessing the overall work environment and the core values being safe, ethical, innovative, cost-conscious, processes, policies and systems we have in place.
We need to take a long-term view and one which we hope will enable us to achieve the strategic vision to which we aspire.
1 Excluding agency and contractor staff and the groups share of joint venture employees.
52 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 The challenge of providing consistent and quality training has been Corporate social responsibility improved by the introduction of a comprehensive e-learning programme.
Initially piloted in our Engineering & Construction continued division, we now plan to extend this across the organisation during 2009.
The objective of e-learning is to support other development activities and also to provide learning opportunities to employees in responsive to customers and focused relentlessly on delivering remote locations.
More than 1,000 of our people are already using results.
The winner, Monzer Chammas, who is based in the Sharjah e-learning.
office said: The competition is a great initiative, it has improved my sense of belonging and attachment to the Petrofac brand and Continuous development of our people at all levels remains integral reinforces for me that we all have what it takes to do and achieve to our approach.
We strive to ensure that all Petrofac people have anything if we set our minds to the task.
Plans are already the highest levels of competence.
The majority of our workforce is underway to run the competition again in 2009. now assessed against technical and behavioural competencies and this initiative is scheduled for completion during 2009.
Code of Business Conduct We reviewed the Code of Business Conduct during 2008.
Our focus on developing people extends beyond our own organisational boundaries.
In the UK, employees from our Woking Ethical behaviour in business is a subject which has engaged office are helping to train the engineers of the future, by delivering governments and regulators increasingly in recent years.
It is no interactive workshops in local schools.
The Science and different within Petrofac where the Board considers this to be one Engineering Ambassadors programme run by the Surrey Science of its main responsibilities.
and Technology Regional Organisation is aimed at supporting teachers to inspire young people about science, technology, We have more than 11,000 personnel working in some of the most engineering and maths.
This year, nine of our graduates took part challenging environments across the world.
In these circumstances in two half-day workshops at Broadmere Community Primary it is essential that we establish a set of common principles and School in Sheerwater, to help Year 6 pupils learn about LogIT minimum standards of business conduct to guide us.
The Code of Data Logging technology.
Business Conduct sets out the behaviours that we expect our employees, suppliers, contractors, agents and partners to comply Communications with in undertaking business for and with Petrofac.
The Code also Effective communication is the bedrock of a successful HR establishes the general principles that inform the way in which we strategy.
During 2008, we maintained the momentum behind work with each other and with external parties.
Finally, it provides recent communications initiatives while also making significant practical advice designed to help to protect our employees in their progress with new ones.
day-to-day work and to maintain the reputation of Petrofac.
Petrofacts, our company-wide magazine, continued to be The revised Code will be launched in the first half of 2009, published quarterly, with the addition of a special internal issue in supported by a poster campaign and an e-learning initiative, November, which introduced the important organisational changes each of which will focus on ensuring that all staff understand outlined elsewhere in this Report.
the importance of the Code.
As we committed in last years Report, we completed a new global Developing our people intranet during 2008 which will be launched in the first half of 2009.
Employee retention is as important as attracting high quality PetroNet will be the home for a wide range of useful information to individuals to join Petrofac in the first place.
We have a Professional help employees navigate their way around our growing organisation.
Development Programme to address the needs of postgraduates They will be able to find the latest news and information from and young professionals, focusing on improving mobility across the across the group as well as useful tools such as office addresses, group, sharing learning and best practice, and providing fast-track brand guidelines and company brochures.
PetroNet also features career plans for high potential individuals.
an opportunity for employees to have their say on a range of topics.
A major objective for the Petrofac Academy, which was launched For 2009, we will continue to keep all employees up-to-date in 2006 to develop Petrofac managers and leaders of the future, with business activities and performance plus group policies is to increase awareness and understanding of the technical and initiatives.
standards and behaviours that make up the Petrofac Way.
More than 70 workshops were held during the year to achieve this.
Corporate social responsibility 53 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Community 1 3 1.
Atmonatti Vidya Mandir school, Khopoli, India 2.
L earning centre in Kitgum, Sudan 2 Community Petrofacs membership of UK-based Business in the Community At Petrofac, we are mindful of our responsibilities to the communities BitC continues.
This organisation has over 850 member where we operate.
We work hard to ensure that relationships with companies.
We derive great value from membership and are customers, suppliers, communities, non-governmental organisations increasingly able to avail ourselves of the programmes BitC offers NGOs and governments are founded on mutual respect.
Specifically, during the year, we have been able successfully to utilise the services of its Global Partner During 2008, we continued to make progress with our communityNetwork to seek advice and source reputable international NGOs.
based activities, particularly in the international arena where activities have been less well-established compared with some of Our community relations programme continues to be centred on our longer-running UK-based programmes.
It has been pleasing initiatives that support training and education.
Here is a summary to see the increased integration of community relations into our of some of the more significant projects from the year.
business processes and the evaluation of these activities being directly related to business objectives and values.
54 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Arvind Gandbhir programme, they have to maintain a high standard Corporate social responsibility of academic excellence to retain their scholarship.
continued Petrofac is also funding a programme to build classrooms and a community hall for a school near Khopoli.
This is a residential school for tribal children who live in remote areas.
Their parents Helping to build 60 schools in Sudan have no fixed income and live well below the poverty line.
The Our education project in Sudan with international NGO, BRAC, is students currently live, sleep and study in the same room: there are bringing much-needed educational opportunities to the countrys no separate classrooms.
As well as education, health, well-being children.
Formally launched on 1 May 2008, the project aims to and hygiene are an integral part of the Khopoli programme.
build 60 schools for approximately 1,800 children aged 8-14.
We have contributed to the financial support of The project is being operated in close collaboration with the eight talented students who would not otherwise be able to pursue Ministry of Education and follows the government curriculum for a university education.
Five of the students will undertake full Southern Sudan.
It aims to provide access to cost effective, good academic courses and three will undertake intensive English quality primary education for the poorest and most disadvantaged language courses.
The candidates, many of whom are from children in Central Equatoria Juba and Eastern Equatoria Torit.
disadvantaged backgrounds were selected by Kyrgyz Petroleum The project is expected to increase significantly the numbers of Company senior management in conjunction with the American children that enrol into schools, particularly girls, and reduce University of Central Asia because of their academic ability drop-out rates.
It also creates employment for women within the and achievements.
The students have also been given the local communities as all the teaching and support staff are female.
opportunity to work in the Bishkek and Jalalabat offices during their vacation periods.
In Juba, 30 schools were opened before the end of 2008 with some 900 students enrolled in the schools: more than 55% of them Malaysia.
Our Malaysia programme is part of the global are girls, who are particularly disadvantaged.
In Torit, 20 schools programme of Chevening Scholarships awarded by the British will open early in 2009.
We have agreed to make a financial contribution which has been matched by the British Government to support Children from all backgrounds have enrolled into these schools a Malaysian student currently studying for an MSc in Renewable including orphans, children from very poor families, children that Systems Technology at Loughborough University.
had previously dropped out and children that were not already in school.
In 2007, we launched a Payroll Giving Scheme to enable UK based Petrofac employees to make charitable donations through Tunisia.
During 2008, we completed the classroom extension at their monthly payroll, with the additional commitment that 50% of the 600-pupil secondary school in the town of Nakta, providing their donations would be matched by the Company.
Keen to a valuable facility for the students to undertake their studies and support a charity which reflected the groups policy, for 2008 the homework.
Petrofac, along with construction partner Pireco, also participants chose to support Learning for Life UK Ltd.
This donated two ambulances to the local hospital in Sfax.
During our organisation is part of the global campaign for education for all and Environment Month in November, exceptionally high levels of works with local partners to provide education and opportunities engagement and commitment were demonstrated by the for children in South Asia who are disadvantaged by poverty, Hasdrubal team to the campaign, something that was greatly geography, conflict or social and economic circumstances.
appreciated by the local community.
During the month, the team also involved the Nakta school in a comprehensive 2008 was the 10th anniversary of the education industry environmental awareness programme which included activities partnership between Petrofac and Kincorth Academy in Aberdeen, such as litter collection.
The partnership has benefited both pupils and teachers at the school and enabled our people to provide significant support Egypt.
Two schools in the Matrouh area in the Western Desert to their local community.
This partnership model has been have been built and furnished by Petrofac, in conjunction with our replicated throughout Scotland and was instrumental in shaping the customer Apache, for local Bedouin children.
Following the Scottish Governments Determined to Succeed initiative.
This year success of this programme, approvals are now in place to build the partnership won The Schools Award at the Children & Young a further two schools, this time in the Salam area of the Western People Services Awards.
The partnership was also honoured this Desert, for completion in mid-2009.
The one-room schools, year by Aberdeen City Council at a civic reception to celebrate the equipped with running water and electricity, feature a large Determined to Succeed school and business partnership.
classroom as well as living accommodation for two resident school teachers.
The schools each provide primary education for around In a further example of our commitment to education, our Woking 45 children between the ages of four and 13. office is helping to train the engineers of the future see People section, on pages 51 and 52.
Towards the end of 2008, after conducting a needs analysis with the local authorities, we began implementing a Community involvement programme to provide whiteboards to all the schools in the In Salah In addition to our support for education, we also play our part in the region, a total of 38 schools and 341 classrooms.
2008 saw a number of charitable and sporting is scheduled for completion in early 2009. initiatives which demonstrated the close bonds between our people and the communities in which they live and work, full details of India.
Education for the underprivileged is also a primary focus for which are provided on our website.
In collaboration with the Arvind Gandbhir Secondary School in Jogeshwari in northern Mumbai, our scholarship programme has continued to grow in strength.
During 2008, we sponsored 68 students and the reputation of the programme within the local Jogeshwari community is creating additional interest and support for the school.
During the later part of 2008, the Mumbai office also established a second scholarship programme with a school in Khopoli, in the Indian state of Maharashtra, approximately 100km from Mumbai.
Currently 55 students are receiving financial support and, in common with the Corporate social responsibility 55 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Community 1 3 4 2 1.
A nudanit Adivasi Prathamik Ashramshala school, Chive village, Khopoli, India 3.
Atmonatti Vidya Mandir school, Khopoli, India
