Corporate social responsibility 49 Health, safety, security, environment Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 and integrity assurance The Company plays an integral role in the lives of its people, in the Major events communities in which we operate and in the broader world.
We In September, there was an incident involving a helicopter have a clear responsibility to play our part positively and recognise departing the Maersk Resilient jack-up drilling rig which was under the importance of winning and retaining stakeholder support.
contract to our customer, Dubai Petroleum Establishment, in the Rashid field approximately 70km offshore Dubai.
The helicopter, Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is central to which was carrying two crew members and five passengers on a the successful delivery of business performance: routine flight, crashed during take-off.
Tragically, there were no we aim to be acknowledged as a leader in the management of survivors and our deepest sympathies are with the families, friends health, safety, security, environment and integrity assurance and colleagues of those involved.
The incident affected many HSSEIA and an expert in delivering high performance from diverse people and sincere thanks are due to those Maersk, Dubai workforces in geographically challenging operational conditions Petroleum and Petrofac staff and all others who responded to the we conduct business in a manner which is consistent with incident so effectively.
An accident investigation is currently being long-established values: being safe: ethical: innovative: costconducted under the direction of the government authorities conscious: responsive to customers and relentlessly focused on of Dubai.
delivering results we provide a quality service to customers and make a positive During the year, 17 major potential hazard events 2007: 24 were contribution to the communities where we operate recorded and although very few of these resulted in personal injury we continue to examine such incidents very carefully in order to During 2008 we revised our CSR-related policies and these are identify and thereby address the underlying causes.
A new again being updated for 2009.
The most recent policies on the group level Review Board was formed during 2008 under the following areas can be viewed in full at www.
com chairmanship of the Group Chief Operating Officer.
This board, Responsibility which meets quarterly, assesses incident and accident Health and safety investigations taking particular note of recommended improvement Security actions and provides challenge and support to the organisation to Integrity assurance ensure effective lessons are learned.
The new driver and passenger Environment code of conduct referred to in the next section was issued as a direct result of the work of this board.
Customer representatives Health, safety and security have also provided input when accidents occur on a location not Being safe is a core Petrofac value.
We have well-established safety under the direct management of Petrofac.
This mutual learning has management systems in each division and during 2008 these were also proved to be beneficial.
complemented by a complete review of group processes and procedures, with the overall objective of cascading improvement Vehicle incidents throughout the Company.
We now have a group-wide Review In 2008 we introduced a code for drivers and passengers travelling Board for Major Hazard Incidents which met quarterly during 2008. in Company vehicles.
This helped to reduce significantly the number of serious or major potential incidents involving vehicles on Recordable incidents project sites or travelling between locations to give a driving The reduction and ultimately the elimination of accidents and incident frequency rate of 0.22 2007: 0.98 major or serious vehicle injuries is a key, albeit demanding, target for the Company.
In 2008, incidents per million kilometres driven.
Driving related accidents are we launched our Horizon Zero initiative across the whole group, a major risk area for the business and the very significant reduction supported by a dedicated online resource area.
A Horizon Zero in vehicle incident frequency rates is both an encouraging and toolkit was issued to all supervisors, containing tools to help raise notable achievement.
The toolkit can be personalised to meet local needs.
The year also saw the launch of the Petrofac Staff welfare Guide to Safety Leadership which provides supervisors with The health and welfare of staff is essential to the smooth operation thoughtful and structured advice for the day-to-day issues they of the business.
Measures are in place to assess the health and may face.
fitness of senior management in all divisions.
The group health programme continues to provide comprehensive medical In 2008, the groups employees and subcontractors completed 67 assessments for those at risk, particularly employees involved in million man-hours 2007: 60 million of activity.
During the year the offshore and overseas assignments.
Health suites manned by group experienced a recordable incident frequency rate of 0.32 per medical professionals are available at the majority of our project 200,000 man-hours 2007: 0.35.
For the sixth year in a row this and operational sites as well as within two of our main operating frequency rate has reduced.
During 2008 a lost time injury centres, in Sharjah and Aberdeen.
frequency rate of 0.03 2007: 0.07 was experienced.
This compares well with industry published data but further action is Safeguarding our people again being taken to continue to improve during the current year.
Our people work in remote and potentially dangerous environments where security can be a real challenge.
We are committed to In Europe, we have maintained an accident and incident database creating a safe working environment for everyone.
for a number of years, which helps us to track events and the actions that arise from them.
This is now being rolled-out across all We were happy with the response of our crisis and of our operations and project locations.
communications processes in the wake of the terrorist attacks in Mumbai in September 2008.
Petrofac had over 500 people in the city including visitors at the time of the attacks and all were quickly accounted for.
50 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 As we committed in last years Report, we have formal environmental Corporate social responsibility management systems for each relevant part of our business and these operate within the framework of BS EN ISO 14001:2004 continued approval.
As part of these approvals our environmental performance is continually assessed by the verifier Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
A comprehensive monthly security briefing is provided to all divisional management teams and this is also factored into the External certification general risk review process as new projects and their locations are During the year, the Emergency Response Service Centre in evaluated.
Further development of systems and procedures to Aberdeen successfully passed its ISO 9001 audit.
This is the only safeguard the security of the Companys staff and subcontractors such centre in the UK and it provides an integrated response will continue during 2009. capability to a range of customers.
The audit demonstrates that the centre has met the ever-growing customer demand for the highest Environment level of excellence.
Protecting the environment remains a priority for the group.
We are committed to conducting operations in a way that In 2008 First Point Assessment Limited FPAL independently minimises our impact, with a target of zero environmental incidents.
assessed the groups Facilities Management business environmental performance and gave a ranking of nine out of ten During 2008 we decided to streamline the decision-making one of the highest ever given to a contractor.
These scores show process and improve accountability across the business by continual improvement since the last certificate was issued in 2006. disbanding the Environmental Committee and devolving responsibility to the Group Head of HSSEIA, who reports to the Integrity assurance Board and has a team of environmentalists positioned throughout It is our responsibility to safeguard everyone associated with the group.
As a result a carbon management steering group has hydrocarbon operations which are designed, constructed, operated, been formed and is led by the Group Head of HSSEIA.
This forum managed or supported by the Company.
Standards have been set is primarily charged with developing our carbon strategy and shall which aim to ensure that no unforeseen process, operational or report progress to the Board during 2009. major hazard events occur as a result of our activities.
A number of environmental initiatives were launched during The more mature assets which we manage continue to present the year.
significant challenges and we are addressing these through a comprehensive approach to asset integrity.
Planet Petrofac Launched in November 2008, Planet Petrofac our gold standard Review Board for the environment is an internal campaign aimed at increasing In 2008 we established an Asset Integrity Review Board which met awareness of environmental issues, improving environmental monthly throughout the year and will continue to do so in 2009. behaviours and minimising the damage that we, as a business and We utilise a traffic light reporting tool to analyse each asset based as individuals, have on the environment.
The campaign has been on a number of process safety factors relating to design, technical supported by extensive communications which focus on the fact and operational integrity.
During the year we completed detailed that small steps can make a big difference.
inspections of the Kittiwake platform, North Sea and Dubai Petroleum assets, UAE which are under Petrofac management and As part of Planet Petrofac, we held our first group-wide will complete inspections of all other assets in 2009.
The findings Environment Month in November 2008.
In previous years, are tracked on a monthly basis and reported to the Review Board, successful environmental initiatives have been held in Sharjah and with the results also being reported to the Board of the Company.
Aberdeen, but this was the first time that activities across the group have been held simultaneously.
Events were organised under four Industry involvement themes: reduce: recycle: educate: and replace.
A huge range We are major players in our industry and seek to contribute our of activities took place, and included the planting of more than experience and expertise in many areas, including asset integrity.
1,000 trees within the locations of Sharjah, Woking, Aberdeen and Chennai.
During 2008 our Group Head of HSSEIA was co-chair of Step Change in Safety, an industry body associated with the oil & gas Carbon footprint industry in the UK.
This organisation is responsible for working We have introduced a focus on our carbon footprint.
Baselines are across the industry with duty-holders and the broader community now established and in 2008, as a group, we emitted 184,844 in the North Sea.
It sets standards for occupational safety and tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO2 2007: 119,576 tCO2.
figures have been independently verified.
Our baselines cover emissions relating to vehicle and construction activity and energy In November, we held a safety conference in Sharjah.
This was usage at our various project and office locations.
This information attended by 75 employees, including the Group Chief Executive also includes our equity ownership activities on a net basis but and many senior managers.
does not include locations where we manage facilities on behalf of our customers.
These statistics are included within our customers own reports.
