The semiconductor industry has changed radically over the past two decades.
In the 1980s the semiconductor manufacturing process was the key to success, with each company claiming to have a superior process.
Today, with world-class chip facilities costing $3 billion or more, specialist foundries have become the source of much semiconductor manufacturing and fabless chip companies abound.
In 2008, the chip design is the key to success.
A new computer era is now upon us, with continuous access to the internet, video, graphics and rich audio becoming the analysts increasingly important to the user.
This new era has been enabled by changes in the way that computer chips are designed and built.
Forty years ago, engineers designed perspective chips one transistor at a time, limiting the complexity and capability of the chip.
Gradually chip design evolved to employing more integrated circuits and then to incorporating by Will Strauss, advanced microprocessors.
Todays chip designers create complex integrated systems-onPresident & Principal Analyst, chip SoCs incorporating multiple processors, graphics and Forward Concepts analog components.
These SoCs enable the growing markets of mobile communications and digital multimedia.
This Forward Concepts is an independent market research market trend strongly favours ARM technology, especially for provider, principally focusing on the semiconductor industry.
consumer products that require long battery life for portability.
Will Strauss is an  authority on Designing everything internally limited the scope of markets driven by digital signal processing technology.
products a chip company could make.
By licensing complete microprocessors, like those from ARM, chip companies found that they could leverage the work of others and bring their products to market faster.
Licensing its processors has enabled ARM to become a major force in the semiconductor industry.
1980s Today Key to success Manufacturing process Design capability Chip design complexity Simple Systems-on-chip Fabrication facility $40 million $3 billion Manufacturing Provided by internal Increasingly fabrication facility outsourced Design Everything developed Some components internally licensed in: some designed internally Partnerships Few Extensive network of partners ARM was not the first company to license processor IP, but from the beginning the company distinguished itself by offering lower-power and smaller technology, making its processors ideal for handheld and portable products.
ARM quickly found a solid home in personal communications and multimedia products.
ARM processors soon became the brains in a variety of devices, but the companys market breakout was in digital cellphones.
With its compact size and energy-conserving design, by the late 1990s the ARM7 family had become the fide facto standard processor in cellphones.
The ARM7 family ARM Holdings plc 9 the analysts perspective continued was originally paired with wireless modems by major cellular By 2008, the demand for increasingly sophisticated chip suppliers and handled the human interface by controlling smartphones, with better video, richer graphics, touchthe keypad, the display, and the address book and calendar.
screen displays and increased connectivity to 3G, Wi-Fi, GPS, As the ARM processor families evolved through successively BlueTooth and even digital TV, has resulted in cellphones more advanced ARM9 and ARM11 family processors, that incorporate five or more ARM technology-based chips.
cellphones gained increased capabilities and began to handle This is clearly a trend that will continue as fourth-generation multimedia functions such as audio and video, evolving into cellular networks enable increased data speeds, even richer the smartphones of todays cellular market.
video experiences over the wireless internet, including new location-based services, video-conferencing and better access With the ARM9 family, the company became a powerhouse to popular social websites like YouTube and Facebook.
in the embedded market of hard disk drive controllers the second-highest unit processor market after cellphones, The recent introduction of the powerful ARM Cortex-A with hard disk shipments now more than 500 million processors also brought signal processing and richer graphics annually.
Chip companies also began to employ ARM to the market.
Companies making chips for cellphones and processors at the heart of their own microcontrollers.
This other portable devices, like personal media players, Mobile engendered competing chip companies, since each could Internet Devices MIDs and so-called netbooks, were quick take advantage of the extensive ARM software tools and to incorporate the Cortex-A processor into their roadmaps.
libraries, but by adding their own peripherals and additional These chips have evolved PC-like functionality.
Personal media software they are able to differentiate their product from players based on the Cortex-A processor began shipping in their competitors.
This enabled OEMs to have multiple 2008 and cellphones, MIDs and netbooks employing the microcontroller suppliers and the lower prices that architecture have been announced by several licensees for competition brings but with a commonality that made it volume production in 2009. easier for software engineers to move from one chip to the The company is also improving the low end with the fastother.
Now, the semiconductor industry has thousands of growing Cortex-R and Cortex-M processors that serve market software programmers who are trained on ARM processors.
segments made popular by the earlier ARM products, but as The improvements in ARM processors were the result of new smaller, more power-efficient processor designs.
designs, also advances in chip manufacturing capabilities that With a continuing focus on reducing development cost, chip allowed ARM processors to become faster and lower-power as companies are looking at outsourcing beyond processor their physical sizes became smaller.
ARMs ability to provide design, enabling more complex designs without growing both low-cost and power-efficient solutions has continued.
To serve this growing demand, ARM has 2 expanded into the physical IP market, providing libraries of Scaling the ARM a way mm licensable elements that are the basic building blocks used in every chip design.
This is a new and evolving market, and there 2 100 are competitive alternatives to ARM technology.
Time will ARM1: 3m: 50mm, 120mW at 6MHz tell the extent to which chip companies choose to outsource ARM6: 1.2m: 15MHz physical IP and whether ARM will be the successful supplier.
10 In 2009 the semiconductor industry will be a challenging business environment.
As well as uncertainty in the world ARM7: 0.6m: 33MHz economy, the semiconductor industry is characterised by ARM7: 0.35m: 47MHz rapid technology change and business model innovation.
1 ARM7: 180nm: 98MHz ARM is well positioned to succeed in an industry that 130nm: 125MHz continues to outsource technology design as complexity Cortex-M3: 90nm: 200MHz and costs increase, and has demonstrated it is an effective Cortex-M3: 65nm: 260MHz 0.1 innovator of both technology and business model.
