Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties The Board recognises that every business activity brings 3.
Commercial risks with it a degree of risk and that Arriva must therefore Uncertainty over the impact of recession and economic manage a range of risks in the course of its activities.
volatility in the UK and mainland Europe We conduct an annual impact assessment to review the The uncertainty over the impact of the recession and the scale and probability of the principal risks to the business.
current economic volatility affects the groups ability to make accurate predictions of passenger demand for bus As part of the ongoing programme of risk assessment and and rail services.
To manage the risk, we are closely management, the following actual and potential risks have monitoring patronage and profitability in addition to the been identified as those which the directors believe could established budgeting and forecasting processes.
We will have a material impact on the long-term value generation of put into effect such remedial action as is practicable if the group.
The factors described below are not intended to significant reductions become apparent.
form a definitive list of all risks and uncertainties.
One of the most significant sets of assumptions in 1.
Market risks constructing a franchise bid relates to general economic Changes in national public transport budgets factors prevailing.
Arrivas balanced portfolio of operations, A considerable proportion of the groups income is derived between bus and rail, and between different countries, directly or indirectly from national public transport budgets.
minimises its exposure to any downturn in individual market Changes in these budgets can have positive or negative sectors.
The revenue risk associated with any potential loss impacts on the groups prospects.
The group continues to of consumer demand from the travelling public is mitigated monitor national public transport budgetary policies in the by the substantial proportion of the groups revenues which countries where it operates, and ensures it is strategically flows from non-passenger sources.
For more information aware in order to understand possible changes, be in a see the how we work section page 5. position to influence them, and react in a timely fashion.
Most tendered net cost contracts require the operator to 2.
Operational risks deliver specified services whilst retaining the income from Meeting health, safety and environmental standards passengers.
In contracts where passenger income The Board recognises the importance to the business, as a represents a significant proportion of total revenue, the public transport operator, of maintaining high standards group is exposed to the risk of passenger revenue being and the consequences of failing to do so.
A safety higher or lower than anticipated.
For more information see committee of the Board oversees the groups health and the how we work section page 4.
Historically, passenger safety policy and the arrangements for its implementation revenue growth is highly correlated with growth in local and reporting.
The Arriva environmental management economies.
Our UK CrossCountry rail contract is a system holds a senior manager accountable in each particularly large contract with these characteristics.
Monitoring of environmental performance is Arriva is committed to reducing government financial carried out by a corporate responsibility committee which support on this franchise to almost zero before the end of includes senior representatives of all group businesses the franchise in 2016.
To deliver anticipated returns, and reports to the groups executive committee.
over eight per cent annual revenue growth in real terms For more information see corporate responsibility will be required, a considerable proportion of which is section pages 36 to 47. dependent on economic growth.
The financial risk is partially mitigated by a revenue risk sharing mechanism in the contract, which takes effect from 2011.
34 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The principal financial arrangements are: Commodity risk The groups fuel hedging policy reduces the potential Percentage shortfall Revenue disruptive effect of short-term fluctuations in the cost of fuel on target revenue support and provides time to manage the business effectively in the light of longer-term price trends.
It is set out in detail in the 0 2% Nil financial review.
2 6% 50% Currency risk Exchange rate variations, principally between sterling and 6% and higher 80% the euro, affect the reported amounts of euro-based profits These risk mitigating factors are mirrored when targeted and assets, and also the groups overall level of net debt.
The financial review provides more details on these effects during 2008.
The group policy on foreign exchange Throughout the franchise, revenue support may also be exposure is that the risk of translating non-UK assets and available if the dominant cause of a qualifying revenue liabilities into sterling should be reduced to around 50 per shortfall is a Force Majeure event, such as severe flooding.
cent of the balance sheet exposure.
Availability of finance during turbulence in financial markets For more details on the above three items see the financial Recent turbulence in financial markets has impacted the review page 30. amount and price of credit available to companies.
If current conditions in the banking market endure for a Retirement benefit obligations prolonged period of years, a reduction in available finance Increased retirement benefit obligations may require at sensible margins could restrict capital expenditure and additional contributions to be made by companies to state investment in acquisitions, reducing the short-term growth or other schemes.
Such contributions could have a material prospects for the business.
The groups available facilities at impact on the group.
We perform regular pension strategy 31 December 2008 are set out in the financial review reviews with the groups pension advisors, and monitor page 32, and are adequate for the foreseeable future.
developments in group pension schemes and state schemes where we operate.
Franchise tender acquisition costing and revenue forecasting 5.
Other risks Errors or inaccurate assumptions in tenders or acquisitions Changes in transport legislation and or regulation represent a risk to the business.
A number of procedures This is a risk that faces Arriva in every country in which are in place to mitigate this risk.
The Board monitors all material new franchise, tender and The group has procedures in place to ensure effective acquisition submissions across the groups operations, liaison with appropriate officials at national and European whilst the executive directors review other bids on an Union levels, and monitors developments for timely ongoing basis in line with delegated authority limits.
Standard tender models are in use across the business.
In the UK, the Local Transport Act has received Royal Significant bus and train tender contracts are compared Assent.
The government is also considering amendments with current experience to identify weaknesses and to the Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG.
These planned potential improvements in the tender process.
and potential changes could have a significant impact on Post-investment appraisals are carried out through quarterly the UK bus industry.
Arriva, alongside other UK bus business review meetings.
operators, is monitoring the development of legislation in Acquisitions this area and representing the best long-term interests of Arriva has clearly-defined guidelines for due diligence work the industry and its customers.
and internal reporting on potential acquisitions, which Succession planning for key managerial positions require the monitoring of such items by the executive Arriva is a fast-growing company in many markets.
directors subject to delegated authority limits.
Sale and The group has a stable senior management population but purchase agreements include price adjustment an inability to fill a significant proportion of senior vacancies mechanisms and warranties, as appropriate.
could have an adverse impact on the groups future 4.
An executive development programme and a As noted in the financial review, the groups financial risks succession planning process are in place at all locations, are managed by the group treasury function in accordance as is a process for identifying emerging home-grown with a formal Board approved treasury policy.
Interest rate risk Fluctuations in interest rates are managed through the use of interest rate derivatives and the level of fixed rate debt.
35 Corporate responsibility Moving forward responsibly Every day across Europe millions of people rely on Arriva to Policies which set out the way we do business are get them to work, school and college: to visit friends and published in the corporate responsibility section of the family: to access public services: to go shopping and to group website, www.
The principles are have fun.
Our buses, trains and ferries are essential explained in a new Code of Business Conduct to which all services operated by people who live in the communities our employees are expected to adhere.
Arrivas corporate responsibility committee, which Our social impact falls under four main themes.
includes senior managers from all three operational divisions, guides the groups approach.
Safety how we minimise risk for our passengers the committee will pass to Bob Holland, managing and employees director of our UK Trains division, on the retirement of executive director Steve Clayton in April 2009.
Community how Arriva plays an active role in the areas in which we work Well-managed public transport is vital for the wider sustainability of the societies in which we live and work.
People how we work to engage and empower the We work with stakeholders, including trans-national, people running our services national and local government bodies across Europe, to achieve our shared aims: providing essential services 4.
Environment how we measure and mitigate the and minimising any adverse effects.
impact of our operations 36 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 1.
Safety The safety of our customers and employees is our primary concern.
It is at the core of our values and is built in to our operating procedures.
Employee injuries per 100 employed % The safety performance of our services across Europe are 2.0 regularly reviewed by the Board Safety Committee.
During 1.8 2008 the committee was chaired by non-executive director 1.6 Veronica Palmer who retires in April 2009 and will be 1.4 replaced by non-executive director Steve Williams.
1.2 1.0 Our approach to safety management includes specific 0.8 training for senior operational managers, employees and 0.6 supervisory staff.
Much of the training is externally 0.4 accredited by the Institute of Occupational Safety and 0.2 Health IOSH, Europes leading body for health and 0 safety professionals.
We are also recognised as being Bus Rail Group one of the leaders in road risk management in the UK bus and coach industry.
2007 2008 An employee injury is where any person employed by the company at the time We provide employees with training including, where of the incident suffered physical harm or mental trauma as a result of an incident appropriate, a safe approach to driving, customer care arising from Arriva work activity, not including physical assaults.
Operational locations are subject to periodic internal safety and standards audits.
Snapshots from 2008 Putting safety first In the UK in 2008 the first time pass rate for Arriva buses in the VOSA PSV vehicle test was 94.5 per cent, To enhance the safety and security of our an improvement from 93.2 per cent in 2007. employees and passengers, 81 per cent of our UK buses are now fitted with CCTV systems, up from 66 per cent at the end of 2007 In London we produced a DVD to highlight known Fault incidents per 100,000 km bus accident blackspots, with tips on defensive % driving.
It has now been incorporated into training 2.0 for new drivers and ongoing refresher training 1.8 1.6 In north east England, a record of five years 1.4 continuous improvement won us two gold awards 1.2 from the Royal Society for the Prevention of 1.0 Accidents RoSPA for Occupational Health and 0.8 Management of Road Risk 0.6 In Wales we ran an eye-catching superhero 0.4 campaign, backed by RoSPA, to improve safety 0.2 on trains and at railway stations and to combat 0 Bus Rail Group anti-social behaviour 2007 2008 A fault incident is where our driver or the condition of our vehicle, contributes to a loss, damage or injury.
In Italy, travelling safely was a key theme in summer Turn to the directors workshops which introduced many families to bus report on page 50 for more information on KPIs use for the first time 37 Corporate responsibility continued 2.
Community Reliable services are essential to the communities we serve.
A key measure is the proportion of our planned mileage that we operate.
In 2008, we managed to improve on an already strong performance of 99.1 per cent in 2007, with 99.2 per cent of the 649 million scheduled miles operated excluding the impact of traffic congestion in our London operation.
Turn to the directors report on page 50 for more information on KPIs Scheduled mileage operated % 100 99 98 Sarah Czyrko, from our CrossCountry rail 97 operation in the UK, spent a week in Cornwall 96 helping disadvantaged youngsters have a holiday 95 of a lifetime.
She was working as a volunteer with 94 CrossCountrys adopted charity - Country 93 Holidays for Inner City Kids CHICKS.
92 CrossCountry provides free rail travel to 91 underprivileged children visiting the CHICKS 90 holiday centres.
The charity also receives donations Bus Rail Group from CrossCountry employees through a variety 2007 2008 of fundraising activities.
Sarah supported the youngsters as they tried out We and our employees support community organisations, games, outdoor activities and crafts, which many including charities, schools, neighbourhood groups and of them would never experience without help from sports clubs.
Young people and their safety, education and CHICKS and its supporters.
traning are at the core of many of our community activities.
38 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Snapshots from 2008 Making a difference In the UK we support many of our employees Across the UK, Arrivas Getting to School pack has community activities with financial donations and now been used by more than 250 schools.
In 2008 more than 25 awards from the The pack, created alongside education experts and Arriva Community Action Awards scheme helped teachers, is a curriculum linked resource for teachers organisations including hospices, charities, of seven to 11-year-olds.
It includes a range of sports clubs and community groups activities supporting maths, science and social and environmental awareness all with a bus Two employees were recognised with special travel theme awards for their outstanding contributions.
In July 2008 Liverpool bus driver Tom Gannon completed a 200 mile, five-day, sponsored walk for the Rhys Jones Memorial Cup Trust, to raise funds for a community centre in memory of the murdered schoolboy.
Joy Lynes of Arriva Trains Wales was recognised for her outstanding fundraising for St Michaels Hospice, Hereford.
Since 2000 Joy has raised over 42,000 for the hospice which cared for her niece as she battled cancer In Scotland, Arriva donated a vehicle for use as a community youth bus in conjunction with Renfrewshire Council, the YMCA, and police and fire services to help combat vandalism and anti-social behaviour Work by our SAF business to support literacy among young people continued in Italys Medio Fruili region, with the provision of a story bus which transports children to local libraries and on which they can In Germany, more than 1,000 people got a closer listen to stories look at Arriva Deutschlands ODEG rail business when the company invited neighbours to an open Our work to promote health awareness in Liverpool, day at its Eberswalde workshop.
Local charities also through the Healthy Schools Bus project with Everton benefited from an auction of lost property Football Club and the city council took a new step forward with the introduction of a second bus.
In its Concern for the community also runs beyond the first 18 months the first Healthy Schools Bus made immediate neighbourhood.
In Italy, our SAB business over 250 school visits and helped more than 8,000 provided a bus to support 10 drivers giving up part primary school children increase their understanding of their holiday to help build and refurbish a series of the benefits of healthy eating and an active lifestyle of orphanages in the Ukraine an initiative the drivers have supported for a number of years.
Likewise in Through our membership of the Princes Trust Mallorca, our involvement boosted a campaign to Get Into Railways group, we work with other rail raise awareness of malnutrition in Africa industry organisations to support training and employment opportunities.
Support for young Improving accessibility to our services for people people in 2008 included backing for offshore with restricted mobility has progressed.
In the UK rowers, netballers and a social and football club for the proportion of accessible low floor vehicles in our young people with learning disabilities in Wales UK bus fleet increased to 74 per cent in 2008 from 67 per cent in 2007, and will improve further as a Arriva Trains Wales gained national recognition for result of our 2009 investment plans work with young offenders in making environmental improvements at five stations, while our Platform for Art Our CrossCountry rail franchise, which does not initiative involved schoolchildren in producing operate any of the stations at which its trains call, murals at stations, helping to generate has introduced a service to help those who need community pride assistance, for mobility or other reasons, in getting on and off trains, wherever they are travelling 39 Corporate responsibility continued Customer satisfaction Arrivas TST business in Portugal saw passenger Feedback on the experience of our passengers in using our satisfaction increase 19 per cent from 2007 to 2008 services is vital to ensuring we meet their requirements for from 55.4 to 66.0 per cent with 97 per cent of customers security, reliability and good value.
intending to continue using the service and 95 per cent happy to recommend to family and friends.
Across the group, from Scandinavia to Portugal, we have been listening to what our customers think about our In the UK the latest survey by official representative body services and working to improve the experience of travelling Passenger Focus saw 86 per cent of Arriva Trains Wales with Arriva.
passengers rating services satisfactory or good, while CrossCountry scored 84 per cent both higher than the At our suggestion, we have been the first operator in national average.
Scandinavia to have customer satisfaction measures included in our contracts in both Sweden and Denmark.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, the Public Performance Measure PPM which measures punctuality In December 2008 passengers on Arrivas Danish trains was 92.5 per cent for Arriva Trains Wales, up from 91.8 per recorded an all time high satisfaction rating of 80.2 per cent.
For CrossCountry, the 2008 PPM increased to On our buses in the Greater Copenhagen area average 89.6 per cent, from 86.3 per cent in 2007 based on best likesatisfaction in 2008 was 80.6 per cent, up slightly on 2007. for-like estimates for the remapped franchise.
In Sweden passengers on most of our bus services In 2008 through the GfK NOP market research group we recorded higher levels of satisfaction, with ratings ranging surveyed almost 20,000 UK bus passengers, maintaining from 71 per cent to 83 per cent.
On our Swedish trains the 91 per cent satisfaction rating recorded in 2007. passenger satisfaction was 67 per cent, up two percentage The business continues to strive to improve on this points on the previous year.
40 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3.
People Arrivas 43,500 employees including share of associate Our approach to training and development includes companies in 12 countries represent a diverse range of providing a wide range of learning resources covering backgrounds and cultures, and make us a significant technical skills, health and safety, customer service, people employer in many areas.
Our leaders, managers and supervisors are critical in ensuring our Our aim is to provide a supportive, respectful working employees welfare and we invest heavily in their training environment in which all receive the training and and development.
Succession planning and individually development that will enable them to fulfil their tailored development plans help us build and retain the true potential.
skills which will help move the business forward.
We work hard to develop partnerships with our employees, trades unions and works councils.
Employee surveys and regular communications such as company newsletters, open forums, road shows and websites, help us to listen to Employee turnover our employees.
The majority of our workforce is covered by % collective arrangements on working conditions and we 25 make provision for employee representatives to receive appropriate training and fulfil official union business.
Arrivas 20 European Works Council provides a formal group-wide update 15 on operations and business performance for employee representatives.
It is also a valuable opportunity for sharing 10 best-practice and visiting operations in other countries.
5 A whistleblowing facility enables employees to raise any 0 Bus Rail Group serious concerns in complete confidence if they believe malpractice is occurring, health and safety standards are 2007 2008 being compromised, or in instances of victimisation, discrimination or harassment.
The facility was cited as an Annualised employee turnover excludes employees leaving as a consequence of tender loss or sale of operations.
example of best practice in PwCs Best Practice in Corporate Governance Reporting publication in December 2008.
Arrivas graduate development programme involves a While increasing slightly in 2008, employee turnover is not series of hands-on work placements and an opportunity to uncommon for the transport industry.
experience Arrivas operations away from the trainees home country.
Graduates are encouraged to build networks with their colleagues in other countries and are mentored by senior managers.
The 18-month scheme now has graduates from Denmark, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Sweden and the UK.
Over three years 49 graduates Employee non-attendance have been recruited with a retention rate of 80 per cent.
% 7 6 5 Turn to the directors report on page 50 for more 4 information on KPIs 3 2 1 0 Bus Rail Group 2007 2008 Industrial action affecting Dutch bus operators contributed to an increase in non-attendance in 2008.
41 Corporate responsibility continued Graduate programme drives career forward operational, commercial and HR skills and operational Former graduate trainee Kim Purcell has become the experience as deputy manager at the Stockton depot.
youngest, and first female, bus depot manager for Arriva in north east England.
At 24-years-old, the business and Kim said: I hadnt considered a career in transport until marketing graduate took on responsibility for 175 drivers I saw the diversity of the graduate programme and Arrivas and 15 office and clerical staff at Stockton-on-Tees.
It was a very intense 18 months and incredibly Kim started the graduate programme at the companys valuable working in lots of different roles.
Its also important Blyth depot which included working as a bus driver.
for my team to know I understand what it is like being a She then worked at Arriva North Easts head office gaining bus driver.
Snapshots from 2008 Skilled and dedicated people The companys commitment to management In the 2008 Rail Staff Awards, CrossCountrys development was recognised at the UKs inaugural Catriona Whitehead was awarded the Station Staff Passenger Transport Management Awards where of the Year award for assisting a stranded passenger Arriva people took five of the 10 top awards.
Edinburgh-based Catriona won the Former graduate trainee James Higlett, now prestigious award after coming top of a poll voted assistant engineering manager at Arriva Southern for by colleagues from across the industry Counties, was one of three named Young Passenger Transport Professionals of the Year.
Arrivas director of transport policy development Tony Depledge was given a Lifetime Achievement award for his contribution to the public transport industry, while Geraint Morgan, Arriva Trains Wales community affairs manager was singled out for recognition with the Industry Ambassador award.
Arriva Yorkshires Chloe Leach won the Marketeer of the Year title, and Mike Topping of Arriva North West was named an Unsung Hero for dedication over a career spanning almost 50 years Arriva Midlands graduate trainee Andrew Grierson Arrivas UK Bus business embraced the new driver won national recognition with a 1,500 award from Certificate of Professional Competence, with a the UK bus industrys Chris Moyes Scholarship Trust group of new drivers completing the qualification on to progress his study of access to and from airports the day it was introduced 42 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 4.
Environment Our aim is for well planned and well run public transport In 2008 the greenhouse gas emissions attributable to Arrivas networks to create a virtuous circle.
If more people are business operations amounted to 1,488,878 tonnes CO E, 2 encouraged to use buses and trains, reduced congestion an increase in absolute terms of 438,880 tonnes CO E 2 on our roads can in turn help the smooth operation of on 2007.
This increase reflects the significant additional public transport, thereby improving its attractiveness.
services run by Arriva during 2008, particularly a full year of A beneficial by-product of reduced congestion is the more operations for the CrossCountry rail franchise in the UK and efficient use of fuel and reduced emissions.
new bus businesses acquired in the UK, Spain, Hungary and Slovakia.
Alongside our efforts to minimise the environmental impact of our operations we are working to increase general One of the challenges of reporting greenhouse gas awareness of the environmental credentials of public emissions is finding a consistently workable means of transport and encourage its use.
'normalising' the absolute figure for emissions, i. e. enabling stakeholders to compare changes in the absolute CO E 2 This growing awareness was illustrated in our 2008 survey figure against changes in the overall scale of the business.
of almost 20,000 bus passengers in the UK where The chart below shows Arrivas greenhouse gas footprint 42 per cent of respondents said they had changed their normalised against group revenue for the past three years.
travel patterns to use the bus more.
Of those, 61 per cent In order to strip out the effects of inflation, which tend to cited environmental considerations as the sole or a flatter the rate of progress, the right-hand bar for each contributory reason for doing so.
reported year depicts a real terms comparison, with greenhouse gas emissions divided by group revenue Greenhouse gas footprint adjusted by changes in the sterling retail price index.
In 2008 Arriva set itself a challenge of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions footprint by 15 per cent, like-for-like, from the 2006 level, by 2012.
Total greenhouse gas emissions The main focus in addressing this challenge is addressing 1.6 the emissions from vehicle fuel, which was responsible for 94.6 per cent of our greenhouse gas footprint in 2008.
1.4 In addition, programmes are being implemented to improve 1.2 the carbon-efficiency of our depots and other facilities.
1.0 We are adopting a twin-pronged approach in reducing the 0.8 impact of transport fuel.
We are using technology and training to help bus and train drivers to improve fuel 0.6 consumption, and increasing our use of alternative fuels 0.4 which have a lower carbon impact than traditional diesel.
0.2 In order to deliver the overall reduction, these measures 0 have to offset the increased fuel consumption of newer 2006 2007 2008 buses and trains, which has been a side effect of improving local air quality, and increased vehicle weights resulting Normalised greenhouse from enhanced passenger comfort and safety.
gas emissions For example, we estimate new buses introduced in the UK 700 increased fuel consumption in 2008 by 1,456,000 litres, 600 representing 3,892 tonnes of CO equivalent CO E. 2 2 500 Arrivas greenhouse gas target was set against the 400 background of European Union aims to have biofuels make up 10 per cent of transport fuel by 2020 with some countries 300 aiming for even higher use.
Since Arriva published its 200 targets the debate regarding the sustainability of biofuels has intensified and a further EU review is currently 100 underway.
Clarity on the policy approach regarding the 0 viability and sustainability of various alternative fuels would 2006 2007 2008 assist in the longer-term planning of greenhouse gas Nominal terms Real terms reduction strategies.
43 Tonnes CO E m revenue Million tonnes of CO E 2 2 Corporate responsibility continued 1.9% 0.3% 3.2% some countries include commercial incentives to adopt alternative fuels.
A significant increase in the deployment of biofuels would be dependent on consistently supportive Bus fleet public policy regimes.
Train fleet In Germany, Arriva has experience of running modern trains Other with 100 per cent biodiesel dating back to 2004.
In the Berlin 34.3% 60.3% Non-fleet vehicle area the conversion of 25 trains to run on B100 biodiesel Site energy has delivered an annual saving of 5,900 tonnes of CO, 2 consumption while at our operation in north eastern Germany 32 trains running on B100 biodiesel deliver an annual saving of 9,300 tonnes of CO compared to mineral diesel.
2 In the UK, the diesel we use to run our bus fleet has a five For the last three years Arriva has submitted returns to the per cent biofuel content and in Portugal we have 240 buses Carbon Disclosure Project CDP - an independent running on B30 biodiesel, a blend of 30 per cent biofuel not-for-profit organisation which holds the largest database and 70 per cent mineral diesel.
We are also increasing our of corporate climate change information in the world.
use of biofuel for buses in Germany where more than Arrivas CDP returns are available at www.
two-thirds of our bus fuel is now B100.
Alternative fuels In southern Sweden, Arriva is using bio-gas produced by a Given the finite and diminishing reserves of fossil oil, landfill facility next to our Helsingborg depot to fuel a fleet of Arriva has a keen interest in vehicle propulsion systems 61 buses, thereby reducing the impact on fossil oil which may power our buses and trains in a post-diesel age.
In Dordrecht, in the Netherlands, Arriva is set to Different propulsion systems may well be suited to different introduce buses fuelled by bio-methane gas generated geographical regions and political environments.
For instance, in places with abundant renewable electric power from hydroelectric schemes, geothermal wind or In March 2009 Arriva introduced 43 new buses fuelled by wave power, electric propulsion will be high on the agenda.
E95 bio-ethanol, derived from sugar cane, other crops and Ethanol derived from wood cellulose is only likely to be waste wood cellulose, to our fleet in Stockholm.
appropriate in heavily forested regions where the raw The use of compressed natural gas CNG and liquid material is both accessible and renewable.
propane gas LPG reduce the carbon monoxide, nitrous Manufacturers of buses propelled by hybrid diesel electric oxides, particulates and hydrocarbons emissions motors estimate fuel savings of 30 per cent with a resultant significantly, compared to diesel-powered buses.
reduction in CO emissions in comparison to a bus 2 In Scandinavia, Arriva is using CNG and LPG in various powered by fossil diesel.
urban operating areas, while in Trutnov in the Czech Republic our Osnado business is operating buses fuelled While the technology and economics of diesel electric by CNG.
hybrid propulsion are yet to be fully proven, Arriva has been active in trials of the first hybrid double decker in London.
In Italy, Arriva continues to deploy an emulsified diesel with This prototype has covered 10,000 miles providing a 10 per cent water content, where engine technology valuable learning ground for the technology.
Five second permits, on older vehicles.
This reduces particulate generation series hybrid vehicles which followed began emissions by over 50 per cent, nitrogen oxides by five to six service with Arriva London in February 2009. per cent, and carbon monoxide by over 30 per cent.
Improving the emissions of older vehicles is important due In addition six new buses equipped with a parallel hybrid to the long life of buses compared to cars.
Their longer system, where both the diesel and electric motors can lifespan makes good use of the energy, materials and other directly drive the transmission, are being introduced to the natural resources used in construction.
Arriva London fleet from March 2009.
In the Dutch region of Groningen Drenthe Arriva Further experience of hybrid technology has been gained introduced 10 buses to operate on the busiest routes in from our trial on park-and-ride services in West Sussex and Groningen fuelled on gas produced from domestic waste, in Copenhagen where in 2008 we were awarded a contract while in the Friesland Leeuwarden region Arriva has 23 to operate a fleet of 11 electric buses in the city centre.
Arriva has gained a wide range of experience in the application of biofuels in differing operating environments with varied climatic and network conditions.
The adoption of biofuels has supported public policy objectives of regional, national and international institutions which in 44 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Eco-driving The way buses and trains are driven has a big impact on UK regional bus operations.
While being installed in all fuel consumption and exhaust emissions.
driver-training vehicles in the UK, Eco-manager is being fitted to all our new buses in the UK and retro-fitted to a further Over the last 18 months Arriva has developed a bespoke 1,400 buses during 2009.
In all, more than 2,000 of our UK system known as Eco-manager which, combined with driver vehicles are set to have Eco-manager by the end of 2009. training, is helping our drivers to improve fuel efficiency.
Passenger research also points to improved customer Equivalent technology is in use on Arriva trains in Bavaria, satisfaction as a result of smoother acceleration and and at our TST bus business in Portugal we are extending braking.
The system includes a real time display to prompt the use of an alternative system developed with industrial the driving techniques covered in the training.
and academic partners which has delivered benefits in part of the fleet.
The systems black box produces detailed reports enabling comparison between different vehicles on the Many other fuel saving and emissions-control initiatives are same route, different driving styles in the same vehicle and being built into good engineering, servicing and operational a particular vehicle types performance on different routes.
Even those with modest effects can help the big picture.
Training begins with a video presentation and a coaching session to become familiar with the system.
Each month Arrivas investment in new vehicles continues to increase the record for each driver shows their performance against the proportion of buses and trains which meet the more the depot average and the best performing driver.
Since 1992 the European are available to give individual training for those who need Union has introduced a series of emission standards the most support.
setting the permitted levels of exhaust pollutants for new vehicles.
The maximum limits for carbon monoxide, During 2008 the trial was widened to 500 vehicles, and hydrocarbons, nitrous oxides and particulate matter indicated an overall fuel saving of 12 per cent.
Based on emissions defined in the standards from Euro I in 1992 this, and an assumption of fuel economy improvements of through to Euro V in 2008 have become progressively five to 10 per cent in normal operating conditions, Arriva lower with each phase of the standard.
has committed to roll out the system and training across its 45
