Corporate social responsibility Our responsibilities are at the core of our business.
116,000 The PCSP has donated over 116,000 to 37 local organisations.
Our aim Employer of choice As the largest pub company in the UK, Punch Taverns takes We continue to attract top calibre people to join our support its corporate responsibilities to the wider community and the teams, manage our Spirit pubs and lease our Punch pubs and industry very seriously.
we achieve this in a number of different ways.
We ensure that our head office, our operators, field teams, The attractive packages for Head Office personnel include managers and licensees share our commitment to local competitive basic pay, market leading bonus opportunities and a communities and the environment and we strive to be the comprehensive benefits package, including the option to participate employer of choice and the leader in our market.
in our award winning Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Our employees can also take advantage of our wide-ranging internal training and We continue to be active members of a number of industry bodies development offer.
A dedicated Reward Team ensures that our and work hard to ensure our companys voice is heard on all packages are constantly reviewed and amended to ensure our key issues.
overall offer remains in line or ahead of the competition.
In addition to role specific reward packages, all of our direct Pub is the Hub employees receive two discount vouchers with every payslip, A high proportion of our leased and managed estates is made providing 50% discount for employees and a third off for friends up of community pubs, each forming an integral part of local and family eating and drinking in a Spirit pub.
On average, they each host at least one club or team which means a huge number of people getting together every week in The acquisition of Spirit provided us with the opportunity to join our pubs to share in a communal activity.
Valuable local jobs are together the strongest elements from the leased and the managed also provided to the community, often including flexible shift work businesses, to create one company to deliver great performance which is in high demand.
in a happy and healthy working environment.
This will culminate in the opening of our new Head office in Burton in the summer Pubs in remote and rural areas have been impacted by younger of 2009. people needing to leave villages due to house prices and commuters using services away from their home.
Its a great loss to the A highlight of 2008 was the launch of our PROUD team community when a rural or village pub closes and we fully support values across the Group.
Standing for Pride, Respect, One team, the drive to save the great British pub.
Understanding and Do it once, Do it right, our values have been creatively launched and embedded across both businesses.
This has We support the Pub is the Hub scheme that encourages local been supported by the launch of a new, group-wide, recognition pubs, which may have lost their position at the heart of the programme known as PROUD.
Our PROUD Awards utilise four community, to win this back with improved services and facilities.
award levels to recognise positive behaviours and results which Such schemes have seen our pubs provide hot school dinners support our values.
The highest three award levels reward individuals for local children, open Post Office counters, open grocery stores with cash amounts, but to maximise impact, the base level uses a and sell fresh produce over the bar.
scratchcard system with prizes ranging from a 25 Spirit voucher to a 1,500 holiday.
This is a powerful way of saying thank you Supporting good causes to our employees.
Our pubs are great fundraisers, generating millions every year for local good causes.
As well as the cash contribution, they deliver In response to employee requests for greater transparency an immeasurable amount of support in providing meeting places, of reward packages, we produced Total Reward Statements for venues and sponsorship in many different forms.
all of our salaried employees this year.
Distributed to over 3,000 employees, the statements outlined the full value of the pay and During the last year we have adopted a local approach to benefits package provided as part of their employment with Punch.
our corporate support of charities and good causes and have The statements also contained information on benefits in which the established the Punch Community Spirit Project PCSP.
From the employees were entitled to participate, but currently did not utilise, end of 2007 onwards, all of our Head Office fundraising which in order to ensure our employees were maximising the value of their includes a Summer BBQ for employees and their families and a employment in return for their commitment to the business.
Christmas Ball, has been pooled into this one worthy project.
Community groups and charities from within a 15 mile radius of Burton are invited to apply for funding and four times a year our Committee meets to allocate the cash weve accumulated.
13 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review continued The Chequers Inn, Woolmer Green Over the last five years Marian Darter at The Corporate social Chequers Inn, Woolmer Green has raised over 50,000 for local charities with her annual bike ride.
Together with her customers she supports charities chosen by a committee of regulars.
Their nominated responsibility charity over the last two years has been the Herts continued Air Ambulance Appeal, raising 17,000 last year and 18,000 this year.
817 In their first year our team of Catering Executives have helped 817 licensees to implement a new or improved food offer.
Maintaining a high calibre team Our new Pub Managers progress through an awarding winning In June 2007 we introduced a strong Leadership Framework induction programme that consists of time with one of our New supported by the industry leading Authentic Leadership training Beginnings coaches and then three separate residential courses and development programme.
Since its introduction we have seen held at our Spirit Academy.
This year saw 130 new managers start a significant return on our investment and are witnessing greatly their Academy journey with 230 delegates in total benefiting from improved leadership skills in our people and engagement of team the three stages.
Employees have reported some real improvements in the way in which they are led, which has The Academy offer for BDMs starts with a four week induction promoted greater capability, achievement and retention.
and continues with a development programme tailored to their individual requirements.
This year saw the launch of the Authentic Every member of our Head Office team has a Personal Leadership programme with 35 of our BDMs attending the two Development Review PDR twice a year to set and review day course followed up with bespoke development plans including objectives and to discuss their future development and career coaching and mentoring.
We advertise vacant positions internally and encourage employees to move within the Group.
We are growing our own Supporting our licensees talent and have succession planning at all levels of the business Our commitment to providing training and ensuring that the to help us retain talent and maximise personal development.
highest standards are delivered in our pubs is extended to the licensees in our leased estate.
Training in our managed business At the heart of Spirits Training Academy offer is a commitment All licensees joining Punch are enrolled on the Modern Licensed to ensuring every customer leaves wanting to return.
We help Retailing MLR course, a 10 day workshop which provides the our employees develop the skills they need to play their role in necessary qualifications and delivers both business and industry enhancing our business whilst developing their own career paths.
This year we introduced a new module, ACE, which is an in pub workshop delivering advanced cellar The award winning Spirit Academy offers training and development management skills.
at all levels, from Team Players front of house and kitchen staff, Deputy Managers, Kitchen Managers and Pub Managers through At the start of the year we refreshed our welcome materials and to Business Development Managers BDMs, all delivered through introduced the Punch Pub Pack.
This consists of a detailed reference on-the-job coaching and formal workshops.
guide to Punchs policies, procedures and support services and an outline for the first six months of business meetings to ensure that Our award winning PLAYERS programme helps Team Players our Business Relationship Managers BRMs cover key topics with progress to Assistant Manager level.
This is a key part of our new licensees.
commitment to attracting the best people into these important customer facing roles.
We know that licensees with many years experience can still benefit from additional skills and we continue to run a programme This year has seen the launch of our Enhance workshops, a suite of additional, profit generating and skills workshops.
The latest of seven workshops designed to develop our Deputy and Kitchen addition, Profit Through Beer, has helped attendees to improve the Managers in areas such as Financial and Business Acumen, Stepping quality and success of their beer offer it has been an overwhelming into Leadership and Driving Optimum Sales Performance.
Each success with 98% of participants recommending the course.
of the 239 delegates this year left with an action plan for their pub which is followed up through reviews with their BDMs.
com Richard Jakeman of The Kings Arms, Stainton, Penrith Richard Jakeman of the Kings Arms, Stainton has retained a Post Office for the people of his village with support from Punch and Pub is the Hub.
Richard moved the former village Post Office, previously located at his own house on the outskirts of the village, to the Kings Arms, situated right in the centre of the village.
Its in a much more central and convenient location now and more people take the opportunity to use it, says Richard.
The barn at the side of the pub was converted into the Post Office, and now supplies a selection of newspapers, magazines, cards and convenience items to local people.
9,000 During the year we reduced our electricity usage by 9% saving 9,000 tonnes of carbon.
We researched the views of a childrens consumer panel We recognise that customers visiting our venues expect a when preparing the new menus seeking their views on vegetables, welcoming, safe and clean environment in which to relax salads and meals with controlled salt levels.
The expertise gained over many years in the Spirit business is being We take our responsibility seriously and have policies in place which passed to our leased estate through regionally appointed Catering ensure that all our licensees are fully equipped to operate their Executives who are working with our licensees to develop their pubs safely and within the law.
We are continuing to work closely food offers.
with our industry body, the British Beer and Pub Association BBPA, on responsible retailing initiatives.
Commitment to the environment We recognise our environmental responsibilities and continually Challenge 21 and responsible sales explore new ways to minimise any negative impact of our working Every pub within the Spirit managed estate operates Challenge 21 practices on the environment.
In conjunction with the Carbon Trust and all employees are trained to ask customers who appear 21 and Enviros, we have embarked on a major programme to reduce or under for a recognised form of ID to prove their age before our carbon footprint by 17% by 2010 and increase energy they are served an alcoholic drink.
This scheme has been widely efficiency within both our leased and managed businesses.
promoted to our leased estate and now forms part of our annual due diligence check.
A dedicated Carbon Team and Carbon Manager are in place to drive this programme.
After a successful trial within our managed We are Portman Group signatories and follow the industry estate we have introduced smart meters to monitor usage and guidelines on responsible pricing and drinks promotion within reduce costs in all of our Spirit pubs.
This has been supported by our managed estate.
Managers are trained to ensure that they a behavioural change programme to control the amount of energy and their team are not selling alcohol to people who are drunk consumed by the pubs, which involved the majority of Spirit pub and how to manage difficult situations if they occur.
We promote managers attending carbon workshops.
We produced a DVD the same practices within our leased estate, advising our licensees on carbon initiatives and we have replaced the majority of in their introductory training courses to follow guidelines from the lightbulbs in our managed estate with energy efficient bulbs.
We regularly follow-up and repeat this advice in workshops, communications regarding sales and marketing opportunities and We have been sharing what weve learnt with our leased pubs in our regular newsletters.
through our newsletter and BRMs.
One of the biggest benefits of energy control is reduced operating costs and many of our We believe that the pub industry has done, and continues to do, leased pubs are buying into cost saving activities such as fitting a great deal to support responsible retailing.
The on-trade provides timers on electrical appliances and installing insulation.
a controlled environment in which alcohol is served and we believe that it is now time for the off-trade to behave more responsibly.
Closer to home The Green Team and Green Committee continue to ensure that Healthy options we implement similar energy saving initiatives in our Burton upon Customers visiting our managed pubs want a broad choice of Trent offices.
We encourage all our employees to turn lights and menus and where there is a demand we are providing healthier other equipment off when not in use, weve installed energy options.
As a result, our dishes have no genetically modified saving hand driers and introduced recycling points throughout ingredients with reduced levels of salt and hydrogenated vegetable the building.
Weve also started work on a new low carbon head oils.
Menus at the premium end provide a focus on provenance, office, in Burton.
Full details of our Corporate Social Responsibility commitments We continue to take our responsibility to serve great quality are available at www.
com and great value to our customers very seriously.
Families are very important to our managed pubs and we have developed a healthy childrens menu which encourages kids to eat a balanced 15 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review
