21 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 coRpoRAte AND sociAL RespoNsiBiLitY stAteMeNt THE ENVIRONMENT the Group is a major producer of silicon wafers for incorporation into solar cells that will ultimately be used for the production of electricity from sunlight.
A silicon solar system will produce renewable electricity with a lifetime of in excess of 25 years.
it is passive, silent, visually unobtrusive and generates emissionfree renewable energy from the sun.
As technology increases the efficiency of solar cells, it is expected that the lifespan of the solar modules will also lengthen, providing electricity for a known starting cost and little maintenance.
it has been estimated that all the energy used in the production of a silicon solar system will be repaid within two to three years of use when situated in a relatively sunny location.
As the Group produces silicon wafers as the core component in devices for the generation of carbon free renewable power, its focus on its environmental responsibilities is evident.
it is the Groups policy to seek continually to eliminate and, where this is not practicable, to minimise negative environmental impacts from the pursuit of its various business interests while continuing to produce high quality products to its customers requirements.
it is the Groups policy to comply with all statutory environmental legislation as a minimum and to aim to improve upon the standards set by the local regulatory authorities.
Furthermore, it is the Groups policy to foster an informed and responsible approach to all environmental concerns and it encourages the involvement of employees, customers and suppliers.
Regulatory authorities are consulted and informed at all appropriate times.
the Group has effective environmental Management and Health and safety systems in place in support of, and to complement, its quality assurance system.
Across all its sites in the UK and Germany a proactive approach is taken to the pretreatment of Waste as required by the eU Landfill Directive.
the purpose of the treatment requirement is to reduce the impact of waste that has to be landfilled and to increase the amount of waste that is recycled.
Direct silicon waste generated by the processes of ingot production, blocking and wafering are recycled in a way to ensure zero loss of silicon.
thus for example all carbide used in the sawing of blocks and wafers is continually treated and recovered for reuse.
crystalox Limited in the UK is a member of compliance schemes which fulfill local legislation requirements such as the producer Responsibility obligations packaging Waste Regulations 2007. this scheme sets targets for British industry for the recovery and recycling of packaging waste seeking to ensure that discarded products are environmentally treated through recycling and recovery rather than being disposed of to landfill.
A similar scheme exists in Germany called koprofit, which requires external environmental audits to be carried out annually, with the aim of ensuring highest standards are achieved in minimising waste to landfill, utilisation of water, electricity, etc.
thus all plastics, wood, paper, polythene, cardboard, metals, etc are recycled, either by being sold to recycling companies for them to recycle or under local council arrangements removed for recycling.
the Group does all it can to recycle all recyclable packaging materials to conform to current packaging legislation, and thereby minimise waste to landfill across all its sites.
We recognise the need to establish, formalise and apply an environmental management system at each of our manufacturing sites.
therefore, in order to further enhance its already effective environmental and health and safety management systems, the UK subsidiary company crystalox Limited has embarked on a programme to achieve environment and health and safety accreditations through DiN eN iso 14001 and DiN eN iso 18001 respectively by the end of 2009. these standards will not only complement, but also consolidate the companys DiN eN iso 9001 status and enable fulfilment of our responsibilities to the environment, and health and safety, with even greater effect.
in Germany projects are planned to apply for iso 14001 international environmental Management system at the Bitterfeld site in Germany.
the site in erfurt, Germany, has been carrying out an environmental audit for the last five years focusing on the consumption of water, electricity and on the emission of waste materials.
the Group supports longterm strategies to minimise, reuse and recycle packaging wherever possible thereby enhancing its environmental credentials.
OUR STAFF TRAINING the Group recognises that a key factor in its successful operations is its personnel.
the continued expansion of operations and the parallel increase in the workforce, has meant that managements top priority has been to provide a safe and secure work environment for its personnel.
to this end health and safety training has been of paramount importance.
initial inhouse health and safety induction training for all personnel joining is supported by external specialist trainers being invited in to undertake occupation specific training.
the Group is committed to the ongoing training and development of its personnel in general.
particular skillsbased training is provided to individuals when identified and seen as beneficial to the overall operation of the Group.
introduction of new technologies and new and efficient working methods, have resulted in personnel being trained to both develop and hone their knowledge and skills.
A flexible work environment and work opportunities has meant that personnel are given the chance to work in different departments, thereby helping them maximise their potential and sense of fulfilment.
As a result of the development of the Bitterfeld plant a number of new employees have been recruited.
the vast majority of them have been through a state sponsored training program which the company designed.
in the UK the implementation of iso 14001, the environment standard, and Bs osHAs 18001, the health and safety standard, during 2009 will bring with them extensive training for all personnel in the company, thereby improving best practice and complementing the iso 9001:2004 certification status.
22 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 coRpoRAte AND sociAL RespoNsiBiLitY stAteMeNt coNtiNUeD HEALTH AND SAFETY the Group recognises its responsibilities under the Health and safety at Work Act 1974 for ensuring, so far as it is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare of all its employees.
the Group attaches the greatest importance to health and safety considering this to be a management responsibility ranking equally with other management functions within the organisation.
it is the policy of the Group to take all reasonable practicable precautions for the prevention of accidents and dangerous occurrences and for the creation of working conditions which safeguard employees.
to this end the Group will allocate the necessary resources and enlist the active support of all employees upon whom duties are also imposed by the Health and safety at Work Act.
the Group regards the standards set by the various relevant statutory provisions as the minimum standard which must be achieved and will endeavour to improve upon these standards where reasonably practicable.
OUR COMMUNITY the new plant in Bitterfeld has directly created 65 new jobs by the year end and there will be 100 employees when the plant is fully up and running.
A large number of these personnel were previously unemployed.
in addition to those directly employed by the company a number of new jobs have been created in our suppliers companies.
For several years at erfurt in Germany the company has engaged in a joint programme with a local utility company working with local high schools to carry out a competition using solar electricity.
every student participating gets two solar cells and a small electric motor.
the student then participates in the solar car race where the goal is to build a vehicle, using the solar cells on a movable platform.
the aim is to cover the distance as quickly as possible to the finish line.
in addition the company sponsors a sun and movement competition.
Financing of these projects is done through the money we received from our solar modules in front of the building in erfurt 30 kWp that are feeding electricity into the local grid.
