CORPORATE sOCIAL REsPONsIBILITy Delivering responsibly THE ENVIRONMENT ENERGy USAGE Corporate social responsibility CsR comprises: PZ Cussons is fully committed to playing its part to protect Within our business and supply chain we are working to and preserve the environment for the benefit of its employees, counteract climate change on two fronts: the recognition by a business of how its activities impact upon its stakeholders including its shareholders, customers, customers and the public at large.
The Group ensures that it complies with environmental laws and regulations and Through reducing the energy we use suppliers and employees, the wider community and the environment: and continues to identify the ways in which its operations impact Through exploring and utilising alternative energy sources upon the environment and to find effective ways to reduce the regulation of those activities to ensure that, consistent with sustainable business and development, they have a that impact.
In particular, the Group recognises climate change significant recent initiatives in reducing energy use include: as a global challenge for all businesses and for society in positive impact on society.
PZ Cussons is committed to contributing to the fight The closure of outdated manufacturing sites and the transfer against climate change, not only in our manufacturing of production to more efficient sites.
Examples include the The principles of CsR are closely aligned with the values and culture of PZ Cussons.
They are considered by the board operations and supply chain but also in the wider arena of establishment of a new soap factory in Thailand to replace product design and use.
older, less energy efficient facilities in the UK and Australia.
to be integral to how the Group conducts its operations and key to the results which the Group has delivered in the past In both the UK and Poland we have rationalised the three The UK Innovation Centre is a flagship for the Group in respect different sites in each location into one increasing the and to its continued success and development in the future.
of environmentally sensitive manufacturing processes and overall efficiency the Group worked closely with the Environmental Agency in Choosing to invest in state of the art manufacturing facilities PZ Cussons is committed to conducting its business with integrity and with care insofar as the social and environmental respect of its design and construction.
As part of this process, in our Nutrition business in Nigeria there has been significant focus on the extent to which Over the last two years, the development and implementation impact of our activities is concerned.
We aim to make a positive impact on society through the products which we waste can be reduced within manufacturing processes and worldwide of a soap manufacturing process which uses the output and learning from initiatives undertaken at other less energy per tonne of soap manufactured produce and sell, through the way in which such products are manufactured and packaged and through the contributions UK facilities in respect of effluents, packaging waste and water A Group initiative to move to more locally sourced raw usage have been incorporated into the Centres design.
materials and so decrease freight usage.
Examples to date which we make to the communities in which we operate.
include: Throughout the year, we have embarked on a number of local sourcing of packaging materials in Nigeria This report sets out how PZ Cussons demonstrates CsR under the following headings: projects and initiatives to combat the effects of climate local sourcing of palm oil in Ghana change and to reduce the impact of the Groups operations retention within the UK of manufacturing of personal care The environment on the environment, as follows: and household liquids for the UK market, rather than sourcing from overseas health and safety P rovision of everyday, good quality, affordable products the deployment of modern technology within the new Innovation Centre in the UK, ranging from the innovative Employment and development of our people Business conduct use of recycled water to motion-sensitive lighting It also addresses our aspirations in respect of future The Group recognises that it can reduce both its carbon footprint and energy consumption by exploring and utilising reporting of CsR matters and a review of the wider benefits of the Groups CsR projects and policies.
The most significant project in this area over the last two years has been focused on Nigeria which accounts for a significant proportion of the Groups manufacturing output.
There has been significant investment in plant and machinery to enable power generation from gas rather than oil resulting in a reduction in energy usage and the move to a greener fossil fuel.
In addition to the above initiatives, each operating unit within the Group is continually reviewing energy usage, looking for ways to reduce energy use and assessing alternate energy sources.
26 Annual Report 2008 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy Annual Report 2008 27 CORPORATE sOCIAL REsPONsIBILITy PRODUCT DESIGN AND USE HEALTH AND SAfETy We also work to reduce the impact of the Groups operations PZ Cussons is committed to maintaining a safe workplace at The Group employs health and safety specialists and, where on the environment by: all locations in which it operates.
The board regards this as appropriate, provides on-site medical facilities for employees.
a fundamental business responsibility and reviews health and standards of health and safety at work are continuously Optimising product design safety matters on a regular and frequent basis to continue to monitored and improved through regular risk assessments, Optimising product use ensure that business activities are undertaken in a responsible safety audits, formal accident investigation and training.
manner and in accordance with the relevant statutory Recent examples of optimised product design include: legislation and that employees at all levels participate in the EVERyDAy, GOOD qUALITy, AffORDAbLE PRODUCTS development, promotion and maintenance of a safe and One of the Groups core strategic principles is to develop The incorporation of more environmentally friendly packaging healthy working environment for all.
leading brands which are particularly suited to local needs in new product development, such as Doy packs or and tastes.
The introduction of everyday, good quality, pouches, including being the first to launch these to the The roll-out of our World Class manufacturing programme affordable products enhances the quality of the lives of mass market in the UK has ensured that our factories are enjoyable and safe places consumers, particularly in developing countries.
The review and reduction of outer case packaging in the UK to work.
In particular, manufacturing processes at the The manufacture and sale of Carex and other handwash Innovation Centre have been designed and implemented to The provision of soaps and cleaning products into countries refills in the UK and Australia so as to prolong the lifetime minimise manual handling and eliminate other potential such as Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana and Indonesia has significant of dispensers health and safety issues at source.
benefits in terms of the hygiene and health of the local population.
In addition, PZ Cussons is proud to provide a significant recent initiatives in optimising product use include: range of nutritional milk products in Africa, through its Nutricima joint venture with Glanbia plc.
The first products Use of innovative water saving technology Aquasave in were launched two years ago since which time the product Australia which has been used in laundry and dishwasher range has been significantly expanded.
detergent and uses less water per wash Introduction of more environmentally friendly electrical goods In addition: in Africa The Group provides a range of basic personal and household products which offer value for money and are made widely available in all the territories in which we operate In 2007 the Group launched an affordable, good quality Basics baby products range in Indonesia under the brand Cussons sahaja The Group has introduced electrical goods customer care centres to provide after-sales service in Nigeria The minerva Benecol range of products has been successfully introduced in Greece to actively reduce cholesterol It is imperative to PZ Cussons that the products which we supply are safe.
human safety assessments for personal care products are conducted under the Cosmetic Products Directive in Europe and relevant legislation in other areas of operation.
The Group also operates to strict internal rules relating to labelling and packaging requirements and, in particular, product safety including the use of raw materials in respect of which we work with trade associations and relevant professional advisors to ensure that all materials meet our own safety thresholds.
ANIMAL TESTING None of our products are tested on animals.
We support the development and acceptance of alternative methods which reduce or replace the use of animals in product safety evaluation.
We are in regular contact with our suppliers to ensure that our values on this subject are shared and, where feasible, they work to similar standards.
28 Annual Report 2008 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy Annual Report 2008 29 CORPORATE sOCIAL REsPONsIBILITy EMPLOyMENT AND DEVELOPMENT Of OUR PEOPLE fINANCIAL PERfORMANCE bENEfITING SHAREHOLDERS, As part of the ongoing review of staff welfare and benefits, PZ Cussons places great emphasis on and commits the Group also makes available to all UK employees an EMPLOyEES AND THE WIDER COMMUNITy significant expense to the employment and development The boards commitment to the principles of CsR reflects its Employee Assistance Programme EAP.
The EAP is a 24 hour of local employees who are involved at all levels of phone helpline which is available to employees should they view that it is incumbent on leading companies to make a decision-making throughout the Group.
This is particularly positive contribution to society through their activities.
The wish to discuss any issues, personal or work related, in important to us given our presence in a number of developing confidence with a trained professional.
The objective of the board also believes, however, that socially responsible countries and we believe that the training, development and conduct is value enhancing for its shareholders and other EAP is to assist in the identification and resolution of the support of our employees is of direct benefit to their wider various problems, strains and issues which everyone faces stakeholders.
In particular, the board recognises the potential communities as well as to the performance of the Group itself.
benefits which may be derived where its CsR activities are from time to time and which can affect work performance.
aligned to the concerns and demands of its customers and A key element of the Groups approach in this respect is the the Group listens to and takes account of those concerns in bUSINESS CONDUCT creation of a performance-driven culture which supports The Group also ensures that decisions in respect of its shaping its business strategies and practices.
The board also motivated people who are passionate about our future and recognises that companies are subject to increasing operations take due account of the potential effect on the which aligns staff to the Groups values of: wider community and environment.
We expect employees regulation, particularly in respect of environmental issues, and that the pursuit of a proactive CsR policy reduces the to operate to high ethical standards in all their business Courage dealings and this is reflected in the Groups own stance on risk of adverse regulatory action.
PZ Cussons has no involvement whatsoever Networking in the use of child labour or forced labour in any of its The financial performance of PZ Cussons has a positive impact Drive in all territories in which it operates.
During 2008 revenue, businesses and audits any new suppliers to ensure that they Oneness comply with the Groups standards on this issue.
profit and earnings per share for PZ Cussons were up on the previous year by 14%, 12% and 10% respectively and this During 2008 we employed approximately 9,000 people During the period, the Group has also established new financial performance has generated benefits for our worldwide and we are committed to the development, shareholders, employees and wider stakeholders.
procedures to enable employees to voice any concerns which training and fair treatment of all staff.
This is embodied or they might have in respect of business practices throughout reflected in: specifically, in 2008 we: the Group.
The speak Up policy allows employees to report any such issues, confidentially and without fear of Paid our 9,000 employees 70 million in salaries plus The introduction over the last few years of graduate 7 million to provide post-employment benefits, all of which recrimination, through a telephone hotline and online facility development schemes in selected developing world provided by a third party expert.
speak Up is being rolled supports the local communities in which they live and in territories.
These schemes include extensive formal and which we operate out through the Group to ensure that any allegation or concern informal training of malpractice including concerns over breaches of health Distributed 18 million as dividends, of which a significant Employees of all grades having the opportunity for training proportion was then gifted to charity from the Zochonis and safety, criminal activity or fraud and breaches of local laws through a wide range of courses over the last year or environmental regulations are brought to the attention of Charitable Trust The high standard of working conditions throughout the supported local economies with 23 million paid to the board and addressed at the earliest opportunity.
Group the Group has invested significantly during the governments in taxes and social security, excluding sales period in its premises in a number of developing countries and value added taxes generated on our products DEVELOPMENT Of CSR REPORTING to ensure that local employees have a good working Corporate social responsibility is acknowledged and Provided worldwide income of more than 350 million to environment which is conducive to productive work.
In suppliers of raw materials a greater proportion of which were promoted at the highest level at PZ Cussons and the board particular, PZ Cussons is one of the largest listed companies has reviewed and fully endorsed this CsR statement.
The local suppliers helping to sustain their businesses in Nigeria with a high reputation as an employer of choice board also recognises, however, that the ways in which it Continued roll-out of a group-wide incentive programme from monitors and manages the impacts of its activities are senior management to factory level evolving and it is committed to establishing procedures to The UK business receiving an Investor in P eople award and improve this process.
Equally, the board is committed to an award for North West business of the year for the second further developing the ways in which it reports on these issues year running to its stakeholders and to providing information, particularly in respect of environmental issues, against an increased The employment policies of the Group embody the principle number of key performance indicators.
of equal opportunity irrespective of age, race, religion, colour, sex or marital status which is fundamental to the way in which the Group conducts its business.
The Groups policies also include procedures to ensure that disabled persons are fairly considered for employment and subsequent training and career development.
30 Annual Report 2008 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy Annual Report 2008 31
