BusInEssREVIEw    We are embedding Corporate Responsibility CR in our organisation through the management of our sites, the delivery of our operations, the values of our people and our stakeholder relationships.
Graham Love,  Our framework for delivering a responsible and sustainable business is to structure our initiatives into four themes Our People, Community, Environment and Marketplace.
Highlights With a dedicated CR manager and board level support, we are Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold Awards making good progress and have much to be proud of.
There for Health and Safety practices is genuine commitment and enthusiasm to deliver tangible in the UK improvements, building on strong foundations within the UK Report for Injuries, Diseases organisation, but we recognise that there is still work to be and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR rate at done and we are committed to our programmes going forward.
2.28 accidents per 1,000 With CR integral to our values and business practice, we employees, well below the HSE industries average will ensure our business sustainability.
In recognition of our Investors in People accreditation commitment to responsible business practice, QinetiQ joined in the UK Business in the Community in November 2007.
This section New learning and development demonstrates how we met our 2008 objectives and outlines programmes on business ethics our goals for further improvement in 2009. and corporate responsibility for employees in the UK Education outreach programmes Graham Love,  in the US and UK Science for Society programme ISO 14001 certification gained for three further sites in the UK Recycling up by 8% at major UK sites QinetiQ has already developed innovative and meaningful ways Increase in customer satisfaction to engage with its community stakeholders and address the sciences talent and skills shortage faced by many of todays businesses in the UK.
The Lab in a Lorry is a great example of a fun programme that both stimulates interest in the sciences for young learners and is rewarding for QinetiQ employees.
We are excited to assist as QinetiQ further develops business practices and programmes that integrate its key stakeholder and sustainable business priorities into its overall business strategy.
Business in the Community 45  4June2008  PROOFFIVE final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review Corporate responsibility continued our People At QinetiQ, we know it is our people that make us successful and we create a climate and culture to enable them to deliver outstanding performance.
Our aim is to attract and engage the best people, providing a framework where they can realise their full potential.
Nurturing our talent investing in people Accidents per 1,000 UK employees QinetiQ is committed to retaining our status as a top- 8 quartile investor in employee learning and development.
In 2008, we met this target with employees receiving 6 in the UK, on average, five days of training.
We provide a range of programmes, including our three-year engineering apprenticeship, the early career 4 management scheme and the Competing to Win programme for bid managers.
2 Since 2001, QinetiQ in the UK has maintained Investors in People accreditation and we are delighted that we are 0 now demonstrating areas of best practice.
2001 2 2002 3 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 2006 7 2007 8 We were encouraged by the high response rate to the HSE all industries rate QinetiQ UK RIDDOR rate UK annual employee engagement survey.
Improvements were seen in the areas relating to performance Work at QNA is generally low risk and so there is no management and communication, demonstrating the formal requirement to report accidents according to successful impact of the initiatives introduced last year.
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration We aim for further improvements to address OSHA code.
Our North American business monitors development areas highlighted by the survey.
accidents and recorded 5.66 days away from work per 1,000 employees in 2008 2007: 10.78.
Health and Safety QinetiQ is committed to the safety and well-being of our people.
Support to employees is provided through The high standard of Health and a network of professionally qualified health, safety and Safety management was recognised environment advisors, occupational health nurses and the Employee Assistance Programme in the UK.
Health by RoSPA, with the award of Gold and Safety campaigns this year focused on ensuring the Achievement Awards to significant safety and well-being of contractors and on parts of the Company.
In 2008, the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR rate for Colin Shimell, UK Chief Health, Safety QinetiQs UK employees was 2.28 accidents per 1,000 and environment Advisor employees, compared with the Health and Safety Executive HSE all industries rate of 5.36.
improvement on last years rate of 3.47 accidents per n Continue to retain our status as a top-quartile investor 1,000 employees.
in employee learning and development n Continue to maintain UK RIDDOR rates at better than Across the organisation, the HSE benchmark rate and develop appropriate US benchmarks high regard is given to n Increase programmes to support safer driving n Health and Safety.
Increase levels of health, safety and environmental training for all appropriate managers.
Investors in People report, December 2007 The QinetiQ inventor Awards Scheme recognises and rewards employees for both invention and the commercial benefits from invention.
Chris Lyddon, head of the QinetiQ team that developed X-Net, has been honoured under the QinetiQ inventors Awards Scheme along with his colleague Julian Moody, for his pioneering work on the product.
To date, X-Net has earned 12m in revenues for QinetiQ.
Chris Lyddon, X-Net inventor 46 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review Corporate responsibility continued Community Investing in Community programmes enables our people to commit their time and expertise to support local and wider society issues.
As well as fundraising activities for a range of good causes, we are proud of our education outreach programme, where we aim to inspire the next generation of scientists and engineers.
Our Science for Society initiative uses our technical skills and technology to make a difference.
Education As one of Europes largest employers of scientists and engineers, QinetiQ has for many years been committed to Science Technology Engineering and Maths STEM outreach programmes.
Engaging with young people in a variety of STEM activities encourages them to consider careers in science and engineering.
Increasing the number of scientists and engineers in the workforce will benefit the UK in an ever more competitive global marketplace.
In November 2007, QinetiQ set up a steering group to provide coherency and a stronger direction to our programmes.
Key achievements in the past year have been the Lab in the Lorry tours to schools near our sites in Scotland, Essex and Kent, projects organised with schools across the UK as part of the Engineering Education Scheme, our own School Link Scheme and placements through Nuffield Science QinetiQ has over 100 Science and engineering Ambassadors Bursaries and Year in Industry Scheme.
In North America, SeAs and they work on a wide range of projects with schools.
the Systems Engineering Group provided a number of Annette Smart was chosen from over 1,000 SeAs in the west educational scholarships, for example at the University Midlands for an award in recognition of her significant of Missouri-Columbia, under the Westar Systems contribution to the programme.
Engineering and Software Development Scholarships.
QinetiQ North America QNA also sponsored the winning team of the FIRST Robotics Competition Charitable giving and community support in Colorado.
Throughout the Group, we support a number of charities that are important to our employees.
Charitable giving Science for society initiatives included matched giving, payroll giving and QinetiQ recognises that through the unique capabilities volunteering.
Total charitable giving across the Group of our employees and our technology, it is possible to in 2008 was 184,000, of which 97,000 was to make a real difference to society.
In addition, employees in In December 2007, QinetiQ employees made their third the UK raised a further 64,000. visit to the remote village of Kongtayoun, Southern Laos, Our sites continue to support a range of local issues in to assist with the clearance of unexploded ordnance their communities.
Some of the highlights this year in the UXO.
Working with the Swiss fide-mining organisation UK include provision of funding for a community centre FSD, the teams aim was to build local capability in in Benbecula and funding for a library in a school near UXO detection techniques and mapping, as well as Boscombe Down.
Aberporth employees improved developing simple and inexpensive equipment to playground facilities at a local school and employees improve transport in rough terrain.
from our site in the Kyle of Lochalsh worked with a local school to highlight health and safety issues.
We also contributed to the Motov8 scheme at Pershore, supporting increased education and awareness among disaffected young people.
In QNA, employees are actively involved in a number of community initiatives including Habitat for Humanity, Women in Technology and the Junior League of Huntsville Alabama Sports Festival.
n 9,000 students will be visited by Lab in the Lorry by the end of 2009 n Continue to focus and deliver our STEM outreach programmes.
The technology and skills that the QinetiQ team have taken to Laos are sustainable so local people can clear the land of unexploded ordnance after the team leave.
The ultimate aim of the project is to return the land to economic use by restoring the roads and making land available for the production of rice and silk.
Brett Lowery, engineer, Laos UXo project 47 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review Corporate responsibility continued environment We recognise the need to understand the impact we have on the environment and to put in place measures to reduce our carbon footprint and our waste.
We are also adding positive benefit through our conservation initiatives.
Environmental management UK energy consumption and CO emissions 2 QinetiQ has in place an environmental management 120 500 system for all of our UK estate.
We have an ongoing 108 450 programme of gaining ISO 14001 certification and, in 400 96 2008, we met an important target and successfully 350 84 gained certification for two of our major sites, Malvern 300 72 and Farnborough.
Ahead of schedule we have also 60 250 gained certification for our Rosyth site.
This takes the 200 48 total with certification to 23 sites and includes all of the 150 36 sites we manage under the LTPA, as well as the major 100 24 QinetiQ-owned sites.
50 12 0 0 Resource and energy management 2001 2 2002 3 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 2006 7 2007 8 Across our sites, we have many programmes to reduce 1 Energy use GWH CO tonnes 000 2 our consumption of energy and resources and to ensure 2 CO tonnes 000 2 that we reduce, reuse and recycle where possible.
1 CO calculated with the historical recognised conversion factor for 2 waste: Reuse of surplus equipment by other electric of 0.43kgCO kWh.
2 2 departments is routinely considered before recycling or CO calculated with the new recommended conversion factor for 2 electric of 0.523kgCO kWh.
Most sites recycle a variety of materials from paper to batteries.
An awareness campaign was run Conservation in October 2007 to provide information and advice to QinetiQ owns and operates sites that contain valuable employees.
Total waste for our major UK sites in 2008 conservation areas, many of which are of national or was 2,115 tonnes, of which 638 tonnes 30% was international importance, including Sites of Special recycled, compared to 22% recycled in 2007.
Scientific Interest SSSI and Special Areas of Conservation.
The sites provide areas of undisturbed water: A 2008 objective was to continue to monitor our land for wildlife to flourish and help preserve habitats water usage.
Across the QinetiQ estate, water metering that would otherwise be lost.
By maintaining and has been in place for several years.
This allows early enhancing the condition of conservation areas, we make detection of leaks and prompt repairs.
Steady and lasting a valuable contribution to national biodiversity progress continues to be made in water conservation by objectives.
This is a long-term commitment and, in introducing more efficient systems, detection and repair August 2007, the Boscombe Down Conservation Group of leaks and by educating employees.
marked 20 years of conservation effort.
energy: We successfully met our target to ensure we did not exceed current levels of CO emissions from 2 UK energy consumption relative to business output 94 tonnes CO per m revenue in 2008, 2007: 144 2 tonnes.
This has been achieved by investment in, and expansion of site building energy management systems, installation of more remote utility metering systems, energy awareness campaigns, investment in automated lighting systems and lower use of our high-pressure wind tunnel.
Total energy used in 2008 was equivalent to 77,781 tonnes of CO compared to 90,483 tonnes in 2 2007.
CO calculated with the new Defra and Carbon 2 Trust recommended conversion factor for electric of 0.523kgCO kWh.
2 we have been working with Marwell Zoological Park to restore the 79-hectare eelmoor Marsh at Farnborough, Hampshire, which is now a nature reserve and home to many species of rare plants and wildlife.
Not only is the site restored as heathland, it also provides a soft release environment that will ensure the preservation of the endangered Przewalskis horse, which was introduced to the marsh in conjunction with Marwell.
n Extend ISO 14001 certification to all significant sites n Introduce an enhanced carbon footprint management programme n Increase our recycling rates by 3% in 2009.
48 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager Energy use GWH CO emissions tonnes 000 2 BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review Corporate responsibility continued Marketplace QinetiQ strives to be a responsible business to work with and we place great value on our relationships with our customers and supply chain.
The Customer Equation programme Energy and environment solutions Our Customer Equation programme is helping us to QinetiQ recognises the importance of technology understand and improve our performance relative to solutions in addressing issues such as climate change.
customer needs, for today and for the future.
We are Our scientists and engineers are developing a range of working to use voice of the customer feedback to solutions, looking at low-carbon transport, renewable support improvement and help us all to further develop energy and waste management.
a customer-focused culture throughout our organisation.
QinetiQ has been rapidly changing and we recognise the need to work with our customers so they understand our capability.
Results from the 2007 survey showed an increase in customer satisfaction over the last three years, and highlighted the positive relationships between our customers and account managers.
Business ethics QinetiQs business ethics policy continues to be guided by our core values of integrity, excellence, care, teamwork and commitment and with respect for human rights and the best interests of employees and stakeholders.
This policy is implemented throughout the Group, irrespective of business or operational context.
QinetiQ is a member of the UK Anti-Corruption Forum.
In QNA, each employee is required to undergo periodic ethics training.
Training on business ethics has been developed as part of the induction programme for all A prototype of a Stirling power system that will use landfill and new employees in the UK.
This accompanies the training other waste gases to generate electricity is being developed by course on CR, which informs employees of QinetiQs QinetiQ North America.
The Stirling system offers the potential wider approach to responsible business.
for significant economic and environmental benefits.
Responsible purchasing A key priority for our purchasing team is ensuring that What next?
we are working responsibly with our supply chain to n Introduce responsible purchasing criteria into all our address improvements in both environmental and key procurement activities societal issues.
The process of establishing a clear set n Continue to embed a customer-focused culture of criteria with which to engage all QinetiQ suppliers throughout the Group.
is under way, with initial focus being placed on key suppliers.
Plans for the future include working with our preferred suppliers to identify ways in which our procurement activities can directly support our objectives.
QinetiQ was part of the development consortium behind the Morgan Life Car that was showcased at the Geneva Motor Show and has been responsible for the design of the proton membrane exchange fuel cell which converts hydrogen, plus oxygen taken from the air around it, into electrical energy.
49 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
