SUSTAINABILITY Last year, we topped the UKs Business generate when using our products, SUSTAINABILITY in the Community BITC Corporate by heating and using water for Were proud to have Responsibility Index, outperforming example, account for about two achieved leadership in a our peers across environment, thirds of the total carbon footprint key corporate responsibility community, market and workplace of our products.
We were also awarded practical advice on many Powerbrand index in 2008.
As people top status in the US Environmental packs internationally on how to who want to have an Protection Agencys Design for reduce it.
But were not stopping impact on both financial the Environment Safer Detergents there: we are continuing to reduce as well as non-financial Stewardship Initiative.
our own manufacturing and logistics performance, we showed carbon emissions and those created In environmental terms, we started in the making of our raw materials that its possible to achieve our Carbon 20 programme, through and packaging.
As a sister initiative, the best of both worlds.
which we aim to cut the total carbon we are also offsetting the impact footprint of our products, from their of the remaining emissions in our creation to their disposal, by 20% manufacturing by planting millions of by 2020.
To deliver this cradle-totrees in deforested land.
This makes grave target, we are working with us, uniquely in our sector, a carbon consumers through our new Our neutral manufacturer.
Home Our Planet on-pack initiative, to help people reduce their carbon We delivered on our three year footprint when using our products campaign with Save the Children to and save some money in the process.
save 150,000 lives and we are now The carbon emissions consumers embarking on a new, worldwide programme to help the lives of those most vulnerable in our society children who cannot help themselves.
None of this was at the expense of financial performance.
As top performers on shareholder return and margins, we showed that business can be both sustainable and profitable with the right strategy and people.
See our Sustainability Report at www.
