Corporate responsibility strengthens our business 50 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and It means performing to the highest commercial and Financial Statements 2008 ethical standards Corporate responsibility Constant engagement with stakeholders, LexisNexis launched the Rule of Law Resource including shareholders, employees, communities, Center, the largest collection of Rule of Law governments, and members of civil society, helps us resources on the internet, providing global visitors determine material corporate responsibility issues.
with up-to-date laws, news, and expert analysis.
Our Corporate Responsibility Forum, chaired by LexisNexis also supports the Southern African the CEO, sets corresponding objectives covering Litigation Centre, providing access to its entire governance, people, health and safety, customers, South African law content, along with legislation supply chain, environment and community and law reports for other African countries including and measures performance against them.
Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, and Nigeria.
2009 Objective Governance 80% trained in Code of Ethics, with 70% of US employees completing second round 2008 Objective online training Train 80% of staff on RE Code of Ethics and Business Conduct People The Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Code, disseminated to every employee, 2008 Objectives is a guide to our corporate and individual behaviour.
Launch Great Place to Work website Encompassing topics like human rights, anti-bribery, and fair competition, it encourages open and Accelerate internal transfers and promotions principled behaviour.
Our 35,000 people are our strength.
To help them 70% of current employees have received online reach their potential and ensure Reed Elsevier training on the Code.
Our goal to launch the course remains an in-demand place to work, we launched in the Netherlands, where we have the third highest Tools for a Great Workplace as part of a new intranet.
concentration of employees, was delayed until This online toolkit looks at how great leaders create January 2009, as approval from the Dutch Data motivated, successful teams: allows employees Protection Authority was not forthcoming until to assess how well they lead: and provides advice late in the year.
In 2008, Code training was rolled on developing skills to enhance local workplaces.
out to employees in the UK, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, India, Singapore, Hong Kong, and We accelerated internal transfers and promotions Thailand, in addition to ongoing implementation through a new global jobs board which allows for new US employees.
Staff also received training employees to search for new positions by location, on anti-harassment, data privacy and security, function, and division.
And an enhanced people and competition law, and doing business careers section at the new www.
gives potential employees insight into what it is like to work for the company in the words of our staff.
Furthering the rule of law is a priority for Reed It outlines our focus on leadership and our values Elsevier.
In 2008, we actively promoted the United customer focus, valuing our people, passion for Nations Global Compact to which we are a signatory, winning, innovation and boundarylessness.
developing a presentation to help fellow signatories communicate about the Compact, and served on With input from colleagues throughout the business, the steering group for the United Kingdom.
in 2008 we developed a Reed Elsevier Diversity and Inclusion statement.
It articulates our commitment to a diverse workforce and a work environment that respects individuals and their contributions, regardless of background.
Rewrite the Future Employees helped raise over $62,000 for Save the Childrens Rewrite the Future campaign providing education for children in conflict-affected countries.
Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 51 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate responsibility 2009 Objectives Customers Reach all Reed Elsevier employees with 2009 Employee Opinion Survey EOS, with action plans 2008 Objectives based on responses Increase in online revenue over 2006 2007 Communicate to all staff on new Diversity and Increase in Net Promoter Scores across the Inclusion Statement: advance Diversity and divisions Inclusion Working Group We moved from 37% of revenue from online in 2006 to over 50% in 2008.
Innovative online products Health and Safety and services improve our customers workflows, allowing them to utilise information on a scale never 2008 Objective before possible.
For example, Elseviers Procedures 5% decrease in workers compensation claims Consult, uses online video, text and animation to help physicians and students learn and perform Our employees have the right to a healthy and safe more than 150 medical procedures: in 2008, workplace as outlined in the Reed Elsevier Health modules were added in orthopedics, anesthesia and Safety Policy.
As a measure of improving and emergency medicine.
And Reed Exhibitions conditions, we achieved a 24% drop in workers MIPIM site, for the worlds largest annual real compensation claims in the United States estate show, expanded video content, including 117 in 2008 versus 153 in 2007, home to the news reports from Reed Business Informations majority of our employees.
We expanded training for Estates Gazette TV.
Health and Safety Champions to improve reporting, and received assurance on health and safety data Through the Net Promoter Scores programme we from Ernst & Young.
surveyed nearly 30,000 customers to determine their willingness to recommend us.
Results are reviewed In 2008, we held our first Health and Safety Month by the CEO and senior managers and communicated focused on lifting and handling of materials, to staff, to illuminate where we are doing well and a primary cause of lost time incidents the previous where we must do better.
We saw increases, for year.
We also reviewed our US total rewards example, among health science journal editors, programme and are exploring new work life large law clients, and reached more show exhibitors.
resources that positively impact wellness and We noted areas for improvement, for example, productivity and ensure we remain competitive.
with certain small law clients and have instituted a customer journey mapping pilot to understand 2009 Objectives how we can improve all aspects of our engagement with them.
Develop targeted and effective global wellness campaign We are committed to information philanthropy 10% reduction in severity rate by 2010 from ensuring those in the developing world who can 2008 baseline benefit from our products gain access.
We are a founding member of Health InterNetwork Access to Research Initiative.
In collaboration with the United Nations, and other publishers, we make available over 1000 of our journals: in 2008 there were 1.5 million full text article downloads.
In 2009 we aim to: Improve customer satisfaction measured by Net Promoter Scores and dashboard programmes Increase access for underserved users, expanding developing world programmes Improve website accessibility across Reed Elsevier sites Promoting Health & Safety Easy Guide to Health and Safety was published by Elsevier in 2008 to provide step-by-step guidance on health and safety issues for small businesses.
52 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate responsibility Supply Chain Environment continued 2008 Objectives 2008 Objectives Expand Socially Responsible Supplier SRS Reduction in travel emissions over 2006 2007 levels database to 325 entries Pursuit of environmental targets 85% of SRS suppliers sign Reed Elsevier 2008 Total Environmental Impact Supplier Code of Conduct Energy: 293MWh 25 external audits of high risk suppliers 3 Water: 465m Waste: 13t 50% recycled We require our suppliers to meet the same high C0 Emissions GHG Protocol : 2 standards we set for ourselves.
Our Supplier Code Scope 1 22t C0 2 of Conduct stipulates adherence to all laws and Scope 2 165t C0 2 best practice in areas like human rights, labour, Scope 3 131t C0 and environment.
In 2008, we expanded our SRS 2 Production Paper 78t database to 368 suppliers, 90 of which we deem to be high risk according to guidelines from the OECD Initial results, 000s and the US State Department.
74% of all suppliers We saw a 16% decrease in travel, resulting from were signatories to the Supplier Code, and our focus on travel alternatives including video specialists ITS conducted 19 external audits of high conferencing and webinars, and the introduction risk suppliers by year end.
Going forward, we are of a global travel portal.
engaging more people within the business to reach a higher Supplier Code return rate: the smaller Initial results for 2008 indicate that our energy usage number of external audits correlates to suppliers stayed reasonably constant, with a reduction in water who deferred their 2008 audit to first quarter 2009, and paper consumption and carbon emissions.
and a number with whom we ceased to do business.
But it will be a challenge to meet absolute targets.
Increased data searches and hosting for our clients, We provide tools for employees to undertake internal for example, have contributed to energy increases audits when visiting high risk suppliers: nine were in the five years to 2008, which we are addressing completed in 2008.
We also provided supplier training through our data centre working group focused to increase reporting on the Reed Elsevier portion on optimisation rationalisation.
of their CO2 emissions and water usage.
In addition, our internal audit team reviewed the SRS programme: The importance of CO2 reduction was the theme we will be working to implement their suggestions.
of our annual World Environment Day campaign, launched with a message from the CEO.
In 2009, 2009 Objectives we are introducing an environmental standards 550 suppliers in SRS master database programme to help offices achieve best practice and go green.
85% of suppliers sign Reed Elsevier Supplier Code of Conduct 40 external audits of high risk suppliers Energy Locate Energy Locate brings together all Elseviers energy products and services into a one-stop community website for energy scientists and professionals.
Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 53 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate responsibility We provide ongoing training to Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier Cares Champions engage colleagues continued Environmental Champions and support to employee in annual events including the RE Cares Challenge to Green Teams.
We encourage environmental reward business sponsored community engagement, volunteering, running programmes with Earthwatch and Reed Elsevier Cares Month, with hundreds of in the US and Europe in 2008: we promoted good activities around the world.
During the Month, we environmental performance through our leading held our first-ever global fundraising drive, raising edge environmental science products and shows, $62,000 for Save the Childrens Rewrite the Future, like Renewable Energy Focus and the Journal of which furthers education for children living in conflict Cleaner Production.
affected countries: and our second global book drive yielded 18,208 books from employees for local and 2009 Objectives developing world readers.
Launch new environmental targets 2009 Objective KPIs Key Additional 10% increase in group-wide volunteering Performance Target Indicators Target Baseline date C02 Emissions 10% 2006 2015 Good internal performance is recognised externally.
Total Energy 5% 2008 2015 2008 recognition: Water 10% 2008 2015 Received Platinum rating in Business in the Travel Emissions 5% 2008 2015 Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index Waste Recycled 70% N A 2015 Admitted to Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Introduce environmental standards programme SAM Sustainability Yearbook, scoring in top 15% across the group of companies Member FTSE4Good Community Finalist for VBDO Supply Chain Award 2008 Objectives Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in 10% increase in group-wide volunteering the World Through our Reed Elsevier Cares programme we AAA rating from Innovest Strategic Value Advisors concentrate on education a common thread across the group for disadvantaged young people.
We saw A best reporting company in the Carbon a 66% rise in volunteering and donated 2.1 million in Disclosure Projects Climate Leaders Index cash donations including matching gift programmes and the equivalent of 3.8 million in gifts of products, services and staff time in 2008.
Our Two Days programme allows all employees up to two days off per year for their own community work.
Full report online Our 2008 CR report, with detailed data and objectives for the year ahead, will be available from April 2009 at www.
