Directors Report Business Review Corporate responsibility Driving competitive advantage Aligning our business strategy and the needs of our stakeholders remains a critical component of the ongoing sustainable development of our business Whilst mindful of the current economic environment, we do not believe that this should result in a diminution of our commitment to corporate responsibility CR.
Our employee, environmental, charitable and social activities in 2008, together with continued plans in these areas for 2009, bear this out, and we rmly believe that our obligations are ongoing not only during more positive trading conditions.
Regus remains active in managing its corporate responsibility, and we recognize that with the evolving nature of our stakeholders there will remain a continuous need to meet and exceed our previous benchmarks.
The establishment, in 2007, of our CR committee has allowed us to structure our direction and communications more effectively regarding our core employee, environmental and social activities.
There have been continued developments in 2008 relating to employee training, appraisals and career development opportunities, and considerable time has been spent re-aligning our sales training to enhance focus on the customer.
However, there remain areas where we are keen to improve, most notably the roll-out of more globally consistent environmental guidelines and the communication of an updated CR framework with global applicability.
People Fundamental to these goals is an ongoing commitment to our employees, whose engagement and focus are vital to ensuring we continue to deliver successfully on our strategy.
With over 5,400 team members throughout our global network, the majority of whom work directly in customer facing roles, our people remain the driving force behind the sustainable growth of our business.
We recognise the need to continue to strengthen our teams, through ensuring that our people feel valued, rewarded and recognized for their efforts, that they have career advancement opportunities and that they are provided with quality training to allow them nd out more at: regus.
com to continue to develop.
com Corporate responsibility To this end, formal training during 2008 Community provided supplementally to on-the-job We remain committed to supporting the development has resulted in the following: local communities in which we do business through fundraising activities by our employees, over 2,500 team members participating in through providing ofce space and ancillary classroom training, at a cost of 1.4 million: services or through more direct corporate avenues.
the completion of over 17,000 hours of online training using the Brainshark learning The introduction of the Get Started initiative management system: encapsulates one of the more significant the roll-out of worldwide sales re-training to corporate initiatives we have undertaken align our sales forces to the current economic recently.
Get Started offers ofce space and challenges faced by our customers: and practical support for start-ups that need help over 400 team members trained as experts getting off the ground.
Under the scheme, we are on our new internal inventory, reservations offering free use of business lounges and cafs and billing system.
worth approximately 10 million in over 1,000 locations worldwide by signing people up to our We have also continued to highlight to our Businessworld programme.
We anticipate that employees both our Global Code of Ethics the campaign could help many entrepreneurs and our condential whistleblowing service.
The realise their business ambitions whilst mitigating former encapsulates the core principles by which some of the risk.
all of our companies and employees are expected to work, whilst the latter provides a service that Other causes which we have supported during allows team members to condentially highlight the year include: issues of concern or wrongdoing in the workplace, Great Causes and Debra via the 2008 London with review of these identied matters at the Triathlon over 25,000 of direct contributions.
$20,000 raised in our US business through considerable numbers of staff donating their Environment and sustainability Christmas gift cheques to charity.
During the year, we have continued to highlight significant numbers of staff-driven initiatives to our stakeholders the environmental benets to support local causes, such as providing toys that a number of our products and services offer, and presents for local children.
More than 20 most notably video conferencing VC and our team members in the Chicago area helped underlying worldwide network of international, prepare and package freeze-dried nutritional regional and local ofces which can allow our meals that were shipped to over 59 countries, customers to materially reduce the amount including the US, in order to feed malnourished of travelling they need to undertake.
As a group, the team prepared 12,690 examples of our environmental activities include: meal packs, which can feed 34 children for With increases in our VC business during 2008, one year.
we have been able to build on the air miles saved by our customers year on year.
Distribution of our Why Commute leaets in a number of US cities, promoting the use of our suburban centres instead of commuting to city centre locations.
Localised initiatives, including eliminating printing out spare copies of invoices, reducing paperwork in general.
Considering centre environmental impacts our Atlantic Station centre is based in Atlantas first pre-certied Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED Gold high-rise, low-impact ofce building.
Within our ofces, we have also continued to encourage recycling on the part of our employees and customers, and wherever possible to incorporate low-energy solutions into the day-to-day operations of our centres.
Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21
