corporAte sociAl responsiBility PAGE 32 33 Renishaws global business interests have been built on the also are supporters of the Gloucester Training Group using them to Companys commitment to help its customers improve their provide external training for our apprentices and graduates.
quality and manufacturing efficiency, a consequence of which has been the diminution of wasted resources.
Through continued THe environmenT innovation, Renishaw has helped those customers reduce their use In an industry that is increasingly aware of its impact on the of raw materials, natural resources and energy.
Sustainability is a environment, Renishaw strives to take its responsibilities seriously.
For more information on this, turn to Energy consumption, water usage, emissions to air and water and the Metrology in action application stories starting on page 12. disposal of waste materials are all taken into consideration.
The Company is also using the waterless printing method and vegetable At the same time, the Renishaw Board has long recognised the oil-based inks to print some of its corporate communications need for the effective management of the social and environmental material.
This printing technique eliminates water consumption factors affecting the business and, in turn, their impact on its and the release of volatile organic compounds VOCs into the reputation and profitability.
The Company has worked closely with atmosphere.
Additionally, the chosen paper stock is made entirely the local community since its formation and there has been a from waste paper containing at least 75% post-consumer waste.
Renishaw Charities Committee RCC since 1987.
Although none of the Company's products fall within the scope Renishaw is now formalising the process of managing these of the requirements of the European Directive 2002 95 EC on the factors further by evaluating measures to analyse the Companys Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances RoHS in performance in the following key areas: electrical and electronic equipment, the Company has undertaken staff to develop and implement processes that meet the requirements of RoHS, which we intend to progressively use across the majority the environment of our products wherever possible.
For example, all new position the community encoder products are being introduced as RoHS compliant.
This will include the continuing development of systems to identify In recent years, the manufacturing organisation has expanded its and report on non-financial key performance indicators, whilst at the procurement activities to include purchasing teams based in both same time ensuring the quality of the indicators reported.
These teams operate within strict guidelines to ensure that when procuring goods in these regions, Renishaw sTaFF does not harm the environment or exploit people involved in the The Companys staff is at the heart of all its operations and a good manufacture of goods supplied.
indicator of how they perceive their employer can be seen in the enerGy retention of staff.
Renishaw's worldwide staff turnover is less than 7% The Group evaluates and actively pursues energy saving technologies.
which compares favourably with our industries' average of over 15%.
As an example, the Patents group relocated to the former anodising long service awards are given for every five years of service and works, following the extensive refurbishment of that facility.
Work began can include small gifts, extra holiday allowance and a cash sum.
with the building stripped back to its basic structure before a new roof, windows and internal refitting commenced.
Communication within the Company is very much a two-way affair.
As part of these works, a ground source heat pump was installed so In the month of their birthday, staff members in the Wotton-underthat geothermal energy could be used to heat or cool the building Edge locations are invited to attend a communications meeting according to the season.
with all Board members present.
These monthly meetings provide staff with the opportunity to ask any question of the Board in an Pipes filled with a water and antifreeze solution were laid in an open discussion forum.
Meetings are also held at Woodchester and adjacent field.
In winter the system absorbs warmth from the ground Stonehouse.
The presentation and responses to questions raised at and uses it to heat the building: in summer the system operates in these meetings are made available on the group's intranet which is reverse, absorbing heat from the air and transferring it into the earth.
Furthermore, as facilities are renovated, passive infra-red detectors At other times, managers operate an open door policy for one-toare used to control lighting.
If no movement is detected after a one communication.
There is a suggestion scheme with awards for certain period, the system automatically turns the lights off in the the best suggestions.
The Company is in the process of rolling out its energy-saving lighting plan to all UK sites.
An in-house journal Probity which features group activities and events is distributed to all employees throughout the Group.
Over the course of the next twelve months the Company plans to implement energy monitoring technology at its main UK sites that Following feedback by the workforce in the UK, the Company will will facilitate the measurement of energy usage at a more detailed be introducing a variable working time trial in August 2008.
It is level and provide the impetus for further energy saving initiatives.
intended that this will allow staff members to organise their workand private-lives to create a better balance.
emissions Renishaw is extremely conscious of the environmental impact of Other benefits that the staff receive include gymnasiums at the New its operations.
Mills, Stonehouse, Ireland and Woodchester sites and subsidised restaurant in each location.
There are also discounts for sports and Before 1994, all machine shop cleaning was performed using social activities.
Since then, Renishaw has migrated its cleaning solution to water-based technology where possible.
A group performance bonus programme has been established Renishaw has invested in aqueous cleaning technology with the whereby staff receive an annual bonus based upon group results purchase of MecWash cleaning machines during 2007 which have and individual performance.
fluid recovery systems that minimise water consumption.
Renishaw also has a very active sponsored student and industrial The new, sealed units reduce losses to, and improve, the operating placement programme with 52 students participating.
At the same time, the new machines have a much greater recently hired 16 graduates and are training 31 apprentices.
We throughput whilst achieving significantly improved levels of cleanliness.
ANNUAl REPORT 2008 corporAte sociAl responsiBility Solvent cleaning only takes place when unavoidable, which is during and traditional crafts, storytelling, bush craft skills and heritage and the assembly of certain finished products and in cleaning some sensory trails are run for primary schools.
The RCC donated cash mechanical parts.
Where solvents are utilised, three sealed and towards the purchase of a truck.
In addition to being used on the closed loop controlled units containing either Perklone or Acetone farm, the vehicle is used to show the various farm sites to its clients.
are used: the sealed units virtually eliminate emissions to air.
In Pune, India, the RCC donated money to The Akanksha Other activities to reduce the Companys emissions include Foundation.
Akanksha helps children from very underprivileged the implementation of shower facilities for cyclists and video backgrounds, giving them opportunities we would take for granted.
conferencing to reduce the amount of travel.
Car sharing is The money was used to pay for basics such as teaching supplies encouraged: lift shares are published on the company intranet, and school field trips.
staff can post lift-share notices on notice boards at the various eDuCaTion company sites and regular email reminders of the benefits of car sharing are circulated.
Nurturing the next generation of engineering excellence is a fundamental part of the Companys involvement with education.
To facilitate journeys between the various Renishaw sites, the Company operates a regular bus service, thereby reducing the As part of Renishaws commitment to this endeavour, it has fostered number of unnecessary car journeys.
relationships with local schools at both a corporate and individual staff member level.
wasTe DisposaL Typical of this is the Renishaw Centre at the Katharine lady Berkeley Historically, swarf, the waste shavings and chippings of metal from School in Wotton-under-Edge, an information technology IT room, metalworking operations, was collected at wheeled bins at each that laid the foundations for the schools IT curriculum.
machine, before being separated into aluminium and mixed metals.
The scrap merchant paid per tonne for the aluminium, the mixed Since its opening in 1989, the school has installed three more metals were simply taken away.
computer rooms and Renishaw has renewed the equipment in the Renishaw Centre.
The original hardware was recycled for use in the Now, swarf management has been rethought.
Instead of selling schools Special Needs Department.
Today, Renishaw continues to tonnes of coolant-soiled waste metal for a fraction of its worth, maintain strong ties with the school through work placements and Renishaw has invested in a briquetter, which compresses the mock interviews.
aluminium swarf, squeezing out the oil and water.
The waste aluminium is then sold as uncontaminated waste and is reused in Separately, Renishaw has provided land adjacent to the school the processing of new raw materials.
to the Wotton Community Sports Foundation for the creation of a Wotton Community leisure Complex.
The added advantage is that this system also allows the reclamation of cutting oil.
Therefore, in addition to looking into alternatives to At Rednock School, a specialist science school in Dursley, mineral-based cutting oils, Renishaw can now reuse reclaimed Renishaw provided funding for a technology centre.
oil in some of its lower-grade machining activities.
At present the As well as engaging at a school level, Renishaw staff work directly Company is also investigating the feasibility of introducing similar with pupils from Chipping Sodbury School and two feeder schools.
strategies for swarf and waste oils generated from processing other Working on entries for the Greenpower electric car race for schools, materials such as stainless steels.
the staff offer engineering and other technical advice.
Initiatives are in place at many of the sites in the Group to minimise roTary wastage including recycling of waste paper, cardboard, plastic cups, toner cartridges and batteries.
Renishaw also uses recycled The Company, together with a local Rotary club, has, amongst other materials in much of its packaging.
initiatives, established an annual programme of mock-interviews for year 11 pupils who attend Katharine lady Berkeley School.
The interviews, hosted at Renishaw, provide the students with THe CommuniTy experience of interview techniques, preparation of CVs and letters This year Renishaw continued to forge close links with the of application to potential employers, further education bodies and community through its involvement with a number of local and university entrance.
national charities, schools and Rotary.
As recognition of Renishaws commitment to Rotary endeavours, CHariTy the Company was awarded the Paul Harris award.
The Paul Harris Together, the RCC and staff support a number of charitable institutions: award, usually awarded to individuals, commends Renishaws particularly those that help enrich the lives of children and adults.
Renishaw has supported Children in Need for a number of years and in keeping with a long tradition, money raised by Renishaw personnel for Children in Need is matched pound for pound by the Company.
This year, staff from New Mills, Old Town, Wottonunder-Edge, Woodchester and Stonehouse organised fund-raising activities, offered prizes and paid forfeits.
Employees took part in the Reebok Bristol Half Marathon and together with the support of the RCC raised funds for the BristolFTSE Group confirms that Renishaw plc has been independently assessed based Association of Childrens Hospices ACH.
This national according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to charity works to develop and improve care for children who are become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
not expected to reach adulthood and Renishaws donation was Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity the largest amount raised by a single company.
Renishaw staff index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that members have already committed to run in next years event.
meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies St. Werburghs City Farm in Bristol offers first-hand contact with in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social, ethical and the natural world.
Adults with learning disabilities can undergo environmental criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of horticultural training while educational sessions involving natural responsible business practice.
