22 Governance Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility At the heart of the companys approach to corporate Colleagues 22 C olleagues responsibility is a focus on what is right for colleagues 23 Customers and customers, and the vision and values which Skills 23 Environment underpin the company.
As a service focused organisation the enhancement 24 Suppl y chain of colleagues skills remains an important priority for During 2008 the company undertook major exercises to 24 C ommunities Rentokil Initial.
This was exemplified by the companys listen to the views of colleagues around the world and signing of the UK Governments Skills Pledge in 2008. piloted a new process for listening to the opinions of its Since 2005 the company has delivered accredited customers.
Both will be extended in 2009 to support the training to over 1,500 UK-based employees across a wide companys vision to be the best at what we do by doing range of training requirements including numeracy and what is right for colleagues and customers.
literacy skills, customer service and administration.
In line with the companys vision, while progress was Initial Facilities Services IFS has been the lead made in 2008 in the areas of skills development, health company for the development of NVQ and Skills and safety, customer service and sustainability, the for Life training.
It provides its employees with a company intends to place much greater focus upon these wide range of training schemes including: areas of corporate responsibility over the next three years.
NVQ Level 2 and Level 3 skills required for In 2008, Rentokil Initial improved its position in customer service, management and hospitality Business in the Communitys 100 Companies that services: Count corporate responsibility index and continued to be placed within the top ten business services VRQ Level 2 skills required for health and safety companies within the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
good practices, infection control and equality and The companys Carbon Disclosure Project submission diversity: and also achieved an above sector average performance.
Skills for Life helping to develop skills amongst the more disadvantaged of our workforce, including Below are the companys corporate responsibility literacy and numeracy skills.
key performance indicators: KPI 2008 2007 Change In the 12 months from March 2008, 606 employees within the IFS division took part in training which Colleague engagement 73.00% 72.00% 1.0% delivers a formal qualification such as NVQ.
As part Colleague engagement score surveyed across Rentokil, Ambius, Specialist of this programme undertaken with the Learning and Hygiene and central functions Skills Council a training needs analysis is undertaken CO emissions 2,829.00 2,862.00 1.1% 2 for each business area.
This identifies skills development Kilogrammes per employee on a like for like basis and qualification requirements.
The nature of IFSs Water consumption 13.74 14.40 4.6% workforce, comprising a high percentage of migrant Litres per kilogramme of textiles washed on a like for like basis and low-skilled workers, means that providing these Work related accidents 12.02 13.15 8.6% training courses directly benefits the business in Reportable accident achieving its commercial and service objectives, 1,000 full-time equivalents and supports the individual.
Health and safety scorecard 93.00% 76.00% 22.4% % business units populating this management system The Rentokil division is also acting to enhance the skill levels of its technicians.
In the UK it is giving each Work related accidents RIDDOR reporting based on all UK businesses.
technician a clear career pathway and new technical training programmes aligned to the current industry Rentokil Initials management approach to corporate qualifications offered by the British Pest Control responsibility matches action to local needs, while Association have been launched.
150 pest control adhering to group-wide policies.
Andy Ransom, the employees were identified to participate in a Team companys Executive Director, Corporate Development, Leadership NVQ, as part of the Skills Pledge.
has board responsibility for corporate responsibility.
During 2008 Rentokil Initial opened two new training Since 1999 the company has had a broad range of facilities.
First, a new Rentokil training facility which is corporate responsibility policies and in 2008 it revised the first of its kind in the UK pest control industry and its code of ethics.
During 2009 the company intends teaches technicians the practical aspects of pest control to re-launch its core business principles in a code of in a controlled environment.
Second, a new Facilities conduct which colleagues will be expected to abide Services training centre was opened in Canary Wharf, by in their daily dealings with all stakeholders.
This will London, which has specific training environments to be supported by the development of functional centres cover the range of possible cleaning tasks, such as in of excellence within HR, finance, legal and IT which will hotels, kitchens, offices, washrooms and flooring.
It provide group-wide functional support, systems and also provides training for the potential hazards that management processes.
may arise, such as cleaning skills for dealing with blood The Corporate Responsibility Report 2008 is available and body fluids and sewage cleaning.
Highlights from each reporting area follow.
Governance 23 Corporate responsibility Engagement customers by acting proactively ahead of potential During 2008 the company extended its Your Voice regulatory changes.
A recent example is the European Counts colleague engagement survey to over 9,000 Commissions decision, resulting in Annex 1 listing for employees, mainly in Rentokil and Ambius.
It attracted the non-anticoagulant rodenticide, Alphachloralose.
an increased response rate of 94% and an improved This was significant for domestic pest control customers, overall colleague engagement score of 73%, up from 72% ensuring availability of an effective product and removing potential environmental concerns.
There were significant improvements in scores across every major theme especially visibility of leaders Rentokils worldwide perspective enables identification and trust in company, colleague enablement e. g. tools, of pest trends with significant customer impacts.
communications, and interest in colleague well-being.
For instance, increased travel is resulting in increased The survey will be extended across all divisions in 2009. bed bug incidence in hotels.
In 2007, Rentokil developed The company is also taking steps to support colleagues a customers guide for the hospitality industry, and, with practical advice during the tougher economic in 2008, held a very successful series of seminars for conditions.
In 2008, Rentokil in the UK introduced customers in Europe.
financial skills workshops, supported by the countrys Customer satisfaction surveys continued across the Financial Services Authority.
These workshops were European Initial Textiles and Washrooms division with designed to deliver objective and simple financial over 2,000 customers responding in 17 countries Initial advice, and improve employees overall financial Textiles in France has undertaken customer surveys for capability by ensuring they are aware of a wide range 20 years, as well as in Ambius USA and across Rentokil of personal finance management matters.
The programme which tested the Net Promoter Score system.
was delivered to over 700 field-based employees in 56 locations supported by 42 FSA presenters.
From 2009 onwards, as part of the strategic plan, the company has introduced group-wide KPIs of customer Health and safety retention, State of Service and customer satisfaction Health and safety has always been of great importance using Net Promoter Score which will be rolled out to the company.
In 2008, the company put in place plans across all businesses.
to step up its commitment and add management focus and KPIs as part of its new operational plan starting in Environment 2009.
The intention is to ensure that health and safety Of great importance to colleagues and customers performance is always at the heart of its approach to are the companys sustainability activities which focus running each and every one of the operations.
on reducing energy and water usage, and improving This additional focus is supported by the new standard product stewardship.
In compiling this years scorecard reporting system across the group which is environmental data, the company has moved to an designed to crystallise priorities and identify areas for information system that is linked to its accounting improvement.
By August 2008, 93% of business units system.
As a result, the company has improved the reported on health and safety management systems and quality of collection of energy usage data across the performance, allowing benchmarking and comparative group.
For 2008 the total emissions data is based upon performance for the first time.
operations representing over 90% of the companys employee base.
Our Success is no Accident programme in the UK contributes to safety improvements, with reportable Extended reporting now includes all fuel used by the accidents RIDDOR falling by 8.6% to 12.02 per companys worldwide fleet of vehicles.
Throughout 1,000 full-time equivalents and providing data to help the group, 70% of the fuel used in vehicles is diesel, businesses to identify the causes of accidents and and almost 100% in UK service vehicle fleet.
The company is well on the way to rolling The companys total CO emissions were 273 million 2 out the Success is no Accident system in countries where kilogrammes.
As a result of the extended reporting it can be effective to reduce the time lost through the 2008 figure includes additional emissions data incidents and address the causes.
that has skewed comparisons with the reported 2007 emissions of 264 million kilogrammes.
Therefore to Customers enable stakeholders to assess a realistic performance, Rentokil Initials main priority in 2008 was to support the company has recalculated its CO emissions on a 2 its customers through improved service provision as part like for like basis, extracting those operations newly of its company-wide customer service and operational included as well as any operations that were included excellence agenda.
Across the company improvements in last years reporting on the basis of estimates, but were made by operating businesses, in particular City now for which accurate data is available.
Link, Rentokil UK and Australia and Initial Washrooms On a like for like reporting basis, in 2008 Rentokil Initial UK and Australia, where customer service had become decreased its emissions per employee from 2,862 to a significant issue in the recent past.
2,829 kilogrammes an improvement of 1.1% year-on-year.
As well as delivering service to the highest standards, Rentokil Initial continues to act responsibly towards Job No: 0934 Proof No: 9 Operator: PM JF BO JF SJL JF SJL JF PM Job Title: Rentokil AR 2008 Date: 23-03-2009 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: InDesign Proof Reader: 24 Governance Corporate responsibility Whilst total CO emissions showed a small year-on-year were registered for use under the EUs REACH 2 increase, this is the result of an increase in textiles directive ahead of the November 2008 deadline.
production volumes overall of 3% and associated increase in gas consumption.
As a guide, to take this Supply chain increase into account, the normalised data of emissions The responsible management of supplier relationships per kilogramme of product washed in 2008 fell by is an important focus for the company.
In 2009, the around 2.5% compared with 2007. company will reinforce responsible behaviour by re-launching the companys business principles within CO emissions European laundry plants 2 a code of conduct.
In the UK, management of supplier Million kilogrammes relationships will be further enhanced through the Major continental plants All European textile plants creation of a single procurement team with standard 90 systems and management processes.
80 70 During 2008 Initial Textiles procurement department 60 continued to ensure responsible supplier relationship 50 management using World Ethical Audit standards 40 together with OEKOTEX certification.
This in turn 30 20 provided customers with assurance of ethical 10 sourcing practices.
04 05 06 06 07 07 08 08 Communities Following the companys investment in its European In 2008, Rentokil Initial employees participated in a laundry processing facilities such as the new plant in wide range of activities to support their communities Lokeren, the European laundry plants water around the world.
Community investment programmes consumption fell in 2008 by 4.6%.
The benefit of continued in South Africa where colleagues supported investment in new processing facilities also supported people impacted by Aids HIV and in Australia the UK Washrooms business which is continually looking supporting Rainforest Rescue.
The company also played for process improvements and has already achieved a its part in supporting people in China following the 6% increase in throughput of its new water efficient Sichuan earthquake.
In addition, in development, a water recovery and re-use system will In addition two major programmes commenced at a divisional level.
Initial Textiles and Washroom Services be introduced in early 2009.
This system will serve to launched a programme across Europe with Save the recover and re-use up to 80% of the waste water from Children as part of the divisions support for the UNs the UK Washrooms processing machinery, and reduce Year of Sanitation programme, while City Link launched effluent discharge.
a new programme where all employees participated in fund raising activities to provide support for the Chase Water consumed European plants excluding UK Litres per kilogramme of textiles washed childrens hospice.
Major European plants All European plants The companys charitable donations in 2008 amounted 18 to 142,000.
16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 04 05 06 06 07 07 08 08 Around the world, local initiatives are also supporting sustainable practices.
Initial Hygiene in New Zealand has placed great importance on sustainability.
As well as introducing Eco-Care hygiene products, it launched Think Green, Live Green to support World Environment Day.
In the UK initiatives between the fleet management team and their supplier led to revised company vehicle choice, focused on lower emissions, and also provided driver communication to raise awareness of ways to reduce fuel consumption.
Across the European pest control operations the company reviewed the chemicals it uses, involving over 400 substances, and ensured all
