corporate social responsibility Our people to their race, creed, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, age, Our employees are our largest resource and our most highly religion or similar belief, connections with a national minority, valued asset.
We are proud of our people and the mixture of sexual orientation, gender, gender reassignment, marital talent and experience that they represent and we depend on status, membership or non-membership of a trade union, their skills and commitment to achieve our objectives.
disability, or any other classification as prescribed by law.
Throughout 2008, we have taken further steps in ensuring that Rightmove continues to be an environment in which our Charitable activity employees are nurtured to ensure that their skills and During 2008, our employees continued to support the knowledge are continuously developed.
Our cultural NSPCC, our Company nominated charity and we continue to uniqueness is bolstered by an open and honest encourage all our employees to devote time and fundraising communication environment and through investment in efforts to charitable causes of particular importance to them ensuring that all employees have a profound understanding as individuals.
During 2008 a considerable number of staff of Rightmoves core values and goals.
This is achieved have been active in raising money or supporting the through a combination of off-site residential training, ongoing fundraising activities of others.
Staff opinions are frequently sought through regular staff forums with senior managers and Environment employee online surveys.
Being an online company, Rightmove actively considers its environmental impact.
Since communication with all employees can easily be achieved by our operation is primarily office-based, the direct regular emails and the use of the intranet.
environmental impact is relatively low.
Indeed Rightmoves Over the course of 2008, we have introduced an internal business creates opportunities to reduce the overall training academy designed to provide a structured means for environmental harm associated with a variety of aspects of employees to expand and diversify their skills and knowledge the whole home hunting process and even home ownership and explore new ways of working with one another.
2009 we will continue to focus on developing and rewarding Traditional ways of finding a home tend to involve large our people.
amounts of paper and printing, whether in the form of Rightmove has a strong commitment to equality of newspaper advertising, property particulars mailed to opportunity in all our employment policies, practices and applicants through the post or leaflet drops by agents.
We take a proactive approach throughout Rightmove reduces the need for print media and the our recruitment and selection process to ensuring that we environmental damage that goes with them.
Rightmove attract, hire and retain a diverse and talented workforce and takes care to design the layout of property particulars to this is kept under close and regular scrutiny.
No existing or reduce the total number of pages that need to be printed potential employee will receive less favourable treatment due out in those cases where a home hunter does want a physical copy.
20 rightmove plc annual report 2008 Enhanced information on properties also reduces the amount e-communications for our shareholders, including an HTML of time home hunters waste in visiting properties that rapidly copy of the annual report to enable investors and people turn out to be inappropriate.
As a high proportion of viewings with an interest in the Company to print specified pages involve a car journey, any reduction in wasted viewings has thereby reducing the quantity of printed material we distribute.
Rightmove has worked hard to increase the number of photographs of each property Health and safety and has introduced more comprehensive maps and aerial The Group considers the effective management of health and photographs which help home hunters to identify the safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
During specific location of a property.
More high quality information 2008, we continued our fire safety procedures, first aid skills presented about properties reduces waste.
and work place safety training.
The Groups ongoing policy The Rightmove.
co. uk website includes functionality for on health and safety is to provide adequate control of the our customers to display Energy Performance Certificates health and safety risks arising from work activities, through which allow prospective buyers to evaluate the energy further consultation with and training of employees, the efficiency of a property they are considering buying and to provision and maintenance of plant and equipment, safe identify opportunities to improve the energy efficiency once handling and use of all substances and the prevention of they have purchased the property.
accidents and causes of ill health.
The Group will maintain We also take seriously the environmental impact of our safe and healthy working conditions for employees, visitors own operations.
As an internet-based company with most and contractors, and keep the policy on health and safety staff employed in two office locations, we believe our own up-to-date with regular reviews and necessary alterations environmental footprint is small and that there are no to the policy as required.
by-products of our operations which have a clear negative impact on the environment.
Our staff are encouraged to take proactive steps to address our environmental responsibilities.
For instance, we continue to operate comprehensive recycling schemes which were established in consultation with local authorities and recycling partners.
As an online company, our culture emphasises a paperless environment.
We also recognise that our responsibilities do not stop just with how we operate internally we also encourage all our customers, business partners and suppliers not to unnecessarily print out emails sent by us in the signature of all our emails.
Moreover, we have also introduced 21 rightmove plc annual report 2008
