36 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report In assessing all aspects of pay and bene ts, the Company Introduction compares packages offered by similar companies, which This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors are chosen having regard to: Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report also meets the size of the company enterprise value, revenues, the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial pro ts and number of employees : Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the diversity and complexity of its businesses: the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors the geographical spread of its businesses: and remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution their growth, expansion and change pro le.
to approve the report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
In making the comparisons, the Company also takes into consideration the Groups signi cant operations in the The Regulations require the auditors to report to the US where the Company has a number of large, successful Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors competitors who compete with it for top management talent.
Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance The Committee implements its remuneration policies by the with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
design of reward packages for executive directors comprising The report has therefore been divided into separate sections the appropriate mix of salary, performance related annual for audited and unaudited information.
cash incentive bonuses and share related incentives.
A signi cant proportion of the overall package comprises performance Unaudited information related elements.
Remuneration Committee The Company has established a Remuneration Committee None of the executive directors hold any outside appointments.
the Committee in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
The members of the Committee are Basic salary Mr Iceton chairman, Mr Etheridge and Mr Burrow.
None of An executive directors basic salary is normally determined by the the Committee members has any personal financial interests, Committee before the start of the year and when an individual other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers the experience and performance of The Groups chief executive, Mr Drabble, normally attends the individuals and relationships across the board and seeks to be meetings of the Committee to advise on operational aspects competitive, but fair, using information drawn from both internal of the implementation of existing policies and policy proposals, and external sources and taking account of pay and conditions except where his own remuneration is concerned, as does elsewhere in the Company.
the non-executive chairman, Mr Cole.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Under Mr Icetons direction, Annual performance related bonus plan the company secretary and Mr Drabble have responsibility Under the annual performance related bonus plan for executive for ensuring the Committee has the information relevant directors, payouts for the year to 30 April 2008 were related to its deliberations.
In formulating its policies, the Committee directly to financial and personal performance targets and were has access to professional advice from outside the Company, subject to a cap of 150% of salary for Mr Drabble, Mr Robson and as required, and to publicly available reports and statistics.
Mr Miller and 100% of salary for Mr Dhaiwal.
The Committee External professional advice was obtained in the year from establishes the objectives that must be met for each financial year Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS which assisted the Company if a cash incentive bonus for that year is to be paid.
In determining with a review of its remuneration policy.
HNBS does not provide bonus parameters, the Committees objective is to set targets any other services to the Company.
that re ect appropriately challenging financial performance.
Remuneration policy for executive directors Mr Dhaiwal achieved his targets in full and will be paid the Executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, maximum bonus whilst Mr Drabble and Mr Robson earned 60% motivate and retain directors of the high calibre needed to of their maximum bonus entitlement and Mr Miller earned 17% achieve the Groups objectives and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
The main elements of the remuneration of his maximum bonus.
package for executive directors and senior management are: basic annual salary and bene ts in kind: For the year to 30 April 2009 the principal performance condition annual performance related bonus plan: will be linked to pro tability and cash ow.
A minority of Performance Share Plan awards: and the bonus will be based on personal objectives.
performance related bonus plan for all the executive directors Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Directors remuneration report | 37 will be subject to a cap of 100% of salary.
Around half of the The final award made in 2004 5 vested in full during the year.
maximum bonus potential will be payable for the achievement Full vesting was triggered by EPS growth above the upper target of target performance.
of RPI plus 7% over the three years ended 30 April 2007 and Total Shareholder Return TSR performance in the upper Share related incentives quartile of the FTSE 250 mid-cap stocks other than investment Details of the Companys share related incentives are set trusts over the three years from 19 August 2004. out below.
Current plan Previous plans Performance Share Plan A.
Executive share option schemes Under the Performance Share Plan executive directors and other Until 2002, it was the Committees policy to make regular members of the senior management team may annually be awards under the Companys executive share option plans awarded a conditional right to acquire shares performance to senior staff.
The value of the shares underlying the options shares the vesting of which depends on the satisfaction of awarded was assessed by reference to a number of factors demanding performance conditions.
including the employees salary, seniority and length of service as well as both the Companys and the individuals performance In recent years, the policy has been to grant awards of shares in the year prior to the award.
Shareholder approval for this with a market value at the date of grant equal to between 20% plan had been granted in 1996 and accordingly the plan formally and 100% of the participants base salary with the executive lapsed in October 2006. directors typically receiving towards the upper end of this range.
Investment Incentive Plan At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, following a study of market The Investment Incentive Plan was a long-term incentive remuneration levels by HNBS, it is proposed to seek shareholder plan through which senior management who elected to invest approval to increase the individual grant limit in the Performance all or a portion of their annual cash bonuses in shares of the Share Plan rules from 100% to 150% of base salary.
Company, also became eligible for matching awards in the form of shares which only vest subject to demanding This change is being made to bring the maximum award limit into performance conditions.
The Committee has not made any line with market practice and also to ensure that the Committee awards under this plan since 2004 5 and the Company does not has the exibility to increase the variable element of the intend to make further awards under this plan, which nally remuneration package if appropriate.
In proposing this change lapses in 2011. the Committee recognises the need to ensure that performance conditions are suitably stretching.
The Performance Share Plan criteria vary by year of award and are as follows: Performance criteria measured over 3 years Award date Financial year EPS % of award TSR % of award Status 6 10 04 2004 5 2006 7 EPS between From award date versus FTSE Small Cap Conditions met in full 5p 12.5% vested and 12.5% at median: 50% at upper quartile 8p 50% vested 17 8 05 2005 6 2007 8 EPS between From date of grant versus FTSE 250 Index TSR measurement 7.7p 12.5% vested 12.5% at median: 50% at upper quartile period not completed, to 9.1p 50% vested but EPS target met in full 12 10 06 2006 7 2008 9 EPS 16.2p 12.5% vested 19p 100% vested Not completed 30 7 07 2007 8 2009 10 EPS RPI 4% p. a.
100% Not completed For performance between the lower and upper EPS and, if applicable, TSR vesting ranges, the award is scaled on a straight line basis.
EPS for the purpose of the awards is based on the pro t before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles less a notional 30% tax charge for awards made for years up to 2006 7.
Thereafter awards have been based on EPS computed using the same pro t fide nition less the actual tax charge included in the accounts.
The Committee considers that EPS is an appropriate performance measure as it gives a direct link to the delivery of operational performance.
38 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Continued Shareholding guidelines rights accrue at the rate of one-sixtieth of salary as fide ned for Executive directors are required to retain no fewer than 50% of each year of pensionable service and his normal retirement date shares that vest under the Performance Share Plan net of taxes is at age 65.
Mr Dhaiwal also pays contributions equal to 7.5% of until such time as a shareholding equivalent to 100% of salary is his salary to the Retirement Bene ts Plan.
The Retirement Bene ts Plan also provides for: Employee Share Ownership Trust in the event of death in service or death between leaving service The Group has established an Employee Share Ownership Trust and retirement while retaining membership of the plan, a spouses ESOT to acquire and hold shares in the Company to satisfy pension equal to 50% of the members deferred pension, potential awards under the Performance Share Plan.
At 30 April calculated at the date of death plus a return of his contributions: 2008, the ESOT held a bene cial interest in 6,373,382 shares.
in the event of death in retirement, a spouses pension equal The ESOT owned directly 4,786,097 of these shares and a further to 50% of the members pension at the date of death: 1,587,285 shares were registered in the name of Performance an option to retire at any time after age 50 with the Companys Share Plan participants on terms which require that the award consent.
Early retirement bene ts are reduced by an amount shares are transferred back to the ESOT to the extent that the agreed between the Actuary and the Trustees as re ecting the performance targets are not met.
cost to the plan of the early retirement.
In 2010, Government regulations raise the minimum early retirement age to 55: and Relative performance pension increases in line with the increase in retail price The following graph compares the Companys TSR performance in ation up to a limit of currently 5% a year in respect of with the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the service since 1997. five years ended 30 April 2008.
The FTSE 250 is the Stock Exchange index the Committee considers to be the most In February 2006, Mr Miller ceased contributing to Sunbelts 401K appropriate to the size and scale of the Companys operations.
fide ned contribution pension plan and joined Sunbelts deferred compensation plan.
Under the deferred compensation plan, Total shareholder return Mr Miller can elect to defer a proportion of his annual salary and a 3500 proportion of his annual performance bonus, which is retained by 3000 Sunbelt in an account designated for his bene t to be paid to him on retirement.
Sunbelt provides a co-match at the rate of $1 for every 2500 $1 deferred up to $15,000 per calendar year and Mr Millers deferred 2000 salary account is also credited annually with an investment return equal to that earned on equivalent investments.
1500 1000 Executive directors service agreements 500 The service agreements between the Company and Mr Drabble dated 6 July 2006, Mr Robson dated 4 August 2000, Mr Dhaiwal 0 Apr 03 Apr 04 Apr 05 Apr 06 Apr 07 Apr 08 dated 8 July 2002 and Mr Miller dated 5 July 2004 are all Ashtead Group plc FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts terminable by either party giving the other 12 months notice.
The Source: Thomson Financial service agreements for each of the executive directors all contain Directors pension arrangements non-compete provisions appropriate to their roles in the Group.
The Company makes a payment of 40% of his base salary to Mr Drabble in lieu of providing him with any pension arrangements.
Remuneration policy for non-executive directors The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined Under the terms of his contract, Mr Robson is entitled to retire by the Board within limits set out in the Articles of Association.
at age 60 on a pension equal to one-thirtieth of his final salary None of the non-executive directors has a service contract for each year of pensionable service.
His pension is provided with the Company and their appointment is therefore terminable through the Companys Retirement Bene ts Plan, which is a by the Board at any time.
Effective 1 May 2008, non-executive fide ned bene ts scheme.
Mr Robsons contract also contains directors fees are being revised to 40,000.
The Chairmen of the early retirement provisions allowing him to retire and draw a Audit and Remuneration Committees also receive an additional pension based on actual years of service, but without deduction fee of 10,000 and 5,000 respectively, while the Senior for early payment.
This takes effect once he has completed Independent Director receives an additional fee of 5,000.
10 years service with the Company or at anytime after age In addition, the Chairmans fee is being revised to 110,000.
50 if there is a change of control.
Mr Robson pays contributions equal to 7.5% of his salary to the Retirement Bene ts Plan.
An ordinary resolution concerning the Groups remuneration policies will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual Mr Dhaiwals pension bene ts are also provided entirely through General Meeting.
the Ashtead Group plc Retirement Bene ts Plan.
