Sustainable development Many successes Continuing opportunities Our commitment to sustainable development is delivering a range of long A new Energy and Climate Strategy team will provide increased direction in term benefits, such as the successful start up of our new mineral sands this critical area.
Our increased focus on critical risk, process safety and contractor The World Economic Forum invited Rio Tinto to join its Project Board for a management seeks to eliminate fatalities.
We commenced work on a global framework to support health and We maintained our status as a leading company on various business wellbeing programmes across the Group.
We made slow progress on our target to increase the representation of We were invited to join the new World Ocean Council to promote women in senior management, but met our target for increasing gender sustainable use, development and stewardship of the ocean.
diversity in our graduate intake.
Our approach to biodiversity management in the littoral forests of We sponsor a substantial programme to demonstrate the commercial Madagascar is regarded as leading practice.
feasibility of carbon capture and storage technology.
We are the largest private sector employer of Indigenous Australians.
All Rio Tinto products manufactured or imported into Europe were preWe made several investments in lower emissions and energy efficient registered under the new EU REACH legislation.
The inflation mitigation strategy implemented at our new Madagascar Rio Tinto Alcan effectively manages a 73,800 sq km water catchment area project could present opportunities in other projects.
in Canada for hydroelectricity generation.
Our Achieve Health programme offers potential wellbeing, safe work and Hail Creek and Diavik mines, and Rio Tinto Marine received safety awards.
To maintain progress, we intend to set new Group targets across a range of sustainable development metrics by mid 2009, and will report on these targets and our strategies for implementation in the Sustainable development section of the 2010 Annual report.
Overview conducts its business activities, with sustainable development principles.
Rio Tintos strategy of investing in large, long leadership coming from the board of life mines and businesses means we operate directors, the chairman and the chief Reporting boundaries on long time horizonswith some projects executive.
Rio Tintos sustainable development data are lasting 40 years or more from mineral Our statement of business practice, The reported for calendar years and, unless discovery to mine closure.
These are often way we work, was revised and updated in otherwise stated, represent 100 per cent of situated in remote locations and represent 2008 to reinforce this commitment to the parameter at each managed operation, large sums of immovable capital.
integrate sustainable development thinking even though Rio Tinto may have only partial The continued success of our business in the way we make decisions about finding, ownership.
With the exception of the therefore requires a strong commitment to acquiring, developing, and operating assets Engineered Products and Packaging units, sustainable development, to maintain a around the world.
which are in the process of being divested, reputation that ensures ongoing access to Production from our operations supplies former Alcan operations have adopted people, capital and mineral resources.
This society with materials, while creating wealth Rio Tinto definitions and are included in the commitment has a sound business case that to support community infrastructure, health 2008 Rio Tinto dataset.
goes beyond safeguarding the health of the care, education programmes and dividends Integrated Rio Tinto and Alcan 2007 planet for future generations.
We believe this to shareholders.
It also provides the means databases have been developed for yields a range of long term benefits such as: and opportunity to develop new approaches greenhouse gas emissions, energy use and Better return for our shareholders.
to solving the worlds environmental and safety, but not for other sustainable Improved management of risk.
human development challenges, such as development measures, due to significant Reduction in our operating costs.
definition and measurement differences for More business opportunities.
The board Committee on social and historic datasets.
Attracting and retaining high calibre environmental accountability ensures that we Former Alcan operations are not employees.
included in the reporting of performance have the policies, standards, systems and Maintaining or improving the value and against our 2003 to 2008 health, safety and people in place to meet our commitment to environmental targets due to the time scale quality of our products with less impact on sustainable development outlined in The way associated with these targets and differences the environment.
in the definition and measurement of data.
Better development and employment Rio Tinto took an industry leadership Rio Tinto reports in line with the Global opportunities for and relations with local role in the creation of the Global Mining Reporting Initiative GRI G3 guidelines.
Initiative GMI in 1998, an industry Accordingly, we use a materiality assessment Local and regional economic development programme that, ahead of most sectors, to help us focus this report on those issues that, over time, reduces operating costs.
identified how mining can make a positive that are most important to our internal and contribution to sustainable development.
These factors help differentiate We remain an active member of the Omission from the material issues Rio Tinto from its competitors and International Council on Mining and Metals, covered in our report does not mean that the contribute to our goal of being the which resulted from the GMI and aims to issue is not managed by the Company.
A full undisputed sector leader in maximising provide leadership on scientific and policy account of our 2008 economic, social, value for our stakeholders.
matters, maintain dialogue with all environment and governance programmes Sustainable development has become an stakeholders, and promote best practice and performance, including information on integral part of the way in which Rio Tinto performance standards employing 80 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance d s e g n a o n i t a a S m r a e f n e p o t o y N y y H n t c l i p e i i a p a h u r l w t m c S S h e e o o l l p n c b s i s o e n a o i l c o p a i l n e b t O r E o a o u g l p r r l G p e e p o e e C a d c n o n e l n g a v d m i a e a c r l m g n o e m a e r p g n o i u m m i o f F n r e n e e i n a t n t p l y t Sustainable development materiality assessment have targets to incrementally improve the energy and GHG intensities of all our operations.
However new technologies offer step change improvements when developing large projects.
During 2008 a new Energy and Climate Strategy team was formed to provide strategic direction and support to the businesses.
This includes generating long term forecasts to understand opportunities for material reductions in emissions.
Rio Tinto continues to participate in a number of collaborative efforts to promote effective public policy frameworks to address climate change, including the US Climate Action Partnership USCAP and submissions on proposed legislation to governments in Australia, the US and Canada.
Sustainable The aluminium product group now represents approximately 65 per cent of the development Groups total GHG emissions.
Following alignment of the Rio Tinto and Alcan energy and GHG reporting methodologies, Rio Tintos GHG emissions baseline for 2007 including Alcans bauxite, alumina and smelting operations was 49.3 million tonnes.
In 2008 Rio Tintos total GHG emissions, made up of on site emissions and those from the net purchase of electricity and steam, was 50.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent COe.
30.3 million tonnes of this total were 2 on site emissions, over which Rio Tinto has direct control.
Total greenhouse gas emissions Million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent 04 25.3 05 26.6 06 28.0 07 49.3 our data definitions and sustainable implemented a number of practical 08 50.3 development reporting criteria, are available programmes covering the management of Rio Tinto in the sustainable development section of climate change, water, land stewardship, Rio Tinto including former Alcan our website: www.
biodiversity, mineral and non mineral waste, We self declare that our web based air quality, and closure.
These programmes GRI report is aligned with GRI Application include input from our local communities as There are significant GHG emissions Level A. well as from experts in these fields.
associated with the transportation, Our business units also produce their A gap analysis against Rio Tinto processing and use of Rio Tintos products.
own local sustainable development reports.
environment standards has been conducted In 2008, these included: These reports will be available online from at the former Alcan sites and the identified Approximately 6.8 million tonnes of COe 2 May 2009. gaps are being addressed according to the associated with third party transport of our level of risk.
External recognition In 2004 we set five year performance An estimated 359 million tonnes of COe 2 In 2008, Rio Tinto was listed on the improvement targets in key environment associated with customers using our coal in FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability areas against a 2003 baseline.
These targets electricity generation and steel production.
World and STOXX Indexes and the Climate have improved measurement and Approximately 286 million tonnes of COe 2 Disclosure Leadership Index.
We maintained monitoring and our overall understanding of associated with steel production from our platinum ratings on the Business in the performance.
These emissions are not additive Community Corporate Responsibility and to the coal use emissions above, as some Environment Indexes and achieved a gold Greenhouse gas emissions customers use both our iron ore and our rating on their Workplace Index.
We accept the urgent need for climate coal to produce steel.
change action and recognise the issue as The combined Groups GHG emissions ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP being one of our greatest challenges and efficiency performance decreased by 0.8 per Respect for the environment is central to opportunities.
We aim to progressively cent from 2007.
Performance of the former Rio Tintos approach to sustainable reduce the greenhouse gas GHG emissions Rio Tinto operations decreased during 2008, but this was offset by a small improvement development.
We have developed and and energy footprint of our operations, and Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 81 y t i C s l r o e s v i u d r o e i B l S e p a t n a G g i t k a d e g h n n o h e a o L m e s l v s d e e n y d e m t r s r r t n n a e o H a r m r r w i u e g i t n m h s a v t e a s W c n n t e E s e e s B s i d u n u u n t o s y e a i h g g n n s r r e i e a t e s e y g r s n G e Sustainable development continued FutureGen CCS project in the US.
from the former Alcan operations.
excluding former Alcan operations, Rio Tinto is a joint venture partner in the Within the aluminium product group, compared to a five per cent reduction target.
HIsmelt the increased portfolio of hydro sourced direct smelting iron making During the target period, production electricity has contributed to a 17 per cent technology, which has lower emissions than increases at many operations to meet market reduction in total GHG emissions per tonne industry best practice.
requirements resulted in energy efficiency of aluminium smelted, and a 14 per cent improvements as plant and equipment reduction in the intensity of our alumina Energy use utilisation improved.
However, more effort refining activities in 2008.
Rio Tinto both consumes energy in its was required to access and transport ore at We did not meet our 2003 to 2008 operations and produces it.
Our smelting and some open cut coal and iron ore mines.
greenhouse gas emissions target, with a mineral processing operations are energy Lower grade ore was processed at some 3.8 per cent increase in emissions per tonne operations and mine expansions and intensive and depend on hydroelectricity, of product excluding former Alcan development activities further increased our coal, oil, diesel and gas to keep them operations, compared to a four per cent energy use per tonne of product.
At the same time, Rio Tinto is one reduction target.
of the worlds leading producers of coal and Over the target period, improved anode of uranium for the energy industry.
Water use and PFC emission control at aluminium During 2008 several operations Water is a resource with social, smelting operations contributed to overall announced investments in lower emissions environmental and economic value at both group performance improvements compared and energy efficient technologies.
Rio Tinto the local and global level.
However, these were overshadowed Alcan continues to invest in clean resources is a key business risk that we by additional waste movement required to hydropower, Rio Tinto Iron Ore announced manage using leading practices.
access bulk commodities such as coal and an upgrade of its Pilbara power station using We have a long term approach to water iron ore. Lower grade ore was also mined more efficient technology, and Kennecott management that aims to improve our and processed at some operations.
Land Utah Copper is constructing and Richards performance, recognise the value of water, clearance rates increased associated with Bay Minerals is developing co-generation and work with others to contribute to mine expansion and development to meet plants.
We have the changing market conditions.
These For our large new projects Rio Tinto has had a water strategy since 2005 which changes resulted in increased GHG been collaborating with the Rocky Mountain provides a framework for addressing water emissions per unit of production.
Institute to explore various alternative related business risk and improving We believe it is important to understand energy sources.
We are also currently performance.
This year the World Economic the impact of our products along the value developing step change technologies for Forum invited Rio Tinto to join its Project chain, including product life cycle emissions.
several of our products, including the Board for a major water initiative from We continually seek ways to lower our on drained cathode cell for aluminium 2008-2010.
Rio Tintos participation at the site emissions.
Where we can influence our production.
This has the potential to forum is a unique opportunity to participate customers, we work to develop efficient significantly reduce the amount of energy at a leadership level in the water debate, to downstream processes, and our metals and required to make aluminium metal.
learn from other leading companies about minerals can bring energy and emissions Our energy use has more than doubled their successful approaches, and to enable benefits.
Uranium is used in low carbon over the last year mostly related to the others to recognise the good work we have power generation: borates improve inclusion of the former Alcan operations.
already undertaken on water management.
insulation products: aluminium makes cars Importantly, this acquisition has greatly We continue to focus on ways to lighter, reducing the amount of fuel used contributed to Rio Tintos use of greenhouse minimise the amount of water we remove during their operation: and it can be friendly hydro and nuclear power which has from the environment, to reuse it whenever efficiently recycled.
increased from 48 per cent to 67 per cent of we can, and to return it to the environment Where our activities are an energy our electricity use.
A number of new projects meeting regulatory limits.
intensive part of the product lifecycle, we and technology upgrades that are either In 2008 fresh water withdrawal increased seek to improve our performance.
For underway or planned in Canada will ensure 27 per cent to 521 billion litres.
The example, Rio Tinto Alcan is a leader that we use electricity available from these acquisition of Alcan in 2007 contributed the in the development of energy efficient hydro sources with greater efficiency.
Its smelters Total energy use Total fresh water withdrawn have reduced on site emissions intensity by Petajoules Billion litres more than 65 per cent since 1990.
04 232 04 379 05 246 For commodities where processing or 05 370 06 257 06 392 using our products is energy intensive, we 07 540 07 411 are developing lower emission technologies.
08 553 08 521 Due to global demand, coal is likely to Rio Tinto remain a significant source of energy for the Rio Tinto including former Alcan foreseeable future.
We are therefore investing in developing and commercialising carbon capture and storage CCS technology.
We The combined Groups energy efficiency At the end of the 2003-2008 target period, sponsor one of the most comprehensive performance decreased by 1.7 per cent from we did not meet the targeted ten per cent subsurface monitoring programmes in 2007.
Performance decreased during 2008 at reduction in fresh water withdrawal per Australia, the Otway project, which both Rio Tinto and former Alcan operations.
tonne of product, achieving a 6.3 per cent demonstrates the feasibility of CCS.
Rio Tinto We did not meet our 2003 to 2008 reduction excluding former Alcan is a founding member of the Global CCS energy use target, with a 2.2 per cent operations.
Since 2003, about 30 per cent of Institute as well as a member of the increase in energy use per tonne of product our operations have improved their 82 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance In 2008 we implemented biodiversity freshwater withdrawal efficiency through service assessment methodologies and green action plans at seven locations in Australia, plant optimisation projects focused on markets will present.
Former Alcan southern Africa, Madagascar and South increasing production throughput, water operations continue to refine their America.
Biodiversity action planning will efficient processing and increasing use of understanding of their land holding through continue through 2009 and 2010 at sites recycle water.
However, these improvements implementation of the Rio Tinto land use that have been ranked as having very high were offset by extreme climatic events in stewardship standard.
eastern Australia where flooding necessitated During 2008 we participated in the The development of land use impoundment of large volumes of freshwater World Resources Institute WRI ecosystem management plans, which incorporate for later use and treatment.
Additionally, iron service assessment project, where we piloted biodiversity management and conservation, ore expansion and development activities in the WRI methodology at our La Granja Western Australia resulted in increased copper project in Peru.
We are also a commenced in mid 2008.
This will complete mining below the water table that required participant in the Business for Social the biodiversity profile mapping across the additional dewatering.
Responsibility BSR Environmental Services, Rio Tinto Group.
We promote the development of Tools and Markets Corporate Working business level water strategies aligned with Group, which as part of its programme is SOCIAL WELLBEING the Rio Tinto water strategy.
Water conducting comparative assessments of Ethical integrity and social responsibility are management support is also being provided various ecosystem service assessment critical to the way we conduct our business.
to new projects to ensure that efficient methodologies.
The outcomes from these We aim to build enduring relationships with practices are in place at mine processes will be applied to our development our stakeholders that are characterised by commencement.
Water risk reviews were projects to ensure that we adopt an mutual respect, active partnership and long carried out at four new projects in 2008, integrated approach to land management term commitment.
In the long run, the trust with further support planned for 2009. through ecosystem service assessment.
that is engendered by solid relationships will Rio Tinto is also engaging with reinforce Rio Tintos ability to gain government on emerging water policy, for Biodiversity preferential access to resources.
example, in Australia we chair a water The potential for impact on biodiversity working group as part of the Minerals makes our projects potentially sensitive for Safety Council of Australia.
We also engage on key regulators, local communities, investors, non We are committed to an incident and injury water initiatives with organisations government organisations and employees.
We committed to sustainable water Rio Tintos long term success depends on our believe that all injuries are preventable and management, such as the World Business ability to understand and manage these our aim is for everyone to go home safe and Council for Sustainable Development.
Our biodiversity strategy was healthy at the end of each day.
We strive to launched in 2004 to provide a framework to create an environment where all employees Land do this.
A key aspect of the strategy is our and contractors have the knowledge, skills Our mining and processing activities require goal to have a net positive impact NPI and desire to work safely.
Our safety access to and management of land and the on biodiversity.
performance statistics include both ecosystems associated with this land.
We To achieve NPI we first need to reduce employees and contractors at managed manage 38,000 square kilometres of land, our impacts on biodiversity values through operations.
Regrettably we did not meet our goal of At the end of 2008 less than five per We then aim to achieve a positive impact zero fatalities.
Eighteen people were fatally cent of this area was disturbed for mining through the use of biodiversity offsets and injured while working at Rio Tinto managed activities.
In line with leading practice, we additional conservation actions.
We operations this year, including ten lives that aim to rehabilitate land as it comes out of continue to work with our conservation were lost when a helicopter crashed while mining use rather than waiting until all partners to refine our understanding and travelling from our La Granja copper operations at the site have ceased.
improve implementation of the strategy.
development in Peru, and two at Alcan Rio Tintos approach to management of the Engineered Products operations.
We have Land footprint littoral coastal forests in Madagascar is thoroughly investigated each of these Square kilometres regarded as leading practice.
incidents, and communicated and are 04 1,431 05 1,459 At the IUCN World Conservation continuing to act upon the lessons learned.
06 1,513 Congress held in Barcelona, Spain, during We continue to provide support and 07 1,572 October 2008 we communicated the counselling to the families impacted by 08 1,840 advances we have made since we launched these incidents.
In particular, a Following application of the Rio Tinto Rehabilitated series of tools and methodologies have been safety definitions to the former Alcan developed including a methodology for statistics, Rio Tintos combined 2007 all Our footprint increased by almost 17 per assessing the biodiversity values of injury frequency rate AIFR baseline cent in 2008, 175 square kilometres of which Rio Tintos landholding.
During 2008, increased from 0.97 to 1.21 as of December was related to the acquisition of Alcan.
25 per cent of the operations assessed ranked 2007.
Our AIFR for the enlarged Rio Tinto By the end of 2008 almost 26 per cent of as having very high biodiversity values and Group has improved by 21 per cent this year.
the disturbed land had been rehabilitated, a 15 per cent ranked with high values.
This similar figure to 2007. understanding will enable resources and Through the implementation of our land action planning assistance to be given to our use management standard we are highest priority sites.
Biodiversity value positioning Rio Tinto to take full advantage assessments for Rio Tinto Alcan sites will be of the future opportunities that ecosystem undertaken in 2009.
Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 83 Sustainable development continued significant has been the reduction in standards has been conducted at the former All injury frequency rate Per 200,000 hours worked musculo-skeletal and noise induced hearing Alcan sites and the identified gaps are being 04 1.51 loss cases over this period.
We attribute this addressed according to the level of risk.
05 1.35 to significant improvements in our risk In 2009 we will continue the focus on 06 1.10 management approach that have allowed us contractor management.
A complete review 07 1.21 to identify our most harmful exposures and will be conducted with internal and external 08 0.95 focus control strategies to reduce them.
Rio Tinto benchmarking of best practice.
The results Rio Tinto including former Alcan However, we have not seen any will be used to formulate a strategy for improvement in the number of stress cases creating a consistently high standard of reported during the target period, which contractor safety performance.
accounted for about 28 per cent of all cases Similarly, as a result of the integration of reported at former Rio Tinto sites in 2008.
Rio Tinto and Alcan data in 2007, our lost Health An important element of our approach to For the first time the rate of reported stress time injury frequency rate LTIFR baseline sustainable development is the health and cases exceeded hearing loss and almost increased from 0.42 to 0.61.
Our LTIFR for wellbeing of our employees, contractors and matched musculo-skeletal cases.
This is a the enlarged Group improved by 18 per cent the people in the communities in which we global trend affecting most companies, and during 2008. operate.
it will be an increasing focus of our health Lost time injury frequency rate We are committed to reaching our goal of and wellbeing programmes.
Per 200,000 hours worked no new cases of occupational illness and The rate of employees exposed to an 04 0.65 05 0.57 believe that we will only achieve this through eight hour noise dose of more than 85db A 06 0.49 excellence in health risk management and at both former Rio Tinto and Alcan sites 07 0.61 the promotion of good health for all our decreased by nine per cent to 3,380 per 08 0.50 employees.
We firmly believe that by 10,000 employees in 2008, consistent with Rio Tinto supporting healthy lifestyles, health related the previous efforts of both Rio Tinto and Rio Tinto including former Alcan risks such as fatigue, stress and obesity will Alcan operations to achieve such a reduction be reduced, with resultant improvements in driven by stretch targets.
We met our 2003 to 2008 AIFR and LTIFR Employees exposed to an 8 hour noise dose of A gap analysis against Rio Tinto health targets with a 53 per cent and 51 per cent more than 85dB A Per 10,000 employees average over a full shift standards has been conducted at the former reduction respectively excluding former 04 3,925 Alcan sites and the identified gaps are being Alcan operations, compared to the 50 per 05 3,915 addressed according to the level of risk.
We also set revised 06 3,902 AIFR and LTIFR improvement targets for The inclusion of the former Alcan 07 3,716 2007-2008 for the enlarged Group of 1.05 operations has altered our health exposure 08 3,380 and 0.56 respectively.
These were both met profile as a result of the expansion in our with year end rates of 0.95 and 0.50. smelting and refining business.
Rates of We understand that low injury rates do occupational illness in 2008 at former Alcan Our 12 per cent reduction in the number of not mean that fatalities will not happen, and sites are higher than comparable Rio Tinto employees exposed to a noise dose of more that we must actively manage the safety of sites.
In many cases this most likely reflects than 85 decibels between 2004 and 2008 all those who work on our sites employees the stricter and different reporting definitions excluding former Alcan operations fell short and contractors alike.
Consequently, the rate of our 20 per cent reduction target, but was We have a number of initiatives to assist of new cases of occupational illness nevertheless a significant improvement.
us in achieving our goals including: increased by almost 110 per cent to 46 per Monitoring improvements enabled us to The Safety Leadership Development 10,000 employees in 2008.
This increase better understand our exposure, but also Programme, which aims at ensuring all was mainly a result of noise induced hearing resulted in an increased reporting of exposed levels of supervision understand what is loss, musculo-skeletal and stress cases workers after the baseline had been expected of them while in a leadership role reported at former Alcan sites.
In addition, the complexity and why it is so important.
involved in assessing key contributing noise New cases of occupational illness The Semi Quantitative Risk Assessment sources and then implementing practical and Per 10,000 employees SQRA process which identifies critical cost effective noise controls, particularly for 04 68 risks at a business by utilising historical 05 47 heavy mobile equipment and diverse noise 06 32 data and input from a cross section of key sources in smelters, was underestimated.
All businesses are required to Although we recognise that further 08 46 carry out an SQRA and action plans are in reductions will prove challenging, we are Rio Tinto committed to continually improving our place for mitigating the critical risks.
Rio Tinto including former Alcan performance in this area over the next few Our rigorous approach to process safety years.
We will therefore be establishing a management, through our health, safety We met our five year target to reduce the noise community of practice to share environment and quality management rate of new cases of occupational illness by learning and assist with the development of system, application of the SQRA approach 40 per cent excluding former Alcan more effective noise improvement strategies.
for process safety hazard risk and control operations.
We reduced the rate of new In addition we will continue to pursue analysis, a process safety risk review cases by 85 per cent over the 2003 to 2008 engineering solutions and alternative ways programme, and the adoption of leading target period, achieving a rate of 15 new of doing our work.
indicators for process safety management.
cases per 10,000 employees at former In 2008 we began introducing Achieve Rio Tinto sites by the end of 2008.
Most Health, a health and wellbeing programme A gap analysis against Rio Tinto safety 84 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance collaboration is encouraged within and developed for our Australasian businesses.
contractor and 5,500 employee roles to be across businesses, cultures and countries.
We also commenced work on a global completed across the Group during 2009.
Our Speak-OUT programme provides framework to support health and wellbeing We recognise that attracting, developing employees with an independent and programmes across the Group, with and retaining a skilled workforce is critical to confidential means of reporting concerns to prioritised implementation starting in 2009 business performance.
We believe that our senior managers.
with our US based businesses.
employee strategy is one of the most In world class mines and processing Rio Tinto operates in countries where the competitive in the industry and is based on: facilities such as those we operate, the prevalence of HIV, tuberculosis and malaria is Engaging with employees about the workforce is becoming increasingly skilled, high.
We are working closely with the business, valuing each individuals requiring a high level of training and international community of government contribution, and working with people to agencies and NGOs concerned with these achieve ongoing change and improvement.
2,100 people attended regional problems not only in Africa, but globally.
For Addressing talent gaps and managing our and global leadership and functional example, where we have operations located internal talent pool to tap into employee development programmes in 2008 and 266 in regions with a generalised HIV epidemic potential and jointly discuss career graduates attended the Rio Tinto Graduate as defined by UNAIDS we actively encourage aspirations.
Overall, all employees to know their HIV status Entrenching a performance culture, approximately 150,000 attendances were through voluntary testing.
We also require conducting performance reviews, individual recorded for role specific and relevant that all employees and their nominated development planning, coaching and training courses across all technical and partner have affordable access to treatment, feedback processes.
functional areas and among all levels of care and support, including antiretroviral Offering opportunities for technical, the organisation.
In 2008 we received a commendation professional and leadership development.
We are increasing our use of simulator from the Global Business Coalition against Offering opportunities for working across a based and technology driven experiential HIV, TB and Malaria for our commitment to range of our international businesses in learning and have also developed our own community based HIV programmes.
different geographies and multi-cultural approach to coaching.
Rio Tintos total rewards strategy is Our people Developing workforce plans that define designed to attract, retain and motivate the Rio Tinto employs on the basis of job business requirements for jobs and skills skilled workforce essential to the success of requirements and does not discriminate on needed to hire and train employees.
Base pay is reviewed regularly grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, Embracing a diverse workforce and and adjusted as necessary taking into gender, sexual orientation, politics or introducing flexible working arrangements account the individuals role, local market religion.
We actively favour local to accommodate the workforce with multitrends and, for many employees, business employment where local candidates meet generational, gender diverse, dual career and personal performance.
This process job requirements and laws provide.
We do needs in many parts of our business.
allows us to ensure that employees are paid not employ forced, bonded or child labour.
competitively against the external market Our policy of increasing opportunities for and consistently with their internal peers.
In Employees Indigenous Australians is reflected in directly addition we also offer allowances, bonuses, Number negotiated community benefit agreements.
share plans and healthcare benefits 04 32,000 05 32,000 During 2008, we increased Australian appropriate to the local markets.
06 35,000 indigenous employment by 181 people to Employee engagement levels were 07 106,000 1,393 or eight per cent of Rio Tintos measured on a consistent basis across the 08 99,000 Australian workforce, making us the largest Group for the first time in December 2008.
Rio Tinto private sector employer of Indigenous Where levels of employee engagement are Rio Tinto including former Alcan Australians.
In northern Canada, 32 per cent higher, performance on key operational Excludes proportionate share of those employed by joint ventures and associates of the Diavik diamond mines workforce were metrics is also higher.
Throughout the northern Aboriginals at year end.
course of 2009 targeted actions will be In 2008, we directly employed about 99,000 We made slow progress on our target to implemented across the Group to increase people with a further 7,000 people indirectly increase the representation of women in levels of employee engagement, thereby employed at our equity accounted units.
senior management to 20 per cent by 2009, maximising the positive impact of our Employee numbers increased during the first achieving nine per cent representation in people on the performance of the two quarters of 2008 due to expansion of 2008.
As at January 2009, 20 per cent of our organisation.
Many of these are recruited from executive committee were women.
We the local areas in which we operate, but an achieved our target to increase the Community engagement and regional increasing number of employees are sourced proportion of women in the graduate intake economic development internationally.
We employ graduates from to 30 per cent from a 2004 baseline, with Wherever we operate we seek to understand many disciplines including mining and 31 per cent representation in 2008. the social, environmental and economic process engineering: geology and Rio Tinto expects managers to abide by the implications of our activities, both for the geosciences: finance: human resources: highest standards of behaviour.
All local community and for the overall health, safety and environmental sciences.
employees are expected to treat each other economy.
Mutual benefits and obligations During the fourth quarter of 2008, and external contacts with dignity, fairness are discussed with local governments and Rio Tinto released a detailed package of and respect.
Harassment in the workplace is community representatives.
Objectives are measures to preserve value for shareholders guarded against and neither abuse nor agreed to secure long term results.
by conserving cash flow and reducing levels misuse of position or facilities for any By understanding our socio-economic of debt.
This package identified a reduction purpose is tolerated.
Obligations to interaction with the communities where we in global headcount of 14,000 roles 8,500 colleagues and the Group are respected, and operate we can optimise benefits and reduce Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 85 Sustainable development continued negative impacts for communities and our Supply chain Community contributions US$ million operations alike.
This interaction includes We apply a life cycle approach to our 04 88 relationships with local suppliers, training sustainable development actions up and 05 93 and local employment, small enterprise down the supply chain, encouraging those we 06 96 support, the optimal distribution of taxes and work with to adopt similar sound practices.
07 107 royalties, and multilateral socio-economic We engage our suppliers and believe that 08 134 programmes.
The infrastructure developed for payments to suppliers constitute a strong a particular mine or processing plant can also additional benefit to the economy, generating In 2007 we reported 18 high exposure sites greatly benefit local communities and other employment and creating wealth in other requiring site managed community regional players such as local businesses and sectors.
Across the world in 2008, we spent governments.
assessments before the end of 2008.
During US$30 billion on goods and services with over Increased wealth in areas where there was the year we re-evaluated the schedules for 58,000 suppliers.
Our procurement practice is previously little can have an adverse effect on high exposure sites.
From these explained in The way we buy, available on our inflation of goods and services.
Rio Tinto reassessments the number of high exposure website.
Rio Tinto has developed a actively manages such scenarios to avoid these sites requiring assessment is 12, of which programme of supplier engagement that negative outcomes.
For example, together with nine have been completed.
The backlog was includes sustainable development criteria in the local community, we developed and due to competing site priorities in a period of its contracts.
implemented an inflation mitigation strategy extraordinary workload.
These assessments An example of how our operations at our QMM mineral sands mining project in are on track for completion in 2009. contribute locally is the Diavik diamond Madagascar.
This included: mine in the Northwest Territories of Canada.
ECONOMIC PROSPERITY In 2008 Diavik spent C$724 million on Diversifying the local market by improving The Groups continuing financial success is capital and operating expenses with 70 per regional transport.
based on its ability to secure access to land, cent going to northern businesses.
Of this Awarding catering contracts to local people and capital.
We use our expertise to northern spend, 35 per cent or C$254 community gardens.
harness these resources, creating prosperity million was with northern Aboriginal Building a boarding house and temporary for our shareholders, employees, communities, business.
Since construction of the operation camp to alleviate rental inflation.
was approved in 2000, over C$1.7 billion has We spent US$7.0 billion in wages and gone directly to local indigenous companies.
To enable us to target the delivery of sociosalaries in 2008, representing an important By understanding the health and economic programmes reflecting the injection of revenue into the local and environmental impacts and benefits of our priorities of local communities, we conduct regional economies where we operate.
products over their complete lifecycle, we community baseline, social impact and The Group incurred US$5.8 billion in can potentially improve our processes, social risk assessments to identify potential corporate income tax and royalty charges.
enhance our reputation in the marketplace, positive and negative impacts of our differentiate our products from our presence.
We use this information along Global operations competitors and become a brand of choice with community input to develop our multi The global nature of Rio Tintos operations for metals and minerals products.
The year communities plans, which include local can expose the Group to risks unique to the enhanced reputation we earn by adopting a measures of success that are internally and social, legislative and political environment lifecycle know your products from mine to externally monitored.
These risks range end of life approach helps improved access Our engagement has developed in from expropriation of the Group's assets to land, markets and financial assets.
sophistication over the years to where we nationalisation to individual security Rio Tinto has maintained a programme now have systems that actively involve matters such as kidnapping.
Our personnel of developing life cycle assessments LCA for communities in decision making processes may also face situations arising from all of its major products, including about issues affecting them.
At our Weipa bureaucracy, official processes and local aluminium, iron, copper, coal, uranium, gold bauxite mine for example, land customs that increase the risk of non and silver.
The LCA outputs have proved management processes ensure that all compliance with our ethical practices and useful in understanding our carbon relevant traditional landowners make other voluntary agreements we are footprint, engaging customers and assessing decisions together with our staff about all committed to.
land clearing on the mining lease.
New country entry is regarded as a high Our approach to product stewardship has In 2008, our Rio Tinto businesses risk activity.
Rio Tinto business development created tangible business value by providing supported more than 2,500 socio-economic and exploration teams are commonly scientific input to developing regulations programmes covering a wide range of approached to review projects and properties affecting market access, ensuring ongoing activities including health, education, in new countries territories and require a engagement with customers, maintaining business development, housing, robust yet flexible methodology to ensure access to markets and successfully securing environmental protection and agricultural that a risk based decision is taken before premium prices based on product development.
committing staff, resources and money to differentiation and corporate reputation.
We spent an estimated US$134 million follow up on an opportunity.
We are Rio Tinto has been chosen as a gold and on community assistance programmes and developing a new threat based assessment to diamond supplier to the worlds largest payments into benefits receiving trusts set safeguard Group staff through this process.
retailer, Wal-Mart, which places gold and up in directly negotiated community impact For our existing operations, the unique diamond traceability foremost in its jewellery benefit agreements.
This is exclusive of country operational risks are considered as supply chain scrutiny.
Wal-Mart aims to economic multiplier contributions, such as part of the annual business planning and market products which are known to be both salaries and wages, local procurement, operational risk analysis and management socially and environmentally responsible.
infrastructure, housing and utilities support.
In keeping with its life cycle approach 86 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance Grasberg, Indonesia ethical, social and environmental practices to the stewardship of its products, Rio Tinto The Grasberg copper-gold mine in Indonesia which respect human rights throughout the is developing a marine stewardship strategy is owned and operated by Freeport-McMoRan diamond and or gold jewellery supply chain, related to the transport of its products Copper & Gold.
Rio Tinto has a 40 per cent from mine to retail.
It also seeks to maintain to market, focused on the possible joint venture interest in Grasbergs 1995 consumer confidence in diamond and gold environmental impacts arising from mine expansion and is represented on the jewellery products and the trust of all Rio Tintos port and shipping activities.
This joint ventures operating committee.
interested stakeholders in the industry.
approach improves our product credentials As well as providing substantial We are also a member of the Kimberley as it takes our responsibility beyond the economic benefits to the state, Freeport Process www.
com, a mine gate to the customer.
Indonesia is the largest private employer in joint government, industry and civil society In 2008, Rio Tinto was invited into a new partnership with the recently Papua and one of the largest in Indonesia.
initiative to stop trade in diamonds that established World Ocean Council, the only Both Rio Tinto and Freeport-McMoRan fuel conflict.
cross sectoral international organisation support the Voluntary Principles on Security Additionally, we have a long standing focusing on the ocean environment.
Its and Human Rights and continue to work partnership with the Dundee University vision is a healthy and productive global together to ensure practice is consistent Centre for Energy, Petroleum and Mineral ocean and its sustainable use, development with these principles.
Law and Policy to sponsor post graduate and stewardship by a responsible ocean To meet the mines social obligations to studies contributing to the creation of a business community.
local communities, at least one per cent of stable international legal and investment To protect its European markets, the mines net sales are committed to support environment in which the mining industry Rio Tinto implemented a proactive village based programmes and cumulative can contribute to sustainable development programme to ensure compliance with the funding is more than US$20 million.
European Union REACH legislation addition, two trust funds were established regulation concerning the Registration, in 2001 in recognition of the traditional Business integrity Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of land rights of the local Amungme and We are committed to maximum Chemicals that went into effect on 1 June Komoro tribes.
Actions were taken to ensure that all The mine continues to refine its strategic governance and commercial confidentiality.
Rio Tinto products manufactured or imported management of its tailings discharge, Rio Tinto strives to conduct its business with into Europe as well as all substances used at including understanding revegetation and integrity, honesty and fairness, building from business units were pre-registered by the long term closure options.
a foundation of compliance with relevant deadline of 1 December 2008. local laws, regulations and international GOVERNANCE SYSTEMS standards wherever we operate.
Non managed operations Sound governance and high ethical Training on our business integrity The Rio Tinto Group consists of wholly and standards of conduct are a source of guidance is required for all managers.
These partly owned subsidiaries and jointly competitive advantage in securing access to guidelines cover bribery, anti-corruption and controlled assets, as well as other entities resources.
We do not directly or and associated companies, some of which community relations, employee wellbeing indirectly participate in party politics or we do not manage.
and transparency are just as important as make payments to political parties or Although Rio Tinto may not be directly the technical aspects of mining and individual politicians.
involved in managing these operations, we processing.
If Rio Tinto is to succeed in Mining is a heavily regulated industry remain closely engaged through membership positioning itself as a developer of choice and we maintain continuous dialogue with of the boards of directors and of technical it has to be equipped to manage complex many governments and public authorities at committees.
We encourage them to adopt stakeholder relationships.
national, provincial and municipal levels.
our policies and standards in community Accordingly, our operating philosophy We speak out and make representations on relations, human rights, environmental has a strong focus on corporate matters affecting our business interests and stewardship, health and safety.
responsibility clearly outlined in our code of those of our shareholders, employees and Examples of these non managed conduct, The way we work.
This covers issues others involved in our activities.
operations include the Escondida copper such as human rights, political involvement, In addition to internal policies and mine in Chile and the Grasberg copper-gold transparency and zero tolerance of activities, Rio Tinto is active in promoting mine in Indonesia.
transparency and good corporate governance We also actively engage with a wide more widely.
We were a member of the Escondida, Chile range of external stakeholders to promote steering committee which developed and Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in the leading business practices.
As a member of which continues to assist implementation of Escondida copper mine in Chile, which is the International Council for Mining and the Transparency International Business managed by BHP Billiton.
Our seat on the Metals www.
com, we are Principles for Countering Bribery mines Owners Council allows us regular continuously improving our economic, social www.
Through the input on strategic and policy matters.
and environmental performance and we International Council for Mining and Metals Rio Tinto also played a part in helping to regularly report our progress against the ten www.
org we are also a company establish the Escondida Foundation.
The principles of the United Nations Global endorsing member of the Extractive Foundation is funded by about one per cent Compact and in line with the Global Industries Transparency Initiative EITI of the mines pre-tax profits and is the Reporting Initiative.
Business units vehicle through which Escondida fulfils its Rio Tinto is a founding member of the engage in the promotion and social responsibilities.
Council for Responsible Jewellery Practices implementation of the EITI in those www.
com which candidate countries in which the Group has commits members to promote responsible operations.
More details can be found on our Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 87 Sustainable development continued and performance of our operations.
positive legacy of sustainable development.
Rio Tinto also endorses the World We believe that achieving a reputation for Economic Forums Partnering Against Stakeholder engagement positive closure outcomes will assist us to Corruption Initiative www.
Genuine engagement with stakeholders is a gain future access for new projects.
There were no reported incidents of critical element of successful business In 2008 we conducted five closure breaches of Rio Tintos political involvement practice.
Many issues, such as climate change management plan reviews designed to ensure policies during 2008. and poverty elimination, are globally that our site closure plans are current and complex and require stakeholders to work financial provisions are adequate to meet our Human rights together to explore and develop appropriate sustainable development objectives.
In Rio Tinto actively supports the United Nations solutions.
Building strong working addition, financial provisions for all former Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our relationships with those who are affected by, Alcan operations were analysed and updated commitment to human rights is reflected in or have an interest in, what we do is essential through a series of on site reviews and our code of conduct The way we work and our complementary guidance documents on to our future operations.
We engage with a workshops to ensure they met the Rio Tinto Human Rights and Business Integrity.
broad range of organisations and individuals closure standard and financial reporting In implementing human rights policies, including our employees, investors, requirements.
During these on site reviews Rio Tinto is subject to the local laws of the governments, communities, academia, opportunities were identified to further many countries in which we operate.
We industry bodies, and civil society groups.
improve closure planning and progress build on compliance with local laws and We are a member of a number of remediation.
where our policies and procedures are more industry associations and of representative As a member of the International stringent, we operate to those standards bodies including the World Business Council Council for Mining and Metals, Rio Tinto wherever our operations are located.
for Sustainable Development participated in the development of Planning Rio Tinto is a signatory to a host of www.
org, the Commonwealth for integrated mine closure.
This publicly international commitments and standards Business Council www.
org available toolkit is intended to guide best and remains dedicated to meeting them.
We and the International Chamber of Commerce practice closure planning throughout the were involved from the inception of the www.
org, and we work closely with mining industry to achieve sustainable Voluntary Principles on Security and Human international and non governmental development outcomes.
org and organisations to develop appropriate Through our partnership with the Eden have supported these principles since their standards and guidelines for our industry.
Rio Tinto also maintains an active continued to work with the Post Mining We were also a founding member of the partnership programme with other external Alliance www.
org which aims United Nations Global Compact organisations to address issues of mutual to encourage and promote the regeneration www.
org and we are active interest.
By working together, we can achieve of old mine sites for the sustainable benefit members of the UK Network and the our shared goals more effectively.
of the local community and natural Communication on Progress Working Group.
During 2008, the US$1 million annual environment.
The alliance provides us with The United Nations Global Compact is a Rio Tinto Prize for Sustainability continued the opportunity to participate in a multivoluntary initiative for businesses committed to recognise significant contributions made stakeholder discussion intended to address to aligning their operations and strategies by non profit, non governmental, or civil issues regarding abandoned mines, and to with ten universally accepted principles in the society organisations promoting and encourage good practice across the industry areas of human rights, labour, environment implementing sustainable development.
Our Communication on Utthan Centre For Sustainable Development Progress is published annually on our website.
org was Assurance Our human rights policies and the most recent recipient of the prize.
Our Corporate Assurance function has procedures have been strengthened and are accountability and responsibility for providing supported by an online web based ethics and Closure internal assurance to the board that: compliance training system.
Training on the The closure of an operation poses risks to Rio Tintos policies, standards and controls human rights module, which is compulsory both Rio Tinto and those communities who as endorsed by the board are adequately at the general manager level or above is valid have often come to depend on the operation designed and effective for their intended for two years.
During 2007 and 2008 more for their wellbeing.
We have therefore purpose: and that than 3,300 employees completed human adopted an approach of planning for closure these policies, standards and controls are rights training.
early in the life of an operation to minimise consistently implemented by all Rio Tinto There were no reported incidents of unforeseen financial impacts and ensure sites on a timely basis and as designed.
breaches of our human rights policy stakeholder expectations can be met.
These In addition, we engaged an independent during 2008. requirements are outlined in our closure external assurance organisation to provide Rio Tinto operates in a manner consistent standard which applies to all parts of our assurance over selected Group performance with the United Nations Declaration on business.
data included in the Sustainable development Indigenous Peoples UNDIP and sovereign We approach closure planning as a multi section of the 2008 Annual report.
We respect the land connection disciplinary responsibility, involving that have been externally assured are of indigenous communities and work with community relations, human resources, explained in the Assurance report below.
them in a spirit of reciprocity, transparency environmental specialists, engineers and and recognition of their culture.
Integrating closure recognise that every indigenous community planning into all aspects of decision making is unique and we reach specific agreement in a business, from the earliest stages of with each affected community on how it project development to the decommissioning wants to engage with us in the development of facilities, is essential in order to leave a 88 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Performance ended 31 December 2008 have not been the inclusion of this report within the prepared in all material respects in Annual report to enable Rio Tintos members accordance with the Reporting criteria.
to verify that the directors have discharged their governance responsibilities by Independent Assurance Report to the commissioning an independent assurance directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto report in connection with the selected data.
Limited on selected sustainable We do not accept or assume responsibility  development performance data for our work or this report to anyone other Liza Maimone, Partner than the directors as a body and to Rio Tinto For the purposes of this report, the Group save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing.
comprises Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and the entities they control as at Inherent limitations 31 December 2008 hereafter Rio Tinto.
Non financial performance information is We have been engaged to provide often subject to more inherent limitations Melbourne limited assurance on selected sustainable than financial information, given the 6 March 2009 development performance data the selected data included in the Sustainable characteristics of the subject matter and the development section of Rio Tintos Annual methods adopted for the definition and Liability Limited by a scheme approved report for the year ended 31 December 2008. gathering of information.
There are no under Professional Standards Legislation The selected data were chosen by generally accepted reporting standards Rio Tinto after considering the sustainable applicable for sustainable development development risks that it assessed as performance information.
Qualitative material to the Company and after interpretations of relevance, materiality and considering the areas of high importance the accuracy of data are subject to individual identified by Rio Tinto management.
It is important The selected 2008 data consists of the to read the data in the context of Rio Tintos following: Reporting Criteria.
Total greenhouse gas emissions Total energy use Assurance work performed Total freshwater withdrawn We conducted our assurance engagement in Number of fatalities accordance with International Standard on All injury frequency rate Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised Lost time injury frequency rate Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Respective responsibilities of the directors Information issued by the International and  Auditing and Assurance Standards Board The directors of Rio Tinto are responsible for ISAE 3000.
Our procedures applied to the preparing the selected data based on the selected data primarily comprised: Rio Tinto Criteria for reporting on sustainable Making enquiries of relevant management development performance indicators the of Rio Tinto Reporting criteria.
The Reporting criteria Evaluating the design of the key processes are available on Rio Tintos website at and controls for managing and reporting http: www.
com ourapproach the selected data Our responsibility is to express a Testing, on a selective basis, the conclusion on the selected data based on our preparation and collation of the selected procedures.
The procedures selected depend data prepared by the management of on our judgment, including an assessment of Rio Tinto the risks of material misstatement of the Undertaking analytical procedures over the selected data.
reported data We read other information included Reviewing a sample of relevant within the Sustainable development section management information including reports in the Annual report and consider whether it to Rio Tintos Committee on social and is consistent with the knowledge obtained environmental accountability.
We consider the implications for our report if we become A limited assurance engagement is aware of any apparent material substantially less in scope than a reasonable inconsistencies with the selected data.
Our assurance engagement under ISAE 3000.
It responsibilities do not extend to any other excludes procedures such as testing controls information.
Historic data has not been effectiveness and corroborative data testing.
This report, including the conclusion, Conclusion has been prepared for Rio Tinto to assist the On the basis of our procedures, nothing has directors in reporting Rio Tintos sustainable come to our attention which causes us to development performance.
We consent to conclude that the selected data for the year Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 89 Providing a seamless and uninterrupted flow of iron ore from the mines in the Pilbara region of Western Australia to the steelmakers of Asia, the ports of Cape Lambert and Dampier host the terminals of the 1,300km Rio Tinto Iron Ore rail network and the hubs for the shipping carriers.
Around the world, Rio Tinto Marine handles shipments of iron ore, coal, industrial minerals, bauxite, aluminium, concentrates and metal for the Group, making Rio Tinto one of the largest dry bulk shippers in the world.
