Business review continued 42 Corporate responsibility The business case for corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is a fundamental part of the Groups business strategy.
It is not conducted as a separate and self-contained activity, but is integral to the business.
This is because we see corporate responsibility as making a key contribution to the success of Rolls-Royce in the markets in which we operate.
We believe that conducting business in an ethical and responsible manner creates competitive advantage through: attracting and retaining the best people: building goodwill and maintaining successful working relationships with customers, suppliers and governments: and supporting the global communities in which our employees live and work.
The Groups values of reliability, integrity and innovation are embedded in our Global Code of Business Ethics.
This provides a framework for our stakeholder relationships worldwide, the strength of which helps to shape the Groups reputation.
With around 39,000 employees in more than 50 countries, our strongest contribution to society is the wealth generated by the thousands of highly skilled jobs we provide worldwide.
Governance Each area of corporate responsibility has its own governance process or managing committee, and each is led by a member of the Board or Group Executive.
These include: the ethics committee, consisting exclusively of independent non-executive directors: the health, safety and environment committee, chaired by the Chief Executive: the Environment Council, chaired by the Director Engineering and Technology: the Environmental Advisory Board, chaired by a senior academic from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology: the Global Council, chaired by the Director Human Resources: the Global Diversity Steering Group, chaired by the Chief Operating Ocer: and the Group community investment and sponsorship committee, chaired by the Chief Executive.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 43 Individual subject matter expertise is reviewed by the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, which reports to the Board.
This group comprises the Director Human Resources, Director Public Aairs, Director of Risk and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
In addition, the corporate responsibility risk register uses the Group risk process to identify the potential risks and opportunities, as well as mitigation plans to address these risks.
Additional information can be found in the principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 21 to 24.
External recognition Rolls-Royce is ranked in a number of external indices which benchmark corporate responsibility performance, see below: BitC BiE Index In the 2008 Business in the Environment Index, Rolls-Royce was once again awarded Platinum status and maintained first position in the Aerospace and Defence sector.
BitC Corporate Responsibility Index In the 2008 Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index, Rolls-Royce achieved Gold status.
Dow Jones Sustainability World and European Indexes Rolls-Royce has retained its position in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and European Indexes for the seventh consecutive year.
Achieving first position in the Aerospace and Defence sector during 2008 confirms the Groups position among the best in class for addressing a range of sustainability issues.
Rolls-Royce has a long history of being a responsible business.
We are committed to building on our track record and our obligation to behave responsibly.
Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued 44 Our approach Our approach to corporate responsibility is concentrated on four areas of activity: Business ethics High ethical standards are at the heart of the way we do business.
Ethical behaviour preserves and enhances our corporate reputation and we support a climate that empowers all of our employees to do the right thing.
Health, safety and the environment HS&E With its heritage of technological and engineering excellence, Rolls-Royce is well placed to help society address the problems of climate change and energy security.
We also believe that good HS&E performance is synonymous with good business performance and we aim to be recognised widely for the excellence of our HS&E performance.
Employees We aim to create an inclusive working environment that attracts and retains the best people, enhances their exibility, capability and motivation, and encourages them to be involved, continuously improving performance.
In doing so we deliver on the commitment to all of our stakeholders of being trusted to deliver excellence.
Society Rolls-Royce has a rm, long-standing commitment to the communities in which we operate around the world.
Sustained investment in communities makes a positive dierence and delivers tangible benets to our business.
Corporate responsibility is also a key enabler in delivering our supply chain strategy globally.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 45 Global code of business ethics Condential reporting line and website The code has been circulated to employees and is available A section on the Group intranet is dedicated to supporting in 16 dierent languages.
business ethics and includes a condential reporting procedure.
Business ethics The Board believes strongly that the Groups business should be conducted in a way that reects the highest ethical standards.
During 2008, we formed an ethics committee consisting exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
The committee will provide a focus for development of the Groups global ethics strategy, our approach to business ethics and the management of ethical and reputational risk.
Further details of the committee and its principal terms of reference can be found on page 69.
Global code of business ethics Condential reporting line and website Rolls-Royce has a global code of business ethics An independently operated and condential which sets out the principles for employees to ethics reporting facility is available worldwide follow when conducting business and guidance so employees can raise issues or concerns to achieve the required standards.
The code is regarding business conduct outside of the available in 16 languages and can be viewed normal management chain.
This facility on the Group's website at www.
includes telephone numbers and an external website.
Rolls-Royce sta can call any one of 30 telephone numbers in countries across the Training and awareness programme world to report any concerns they may have To ensure the code is embedded, we started with regard to business conduct.
Calls are a tiered training programme in 2008 that will made in total confidence and outside the continue during 2009.
The programme includes normal management chain, being handled face-to-face workshops that will be delivered independently by the LRN EthicsPoint to around 3,700 resource managers across partnership.
The ethics committee monitors the Group, including 1,200 trained in 2008. cases reported, the management of cases and These sessions aim to increase awareness the results from any investigations undertaken.
of the importance of ethical behaviour while equipping managers with the necessary tools to enable onward communication to their teams and to deal appropriately with ethics related issues or questions.
Employee briengs will also be undertaken during 2009. Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued 46 HS&E performance Third-party certication The Group places great emphasis on good HS&E performance.
We are committed to a programme of third-party certication for Occupational Health and Safety management systems across all our businesses by 2012.
Health, safety and the environment HS&E The Group believes that good HS&E performance is synonymous with good business performance.
Our stated vision is to be recognised widely for the excellence of our HS&E performance and we aim to have world-class levels of performance across Rolls-Royce sites.
These aspirations are supported by a comprehensive strategy and initiatives endorsed by the Group Executive.
HS&E management The Group has recently committed to a The Groups arrangements for HS&E governance programme of third-party certication to and management systems implementation OHSAS 18001, the standard for Occupational are detailed in our Policy & Management Heath and Safety management systems, Arrangements booklet available on across all businesses by 2012.
We believe that all independent assessment across all of the cases of work related ill health, injuries and elements of our HS&E management systems.
Both the ISO 14001 and the OHSAS 18001 international standards are supported within A full review of the HS&E organisation has been the Group by a comprehensive range of global completed during 2008.
Improvements aim to standards and include pertinent areas such as increase both the eciency and eectiveness risk management.
of HS&E and include the appointment of regional HS&E directors, the development of We operate three sites in the UK which together shared services and the recruitment of high manufacture, test and support nuclear reactor calibre HS&E professionals.
cores for Royal Navy submarines.
The Company Nuclear Propulsion Assurance Committee All the Groups businesses have third-party monitors the performance of these sites certication to the environmental management regularly to ensure that the highest standards system standard ISO 14001, and our of health and safety are maintained and comprehensive Corporate HS&E audit that processes are robust and t for purpose.
programme assesses the implementation of the HS&E management system across all The Groups contribution to developing best businesses on a rolling audit basis.
This year, practice through third-party collaboration audits took place in the UK, US, Canada continues to grow.
We are taking a leading and Brazil across all businesses.
In addition, industry role in REACH, the latest EU chemicals an independent audit of compliance with regulation, and continue to work with other COSHH Control of Substances Hazardous companies, trade bodies, sectors and regulators to Health took place at several UK facilities.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 47 Eorts have been focused on raising awareness In summary, our 2007-2009 objectives and within our supply chain, such that appropriate targets are to: arrangements for compliance and business Protect health -10% continuity, including the targeting of any Target: Reduce the incident rate of occupational futuresubstances of very high concern, diseases and other work-related ill health by are introduced well ahead of deadlines.
ten per cent by the end of 2009 Within the aviation sector we have helped the development and launch of international Prevent injury -15% standards for the phased declaration of Target: Achieve a 15 per cent reduction in the substances inarticlessupplied to us to facilitate lost-time injury rate over one day by the end future REACH compliance and, where required, of 2009 industry-wide substitution programmes.
Reduce environmental impact -10% We continue to participate and meet our Target 1: Achieve a ten per cent reduction ongoing commitments under various climate in energy consumed normalised by financial change agreements such as the UK Emissions revenues by the end of 2009 Trading Scheme, the EU Emissions Trading -10% Scheme and the US Chicago Climate Exchange Target 2: Achieve a ten per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme.
solid waste normalised by financial revenues by the end of 2009 Operational performance To achieve our vision we continue to 58% implement robust processes in order to deliver Target 3: Achieve a 58 per cent recycle rate against a number of key objectives and targets of solid waste by the end of 2009. by the end of 2009.
These are detailed in our latest progress reportResponsible Operations, There were no fatalities in the Group during which is available on the Groups website at 2008.
It is with regret that we report the death www.
We are already making of a contractor while working for a construction good progress against these targets across all company on a new facility at our energy of our operations and have plans in place to business in Mount Vernon, Ohio.
The UK Health sustain this improving performance.
& Safety Executive has prosecuted the Group for two incidents during the year and preventative Our data collection and reporting is subject to actions have already been taken to avoid independent assurance and recommendations reoccurrence of similar incidents in the future.
for improvement by Deloitte LLP.
One incident related to the disabling of an interlock device by a machine operator in our Sunderland UK manufacturing facility.
The second involved the exposure of agency workers to sand during the decommissioning of a foundry in Derby UK.
The sand contained an additive which is known to be an irritant.
Environment campaign EFE programme The Group is committed to continuous improvement Rolls-Royce has a leading role in the Environmentally Friendly in its environmental performance.
Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued 48 Product environmental performance The Group is investing in other renewable Rolls-Royce has a heritage of environmental energy sources such as tidal power, innovation which means the Group is well working in partnership with the UK Energy placed to help society address the problems Technologies Institute.
In addition, we are of climate change and energy security.
working with fuel companies to ensure We are determined to play a significant that future biofuels meet our requirements, role in overcoming these challenges.
with the important caveats that they are sustainable, do not compete with the growth The priority we attach to the environment of food crops and are used in the most eective is reected in the prole of our research and way to maximise the reduction in greenhouse development expenditure, investing more than gas emissions.
800 million every year of which at least twothirds is directed at reducing the environmental Nuclear power will represent an important impact of our products and operations.
component of future low-carbon electricity generation, sitting alongside renewables and Thanks to our technological expertise, we have other measures.
In 2008, Rolls-Royce established signicantly reduced the fuel consumption a new civil nuclear business unit in response to of our civil engines since the first jet airliners the opportunities presented by future expansion entered into service along with substantial of civil nuclear power.
reductions in smoke and noise.
For example, the Trent 1000 engine is 25 per cent more The Group believes that technology must be ecient than the first RB211 engine.
applied on an industrial scale, through companies such as Rolls-Royce with its global reach, The Trent 900 and 1000 engines, for the to achieve significant reductions in emissions Airbus A380 and Boeing 787 respectively, and in to address climate change.
The Groups report future the Trent XWB for the Airbus A350 XWB, on environmental performance, Powering a help us make progress towards meeting better world, is available on the Groups website our ACARE Advisory Council for Aeronautics at www.
Research in Europe goal of a 15-20 per cent reduction in engine fuel burn by 2020 compared to 2000 levels.
We are taking a leading role in research, 1 Fuel saving % including the Environmentally Friendly Engine EFE, a joint Government, industry and 0 Trent 895 university programme, aimed at improving the environmental performance of an aero engine.
In 2008, the European Commission approved Trent 500 the launch of the Clean Sky, Joint Technology -5 Initiative, in which Rolls-Royce will lead a Trent 900 400 million engine research programme over the next seven years.
-10 Environmental performance is fundamental Trent 1000 across all of our businesses.
For example, Trent XWB in the marine sector, our market leading Azipull thrusters use 16 per cent less fuel than -15 conventional thrusters.
This means that ships ACARE use less energy resulting in lower emissions.
engine goal -20 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 1 SFC: fuel consumption normalised for engine power ACARE: Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 % CO or fuel burn 2 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 49 Employee engagement Global Council The Group is committed to a programme of surveys to monitor Our Global Council meets twice a year and includes employee and improve engagement with employees.
representatives from around the world.
Employees At the end of 2008, Rolls-Royce employed 38,900 permanent sta in over 50 countries.
The long life cycle of the Groups products makes it imperative that we have a skilled workforce that is committed to delivering excellence to customers over the long term.
To achieve this, we aim to create an inclusive working environment that attracts and retains the best people, enhances their exibility, capability and motivation, and encourages them to be involved, resulting in improving performance.
Engaging employees During 2008, our Employee Engagement In 2005, we formed a Global Council to improve Survey was redesigned and incorporated into a consultation and employee engagement.
two-year rolling global engagement programme.
This meets twice a year and involves over This will improve our ability to test, identify 40 employee representatives or delegates from necessary actions and better understand around the world with senior management employeeslevel of engagement across the from each business and function.
In addition, organisation and will be vital in signalling an executive committee of eight elected the areas to focus on to improve engagement delegates meets regularly throughout the within the organisation.
The new survey was year to support regular dialogue and timely launched in January 2009. consultation between council meetings.
Rolls-Royce provides competitive pay and In 2008, full council meetings were held in benets in all its locations and actively encourages Berlin Germany and Derby UK.
share ownership by oering ShareSave plans In 2008, we conducted the annual Corporate to all employees.
Our employees have currently Storyboard, an interactive Group-wide brieng committed around 105 million to these plans.
on corporate direction and performance.
In the UK, statutory arrangements enable Delivered face-to-face to all employees globally, employees to receive part of their annual bonus the storyboard ensures all employees across in shares and to make monthly share purchases the business have a good understanding of from their salary.
the Groups key objectives and the individual contribution each can make.
The initiative builds on the success of the first Strategy Storyboard, which was widely welcomed by our employees.
Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued 50 Attracting employees in Asia Encouraging diversity We continue to make good progress in attracting Rolls-Royce is committed to developing a diverse workforce.
Encouraging diversity Learning and development The Group is committed to developing a 2008 was a year of transformation for diverse workforce and equal opportunities for Learning and Development.
This includes encouraging more women and Centre of Excellence, staed by experienced people from minority backgrounds to pursue professionals, supports businesses with the engineering careers.
During 2008, we recruited identication of strategic training priorities graduates for our worldwide graduate together with the design and procurement programme from 32 nationalities and of new development initiatives.
apprentices in the UK and Germany for our The implementation ofMy Learning, a global apprentice programme from nine nationalities.
customised Learning Management System, Our global governance framework for diversity enables us to define behavioural and technical includes a senior executive Global Diversity competencies by role and align learning and Steering Group that provides leadership and development to competency proles resulting shapes strategic direction.
in a more focused, speedier and personalised In Asia we continue to make good progress in training service.
attracting the highest quality leadership talent.
We continue to develop our delivery of faceSeveral key management roles in Asia have to-face and online learning for our employees.
provided the opportunity to recruit new senior During 2008, we have provided 3,400 days local management.
As the demand signal for of leadership training, 39,000 hours of online early career high potential talent strengthens in learning and 4,600 days of engineering systems the region, we have also engaged with several training.
We continue to deliver global universities in China, India and Singapore to programmes such as business ethics training, encourage students to apply for our graduate delivered to 1,200 senior leaders in 2008, recruitment and development programme.
and the Corporate Storyboard rollout to Launched in 2006, our UK Womens Network employees using trained facilitators.
continues to grow, focusing on personal and professional skills development as well Resourcing and deployment as providing support through networking The creation of a new global Centre of and mentoring frameworks.
Excellence for Resourcing and Deployment consolidates our approach to strategic Our policy is to provide, wherever possible, workforce planning, recruitment and employment training and development performance management and the opportunities for disabled people.
We are development of employee capability.
committed to supporting employees who become disabled during employment and We pursue professional depth and capability to helping disabled employees make the across all of our functions and the Centre best possible use of their skills and potential.
of Excellence spreads best practice globally, primarily through development cell activity.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 51 Development cells are regular forums held We have demonstrated good progress against with senior leadership teams through which our screening and surveillance targets.
These are we manage our leadership succession and detailed in our reportResponsible Operations, individual career development.
Discussions published in April 2007 which is available on are directly aligned to the development of the Groups website at www.
resourcing plans which identify the need for 791 employees in our operations functions managerial, MBA, graduate and apprentice completed the Health Risk assessment pilot resourcing requirements.
The greatest return from this tool During 2008, we recruited 141 graduates was encouraging the majority who were at and 233 apprentices and technicians worldwide low risk to maintain their health and wellbeing.
and an additional 278 students were employed AnOwners Handbookhealth manual produced on short-term training projects in the UK and in conjunction with the Mens Health Forum North America.
We remain in the upper quartile was issued to all employees in 2007 and 2008. of The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers This covered all aspects of general lifestyle and survey and have moved to first position for wellbeing for both men and women.
Over 400 employees have benefited from financial support and AKnow your body metricshealth promotion time o work to attend further education campaign was rolled out in 2007 and carried programmes at local colleges and universities, on into 2008 to raise awareness and and we provided 460,000 to finance this type understanding of cardiovascular risk factors.
Overall we have invested 30 million Over 3,000 employees have been screened in the education, training and professional at travelling wellness booths.
This has been development of employees during the year.
our most successful campaign to date during which 14 per cent were referred onward as Heath and wellbeing the result of cholesterol levels and five per cent The Group is committed to promoting best for glucose levels.
practice in occupational health and now An anonymous online questionnaire provides professional expertise through highly found that theOwners Handbookand the regarded outsourced providers.
The primary Know your body metricsbooklet were rated objective of the Groups occupational health asgood to excellentby more than 80 per cent strategy remains a culture of prevention rather of respondents.
Some 45 per cent said they than cure.
had made beneficial lifestyle changes as a The strategy maintains four key areas of focus: result of the information.
screening and surveillance: A pilot programme in one of our business units is taking place with the Sainsbury Centre rehabilitation: for Mental Health based on the successful health promotion: and Australian programme entitledbeyondblue, designed to help managers to identify education.
depression in the workplace by involving them in a series of management training and awareness sessions.
A health promotion campaign on sleep and fatigue was also undertaken in the autumn of 2008.
Know your body metricshealth promotion campaign Owners Handbookhealth manual Produced to raise awareness and understanding of Produced in conjunction with the Mens Health Forum cardiovascular risk factors.
covering all aspects of general lifestyle and wellbeing for both men and women.
Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued 52 The use of e-business conferencing has Society doubled during 2008, improving global co-working particularly in the area of supply Suppliers chain management.
The Group sets and manages rigorous performance standards for suppliers through Local sourcing policies reect government its quality system, Supplier Advanced Business regulations, such as in the US where particular Relationships SABRe.
This includes a supplier rules towards working with small and code of conduct, which is complemented disadvantaged businesses apply.
by the Groups purchasing code of conduct that ensures suppliers and employees work Community investment together consistently.
The Group has a long-standing commitment to supporting its local communities.
The Group continues to foster productive Community investment is an intrinsic part supplier relationships which: of the way we do business, supporting deliver mutual business benets: the Groups strategy and future success, particularly in the areas of: minimise the environmental impact of business operations: recruitment and retention of employees, particularly by investing in the science encourage the highest standards of skills we need: ethical behaviour: and employee engagement, by encouraging promote human rights.
a sense of loyalty, pride and motivation The expansion of sourcing in Asia and the about our organisation: Americas continues, along with supplier training development of professional and personal and the sharing of best practice.
During 2008, skills such as teamwork, leadership, we expanded our supplier training programme adaptability and ethical behaviour: and by 25 per cent.
reputation, by building proactive and Promotion of leantechniques and waste mutually beneficial relationships in elimination continues, such as our drive the communities in which we operate.
We have also run a pilot programme, engaging 30 suppliers, During 2008, we conducted our fifth global which has identied significant environmental survey of community contributions, including benets which we will continue to develop.
cash, employee time and gifts in kind, using the London Benchmarking Group model.
Continuing our success in recycling metals The Groups total contributions across all these within our manufacturing facilities, including areas amounted to approximately 6.8 million.
1,250 tonnes in 2008, we are now working with our suppliers to support them in recycling Donations and sponsorship their waste metals.
We have also introduced The Groups charitable donations policy is metal recycling opportunities as a consideration todirectly support causes primarily relating in our sourcing decision process.
to educational, engineering and scientific Building on internal success, we have conducted objectives, as well as social objectives connected trials with 11 suppliers to embed process basics with the Groups business and place in the wider such as HS&E, visual management and workplace community.
The Groups charitable donations organisation.
Self-assessment allows suppliers to amounted to 1.6 million, of which 1.1 million create programmes to improve their performance were made in the UK.
These included support and the feedback has been very encouraging.
for Community Foundations, The Princes Trust and Help for Heroes.
Elsewhere, Rolls-Royce Rolls-Royce supports the voluntary MoD Charter made charitable donations of 300,000 in on Sustainable Procurement.
The Charter defines North America, 100,000 in Germany and sustainable procurement as meeting demand 100,000 in other regions.
These donations for goods, services, works and utilities in a way included support for the work of United Way that achieves value for money with minimal in North America and for the victims of the adverse impacts on the environment and earthquake in China, among others.
We will monitor progress over the coming years across all elements of the maturity matrix, one of which is engaging suppliers.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 53 Charitable donations Science Prize The Group made charitable donations amounting to The Rolls-Royce Science Prize continues to attract entries from 1.6 million, of which 1.1 million were made in the UK.
These included support for Community Foundations, The Princes Trust and Help for Heroes.
A further 2.7 million was contributed in A number of employees in the UK, North sponsorships and educational programmes, America and Germany completed a substantial including the Smithsonian National Air community project as part of their personal and Space Museum in North America, development.
Over 150 employees took the Brandenberg Summer Festival in Germany, part in 15 projects during the year, which are and sponsorship of the Cub Scout Scientist recognised at the Groups Annual Learning Badge in the UK.
The Group has a stated policy of working A UK project with arts partner sinfonia ViVA closely with governments and institutions to was awarded the Arts & Business People highlight the many career opportunities that Development Award 2008, which recognised science and engineering can oer.
our innovative approach to managing business change through an arts-based programme for Our agship education programme, team building.
the Rolls-Royce Science Prize, recognises excellent and innovative science teaching in Employee giving the UK and Northern Ireland.
This years winner, In addition to the Groups own contributions, St Annes Primary School in Antrim, Northern Rolls-Royce nances the administration of Ireland, received a total of 20,000 for their a Payroll Giving Scheme for UK employees, project on the treatment and uses of water.
enabling them to make tax-free donations In all, 120,000 was awarded to 59 schools to their chosen charities.
During 2008, to improve science teaching and learning.
employees gave almost 444,000 to more than 350 charitable causes of their choice.
The scheme During 2008, the Science Prize programme is recognised as Gold Award standard by the was extended through the sponsorship UK Governments Payroll Giving Quality Mark, of Project ENTHUSE.
This project will provide with approximately 16 per cent of employees free professional development courses participating in the scheme.
In North America, to teachers in the UK through the National employees have contributed 172,000 directly Science Learning Centre.
from payroll to good causes through the United Way scheme, a percentage of which Employee time is matched by the Group.
Employee time contributed during 2008 is estimated at a value of at least 1.7 million, with more than 4,000 employees participating In-kind support in activities such as community projects and The Group also supports community and team building activities with societal benets.
educational organisations with in-kind donations, including places on Group training courses and the loan of engines and components.
