BUSINESS REVIEW: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE CSR The Group Chief Executive is a member of the CSR Committee.
The CSR Committee has responsibility for the Groups direction with regard to health & safety, the environment and social issues.
ENVIRONMENT HEALTH & SAFETY SOCIAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE SOCIAL ISSUES COMMITTEE Chaired by a Board Director, meetings Chaired by a Board Director, meetings Chaired by a Board Director, the Social are formally held at least once a year.
are formally held four times a year.
Issues Committee has responsibility for: The Environmental Committee has The Health & Safety Committee has Social issue policies responsibility for: responsibility for: HR policies The Environmental Management Reviewing all accident and incident System reports Review of all incident reports Management of Group health Review of Environment Audit Report & safety Reviewing legislative change Reviewing legislative change The Committee includes a qualied ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTANT health & safety professional.
Resource Futures INTRODUCTION ENVIRONMENT REPORTS Rotork considers its positive environmental The diagram above sets out the Groups Envolve Partnership Envolve was impacts to include its contribution to Corporate Social Responsibility structure.
This engaged to provide an independent sustainable development and structure has separate Committees covering assessment of the most recently published environmental improvement through the the environment, health & safety and social Environmental Report.
Environmental products and services it sells.
The Groups issues that report into the Corporate Social performance data is included within the products are used around the world to Responsibility Committee, which is chaired Report from all Rotorks manufacturing sites operate industrial valves in all environments, by the Group Chief Executive.
and major sales and service facilities.
The including those which are hazardous.
They Report also includes qualitative information are used in a range of industries including The Company has considered the guidelines about environmental improvement water purication, sewage, food on Social Responsibility published by the programmes, achievements and initiatives.
processing, marine, irrigation, power Association of British Insurers.
It takes generation and oil & gas.
Rotork products THE GROUPS ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTS CAN BE full account of the signicance of ACCESSED IN FULL AT WWW.
COM IN THE help reduce human error and thus potential environmental and ethical matters in the INVESTORS SECTION UNDER ENVIRONMENT.
environmental disasters, as well as saving conduct of its business and in its risk The Group has identied its key negative energy and resources.
Rotork is continuing assessment processes.
Rotork remains environmental impacts to include the to develop and produce energy efficient committed to the principles laid down for disposal of waste, and the use of energy, products with improved performance.
its inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index and water and packaging.
The Group is Wherever possible, new products and the Ten Principles of the UN Global continually developing policies and components are marked with the Compact, of which it is a signatory.
procedures on these issues to minimise appropriate EU recycling symbols or labels.
Product handbooks include details of the ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY products and materials contained and any The Group environmental policy includes specic advice about the disposal.
commitments to the prevention of pollution, compliance with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements and to the continuous improvement of environmental performance.
The environmental policy applies globally to all manufacturing sites.
THE COMPLETE POLICY CAN BE FOUND AT WWW.
COM IN THE INVESTORS SECTION UNDER ENVIRONMENT.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 25 BUSINESS REVIEW: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Monitor, measure, audit and seek SUPPLIERS Maintenance of the Groups Environmental Business integrity and fair dealing is key to continuous improvement in its Management System EMS is key to environmental performance: the Groups relationships with its suppliers monitoring and reducing our environmental and contractors.
The Group is committed to Work with external agencies and bodies impact and measuring our commitment to long-term relationships with its supply base.
to ensure continued adoption of best continuous improvement.
Resource Futures These relationships are reinforced through practice solutions in environmental undertakes independent verication of the procurement and supplier quality visits.
management: Groups EMS and environmental Supplier site visits involve observations of performance data.
Their audit was Communicate best practice and publish safe working methods, correct handling undertaken in December 2008.
The audit internal and external information detailing procedures and the correct use of highlighted a slight weakness with its aims and achievements: hazardous materials.
Any irregularities transparency in relation to identifying Foster open communication with observed are pointed out to suppliers.
ongoing improvement initiatives and employees, customers, suppliers and Supplier audits also monitor employment objectives.
These issues will be addressed to other stakeholders via both electronic ages.
We also seek assurance that suppliers ensure greater transparency of our relevant publishing and face-to-face discussion.
uphold all local laws generally applicable to environmental strategies and how they are their locality and operations.
However, these findings did Within the Environmental Reports at suppliers are registered to ISO 9000. not adversely affect the Groups significant www.
com, information and data can year on year improvement in waste be accessed about how Rotork manages its Supplier development is ongoing and recycling.
It has also not affected the Bath involves elements developed in the motor key environmental impacts.
The data manufacturing sites reduction in energy includes information on gas and electricity industry of the QS 9000 system which is consumption.
Since 2005, as a percentage part of ISO 9000. consumption, CO2 emissions, water of sales, electricity consumption has consumption and waste including recycling reduced by 23% and gas consumption of waste.
ETHICS AND VALUES Rotork has identied waste as its most Rotork is a signatory to the United Nations significant environmental impact and as Global Compact and its Ten Universal a result is working with its suppliers to Principles.
These Principles are derived from improve waste recycling systems.
Rotork the Universal Declaration of Human Rights has increased the amount of waste UDHR and incorporate human rights, it recycles from 57% in 2007 to 64% in labour, environment, bribery and 2008.
Waste recycling is one of the Groups corruption.
The Group supports the UDHR non-financial Key Performance Indicators: and the International Labour Organisations see page 23 for more details.
Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
Rotork supports all United In addition to the above, Rotorks Nations efforts to ensure the effective Environmental Management System will: abolition of child forced compulsory labour Allocate formal environmental and will never use any such labour in any responsibilities to ensure compliance of its operations worldwide.
The rights of with legislation: every employee are respected and Rotork acts in ways that ensure all employees Support a culture of consultation with are treated with openness, mutual trust, employees, key stakeholders and other dignity and respect.
Everyone working at interested parties: Rotork will be treated fairly and without Provide environmental information, discrimination on the basis of race, gender, guidance and, where necessary, provide language or religion.
training that meets best practice: ROTORKS ETHICS AND VALUES STATEMENT CAN BE ACCESSED AT ROTORKS WEBSITE WWW.
COM IN THE INVESTORS SECTION, UNDER RESPONSIBILITY.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 26 BUSINESS REVIEW: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HEALTH & SAFETY SHAREHOLDERS Individual employees or groups of The Rotork Health & Safety Policy sets out Information on our communication with employees also engage in community our aim to provide a safe and healthy shareholders, a key stakeholder group, is activities and the Charity Committee environment for all our employees, noncontained in the Corporate Governance normally matches monies raised by employees and visitors to our premises and section on page 36. employees who undertake charitable events to keep the number of working hours lost personally.
During the year the Charity OUR PEOPLE through health & safety incidents to a Committee paid the entry fee for employees Information on our communication with minimum.
The policy includes a participating in the Bath Half Marathon employees is contained in the Business requirement to meet or exceed legislation and matched sponsorship sums raised by Review Introduction on page 16. and other requirements in the countries in employees for their selected charities.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Following its 35,000 grant to the Research Rotork considers it important to contribute THE POLICY CAN BE VIEWED ON OUR WEBSITE Institute for the Care of the Elderly, in 2008 WWW.
COM IN THE INVESTORS SECTION and engage positively with stakeholders the Company donated a further 25,000 to UNDER THE HEALTH & SAFETY TAB.
and in the communities in which it the Royal United Hospital charitable fund to operates, especially where it has substantial To support our policy aims we have build a new neonatal intensive care unit.
sites with relatively large numbers of developed a number of separate policies, This is described as a pioneering project employees, for example its Bath site.
based on UK Health & Safety law, which which will develop exemplary methods of together cover the activities and practices Rotorks community objectives include care for premature babies and support for undertaken in all our facilities worldwide.
their families within a holistic neonatal The Group regards this as part of its The Group also publishes guidance intensive care unit.
This documents and procedures for safe working During the year employees at the Groups also ties in with the Groups corporate for our facilities worldwide.
Our increased Rotork Shanghai manufacturing plant values which include producing a positive focus on the auditing of our facilities and raised over 1,700 for the Red Cross, China and beneficial impact in the areas in which site service activities worldwide has led to Earthquake Appeal and the Rotork it operates.
significant improvements being achieved, Shanghai company contributed a further particularly within our manufacturing For many years Rotork has pursued a policy 2,000 to that appeal.
We will continue to focus on of community involvement through In early 2009, employees at the Companys health & safety in 2009 and expect to see financial support and fostering partnership further improvements across all our facilities.
Australian subsidiaries together raised with local charitable and voluntary money for the Red Cross Australian Fires organisations, trusts and local support Rotork operate a behaviour-based safety Appeal.
The local subsidiaries matched this groups.
A Charity Committee made up of programme.
This requires managers and sum providing the appeal with a total of employees, including senior management, supervisors to encourage safe working 3,000. considers local community charitable and practices.
It also promotes regular safety similar requests at the Bath site.
There is a The Company is currently working on a observations, encourages and holds clearly dened level of corporate giving employees accountable for working safely Group-wide community policy, recognising allocated to the Bath site Charity that as an international company its and regularly and asks employees for their Committee.
Projects are then followed up ideas and suggestions for improving safety community responsibilities are also with visits and reports by employees and international.
Already the Company has in at their facility.
This programme is feedback to the Charity Committee.
supported by regular health & safety place regular corporate charitable giving arrangements in some of its larger training, such as manual handling, confined Sponsorship is provided to local youth and space training and managing safety courses manufacturing plants including USA, sporting clubs and to cultural and social Sweden and Italy.
There is also direct engagement in community issues, for example providing We monitor both the number of workplace transport for charitable events in the area.
injuries and illnesses, and the number of In Bath a representative of the Company lost-time workplace injuries.
Our target is sits on a group supporting local initiatives to achieve lower than industry averages for for cultural, social and economic our sector.
In 2008, the rate at which development.
industrial accidents occurred at all our PETER FRANCE facilities worldwide was 0.74 injuries per Rotork is a member of an initiative of the CHIEF EXECUTIVE 100,000 hours worked.
2 MARCH 2009 Engineering Development Trust and FURTHER DETAIL ON LOST TIME WORKPLACE sponsors a science project currently being INJURIES CAN BE SEEN UNDER KEY PERFORMANCE undertaken by pupils in the sixth form INDICATORS ON PAGE 23. of a local Bath school.
Rotork has also recently become the industry representative founding member of the Bath Educational Trust, which have its objectives educational advancement in local schools and the promotion of community cohesion.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 27 BUSINESS REVIEW: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CHARITABLE DONATIONS Other charitable organisations to benefit from Rotorks Charity Committee during the year included: Macmillan Cancer Support NSPCC Brassmill Open Space Family Fun Afternoon The Big Heart Bike Ride Nesa The Mayors Christmas Party for Children with Special Needs St. Philip & St. James Church South India Fund York & District Against Motor Neurone Disease Meningitis UK Weston Day Club for the Elderly Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation Young & Free Headway MS Trust The Jessie May Trust Beaumonds Childrens Home Quartet Community Foundation Friends of the RUH Patients Handbook Sing for Life Bath Showcase Samaritans Purse Hop Skip & Jump Little Sisters of the Poor Avon Riding Centre for the Disabled RUH NICU Space to Grow Campaign Camerton Church School Bath Charities Annual Fayre Bridgemead Willows Counselling Service Friendship Walks Childrens Heart Federation Barton Training Trust Safety Net Programme Vision Bath City of Bath College Voluntary Work Placement in the Gambia Stepping Stones Pre-School Bath Junior Gateway Club Somerset Prostate Support Association St. Philips CE VC Primary School Oldeld Park Baptist Pre-School Golden-Oldies The Rainbow Centre for Children Scout and Guide Jamboree Samaritans Hammer Out HeartLine Alzheimers Society Julian House Bristol Royal Hospital for Children BIME Dyrham & Hinton Cricket Club Christian Lewis Trust Cancer Research UK The Genesis Trust MIND MACS Charity Girlguiding South West Activity Weekend Childrens Hospice South West Childrens Heart Surgery Fund WaterAid Rotary Club Charity Golf Day ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 28
