Business Review Corporate Responsibility 27 Social Responsibility professional activities and financial interests Our Energy businesses in the UK, North and Sustainability that could conflict with their responsibilities America and Australia made charitable RPS is committed to ensuring that it to the Group.
If a conflict of interest does donations and raised funds for community conducts its business in a responsible and arise then this must be acknowledged and projects worth in total 234,100 and sustainable way.
Taking care of our clients, openly reported.
Employees must not seek contributed 13,380 for academic suppliers, employees, the wider personal gain from third parties, or abuse bursaries to students studying at community and the environment and their position within the Group for universities in the UK and Australia.
The conducting operations with a high personal gain.
Any gifts received must be largest single charitable donation by the standard of business integrity are all reported and acknowledged.
Energy businesses, 16,000 was made essential to the success of our business.
towards the Gondwana Link project, which Community Involvement seeks to protect, restore and sustain the The Group requires its entire staff to adopt RPS has supported community and natural heritage in the Great Southern high standards of behaviour in their daily charitable fund raising with gifts in kind and Region of Western Australia.
professional conduct or when travelling on financial contributions throughout the year, business.
Employees are required to be At the end of 2008, the Group continued mostly at office level.
The Group and its sympathetic to the cultures of and comply its corporate support for Tree Aid and its staff gave or raised 420,822 in charitable with the laws and regulations of the educational, tree planting and woodland contributions during 2008.
Taking into countries in which they operate, also giving conservation programmes in Sub-Saharan account the 168,121 spent on academic due regard to the safety, the well being and Africa by making a charitable donation of bursaries and educational initiatives, the the human rights of all project personnel 15,500 towards its work in Mali, where Groups total contribution to the and relevant local communities.
RPS has worked on oil and gas exploration communities in which it operates was and mineral extraction studies in recent RPS is committed to minimising its carbon 588,943 0.125% of total revenue.
Deforestation in this part of Africa footprint by reducing energy consumption was an increase of 60.1% on social presents particularly acute problems for in its offices and in transportation.
RPS has contributions made in 2007. some of the world's most vulnerable set itself the task of reducing individual Our Planning and Development businesses traditional communities.
energy consumption by 5% each year in the UK and Ireland made charitable using 2007 as the base.
This will halve our contributions and raised funds for Environmental Management per capita energy use by 2020. community projects worth 133,986 and RPS contributes to environmental gave 125,286 in academic bursaries to management through the projects that it Clients undergraduate and postgraduate students undertakes for clients.
The Group advises The Group aims to develop and maintain studying at universities on both sides of international bodies, governments, local strong and lasting relationships with its the Irish Sea.
The Planning and authorities and private companies on clients.
RPS endeavours to deliver all Development businesses donated 45,000 improving their environmental services and reports to the required to establish an Urban Design Scholarship performance.
A wide range of services are quality and specification within the time working in partnership with the publishers available from conducting ecological frame agreed with the client.
RPS of the Architects Journal and in association surveys through to carbon trading.
In the employees work with their clients to with Design for London now part of the organisation there are many employees anticipate and develop their needs.
The award with professional qualifications in winning work of the top three scholars will Conflicts of Interest be exhibited in May 2009.
All RPS employees must avoid personal or rpsgroup.
com Corporate Responsibility 28 environmental management, some have n allocates sufficient management workload in this area will increase achieved international recognition for their resources to ensure effective materially in coming years.
implementation of the environmental work and play a leading role in RPS has undertaken to measure the policies.
carbon footprint of its own activities and A growing proportion of the Group has RPS seeks to manage and reduce its own has set itself the challenge of reducing the achieved ISO14001, the internationally environmental impact.
All businesses in the per capita energy use by 5% each year.
recognised environmental management Group are required to put in place RPS successfully achieved its goal in 2008 system standard.
By the end of 2008 40.7% systems to ensure that they identify and with an estimated carbon footprint of up from 22.6% of our employees work reduce potential environmental liabilities.
about 9,400 tonnes, equivalent to in offices that have had third party 2.1 tonnes for each employee.
Using these management techniques, RPS certification to the standard.
endeavours to: Energy Management Consumption of energy primarily n comply with all relevant national and ISO 14001 electricity and natural gas in offices has a regional legislation as a minimum standard: direct impact on carbon emissions.
In 40.7% 2008, RPS developed its programme to n comply with codes of practice and measure the impact of energy use and other requirements such as those introduced a Group-wide initiative to specified by regulators and our clients: reduce consumption.
22.6% n utilise suppliers that offer products Over 70% of electricity purchased in the which are sustainable, recyclable or UK is bought of a Green Tariff.
This is environmentally sensitive wherever from energy sources that are either practicable and economic: derived from renewable sources such as 2007 2008 n promote practical energy efficiency wind, capture waste energy such as landfill % Employees working in offices and waste minimisation measures: and with ISO14001 gas or are from good quality combined heat and power plants.
n provide a shared inter-office IT RPS has only a small impact on waste as network and communications As part of its long-term planning strategy there are comprehensive recycling facilities technology that reduces the need for RPS will be introducing minimum at most of our offices.
environmental standards for new offices that will also be taken into consideration In order to achieve this RPS: Climate Change whilst refurbishing offices.
Over the RPS has extensive skills that enable us to n ensures employees are trained and medium term this should make a understand and advise upon the causes motivated to conduct their activities in significant contribution to the reduction in an environmentally responsible manner: and effects of climate change.
RPS the total energy demand.
undertakes projects that involve developing n reviews the policy on a regular basis strategies to reduce our clients carbon to take into account any new emissions and adapt buildings and developments in legislation, or infrastructure to cope with anticipated environmental management or climatic changes.
We anticipate the shareholder expectations: and Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review 29 Wind farm at Barnesmore Gap, County Donegal rpsgroup.
com 30 Transport and Vehicle Management Shareholders Travel is an essential requirement in most RPS projects.
Video conferencing and The Group conducts its operations in accordance with what it believes are other IT initiatives have helped reduce the principles of good corporate governance.
Our aim is to provide shareholders with need to travel.
Employees are encouraged a return on investment that rewards their financial commitment.
The Board to use public transport and some offices understands the importance of strong cash flows and earnings and develops its have adopted formalised transport plans.
business in such a way as to grow these in a sustainable way as far as possible.
The Board endeavours to maintain involvement of shareholders by keeping A new company car policy was published them informed on major actions or decisions affecting their investment, through in 2008 based on vehicle whole life costs.
RPS employees in possession of This includes the environmental costs as information which, if disclosed, could affect the market price of its shares are well as the leasing charges so that cars prohibited from trading in securities until after public disclosure of such with a low emission are favoured over less information.
CO2 limits have been set for each band.
The average CO2 emission The Chairmen of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and from the UK company car fleet has Nomination Committee attend the Annual General Meeting, and are available to already reduced by 2.5% to 150g km answer shareholders questions.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Nonsaving approximately 25 tonnes of CO2.
Executive Director are available to discuss governance, strategy and any issues of concern or interest with any major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance RPS operates 478 vans in the UK.
New Director meet frequently with major institutional shareholders and fund managers.
vans with a CO2 emission of 119g km will They both attend the Annual General Meeting.
be used in 2009 that are 13% more There is a standing board agenda item on investor relations and the views of efficient than the existing fleet.
This is shareholders, insofar as they are known, are disclosed to the Board as a whole.
projected to save 400 tonnes of CO2 per This gives the Board an opportunity to develop an understanding of the views of year and will reduce fuel costs significantly.
major shareholders of the Group.
RPS carries out extensive work around the world, especially in the Energy business.
In consequence, there is a requirement for international air travel.
A monitoring programme was established in 2008 to determine the carbon impact of these flights.
It is estimated that flights booked in the UK accounted for 1,250 tonnes of CO2.
Dublin Airport Report and Accounts 2008
