Sustainable development: Making a difference through beer Managing sustainable development issues is an integral part of a successful global business.
Our progress in this area is overseen by the Corporate Accountability and Risk Assurance Committee CARAC.
Sustainability and business Alcohol and Health Forum.
This focuses With a heritage rooted in Africa a continent on concrete actions to reduce harmful with 66% of the worlds poor and 315 million drinking in the European Union, including people living on less than a dollar a day the prevention of under-age drinking.
US $5,291m we are very conscious of our responsibilities Through our involvement in the International paid in direct and excise taxes to society.
In itself, business activity serves Center for Alcohol Policies, we have a social purpose to provide the goods also contributed to the advancement of and services that society wants.
As long responsible marketing practices around But the picture is broader than providing as markets are competitive and free, the world.
In Africa we are working with jobs or income.
For example, the United companies will succeed and make profits several governments, NGOs and public Nations has estimated that a lack of only when they manage relationships health organisations to develop national access to basic water and sanitation effectively, use resources efficiently and alcohol policies to reduce alcohol-related services alone deprives sub-Saharan meet societys needs.
As a result of these efforts, Lesotho Africa of a further 5% of GDP.
Programmes adopted its first national policy in October Business is also part of society with linked to our sustainable development 2007.
Policies are nearing completion in a comprehensive set of relationships priorities in particular, engaging with Swaziland, Uganda, Zambia, Malawi with all the many individuals involved communities in responsible water and Ghana.
Business is at one and management, HIV Aids testing and the same time an employer, a customer, Enterprise development treatment, enterprise development through a supplier and a taxpayer and the interests One of the dilemmas of a globalising supply chain management and corporate of business and the wider community world is the increasing dependence on social investment also contribute are inextricably linked.
This is perhaps global supply chains which offer economies indirectly to economic development.
truer for our business than for many of scale through a smaller number of Through running a successful business multinational companies as beer is higher volume suppliers.
While this has and taking these issues seriously, we typically a local product: brewed locally, its advantages, it also has a downside are contributing to development and to sold locally and consumed locally.
for smaller, national suppliers of goods meeting the United Nations Millennium and services.
Accordingly, the health and prosperity Development Goals MDGs.
In 2007, of the communities in which we operate we underlined our commitment by is intimately linked to our ability to grow becoming a signatory to the Declaration profitably.
But this only holds true if we on the Millennium Development Goals.
10,500 operate in a responsible and accountable This recognised the role business has way.
Behaving responsibly towards all farmers engaged in our smallholder to play in meeting the MDGs and our stakeholders is part of our beliefs and programmes acknowledged that while progress has fundamental to building sustainable markets.
been made, the international community must accelerate its efforts if they are to Making a difference through beer We believe that genuinely free trade be met by 2015.
The main way in which we add value benefits all, especially the developing to the economies, communities and We also remain committed to the 10 world.
However, there are factors which environments in which we operate is principles of the United Nations Global strengthen the case for local sourcing by being a responsible and profitable Compact.
During the year we identified models, such as improved access to business.
Through employment, taxation opportunities for leadership where we quality raw materials.
We manage our and the purchasing of goods and services, will focus our global efforts: discouraging supply chains with a view to the longwe make a significant contribution to local irresponsible drinking, making more term benefits to our operations.
beer but using less water and enterprise encompass the availability of key brewing development.
inputs such as malted barley and the One example of our influence on the stimulus such purchasing gives to local economy comes from South Africa Discouraging irresponsible drinking economic growth.
On this basis, we have where, during the year, we recalculated In the last year we have established invested extensively in small-scale supplier our impact using the governments a comprehensive Alcohol Framework.
relationships where these are possible, economic data.
Here we directly employ This builds on our previous Alcohol particularly with smallholder farmers in more than 9,000 permanent employees, Manifesto and provides a globally Africa, India and, increasingly, Latin creating an estimated 48,000 jobs among consistent understanding of our beliefs America, in order to build local agricultural direct suppliers and as many as 378,000 on alcohol to ensure a consistent capacity and secure supplies of critical full-time jobs 3% of total employment in philosophy that underpins our work and raw materials.
As result we have created, South Africa as a whole.
Total household guides our everyday decisions.
In June we or improved, 10,500 jobs for farmers income directly and indirectly related to joined more than 40 other businesses and working in these regions.
SABs operations, amounts to just over non-governmental organisations NGOs to US$1 billion.
become a charter member of the European 30 Sustainable development review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information For our full Sustainable Development Report go to www.
com Our efforts on corporate social investment total plant energy use, up from 0.9% operations to consider how their business also contribute to economic development, reported last year, largely through the can add value to our three global focus For example our operations in South Africa combustion of biogas from water treatment areas, namely discouraging irresponsible have been supporting entrepreneurs for plants.
We continue to achieve high levels drinking, managing water responsibly over 10 years.
KickStart is a project that of reuse with over half of our beers being and promoting enterprise development.
promotes business awareness and sold in reusable packaging and we In March 2008 we agreed a new Code entrepreneurship among young people recycled reused over 96% of our of Business Conduct and Ethics to which by providing training, grants, mentorship waste across the group as a whole.
This Code and assistance during the setup phase of a We are committed to high standards represents a clear, conscious and personal new business.
Since its inception, SAB Ltd of environmental performance in all new commitment to doing what is right.
The has invested over US$5 million in KickStart, capital investments.
During the year we Code will be introduced across the group equipping almost 22,700 young adults with established a new set of guidelines for in the coming year.
business skills and helping them to start all major capital investments.
These state up nearly 3,300 businesses.
This approach that all new breweries will aim to be within is now being applied elsewhere in 10% of the current group best in terms of Botswana for over four years and, more their performance on water, energy and recently, Colombia.
In this way, we are Making more beer but using less water making sure we consider the long-term In July 2007 we signed the CEO Water sustainability of all new plants.
Mandate, an initiative of the United Valuing and empowering our people Nations Global Compact, which Attracting and retaining good people committed SABMiller to leadership in remains a critical component of supporting water management.
The principles of the our growth and bringing new skills and Mandate fit well with our own approach knowledge to the organisation, and during to water management and we look forward the year staff each received an average to working further with other companies of 3.9 days training.
Our employees to make progress in this area.
cover a vast mix of cultures, beliefs and backgrounds and we both value and respect this diversity.
While 19% of our Using water efficiently within the Kgalagadi total workforce is female, women account brewery in Botswana.
4.6 for 26% of our management and executive grades, up from 22% reported last year.
hectolitres of water per hectolitre of beer produced Health and safety During the year we recorded 1,446 industrial injuries, up from 1,091 reported Current water consumption for our last year while overall days lost through brewing operations is 4.6 hectolitres of injury is down to 12,809 from 13,720. water per hectolitre of beer produced.
We have revised last years figure for days This compares favourably to our lost to improve accuracy.
It is with regret competitors, and the industry benchmark that we report two fatalities in our business of 5.0 hectolitres of water per hectolitre during the year.
The first occurred in of beer published by the United Nations SABMiller India and related to an accident Environment Programme.
However, our at our Haryana brewery, and the second performance has remained static for the was one of our truck drivers in South last few years.
In the next year we will be Africa, the result of gunshot wounds increasing our focus in this area to reduce from an attempted hijack.
Sustainable development governance Broader environmental performance During the year our sustainable In the last 12 months we have reduced development framework has been further the use of energy in our brewing operations embedded into our operations.
Our local marginally from 151 to 150 megajoules managing directors are responsible for per hectolitre with related carbon emissions integrating sustainable development of 13.7 kilograms hectolitre.
We are considerations into their business plans, working to increase the amount of as appropriate for their own markets.
renewable energy we produce and during In particular, we encourage our local the year this figure increased to 1.5% of Sustainable development review 31 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview of progress Our 10 sustainable development priorities focus us on the opportunities and risks that arise from our environmental, social and economic footprints.
The table below shows why we consider each to be a priority, the progress we have made and our future direction.
Priority Why it is Targets we set Progress Targets for a priority last year we have made this year Our beer adds to the enjoymentEvolve the Alcohol Manifesto.
Further developed our Conduct an alcohol education of life for the overwhelming Alcohol Manifesto into our programme for all SABMillerHelp selected employees majority of consumers.
to become more fluent We care about the harmful on alcohol matters.
Published a revised Code ofContinue to engage with key effects of irresponsible Commercial Communications.
alcohol stakeholders at the Discouraging alcohol consumption and we local and international level.
Revised Employee irresponsible engage stakeholders and work Alcohol Policy.
Launch a website to provide collectively with them to address drinking accurate and balanced irresponsible consumption.
Established position papers resources on alcohol for our on key alcohol issues.
consumers, employees and Helped several African other interested stakeholders.
governments to produce national alcohol policies.
Water quality and availability Develop a watershed mappingUndertook high-level study Improve water efficiency.
are under threat in some parts tool to evaluate the risks and into long-term water Undertake watershed mapping of the world.
We aim to be opportunities associated with availability for all sites.
exercises for around 30 sites more efficient in our water use, water availability and quality.
Developed and introduced in areas at risk of long-term understand our watersheds a watershed mapping tool.
Making more and engage with our suppliers.
Established guidelines for Undertake a detailed water beer with This will cut costs, reduce risks new capital projects.
footprinting exercise to and benefit local communities.
less water evaluate the water use Signed CEO Water Mandate.
We use energy to produce Develop carbon footprintQuantified the carbon footprintImprove energy efficiency.
methodology to understand of one international brand.
Develop a flexible carbon We must become more efficient, and manage emissions.
Established guidelines for footprinting tool to evaluate manage our carbon footprintFurther evaluate the options new capital projects.
the carbon impact of business and explore cleaner sources for using renewable energy.
decisions such as choice Reducing Renewable energy of energy.
This will save money of packaging material or investments continued, our energy and resources and reduce distribution method.
for example our Hungarian our greenhouse gas emissions.
and carbon business, Dreher, inauguratedPartner Coca-Cola to trial its biogas plant, cutting eKO low greenhouse gas footprint traditional energy consumption emission fridges in our ABI by 10%.
Packaging protects ourEvaluate where existingIntroduced lighter bottles, Trial biodegradable shrinkproducts but has wider impacts.
packaging materials can including the European bottle wrap in further markets with We are reducing the weight of be substituted with better for Miller Genuine Draft.
different climate conditions our packaging, reusing bottles alternatives.
Integrated minimum standards and encouraging recycling, for materials into our productIdentify more sustainable Packaging thereby saving money and raw development process to packaging materials and inks.
reuse and materials and reducing pressure ensure quality and good Evaluate recycling and reuse on local waste services.
recycling infrastructure for markets Undertook successful trials which may introduce PET of biodegradable shrink-film packaging.
Much of our waste can be aReview best options for theCompleted review and severalReduce the percentage of valuable resource for farmers reuse and recycling of brewery operations, including Miller, are waste going to landfill.
and food producers as well as waste streams, initially with now approaching  new opportunities being a potential energy source.
for our brewing wastes, We aim to minimise the amount including renewable energy.
Working of waste we send to landfill, so towards saving money and reducing its environmental impact.
zero waste operations 32 Sustainable development review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Priority Why it is Targets we set Progress Targets for a priority last year we have made this year The effects of our   Sourcing Review our smallholder farmer are felt around the world.
We Sourcing Principles into Principles becoming programmes to understand engage with our suppliers to supplier contracts.
part of the supplier the business and social value secure supplies of quality evaluation process.
added and expand andField-test good practice goods and services, reduce improve their impact.
Reviewed and tested guidance Building reputational risks, provide on agricultural practice.
NowInclude social, ethical and Extend the coverage of supply chains employment and improve carrying out wider review of environmental criteria in our supplier engagement standards of living in smallholder farmer activity.
evaluating suppliers of raw that reflect workshops.
Held regional workshops our own with key European suppliers.
commitment 10,500 farmers involved in smallholder programmes.
The prosperity of communitiesEnsure that every operationAll operations now have aImprove the focus of our and that of our operations are has a formal corporate social formal strategy in place.
activities on our strategic CSI codependent.
issues of water, enterprise Continued to embed our social investment activities aim development and HIV Aids.
Improve the measurement systems for data collection.
to improve the quality of life and evaluation of strategicContinue to expand our Benefiting US$30 million cash invested in for local people, helping to community investment.
entrepreneurship programmes corporate social investment.
communities build strong relationships with and identify the value added SAB Ltd to increase employee suppliers, consumers and Employee volunteering at SAB to improve the quality of involvement in community our employees.
Ltd estimated to have reached these activities.
65%, although data capture needs to be improved.
The HIV Aids pandemic isImprove the percentage ofHeld education workshops in Increase participation of particularly relevant to our spouses and dependants Tanzania, Zimbabwe, employees and their spouses operations in Africa.
We have on treatment by continuing to Uganda and Zambia.
in annual voluntary counselling programmes in place for our address the fear and stigma and testing.
Published a briefing paper employees, their families, local engendered by the disease.
Living and working withIncrease the percentage of Contributing communities and suppliers andRun education workshops HIV Aids.
HIV positive spouses and to the we share our experiences with for community organisations dependants on managedSupported and presented our operations around the world.
and suppliers in Tanzania healthcare programme.
reduction of at the first Business against This helps us to ensure the and Zimbabwe.
Aids round table in Russia.
Increase number of peer HIV Aids wellbeing of our staff and the Introduce awareness educators in our businesses.
Percentage of spouses and initiatives in two operations dependants on treatment rose outside Africa.
from 11% to 14%, with further improvement needed.
We conduct our business Ensure that all groupAll group operations haveIntroduce our new Code of with respect for national companies have embedded incorporated human rights Business Conduct and Ethics.
cultures and different local our human rights principles principles into their localContribute to human rights laws, norms and traditions.
in their local human policies.
dialogues on a national and We promote the values of the resources policies.
Principles now being global level.
Respecting international community, notably introduced into the human rights the Universal Declaration of value chain.
External stakeholders should Increase frequency of internalHeld stakeholder dialogueConduct detailed deep dive be able to access information reporting by operations to sessions on our approach investigations on sustainable easily to enable them to every six months.
development issues throughout assess our performance the value chain in four of our Encourage the production Instituted twice-yearly against stated values and to emerging markets.
of local sustainable reporting on progress Transparency make informed judgements development reports.
Improve qualitative dialogue in reporting about the business.
We aim between operations through Local sustainable development to improve our reporting in training sustainable our progress reports becoming more response to stakeholder needs.
development champions consistent, using our 10 within each region.
Sustainable development review 33 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
