24 Business review | Our business and markets Corporate responsibility CR Sage is committed to acting as a responsible corporate People citizen.
We take a pragmatic approach to CR which Our strategic goal is to be an admired employer.
enables us to focus our commitment on areas that are the This means that people will want to join Sage as most relevant to Sage, our people and where we believe a place of choice, achievement and opportunity, and we can make a difference.
one where they can be genuinely successful and fulfilled in their careers.
People who work with us will recognise We aim to measure our progress and whilst any standards that the environment we create maximises their potential established by local legislation will apply as a minimum, we and is a place where innovation and creativity can intend to achieve best practice in the local context of every flourish.
All of our operating companies are working country in which we operate and to share this across the towards these aims.
Our approach also builds in flexibility for our businesses to enable them to We continue to adopt a consultative approach with our focus on the areas of strategic importance to them locally.
employees through many means including focus groups, employee committees and employee surveys.
This work This is the basis for a new policy which we have embedded is locally-led to ensure it is meaningful and relevant to throughout the business during the financial year.
has four areas of focus our people, the environment, supporting industry and working with our local communities In terms of furthering our people agenda, this year we have and charities.
encouraged our businesses to focus on talent, equity and engagement.
Targets for improvement are set locally and approved at Group level.
Sage UK employees travelled to Tanzania to help renovate a nursery and build playground facilities for children in the village of Mahida.
25 Talent As talent is critical to the future growth and success of Sage, we have worked at a global level to introduce new processes to identify and nurture emerging talent during the year.
This process includes a review of talent at both a regional and a global level as well as succession planning for senior roles.
Equity Diversity and fairness has always been a part of the way Sage does business.
This year we introduced a global code of ethics into the business as part of our compliance framework.
This sets out the standards which all operating companies are expected to meet regarding diversity and fairness amongst other things and communicates to employees our stance.
Our operating companies have been working on embedding this into their businesses.
Engagement One of our strategic goals is to be an employer of choice.
Many of our operating companies chose to focus on employee engagement levels and how to improve employee satisfaction and thus improve the customer experience and ultimately business performance.
Leaders who inspire an extraordinary customer experience Sage aspires to be the most admired and respected business software and services provider in the world and we have to deliver this in an environment of increasing customer expectations and strong competition.
As we continue to shape our strategy and look to our future needs, the time is right to focus on leadership in Sage and define the leadership qualities we need to be successful in the future.
Over the course of 2008 a team of global leaders has developed an aspirational leadership standard against which all of our current leaders and emerging talent will be benchmarked.
The new standard sets out our vision for what successful leadership will be in Sage and defines the behavioural and cultural attributes we need and expect.
Roll-out and integration at a local level has begun and will continue into 2009 with the launch of a global educational programme for senior leaders.
26 Business review | Our business and markets Environment Data Sage is an office-based organisation and as such our Data collection took place over a six month period in order environmental impacts are less than those of some to get a benchmark set of data.
We have based our industries.
Our role in automating business processes calculations on UK Defra conversion factors or local helps organisations reduce their environmental impacts government published carbon conversion factors where for example through reduced use of paper.
An example these were available within that country.
of this is shown in commercial context on page 15, The data collected was for a six month period.
Sage Douane Delta, a tool for electronic filing of tax From 1 August 2008 we will collect on an annual cycle.
Our businesses are reducing the inclusion Total carbon of paper documentation with software and maximising emissions from electronic downloads.
Operating energy company tonnes We are introducing carbon emissions reporting and waste UK & Ireland 2,965 measurement across our businesses.
Our goal is to reduce France 3,771 our impacts.
However, first we must understand what these are.
This year we have put in place a process to Spain 866 begin measuring the carbon impact of our major offices.
Germany 621 Our aim has been to: Poland 99 North America 5,433 Understand better our impact in terms of carbon South Africa 1,270 emissions and waste: China 12 Create a benchmark set of data for our business: Require operating companies to begin measurement: Wholly owned or wholly leased buildings for which energy data is available.
Build awareness inside the organisation of environmental impact: and Energy awareness Identify opportunities for reduction and cost-savings.
Our operating companies are encouraged to seek ways to minimise impact through employee education and awareness.
This year one of the principal means of doing this was through Sage Day, our annual event which enables our employees to spend time connecting with one another and with their local community in meaningful ways.
Our UK carbon footprint theme this year was being green and our offices took Reflecting our focus on better understanding our impact part in a variety of local activities to educate and enthuse in terms of carbon and waste, during 2008 our UK people about making changes at work and at home.
business undertook a carbon footprint estimation exercise.
This included emissions produced as a result of: Energy consumption gas and electricity : Air conditioning use: Business travel including hotel stays and fleet vehicles : Commuting: and Waste.
The exercise included all five main office locations in the UK.
he overall footprint for the UK business for the 12 months from April 2007 to March 2008 was 9,874 tonnes of CO2.
The sources of CO2 were broken down as follows: Emissions CO2 by category Waste in tonnes to landfill A A % tonnes C B A Air conditioning 1 A London, Protx 4.5 B D B Waste 1 B Winnersh 31.5 C C Gas 11 C Manchester 15.8 D Business travel 18 D Newcastle, D Benton Park 25.1 E Commuting 20 E E Newcastle, F Electricity 49 E North Park 136.2 Total 100 F 213.1 Total 27 Supporting industry Community and charity Our role in supporting commerce and industry is easy to Our people have a long history of actively supporting a underestimate.
With products and services that enable wide range of charities and community organisations that businesses to manage their processes, what we do every are most meaningful to them.
Activities like fundraising, day enables businesses to make decisions, grow and sponsorship and volunteering are very common in Sage operate more effectively.
Our goal is to be a partner with offices around the globe.
These are entirely locally-led with our customers, delivering an outstanding experience which each business setting its own direction on community and enables them to achieve their business ambitions.
As a result, the support we give is extremely be evidenced through our programmes to improve the diverse and manifests itself in numerous ways many of customer experience and encourage entrepreneurship which cannot be valued in monetary terms.
Operating companies can take a proactive In addition to these efforts, Sage donated 285,000 stance and develop their approach according to what is to charitable causes 2007: 220,000 in the year.
relevant in their local markets and supports the Sage brand.
Examples of community and charity work we do are featured Examples of Sage getting closer to its customers in each of our regional reviews on pages 30 to 37 and supporting entrepreneurs: Creation of an online ACT!
community enabling customers to collaborate with each other and with Sage helping them get the most from their software: A joint working initiative with the Portuguese government to make it easier for Sage customers to submit accurate tax returns and decrease tax avoidance: Work to reduce software piracy in Spain: Support of the development of the not-for-profit sector As part of the Sage Day celebrations in North America through an association with TechSoup, an organisation which provides free business software in Portugal, children of Sage employees to eligible charitable entities: came to the oce to take part in the Sage in South Africa Softline co-sponsored with a major radio station an awards programme for small start-ups community activities.
and entrepreneurs which enables customers to nominate SMEs for high quality customer service: Sage Switzerland sponsored start-up initiatives: Sage in North America launched a family owned and operated support programme which offers free software to family owned and operated businesses that may be struggling in the current volatile economic climate.
Our role in supporting commerce and industry is easy to underestimate.
With products and services that enable businesses to manage their processes, what we do every day enables businesses to make decisions, grow and operate more eectively.
