Remuneration report continued d Performance Share Plan PSP The Award will not vest if Salamanders relative TSR performance over the performance period ranks the Group In accordance with the Companys Performance Share Plan PSP and at the discretion of the Remuneration below the median of the peer group.
30% of the award will vest if the Companys TSR performance ranks the Committee, all eligible employees including Executive Directors may be awarded Share Options in the Company at the median of the peer group, 100% of the award will vest if the Company ranks in the upper Company Awards.
The Committee supervises the operation of the PSP including the levels of Awards made quartile and there will be straight line vesting between 30% and 100% if the Company ranks between the to employees and Executive Directors.
median and the upper quartile of the peer group.
The PSP is intended to facilitate the retention and incentivisation of employees of the Group and to align Further information regarding Share Based Payments is included in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
their interests with those of shareholders by enabling employees, including Executive Directors, to receive e Benefits shares in Salamander, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and continued employment.
At Executive Directors receive a pension contribution or salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions 31 December 2008, a total of 2,489,785 options over ordinary shares representing 1.6% of the Companys equal to 15% of their salary, private medical cover and life assurance of up to four times salary.
issued share capital of 152,781,255 ordinary shares at the year end were outstanding and granted to eligible employees including the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the PSP provides an Non-executive directors remuneration appropriate degree of flexibility in the way in which a share-based incentive arrangement can be operated by the Group, while giving due consideration to best and market practice.
The Companys policy on Non-executive Directors remuneration is to set compensation at a level which is sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality non-executives and to be consistent with The maximum value of Shares over which awards may be granted under the PSP to an executive director in best practice standards.
Non-executive Directors may not participate in the Companys PSP or pension any financial year will not normally exceed 100% of that individuals base salary.
In circumstances where the arrangements.
Each of the Non-executive Directors is entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses Committee considers it appropriate to do so, including the recruitment or retention of an employee, the incurred in the course of their duties and to directors and officers liability insurance cover.
Committee by exception may exceed this 100% limit at its discretion.
Awards vest on or following the third anniversary of the date of grant once the Committee has determined the extent to which the applicable The Board reviews Non-executive Directors including the Chairmans remuneration periodically to ensure performance condition see below has been satisfied and provided the participant remains an employee with it remains competitive.
Additional fees are paid to the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination the Group.
Awards, once vested, will normally remain capable of exercise for a period of twelve months.
Save in relation to Charles Jamieson, the fees of each Non-executive Director set out below comprise a 30,000 annual base fee and an additional annual fee of 5,000 for chairing a Board Committee.
Awards granted to all employees, including the Executive Directors, will vest based on Salamanders relative Struan Robertson also receives an additional annual fee of 10,000 for his role as Senior Independent total shareholder return TSR performance against an industry-specific peer group of companies drawn from Non-executive Director.
John Crowle receives an additional annual fee of 5,000 in recognition of his the constituents of the FTSE 250, FTSE Small Cap and AIM listed companies in the Oil and Gas Producers sector responsibility for advising, as required, on technical issues.
with market capitalisations in excess of 100 million at or around the date of grant.
The comparator groups for the 2007 and 2008 Awards are: All NonExecutive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company.
Charles Jamieson, 2007 Awards 2008 Awards Struan Robertson, John Crowle and Robert Cathery will continue in office for a term of three years from 27 June 2007.
Michael Pavia and James Coleman will continue in office for a term of three years from Afren Afren 30 June 2008.
Mike Sibson will offer himself for re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM and his term of Antrim Energy Antrim Energy appointment will be for three years following approval at the AGM.
All appointments are subject to satisfactory Bowleven Bowleven performance and the requirements of the Companys Articles of Association for one-third of the Directors to Geopark Holdings Dana Petroleum retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment at each AGM.
Gulfsands Petroleum Faroe Petroleum Annual salary s Date of contract Notice period Hardy Oil & Gas Geopark Holdings Imperial Energy Gulfsands Petroleum Charles Jamieson 55,000 29 11 06 Three months JKX Oil & Gas Hardy Oil & Gas Struan Robertson 45,000 29 11 06 One month Melrose Resources Imperial Energy Michael Pavia 35,000 9 7 07 One month Providence Resources JKX Oil & Gas John Crowle 35,000 29 11 06 One month Regal Petroleum Max Petroleum Robert Cathery 35,000 29 11 06 One month Roc Oil Company Melrose Resources James Coleman 30,000 8 5 08 One month Serica Energy Oilexco Mike Sibson 16 10 08 One month Sterling Energy Providence Resources Urals Energy Regal Petroleum Aggregate remuneration of directors audited Roc Oil Company Serica Energy The total amount of directors remuneration was as follows: 2008 2007 Sterling Energy s s Urals Energy Emoluments 2,109,473 1,633,240 Valiant Petroleum Amounts receivable under long term incentive schemes Venture Petroleum Total aggregate remuneration 2,109,473 1,633,240 36 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 37 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008
