qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:14 Page 35 Our people and reputation Above: We are committed to investing in the professional and technical skills our staff need to do their jobs.
Our people Our performance against our policies, and Our Pulse Awards are designed to celebrate Having skilled, qualified, engaged and the implications of changing legislation and the very best qualities and achievements of inspired employees who bring service to best practice, is monitored by our human Serco people, our customers and partners.
life is essential to our continued success.
Where we need to The awards are closely linked to our That is why we are committed to change an approach, then appropriate Governing Principles.
They recognise communicating with, supporting and communications and training are people who excel at innovation, inspire developing our people.
through their leadership, demonstrate culture based on our Governing Principles outstanding commitment and make an Our Skills for You programme was developed and we monitor how well were putting exceptional impact on communities, the in partnership with UK Government them into practice.
environment or issues such as safety and departments, trade unions and training ethics.
Having great people is the single biggest providers.
It offers Serco staff the chance factor in the growth and success of our to improve their literacy, numeracy and In 2008, 48 employees received an award business and in 2008, we have further language skills while continuing with their in the first global Pulse Awards.
embedded our leadership development workplace learning.
Since its introduction Our reputation strategy.
Initially focused on our senior at Serco, 3,221 of our people have been Our reputation for delivering excellent leadership, over the course of 2008 we assessed with 640 achieving a qualification.
service and our ability to build long-term broadened the programme to develop the We know that having highly engaged relationships is behind the consistent right type and number of leaders across our employees, who live our Governing success Serco has enjoyed to date.
This strategy Principles and bring service to life, will lead enables effective performance management Customers and potential customers tell us to even higher performing contracts.
That is and development plans that are tailored to that corporate reputation is one of the key why we research how engaged our the needs of the individual.
criteria in the selection and retention of employees are with Serco.
To us, this private sector partners.
As a result, we Across the Company, we are committed to research is more than a measurement tool: are taking steps to measure customer investing in the professional and technical it is a continuous improvement process for advocacy and corporate reputation skills our staff need to do their jobs.
We are people issues and a key driver to improved consistently on a Group-wide basis.
always looking to equip and encourage business performance.
Throughout 2008 staff to take on wider roles.
across every level of our business we We continue to build our reputation have put changes in place to improve amongst business stakeholders through a To enable our leaders to manage their engagement and will be measuring the communication programme which includes people, we have developed a impact in 2009. the publication of thought-leading research comprehensive suite of employment policies and attendance at seminars and conferences.
which support our employees, wherever Were passionate about communication.
However, we recognise that delivering value they are in the world.
The key employment It is natural for us to share information and to customers and citizens by improving policies are made available through line bring people together across the world.
services efficacy and efficiency is the most managers, human resources teams and our We have set out how we want employees significant shaper of our reputation.
They include policies covering across the business to connect to Serco.
diversity and equality, for employees having This is delivered through a communications children, resolving issues, health and safety, network, programme of channels and confidentiality, security and ethics and campaigns.
In 2008 we launched Scoop, a magazine As an international company, we for all Serco employees.
Through this experience differing employment legislation, publication we deliver consistent brand and customs and practices in different parts of message, and present a 360 degree view the world.
Our approach is always to of the Serco family.
We also introduced a respect local differences but not to fall new intranet channel for employees to short of minimum standards.
connect with their senior leadership.
