qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:14 Page 36 These are some of the highlights Corporate responsibility taken from our 2008 Corporate Responsibility Review.
To find out more, please visit www.
com Serco strives to operate in a way that Key to this whole process is understanding Measuring performance has a positive impact on society.
how we perform so that we can improve An overall assessment is provided by the Our people embody the values that we the management decisions we make.
Business in the Community BitC Corporate have worked so hard to embed throughout Responsibility Index.
We achieved, for the We have a core set of performance the organisation.
These values are built on second year running, a gold overall rating indicators that we use to assure ourselves our Governing Principles: we foster an 90%.
This year a new workplace index that we are performing responsibly.
Details entrepreneurial culture: we enable our was introduced under which we received of these are provided in our Corporate people to excel: we deliver our promises: platinum banding with a score of 95%, Responsibility Review and are available and we build trust and respect.
These along with a community index in which we on our website.
values have supported us in becoming one achieved platinum status 96%.
Sercos of the worlds leading service companies.
Leisure business, National Physical Reviewing corporate governance We work in partnership with governments Laboratory and our contract at Airbus Filton We undertook a review of our management and commercial organisations around the were again recognised by the BitC Awards system to ensure that our policy framework world to improve services across many for Excellence with each receiving a Big is the right one for the size and scale of the areas of public life.
Tick Award for the second year in organisation we now are.
Beyond profits As we continue to grow, we have focused Our BitC environmental index rating also While financial performance is important, on how to keep it as simple as possible improved with a gold banding and overall the search for profit is not what defines us.
and make sure we are using language that score of 89%.
This was an improvement on We want not only to achieve the social everybody can clearly understand.
the previous index where we scored 79.5%.
outcomes we are often contracted to We need to ensure we have strong links deliver, but to do it in a way that has between our management system, risk a positive impact on society.
management and our internal audit process, so that we have confidence in Setting a strategic framework both our governance structure and our As an organisation, we are never management of risk.
We work continually to improve our systems and processes.
It is important that our people have clarity about their roles and accountability, Like all responsible companies, we are empowering and enabling them to excel striving to become more sustainable.
As a even further, leading to better value result we have developed our corporate all around.
responsibility framework, which recognises local cultures and conditions across our diverse operations, to put sustainable development at the heart of our business.
The framework consists of five key areas.
to make a positive difference to the communities we serve to reduce our environmental impact to reduce our consumption and assure our supply chain to increase our value to our customers and shareholders to realise the potential of our people.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:14 Page 37 Above: Teaming up with the Scouts Association to Above: Safety is a priority at Dubai Airport.
Above: Education classes at Kilmarnock Prison.
Measuring our environmental performance In our rail operations both verbal and As an organisation, has been a particular area of attention.
physical assault rates have been below 2008 saw a significant step forward with a target and reflect the success of a focused we are never comprehensive review of the Companys campaign over the last few years.
environmental performance indicators and In 2007 we launched the Pulse Awards.
We the capture of accurate environmental data.
Aligned to our Governing Principles, the This has provided a baseline of company awards recognise examples of excellence performance that we will use to benchmark work continually to in business operations or improvement, future environmental performance against.
environmental and safety initiatives and improve our We recognise we not only have a leadership.
They also recognise our wider responsibility to improve our performance responsibilities to society, the environment systems and but also to influence thinking.
In 2008 Serco and the communities we serve.
This might co-sponsored with the new Local be through significant contributions made processes.
Government Network, an independent local to charitable or community organisations.
government think tank, a piece of research In 2008 the first Pulse Awards were given looking at potential solutions to the pressing to 118 divisional award winners, of which and immediate challenges and issues 48 received a global Pulse Award.
facing the UK waste industry.
Embedding ethical guidelines Our lost time incident rate has continued Our company values and ethics are integral to improve, although the proportion relating to one another.
Historically our value set to reportable three-day absence has has been clear about where we draw the increased, leading to a pilot to better lines.
However, as we move into different manage first-day absence management countries and cultures, and as we diversify by occupational health.
Reflecting external our range of services, we need to review benchmarks, mental and behavioural regularly the Companys position on these.
diseases and musculoskeletal system That is why we have set up a formal Ethics and connective tissue diseases remain the Committee, made up of senior main reason for referrals.
We have therefore management with very clear guidelines established a process to fast track these about its remit.
It is there to determine the referrals to specialists to reduce the time big ticket items that define our position in resolving them.
We are also looking at beyond regulatory and statutory ways of reducing the number of incidents.
The pilot of the Back-Track system in the UK has seen a significant reduction in Doing business the right way demands manual handling manoeuvres where it has constant vigilance.
By its very nature, it has been trialled.
to be a journey without an ending.
Thanks to the people we employ, we are making real progress in reaching our ambitious goals.
Serco Group plc 37 Finance Contents p38:Serco AR08 - Design 23 03 2009 13:27 Page 38 39 Finance Review 44 Principal risks and uncertainties 49 Directors, Secretary and Advisors 50 Corporate Governance Report 58 Directors' Report 60 Directors' profiles 62 Directors' responsibilities 63 Remuneration Report 79 Independent Auditors' Report Financial Statements 81 Consolidated Income Statement 81 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 82 Consolidated Balance Sheet 83 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 84 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 137 Serco Group plc Company Financial Statements 143 Shareholder Information IBC Financial Calendar 38 Serco Group plc
