24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 20 Our corporate responsibilities The heart of our business Organisations use different terminology to describe the way they In addition, we have a number of broader corporate responsibility address the impact of their activities on the environment, wider objectives and measures which we track internally through the society and future generations.
The UK governments strategy in this Corporate Responsibility Committee.
This is a committee of the board, area is referred to as sustainable development.
We refer to corporate chaired by a non-executive director, Bernard Bulkin.
The Chairman and responsibility to describe the way we respond to these issues as Chief Executive sit on the committee, which meets four times a year to a business.
develop, review and promote policies.
Our approach to corporate responsibility is based on considering what The data we track in this area is verified by independent consultants it means to be a responsible organisation as an integral part of the way and published externally via our website.
we operate and plan our future strategy.
We communicate what this Aligning corporate responsibility to our long term means in practice to our staff and other stakeholders with reference strategic direction to four areas: Community, Marketplace customers and supply chain, Our focus going forward is to map our corporate responsibility Workplace our role as a responsible employer and Environment.
programme as closely as possible onto the long term strategic direction Many of our 20 KPIs link directly to our focus on corporate of the business.
responsibility, for example our KPIs on health and safety, employee This diagram illustrates the way in which our corporate responsibility motivation, water quality, pollution incidents, net energy use and strategy and measures are aligned to deliver the eight KSIs contained leakage.
Performance against these KPIs can be found on pages within our 25 year plan.
Corporate responsibility measures CR Themes Objectives Measures Key Strategic Intentions within 25 year plan 1 Community Provide a high quality product Water quality 2 Quality investment in community and education Employee volunteering Providing a continuous supply 2 Community investment of quality water 2 Charitable giving 2 Customer and community engagement 1 Marketplace Quality interaction with the customer Customer complaints Responding to customer needs 1 Debtor days Promoting effective regulatory regime 2 Maintaining investor confidence Vulnerable customers 2 Having the lowest possible charges Provide a high standard of operational service Suppliers and contractors standards and carbon footprint 1 Workplace Development of a sustainable service Regulatory obligations 2 Adaptation to climate change 1 Develop a confident and productive workforce Employee motivation 2 Whistleblowing Having the right skills to deliver 2 Staff survey 2 Promote and develop a diverse workforce % of female and ethnic minorities 1 Provide a safe working environment Lost time incidents 1 Environment Minimise environmental impact Pollution incidents 2 Waste 2 Biodiversity Minimising our carbon footprint 1 Maximise use of resources Net energy use Dealing effectively with 1 Raw water storage waste water 1 Leakage 2 Renewable energy 2 Water efficiency 1 Measures relevant to corporate responsibility within our 20 business KPIs 2 Additional corporate responsibility measures 20 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 21 We have a leadership forum for our management teams.
We also Community have formal succession talent management reviews through the year.
We have an active community programme.
For example, we have classrooms on four of our sites where we bring in groups of children We are committed to improving the diversity of our workforce and to teach them about water resources.
have relaunched the womens network in Severn Trent.
We also have a well developed and supported employee volunteer We aim for open and honest relationships at work, where people work programme.
One of the ways we use employee volunteers is through together as a team and everyone has the opportunity to improve their our BeSmart education programme a scheme where we go into skills and capabilities and progress through the organisation.
50 schools with an education pack focused on water resources and Through a share incentive plan, every Severn Trent Water and Severn water efficiency.
We donate to a number of organisations, such as Trent Plc employee has an element of their pay based on our WaterAid, as part of our charities programme.
Our Analytical Services business supports a number of projects in the Severn Trent Services STS conducted its first global employee community with a particular focus on enhancing links with local schools engagement survey, which topped the list of motivation programmes.
The visits are designed to introduce pupils to possible A development centre was piloted for middle management in two careers in science and to demonstrate the way we use scientific skills of the UK businesses based on Severn Trent leadership competencies.
They receive various presentations and a tour of the laboratory with practical demonstrations.
Environment Climate change Public access sites Climate change is set to produce more severe forms of weather, from Our public access sites welcome around three million visitors a year.
To respond to these changes, we are investing in Through these sites we aim to deliver high quality conservation, access, the resilience of our Severn Trent Water network and in helping to recreation and education for our customers and our communities.
More information on our public access sites can be found on www.
Climate change is a key component of our environment strategy.
We are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by being Marketplace more efficient in what we do and also by increasing renewable energy Supply chain generation.
We have a target of generating 30% of our energy from We aim to manage the whole supply chain responsibly, working with renewable sources by 2012.
This involves a wide range of solutions, our suppliers and delivering for our customers.
from wind turbines, to generating energy from sewage sludge and We have robust processes in place to ensure that as a minimum biomass crops.
requirement we are working with responsible suppliers, based on their We are committed to understanding our carbon footprint and health and safety, environment and ethics track record.
We are also playing our part in meeting the governments targets to reduce identifying areas where our suppliers will be able to help us achieve greenhouse emissions within the overall economy.
We are in the some of our strategic objectives, such as reducing our carbon footprint.
process of developing longer term targets in this area to align Its about long term relationship building focusing on managing the with our 25 year plan.
contract and supplier relationships to maximise value.
Within STS we are working to reduce the carbon footprint associated In 2007, we won Utility Weeks Supply Chain Excellence Award for with this growing part of our business and continuing our focus to our holistic two year supply chain management programme with ensure our facilities are as energy efficient as possible through Nottingham Trent University for participants drawn from throughout increased measurement and energy controls.
our business and our contractors and suppliers.
Water resources Vulnerable customers Our draft Water Resources Management Plan 2009 sets out our We ensure our corporate responsibility approach also addresses our proposed 25 year strategy for maintaining the balance between the relationships with customers, in particular vulnerable customers who supply and demand for water in our region and maintaining our service have difficulty in paying their bills or who have special needs.
This strategy includes reducing leakage, accelerating domestic The Severn Trent Water Trust Fund is run through our charitable trust.
customer metering, improving the connectivity of our network and We contribute 3.5 million a year towards vulnerable customers.
In increasing water efficiency by working with customers to install more 2007 08, we increased our contribution to 4.5 million in response water efficient equipment and promote water conservation.
to higher levels of demand for people needing help of this kind.
For further information on this aspect of our business, visit Workplace www.
We are working on ways to improve the skills of our people, working environments and communication.
We are, for example, enhancing our internal communication programme so that employees can get easier access to the information they need.
We have launched a leadership behavioural model and are rolling this out further among employees.
It is part of our commitment to develop a modern work place, where people treat each other in a supportive way and work together to achieve both the organisations and their own personal goals.
