corporate responsibility Environmental legislation, both European parameters.
Failure to abide by the and national, plays a critical role in conditions of local permissions can result determining how all companies operate.
in them being withdrawn and the site This is particularly so for waste being closed or restricted in its management companies and large operations.
portions of environmental law are aimed specifically at the industry.
Such Beyond the potential closure of existing legislation does not only pose a threat in facilities, each time the Group wishes to terms of penalties, but also shapes the expand a sites operations, such as by commercial environment within which the accepting greater volumes of waste or a Group operates.
Few other industries can different waste type, it must apply for a see such a direct link between the law variation to that facilitys local and how they run their business.
The same applies to new sites which must obtain the appropriate Waste management, whilst an essential local permissions before being allowed to service, is not always a popular industry operate.
and companies which operate in the sector have to be conscious of public and Waste management companies with a political perception.
Simply complying with poor enforcement record or those which legislation is not sufficient and we have attracted public or political concern consider it a minimum requirement rather will find it more difficult to obtain and than an ultimate goal.
revise local permissions than businesses which have a more positive image.
Of While the Group is subject to the same course new or expanded waste health and safety and employment law as management facilities will never be other companies, the potential impacts popular: at best they are often viewed as for those involved in waste management a necessary evil.
However, a waste are higher than for most other industry management concern with a positive sectors.
Waste management is image is far more likely to be successful acknowledged to be one of the highest in gaining the permissions it needs to risk industries a company can operate in, operate and expand.
with fatal and serious accident rates at least as high as those for construction, One of the greatest potential impacts on agriculture and other sectors with known image for a waste management company elevated risk profiles.
is the attitudes displayed and approach taken by its local employees.
A company Virtually all of Shanks operations need to may have high quality management hold local licences, permits and other systems and good intentions, but if local permissions to operate.
These management and operational employees permissions determine the basic criteria do not reflect this corporate ethic the under which a waste management site outcome will be poor local image.
The can operate, such as how much and what development, training, competence and types of waste a site is allowed to accept, attitudes of local employees is therefore its opening and closing times, restrictions of crucial importance to the Group to on noise, emissions and other key ensure we maintain highly motivated shanks.
annual report 2008 21 corporate responsibility continued employees who understand clearly the good local image is well appreciated by country-based specialist departments and effect they can have on the environment, the Group.
review and improvement of systems is a health and safety and the Groups public key area of activity.
It is only by taking such a pro-active approach, going beyond simple The Group benchmarks its environmental The above gives an insight into the compliance, that the Group will fulfil its performance against its peers using complex and changing web of law, ambitions as a sustainable and techniques such as the annual Business regulation and perception the Group developing waste management company.
in the Environment BiE Index of operates within.
The Group considers corporate environmental engagement.
In legal compliance as an absolute minimum The Environment 2007 the Group scored in excess of 92 requirement but understands that going Waste management and the environment per cent in this index compared to 83 beyond simple compliance is critical to are intrinsically linked not only in public per cent in 2006, a score well above the the Groups continued development.
and political perception, but in reality as sector average and one achieved by this is an industry whose actions can targeted improvement in specific areas There is currently no requirement on have a direct and serious impact on the identified by analysis of previous index companies to calculate their carbon environment.
The Group aims to minimise assessments.
footprint, but the Group has already done any detrimental impact its activities may so for its UK operations and is in the have on the environment.
The Groups Due to the Groups size and the highly process of extending this to cover its over-arching environmental policy is regulated environment in which it other areas of activity.
The Group available on the Groups web site and operates it is almost inevitable that there understands that it must be prepared further details of individual environmental will be some level of enforcement action for future developments in carbon trading management systems are available by by regulators.
Table 18 shows and charging and that being ahead of contacting the Group.
environmental convictions against the the pack is critical to the Groups Group during the 2008 financial year.
Notwithstanding any All of the Groups sites operate under Whilst any enforcement action is financial impact, managing our carbon strict environmental management disappointing the number of incidents is footprint responsibly makes good sense systems, many of which have been low compared to our peers.
Where these and is supportive of our brand accredited to the international ISO14001 incidents do arise they are thoroughly positioning.
investigated, the issues addressed and Reporting of key environmental the lessons learnt incorporated into the Equally there is no obligation on performance indicators is Group-wide ongoing management systems.
companies to publicly declare accidents and communicated to all levels of and incidents suffered by its employees, management and to the Group Board.
but the Group firmly believes that it must Any failings are addressed through make clear and unambiguous statements to all stakeholders, internal and external, of the standards it expects and the extent Table 18 to which they are attained.
Environmental Convictions in 2008 There is also no legislation which requires companies to engage with local Fine k Details populations around their sites and Netherlands 2.3 Four breaches of hazardous waste transport regulations operations, but the Group does so Netherlands 1.0 Breach of fire incident reporting deadlines through liaison groups, education centres Belgium None and direct contact.
The importance of a United Kingdom None 22 shanks.
annual report 2008 Enforcement actions are, by their nature, Recycling also has positive benefits in ensure good risk management and to a reactive measure of environmental reducing carbon emissions.
Our allow the development of their facilities.
The Group believes it has a commitment to finding innovative and positive role to play in improving the significant ways of efficiently generating For the past five years the Group has set environmental performance of both itself energy from waste is another way in which itself the quantified target of improving its and its stakeholders, such as its we can help society reduce its overall RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases customers.
Recycling rates are one carbon emissions.
and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations measure of this.
By encouraging employee injury rate by 10% year-on-year.
customers to recycle and by providing the Carbon management is a key future area RIDDOR is UK law, but the Group has services and operations to allow recycling for development and one which the Group applied it across all of its operations no rates to improve, the Group is making a is committed to being involved in.
For matter which country they are in.
This is significant and beneficial impact on the 2009 the Group has set itself the just one example of the setting of environment.
Table 19 illustrates this qualitative target of calculating its carbon common and quantifiable targets for key point and shows a synopsis of recycling footprint a task which has already performance indicators across the Group.
rates achieved by the Group.
Based on these calculations quantitative targets will be During 2008 the Group improved its set to stimulate reductions in the Groups overall RIDDOR rate by more than 21%.
Table 19 carbon impact in the future.
This aspect In addition, each country of operation Overall Recycling and Recovery Rate of the Groups activities will be reported showed improvement, although this varied on in the 2009 Annual Report.
For 2009 the Group will maintain its 10% overall improvement Netherlands 83% Health and Safety target and is also seeking to develop Belgium 51% The health, safety and wellbeing of its additional quantifiable goals during the United Kingdom 22% employees is a prime consideration for coming year.
Companies which have a poor Group 58% record in this area are unlikely to have the Employees and Business Ethics highly motivated employees they need to All of the Groups employment and training policies are compliant with relevant employment legislation and Table 20 regulatory obligations.
The Group is an Accident Numbers and Rates equal opportunities employer.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications 2008 2007 from, and the continuing employment, career development and training of Minor RIDDOR Minor RIDDOR disabled people.
A culture of two way Minor rate RIDDOR rate Minor rate RIDDOR rate communications is actively promoted and Netherlands 51 2,800 35 1,900 48 2,550 41 2,350 trade unions, works councils and other Belgium 113 11,900 39 4,100 89 9,800 57 6,300 employee groups are involved wherever United Kingdom 101 9,100 27 2,400 109 10,400 27 2,500 appropriate.
Group 265 6,800 101 2,600 246 6,700 125 3,300 The Groups approach to its business is Reporting of Injuries Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR is UK law which requires companies to clearly outlined in its Statement of report specified more serious accidents and incidents to the Health and Safety Executive.
While RIDDOR is UK law the Business Principles and Corporate Ethics.
Group requires all of its operations, no matter which country they are based in, to report to this common format.
This is publicly available alongside other 2007 figures have been adjusted since last years Annual Report following correction of incident numbers in Belgium corporate publications on the Groups web due principally to reclassification of incidents between minor and RIDDOR.
annual report 2008 23 corporate responsibility continued The commitment to achieve business The Wider Community Corporate Responsibility Data-Set goals by acting with honesty, integrity, Because of the nature and extent of its It is not practical to include here all the openness and fairness is plainly stated, activities, the Group understands that it is environmental, health and safety and together with a clear and public definition essential to keep good communication other corporate responsibility measures of acceptable business practice.
The lines open with its neighbours and other the Group uses to assess its statement also includes the Groups stakeholders.
More than this the Group performance.
However, we understand vision and guidance on dealings with has a positive role to play in promoting that some stakeholders may wish access stakeholders such as shareholders, recycling and other more environmentally to a more complete analysis and spread employees, customers, suppliers and sustainable waste management practices of indicators.
To address this need we contractors, as well as covering the to the public and its closer stakeholders have produced a corporate responsibility specific areas of environmental protection such as customers.
The data-set is available on the and health and safety.
co. uk for The Group has an open door policy and any interested party to view.
This statement is communicated directly encourages visits from local communities to all managers within the Group and and other interested persons and parties.
In addition, each of the Groups three through documents such as employee Open days are held at some sites, while main countries of operation is producing handbooks to other personnel.
The Group at others education centres have been its own corporate responsibility report is committed to ensuring that this established for the use of local schools within the country concerned.
These statement of ethics is a living document and other bodies.
Formal liaison groups reports will be available in September and monitors its application at are encouraged at high-profile sites and 2008. operational level and has an established engagement with local political systems is whistle-blowing system.
a direct duty of operational management.
The Group cannot rely on its regulators and internal monitoring systems completely when assessing the potential impacts of its operations.
It is essential that local populace opinion and concerns are accounted for.
The Group has put in place complaint and comment tracking and response systems at all of its sites.
Trends in complaints are tracked centrally with the aim of addressing any issues before they either come to the regulators attention or start to impact significantly on the Groups image and reputation.
We are more than aware that local perception is a critical factor which can have a direct effect on site development and success.
