CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SIG RECOGNISES ITS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITIES TO ITS SHAREHOLDERS, CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND EMPLOYEES AND IS COMMITTED TO GOOD PRACTICE IN ALL ACTIVITIES.
SIG continues to develop its approach to Corporate Responsibility CR and is pleased to be able to inform its stakeholders of the measures which it is taking to continue to monitor and improve its CR performance reporting.
The Company is a constituent member of the FTSE4Good index of socially responsible companies.
This year, in addition to its UK Mainland operations,  CO emissions and waste data.
2  of social, environmental and ethical matters to the business of the Group and that it has in place a comprehensive risk management and internal control process  .
 internal control process and are covered in the training of Directors.
SIG recognises its corporate responsibilities to its Shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice in all its activities.
 the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues into its decision making will help us to achieve our business goals and act as an essential building block for growth in shareholder value.
SIG has in place a Group-wide Ethics Policy which sets out a number of fundamental principles, which all Group companies are required to follow.
In addition we have recently published a Group-wide Anti-corruption Policy.
These policies underpin our CR programme and support our business integrity.
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND CODE OF ETHICS The Group issued its Ethics Policy to all employees in March 2008, which sets out a number of fundamental principles, which all Group companies are required to follow.
 the giving or receiving of bribes or other payments.
, Germany, displaysitssolar : panel product offering.
CarolineSmale, , accepting , HRSecretaryand : Mark Smith, Corporate Responsibility Manager.
Maria Kitiefs, Service User, presenting Mark Smith with a  commemorative partnership plaque on behalf of Action For Kids.
businesstransactions: : 34 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND CODE OF ETHICS CONTINUED 2008 was the second year for quantitative benchmarking, with 443 of the :  the average audit scores across all the divisions increased.
: During 2008 sample auditing was conducted at a number of the Mainland European asamatterofpolicy, : trading sites.
This incorporated 23 trading site visits across eight countries and  region.
: The Group has received no prosecutions relating to environmental matters :and during 2008. employees are encouraged to report any suspected wrongdoings.
Considerable importance is placed on environmental matters as part of the due diligence process for acquisitions.
External advisers review and assess any ENVIRONMENT environmental risks to which the Group could potentially become exposed TheChiefExecutive, Mr. C. J. Davies,  .
Healthandsafety environmental performance of the Group.
Each individual subsidiary Managing Director compliance and processes are also considered as part of the acquisition process.
is responsible for the environmental performance of their own business.
SIG is committed to minimising the environmental impact of its activities through good , environmental management practices.
which are summarised on pages 36 and 37.
As a leading international supplier of insulation and related materials our core ENERGY AND TRANSPORT business is focused on the reduction of energy consumption and the subsequent As a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of Energy, .
 SIG is active in promoting and encouraging the raising of mandatory standards wasreviewedin2008.
throughout the Group and on the SIG website.
Environmental objectives and targets have been established at relevant functions and levels within the organisation.
Reducing energy consumption is a priority for all of our operations.
This is targeted both through reducing the amount of fuel used in delivery, by increasing   to minimise the risks arising from, the social and environmental impact of its .
activities and is committed to conducting its activities and operations in line  with current legislation and best environmental practice, seeking continual monitoring of electricity and gas consumption at each location, with sophisticated improvement and innovation within all Group businesses and activities.
reporting technology being installed at larger locations.
In the UK, energy brokers have been instructed to, where practicable, purchase energy from renewable sources.
: SIG continues to actively investigate better methods of operation in order minimise the use of all materials, supplies and energy and wherever possible .
: This contributed to the average amount of fuel used per UK road vehicle %.
:  : available currently considered to be Euro V category engines, which the Company purchases, whenever possible.
communicate our environmental policy to all staff and encourage them : SIG employs staff to train drivers in driving techniques aimed at reducing accidents and damage safe driving and to drive vehicles using methods supply and promote, wherever possible, those products which contribute and practices which will reduce fuel consumption.
In addition SIG is in :and the process of putting in place a structured driver risk assessment process.
 ensure that the Company continues to meet present and future environmental efficiency .
serviced to ensure that vehicle emissions are kept to a minimum.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT The Transport Co-ordinators at each trading site throughout the Group are , ,  SafetyandEnvironment, certifiedtoISO14001 Environment andOHSAS18001 customer requirements.
Techniques used include maximising vehicle loading HealthandSafety.
within legal limits so reducing vehicle numbers and route planning, to minimise distances travelled and thereby fuel usage.
 progress towards being a Carbon Managed business.
During 2008 improved  data capture procedures were introduced across the UK and Mainland Europe, planningequipment.
 including developing a Facilities Management Department.
This has resulted in a each journey.
 Video conferencing equipment is used in nine key locations across the Group .
in order to reduce, in particular, overseas travel with the consequent reduction .
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINuEd ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PACKAGING AND WASTE REDUCTION CARBON CO EMISSIONS SIG works with its suppliers to minimise primary and secondary packaging, while 2  maintaining necessary levels of packaging to ensure that the product arrives with , inaddition,  .
 Mainland European and Ireland CO emissions.
the applicable waste management regulations.
As a break bulk supplier, SIG has 2 recognised that the major impact of the organisation on environmental waste is SIG has reported emissions of CO according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, through packaging and has taken a pro-active approach to minimise the amount 2  of new packaging entering the market and the amount of waste generated at Development and the World Resources Institute.
between emissions caused in the generation of supplied electricity and all other indirect emissions both upstream and downstream.
As it is impossible to know Thisisachievedby: or control the negligible downstream emissions generated when products sold by the Group are used, they have been excluded from this report.
Similarly, environmental awareness training at all sites, including the distribution of reporting on the upstream emissions of our business would currently rely heavily : on estimates and, as a result, they have also been excluded from this analysis.
However, ,  purchasing recycled and recyclable packaging where practicable, including appropriate to report on the emissions from third-party provided transportation.
palletsandcartons: CO EMISSIONS DIRECT IMPACT 2 Metric tonnes Group Source Definition  2008 Road vehicle fuel Emission from vehicle use Fuel cards and direct purchase records in litres 86,260 converted according to DEFRA guidelines Plant vehicle fuel Emission from vehicle use Direct purchase records in litres converted 2,060 according to DEFRA guidelines Total 88,320 The above table does not include  generationofheat attheCrawley,  2 operations are deemed to be carbon neutral.
CO EMISSIONS INDIRECT IMPACT 2 Metric tonnes Group Source Definition  2008 Electricity Directly purchased electricity, Actual or estimated consumption in KWh 28,377 which generates greenhouse converted according to DEFRA guidelines gases including CO emissions 2 Natural gas Directly purchased gas, which Actual or estimated consumption in KWh 4,762 generates greenhouse gases converted according to DEFRA guidelines including CO emissions 2 Gasoil ,  1,804 which generates greenhouse converted according to DEFRA guidelines gases including CO emissions 2 Coal Coke  coke,  88 which generates greenhouse converted according to DEFRA guidelines gases including CO emissions 2 Kerosene Directlypurchased, which  19 generates greenhouse gases converted according to DEFRA guidelines including CO emissions 2 Businesstravel Third-partyprovided  314 transport air and rail converted according to DEFRA guidelines Total 35,364 The data above comprises % 2 31December2008.
, Coal :, which were acquired in April 2008.
36 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED SIG actively seeks to reduce the number of printed copies of its Annual Report PACKAGING AND WASTE REDUCTION CONTINUED and Accounts and will be actively encouraging Shareholders to elect to receive returning reusable pallets to suppliers and similarly recovering used pallets their communications from the Company in electronic form.
fromcustomers:  : which has been printed on Satimatt Green and Revive 50, both recycled paper stockscomprising50%recycledfibreand50%virginfibre.
Thisdocumentwas actively taking part in recycling and reclamation schemes through the printed by CPG using vegetable-based inks and water soluble lacquers and all  production processes used make the minimum demand on the environment suppliers to improve the accuracy of data.
SIG meets its responsibilities under .
, ithas entered into a national agreement with Veolia for waste removal.
Veolia Waste ManageMent : SIG recognises its responsibilities to measure and minimise the waste generated % SIG embracing electronic communication within its businesses, which divertedfromlandfill.
Wastedatais divided into hazardous and non-hazardous.
 recycling activities at principal administrative centres and where practicable at site level.
NON-HAzARDOUS WASTE Absolute tonnes Group Definition  2008 Landfill   16,877 Incinerated   812 Total 17,689 HAzARDOUS WASTE Absolute tonnes Group Definition  2008 Landfill   24 Recycled   279 Incinerated   102 Total 405 OTHER WASTE Absolute tonnes Group Definition  2008 WEEE Waste, Electrical  Divertedfromlandfill  20 Glass Divertedfromlandfill  301 Wood Divertedfromlandfill  9,677 Metal Divertedfromlandfill  1,034 Plasterboard Divertedfromlandfill  397 Paper cardboard Divertedfromlandfill  75,942 Plastic Divertedfromlandfill  907 Other Divertedfromlandfill  671 Total 88,949 %.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINuEd SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS  The Group has in place a supplier audit programme.
The overall rate of workplace accidents within the UK operations continues conducted by way of questionnaire and includes a request for details of the tofall.
Health, of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations RIDDOR was safety and environmental management will be one of the criteria considered ,  .
activities must be from renewable resources.
This is a relatively small part of the UK operations but where accreditation and forest stewardship schemes ACCIDENTS AND INCIDENTS are applicable and available, SIG uses these in its sourcing procedures.
UK  2008 2007 2006 The Group has in place policies to ensure that its customers receive the level Major injury 2.9 1.8 3.2 of service and the quality of product that they have come to expect from SIG.
Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 11.7 13.2 12.4 HEALTH AND SAFETY , All RIDDORS 15.0 15.5 16.2 SafetyandEnvironment, certifiedtoISO14001 Environment andOHSAS18001 Average UK headcount 8,230 6,845 6,228 HealthandSafety.
GROUP The Group is committed to high standards of health and safety for all of its  2008 ,  2008.
C. J. Davies, theChiefExecutive, isthe Injury resulting in over three , absence days from work 19.0 SIG systems ensure that responsibility exists throughout all of the SIG businesses.
All RIDDORS 21.8  functions and levels within the organisation.
Average Group headcount 13,520 One of the objectives for 2008 was to bring the management system into DONATIONS   2007:162,000.
The Group has a Charitable Donations Policy.
The Policy, in addition to The Group has received no prosecutions relating to health and safety matters supporting local causes where SIG employees are involved, is to provide during 2008. support for three main charities for a period of three years.
For the three years commencing January 2008 the three main charities that the Group will be IntheUK,  , http: www.
uk acharity the increased focus on health and safety education and awareness at workplace working with young people, all of whom are visually impaired with additional level.
org anationalcharity benchmarked,  working with disabled children and young people, their parents and carers .
pl acharityproviding  assistance for terminally ill individuals and help and support for families in average audit scores across all divisions improving.
Within the Group the Krakow, Poland.
continuing improvement of health and safety performance is a key priority.
 During2008,  company Directors and managers receive appropriate training in health and safety Co-ordinator to facilitate the creation of a volunteer service, that has been able in order to meet their responsibilities.
to recruit, train and support volunteers who help people affected by sight loss to reach their true potential in life.
Another objective for 2008 was to benchmark the Mainland European businesses .
Thiswascarriedoutat  23 trading sites across eight countries.
Further development of a pan-European Centre in Knaresborough, North Yorkshire where volunteers can learn about .
volunteering opportunities and are able to have training sessions, such as visual impairment awareness, sighted guides and health and safety for visually impaired  people that have enabled new and existing volunteers to work safely and effectively.
Safety Policy, which impacts on reduced insurance costs, enhanced pedestrian and site safety and improved working environment.
Daily inspections complement , acharity periodic training to keep the vehicle and driver at peak performance.
working to create independence, provide opportunities and offer support to disabled children, young people and their families all around the UK.
In addition four young children received , whichhasenabled them to achieve a greater independence.
38 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS DONATIONS CONTINUED Employment opportunities are available to disabled persons in accordance with , their abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with other employees.
If an employee , Poland,  becomes disabled during employment the Group makes every effort to enable employees.
Donations during the year allowed the purchase of vital equipment them to continue employment, with retraining for alternative work where necessary.
such as a lymphatic massager, medication refrigerator, medical waste cabinets and an operation aspirator.
In addition the ventilation room was modernised The Group has a commitment to ensure that all employees and management and work began on installing a new heating system.
The Group reviewed and revised its policies relating to Competition Law, Staff are kept informed of charitable activities and are encouraged to attend Ethics and Anti-corruption during 2008.
These were redistributed with local events as appropriate, as a means of encouraging them to be personally associated language translations.
Awareness training was provided where appropriate.
with charitable work and in particular with the causes supported by the Group.
 We continue to enhance and expand talent management processes with in kind for building projects.
formal reviews taking place in each operating company.
Investment in Senior Management development was principally through the Executive The Group has in place a Payroll Giving Scheme, which is available to all UK  employees.
Employees are free to choose one of the current SIG sponsored .
 charities listed above or any other charity of their choice.
During the year an was addressed via in-house accredited and externally facilitated programmes initiative was undertaken to re-launch the scheme to all UK employees.
During which were widely available in most operating countries.
COMMUNITY The Personal Development Award which was launched in 2007 to identify The Group endeavours to contribute to the communities in which it operates  .
Community in the UK and has worked with that organisation to help to develop its approach and practices.
This is mainly achieved through charitable donations The Group continues to invest in the future through its various Graduate Programmes, and other initiatives that help the community.
principally in France, Germany and the UK.
 This provides opportunity for business and language students to spend up to a event, which raised a record breaking 75,000 for good causes.
,  Safety Education Foundation, supplied 250 children aged between seven and An on-line induction programme aimed at branch based staff was launched during elevenyears, ,  , with151people employees, with unique interactive learning resources.
TheSalesAcademy, providing , alcohol, smoking, firstaid, racialharassment, coaching and support for sales professionals, was extended across all operating hate crime, bullying, anti-social behaviour, trespassing and vandalism and provide companies in the UK and is now being adapted by other territories.
, rail, fire, water, electricity, gasandsafetyin the home.
SIG recognises the importance of good communication with its employees and dedicated personnel were appointed during the year to focus on this.
 Noticeboards, internal publications, meetings and intranets continue to be the and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible for community issues principal media with, where appropriate, formal employee consultation bodies atBoardlevel.
When external announcements are made, for example to investors and analysts, the Chief Executive takes the opportunity to update EMPLOYEES colleagues on business priorities and performance.
This is via webcasts and the SIG recognises that the skills, experience and motivation of its employees is publication of transcripts with an opportunity for people to ask questions by the key differentiator in the market place.
To meet the needs of an expanding telephone and e-mail.
and more complex business a restructure of the Mainland European and UK businesses was undertaken during 2008.
This has brought improved business Employees are encouraged to become Shareholders in the Company.
The Group focus, clearer lines of responsibility and easier internal communication.
introduced a new Share Incentive Plan SIP in November 2005 in place of the Save As You Earn Scheme.
The Company gives one matching share for each  share purchased by the employee up to a maximum of four matching shares per , onaconfidentialbasis, anyconcernsabout month.
 how we conduct our business.
The service is provided by an independent third CompanysSIP.
party and a full investigation is carried out on all matters raised and a report is prepared for feedback to the complainant.
The hotline was introduced in The Group operates a number of employee pension schemes across its  businesses.
SIG recognises that its reputation is dependent on  the quality, effectiveness and skill base of its employees and is committed to and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible for human resource issues  atBoardlevel.
discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, nationality or ethnic origin.
Further policy development has taken place relating to diversity and inclusion and dignity at work ahead of a programme to be .
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39
