Corporate citizenship The Associated British Foods business principles are an essential part of our business.
They form part of our longterm strategy and their application across the group is under constant review.
For more information about them and the case studies below, go online at www.
co. uk csr 40% The reduction in the average road miles travelled by the Ryvita delivery vehicles in the past year illovo health: a case study reducing food miles and vehicle approved: under the kyoto protocol emissions at ryvita The Illovo Sugar Group provides medical care to its Mauri La-Nga is a joint venture company in Vietnam Ryvita buys over 25,000 tonnes of employees and their dependants either through 28 on-site producing fresh and dry yeast and bakery ingredients.
rye from more than 100 growers clinics and four hospitals or through subsidised medical The company recently invested US$5.6m to upgrade throughout the UK.
Its facilities are staffed by 18 doctors, 150 its waste treatment facilities, which will both improve distance from farm to factory used nurses and 135 auxiliary personnel and serve 30,000 the standard of the waste water discharged and reduce to be 167 road miles, as only 6% of employees and 70,000 dependants.
As a result, the project the rye was sourced within a 60-mile approximately 550,000 visits were paid by patients to qualifies as a Clean Development Mechanism project radius of the factories.
This resulted in these facilities.
The medical services are free to all under the Kyoto Protocol.
high transport costs and caused the employees not covered by medical aid the vast majority vehicles to use a significant amount of and this includes the dependants of permanent employees.
This year Ryvita set its suppliers www.
com reducing waste disposal costs and the challenge of growing rye nearer to generating income its factories.
The result has been a Ryvitas Stockport facility used to have seven different reducing energy requirements in china 40% reduction in the average road waste contractors and was spending 69,000 on waste Over the last two years, BSO China has reduced, by miles travelled by its delivery vehicles.
disposal each year, with no revenue from any waste.
around 25%, the amount of water used to create the However, this year, waste sent to landfill has been steam needed to extract sugar from its sugar cane.
reduced by 96%: waste costs have been reduced from Moreover, the cane crushing and extraction stages 69,000 to 20,000.
In addition, Ryvita has been have been improved to give drier bagasse, so recycling some materials and has commenced selling that less bagasse is needed to power its boilers.
This, combined with better control systems and operator training, has led to a 10% reduction in The benefits delivered have energy requirements over the past two years and an increase in its sales of bagasse to paper mills.
A new sugar cane factory, which is currently under We were able to convert a waste construction, has incorporated these management cost into a by-product improvements into its design.
We have reduced our waste sent to landfill by some 96%, dramatically reduced transport costs, and we receive income from food products, card, plastic and metal.
Only 0.9% of our 25% waste goes to landfill and we are working on that last 0.9%!
The reduction made by BSO China in the amount of Terry Reynolds, General Manager, Ryvita Stockport.
water used to extract sugar over the past two years 36 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements How Corporate Responsibility is managed In focus climate change The organisational structure of Associated British Foods is highly We recognise that carbon dioxide emitted by human activities alters the decentralised and so the responsibility for managing environmental, social earths climatic system leading to global warming.
Climate change and the and ethical issues rests with the management of each operating business.
associated regulation of carbon emissions will have implications for our However, as a minimum, all businesses must comply with our Business businesses, particularly the direct impact on crop yields and the imposition Principles, which can be found online at www.
These Business of penalties associated with the emission of carbon dioxide.
Principles include the groups Health and Safety and Environmental Policies We closely measure our consumption of all forms of energy and seek for which the Group Human Resources Director has overall responsibility.
opportunities to: He reports to the Chief Executive and is supported directly by a Group Safety & Environment Manager who also works with the Director of Legal reduce our use of natural resources: Services on these principles and compliance issues.
reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants: and Our businesses devise procedures appropriate to and compliant with local reduce our operating costs and thereby improve our profitability.
laws, cultures and operating conditions.
Every business has an accountable The scale of our global operations means that the purchase of energy is board director and a senior manager who are responsible for safety and of strategic importance to the group.
Energy procurement specialists are environmental matters.
employed within the businesses to monitor fuel and energy prices closely The board reviews the safety and environmental performance of the and use their market expertise to mitigate the risk of market movements businesses quarterly and annually respectively, as well as reviewing the and minimise costs.
outcome of any external assurance processes.
It assesses the sophistication In 2008 the group emitted, or caused to be emitted, 3.6 million tonnes of the businesses risk management and safety cultures, considers levels of of carbon dioxide.
51% of our total energy use is from renewable sources, resources and agrees actions for the coming year.
Businesses are required principally bagasse, the residue from sugar cane, and is up 6% from to develop and implement action plans as appropriate, and progress is last year.
monitored by the Group Safety & Environment Manager.
Achievements in 2008 we reduced the rate of reportable injuries by 20% OuR 2008 REPORT ENTITLED the proportion of energy used from renewable sources increased by 6% A RESPONSIBLE APPROACH to 51% TO SAFETy, HEALTH & THE we invested in excess of 22m to help reduce our environmental impact ENVIRONMENT CONTAINS the number of factories certified to ISO 14001 environmental FuLL DETAILS OF OuR HEALTH, management system or equivalent increased from 28 to 38 SAFETy AND ENVIRONMENTAL Primark has recruited a number of in-region ethical managers and has carried out 322 audits over the past year of which 146 were follow-up PERFORMANCE TOGETHER WITH visits.
All the factories belonging to its top 50 suppliers accounting for 50% DETAILED CASE STuDIES.
of turnover value and all suppliers in Bangladesh have been audited.
These audits have been conducted in ten supplying countries and have achieved WWW.
CO. uK CSR an average remediation rate of approximately 75%.
Performance in 2008 During 2008 our environmental impact worsened due to the acquisition of 12 beet sugar factories in northern China and organic growth throughout the group.
We are investing heavily to make these factories energy efficient.
Indeed we continue to seek opportunities to improve further throughout the group and we aim to reduce substantially our environmental impact.
KPI summary table 2008 2007 Change Energy Consumption GWh 25,403 21,162 20% Energy from Renewable Sources % 51% 48% 6% CO2 emissions million tonnes 3.6 3.1 16% CO2 emissions per tonne of product kg 215 205 5% Water use million tonnes 156 155 0.6% Waste production thousand tonnes 355 329 8% Reportable Injury Rate % employees reporting an injury 0.8% 1.0% 20% Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 our business in action: 40 FARMING IN HARMONY WITH THE COUNTRYSIDE 42 DENIS CHAMBERLAIN EXAMINES WE ARE NOW AB AGRIS APPROACH TO BUSINESS AND THE ENVIRONMENT OPEN OSCAILTE ABIERTO 40 GEOPEND MAUREEN HINTON LOOKS AT PRIMARKS EUROPEAN EXPANSION AND CONCLUDES THAT VALUE TRAVELS 42 38 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business in action Financial statements We asked industry experts to comment on the shape of our business and whats in store for 2009... PRODUCTS 44 people love Richard Clarke says ABFs acquisitions of 44 grocery brands have 42 enabled it to build strong market positions in growing categories 46 46 Yeast: a BeGINNeRs GUIDe tO the maGIc INGReDIeNt BUT WHAT IS IT?
AND HOW IS IT USED AROUND THE WORLD?
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39
