Our business in action Grocery Having an extensive brand portfolio is one thing, but buying the right brands that complement each other is quite another.
ABFs trick has been to create market positions through strategic buying says food writer, Richard Clarke.
heres no shortage of evidence that when it its portfolio meant it was able to tap into the growing Natural Partners comes to developing its growing portfolio market for premium sugar.
of brands, ABFs Grocery group has created The Jordan family has been Billingtons has enjoyed double-digit growth for the past a winning formula.
By developing business milling grains at Holme Mill in four years, a sure sign of its value as a brand in its own Bedfordshire for five generations.
Tunits focused on specific market sectors, right, but the deal has also given ABF the ability to offer ABF is successfully leveraging the full potential of its I was only 21 when my retail buyers a one-stop shop for a full range of sugar brands while creating the conditions for an effective brother, David and I started products, which has also benefited sales of Silver Spoon.
selling natural, wholegrain acquisition strategy.
breakfast cereal and I had ABF takes a global approach to maximising growth, As with any successful strategy, ABFs growth ambitions that wonderful confidence actively seeking out new opportunities in markets ripe are not being realised by a one size fits all approach of youth.
People were just for development.
And here, too, its acquisition strategy becoming interested in but by the systematic application of a set of principles is fundamental.
where their food came from that are successfully creating a diverse yet coherent and what it contained, collection of businesses.
In Thailand, for example, ABF has doubled sales of its says Bill Jordan.
Twinings tea brand following the purchase of the Ethnic food wholesaler Westmill, was bought by ABF in Bill and Davids approach to Ovaltine hot drinks business in 2002.
Exploiting 1993, and has seen its sales rocket from 45 million 15 business has always been shaped Ovaltines considerable strength in Thailand which years ago to 170 million today thanks to a track record by an unwavering commitment to is the worlds biggest market for Ovaltine was key of canny acquisitions most recently a parcel of brands traditional values.
Quality is of to this achievement.
primary importance as well as from Heinz.
This focused approach has helped Westmill a deeply held belief in protecting transform itself from a small regional flour miller Although in most cases ABF acquires a business outright, the environment.
operating in the private label bidding war to a leading it isnt afraid of taking a more creative approach to We have built lasting supplier of ethnic ingredients to the foodservice sector.
portfolio growth as demonstrated by the formation relationships with our of the Jordans & Ryvita Company.
ABF built on the success of Westmill in ethnic foods with growers who are producing the purchases of Oriental food brand Blue Dragon in In this landmark deal, sealed in June this year, Jordans the very best ingredients, says Bill.
2003 and, with much public interest, premium Indian was combined with Ryvita in one business, owned food range Pataks in 2007.
Integrating these businesses jointly by ABF and Jordans founders, Bill and David Conservation Grade farming, and creating AB World Foods has enabled ABF to pack a Jordan.
Both Ryvita and Jordans boast a compelling which Jordans promotes, involves growers committing to taking 10% much bigger punch in the vibrant ethnic foods category.
healthy-eating proposition and ethical credentials.
of their land out of food production In combination, they present an opportunity for A selective approach to acquisitions also enables ABF and using it to create sustainable significant value growth by tapping into key trends to leverage category access and expertise.
Fifty-one farmers in todays grocery market for healthier, low-fat and in the scheme are paid a premium purchase of Billingtons in 2004.
ABF already owned wholegrain foods.
to grow high quality grains for Silver Spoon, the UKs leading retail refined sugar brand, Jordans on approximately 60,000 but adding Billingtons range of unrefined cane sugars to acres of land.
44 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business in action Financial statements A Ass sso oci cia at ted ed B Br ri it ti is sh h F Fo ood ods s A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 08 8 45 45 Our business in action Ingredients 46 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business in action Financial statements Yeast: a BeGINNeRs GUIDe tO the maGIc INGReDIeNt Its the essentIal IngredIent In the essentIals we eat and drInk, bread, beer, wIne, not to mentIon the pharmaceutIcal products that rely on It.
but what Is It and how Is It made?
east is an essential ingredient Fresh yeast is supplied in a number of different formats, in the production of bread and depending on the strain of yeast used and to meet other bakery products, pizza customer preferences.
These may be because of dough bases, beer, wine and traditional national preferences for different types of other foodstuffs.
Fresh yeast is mainly sold for bread baking, with micro-organism belonging to small or medium-sized bakeries traditionally preferring the fungi family and no other to use compressed yeast.
Y ingredient, natural or artificial, Liquid yeast is a form of fresh yeast and is essentially can match the functions it performs in food and beverage the raw product from the manufacturing process.
Yeast is therefore a plant, according to the a shelf life of around three weeks if refrigerated.
Some biologists, and is capable of reproducing itself.
A piece large food manufacturing customers with high-volume, of yeast consists of minute cells, with walls composed automated operations use specialised installation systems of cellulose, and an interior of living matter called to receive the liquid yeast, distributed by refrigerated protoplasm.
You can feed it with a solution of sugar to tanker, directly from the manufacturing facility.
make it grow, or it can be killed by starvation or heat.
Liquid yeast is also sold in smaller quantities and The primary function of yeast is to supply carbon dioxide in a stabilised format for use by medium and smallergas which inflates the dough during proving and the early sized bakeries.
The dough is aerated by the Compressed yeast is made by processing liquid yeast action of the yeast.
The little cells ferment the dough, and produce tiny bubbles of CO inside it.
As a result, over a rotary vacuum filter drum where the dehydrated 2 yeast is moved from the filter drum by a knife blade with when the dough is baked, it produces a light and airy loaf: when you examine it you can see all the tiny holes the resulting crumbled yeast conveyed to the packaging operation.
It is extruded into blocks, wrapped in wax formed by the gas, so that it looks rather like a sponge.
The stuff of life: bread and wine paper and refrigerated until distribution.
These blocks There are three main types of bakers yeast.
Liquid yeast, are distributed in cartons.
Customers require a cool compressed yeast collectively referred to as fresh or room in which to store the compressed yeast which wet yeast, and dry yeast.
All three types are made in a has a shelf life of up to six weeks, if refrigerated.
Initially, a small quantity Dry yeast is characterised by a dry matter percentage of yeast is used to seed successively larger batches of growing yeast through a fermentation process using a above 95%.
As such it has a shelf life of around two years and can therefore be safely supplied on a worldwide basis.
feedstock of molasses, which is obtained as a by-product of sugar production.
After fermentation, a separation Producers in less developed countries are more likely to use dry yeast and, correspondingly, little dry yeast is sold process progressively extracts excess water to produce liquid yeast also known as cream yeast.
Liquid yeast within the EU except for domestic use by home bakers.
can then be processed further into compressed yeast by ABF estimates that around 75% of the worlds dry yeast filtration and extrusion.
In the final step, compressed consumption is in Africa, Middle East, Asia and Russia yeast may be dried in a two-stage drying process.
due to the scarcity of refrigerated transport or storage and relative remoteness of the customer from the source of production.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47
