 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Smith & Nephews aim is to help people live longer, healthier and more active lives by repairing and healing the human body with advanced technology products.
The Group contributes to the treatment and recovery of patients throughout the cycle of medical care.
This is achieved by the design of innovative products and instruments, the training of medical professionals and the procedures used to provide treatment and recovery.
In particular Smith & Nephew offers products throughout the continuum of care for patients, not only with osteoarthritis, from early intervention through primary joint replacements to revisions, but also in the wider field of injuriestoknee, hip, .
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other professional healthcare customers with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits of the Groups new products and line extensions not only improve patient outcomes, but provide better treatment and procedures for both clinician and patient whilst contributing to more cost effective solutions for healthcareservices.
In developing a sustainable business, Smith & Nephew has a low impact onthe environmentand is committed to  environmental, .
 andviewssustainable development as an integral part of the way the Group does business.
The ninth Sustainability Report, whichgives detailed information, will be published on the Groups website at the end of May 2009 at www.
As part of Smith & Nephews commitment to continuous improvements to reporting on its corporate responsibility developments, this year the Sustainability Report will more closely reflect the structure recommended by the Global Reporting Index.
This will expand the scope of reporting whilst moving towards an .
Smith & Nephews progress is measured by leading organisations that assess sustainable development.
In 2008 the Group was again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and continues to be a leader in its sector.
In the UK, Smith & Nephew is a member of FTSE4Good and in France, Vigeo publishes an assessment reportonSmith&Nephewused  firmsinEurope.
BusinessIntegrity Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business and expects the same from those with whom it does business.
The code of standards for suppliers, and the compliance processes for these standards is under continuous development.
During 2008 and the early part of 2009, the Group has been working on a major enhanced ethics and compliance programme.
In early 2009 the first part of a Code of Conduct and Business Principles was issued to the majority of employees throughout the Group.
com lays out the aims, policies and performance of the Groups enhanced .
Smith & Nephews policy is to not give or receive improper financial inducements, either directly or indirectly, for business or financial gain.
The Groups policy is to comply with the industry standards set by regional bodies, such as Eucomed in Europe and Advamed in the US, in its relationships with customers.
Accounting records and supporting documents are designed to accurately describe and reflect the business transactions and conform to IFRS.
The Groups Code of Conduct and Business Principles governs the way it operates so that it respects stakeholders and seeks to build open, honest and constructive relationships.
This is regularly reviewed and a revised code was published on the Smith & Nephew website in March 2009.
The Group takes account of ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial considerations as part of its operating methods.
Since 2005, the Group has operated a Code of Business Ethics and a Whistleblower Policy for all employees.
In 2008 an independently operated whistleblowing service was introduced in the US operations of the Group.
In early 2009 this was extended   .
