 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Smith & Nephews aim is to help people live longer, healthier and more active lives by repairing and healing the human body with advanced technology products.
The Group contributes to the treatment and recovery of patients throughout the cycle of medical care.
This is achieved by the design of innovative products and instruments, the training of medical professionals and the procedures used to provide treatment and recovery.
In particular Smith & Nephew offers products throughout the continuum of care for patients, not only with osteoarthritis, from early intervention through primary joint replacements to revisions, but also in the wider field of injuriestoknee, hip, .
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other professional healthcare customers with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits of the Groups new products and line extensions not only improve patient outcomes, but provide better treatment and procedures for both clinician and patient whilst contributing to more cost effective solutions for healthcareservices.
In developing a sustainable business, Smith & Nephew has a low impact onthe environmentand is committed to  environmental, .
 andviewssustainable development as an integral part of the way the Group does business.
The ninth Sustainability Report, whichgives detailed information, will be published on the Groups website at the end of May 2009 at www.
As part of Smith & Nephews commitment to continuous improvements to reporting on its corporate responsibility developments, this year the Sustainability Report will more closely reflect the structure recommended by the Global Reporting Index.
This will expand the scope of reporting whilst moving towards an .
Smith & Nephews progress is measured by leading organisations that assess sustainable development.
In 2008 the Group was again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and continues to be a leader in its sector.
In the UK, Smith & Nephew is a member of FTSE4Good and in France, Vigeo publishes an assessment reportonSmith&Nephewused  firmsinEurope.
BusinessIntegrity Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business and expects the same from those with whom it does business.
The code of standards for suppliers, and the compliance processes for these standards is under continuous development.
During 2008 and the early part of 2009, the Group has been working on a major enhanced ethics and compliance programme.
In early 2009 the first part of a Code of Conduct and Business Principles was issued to the majority of employees throughout the Group.
com lays out the aims, policies and performance of the Groups enhanced .
Smith & Nephews policy is to not give or receive improper financial inducements, either directly or indirectly, for business or financial gain.
The Groups policy is to comply with the industry standards set by regional bodies, such as Eucomed in Europe and Advamed in the US, in its relationships with customers.
Accounting records and supporting documents are designed to accurately describe and reflect the business transactions and conform to IFRS.
The Groups Code of Conduct and Business Principles governs the way it operates so that it respects stakeholders and seeks to build open, honest and constructive relationships.
This is regularly reviewed and a revised code was published on the Smith & Nephew website in March 2009.
The Group takes account of ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial considerations as part of its operating methods.
Since 2005, the Group has operated a Code of Business Ethics and a Whistleblower Policy for all employees.
In 2008 an independently operated whistleblowing service was introduced in the US operations of the Group.
In early 2009 this was extended   .
15 Group Description Innovation Smith & Nephew uses innovation to create cost-effective products and techniques which deliver benefits for clinicians, patients and healthcare providers.
The Groups scientific and technical capability combined with an understanding of the needs of clinicians, enables Smith & Nephew to produce unique new products with distinct advantages .
The Groups research and development strategy is based on assessment of market needs and a longer range view of future requirements and opportunities.
Fundamental scientific work and the development of new technologiesareused tocreate .
In particular, the Group has brought together various initiatives across its businesses to form a business focused onBiologics, whichareadvanced, locallydelivered biologicaltherapies .
Health, Safety and Environment Management The Groups health, safety and environmental HSE policywas reviewed inNovember 2007.
Thispolicysets out theGroupsvision, aim,  toHSE.
: give due regard to the effects of its operations on the environment and community to create a sustainable business:  , : requireeachSmith&Nephewbusiness toachievetheHSE standards specified bythepolicy: seek to improve HSE performance through continuous evaluation and development of measures to control risk, : and recognise, promote and reinforce the responsibility of employees, contractorsand visitors to worksafely and followprocedures.
In 2008, the Advanced Wound Management factory in Hull, England and the Orthopaedics sites in Memphis, Tennessee and Tuttlingen, Germany maintained accreditation of their environmental management systems under IS014001.
All Group manufacturing and research sites have designed environmental management systems to delivercostsavings andbenefits totheenvironment.
Manufacturing processes are relatively low in environmental impact.
Particular emphasis is placed on close control of energy, water consumption and waste in manufacturing and research and development.
Improvement targets are set and performance is measured against these targets.
Metres....................... 453 453 485 400 384 Losttimeaccidents iii............. 0.47 0.54 0.50 0.58 1.00 Workrelated injuries iv............ 1.3 1.7 1.4 1.9 n a i Environmental figures include the research facility at York and all Group manufacturing sites with the exception of Beijing whose figures were not available at the time of going to press.
The contribution from this site is however very low.
The Orthopaedics facilities at Aarau and Warwickareincluded forthefirsttimeand account formuch oftheincrease inenvironmental impacts.
ii Totalsin2007 exclude thePlusand BlueSky businessesacquired intheyear.
iii Number ofaccidents  unable  per 200,000 hoursworked.
iv Number of cases of work related injuries per 200,000 hours worked which are required to be recorded under Occupation Safety and Health Administration Regulations.
The same criteria have been used at all sites whether or not the regulations apply.
16 Carbon dioxide emissions are calculated from the energy consumption.
They include both direct emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels on sites and secondary emissions from the generation by utility companies of the electricity consumed.
These rose 10% in 2008, in line with energy consumption.
Normalising for the level of production, emissionsfellby11%.
This increase is attributable to the inclusion of the Orthopaedics facilities at Aarau and Warwick and due to an increase in waste at the Wound Management facility at Largo due to increased ALLEVYNmanufacture.
Inclusion of the Orthopaedics facilities at Aarau and Warwick has had a disproportionately large effect as both facilities use large volumes of cutting fluid which has to be disposed as hazardous waste.
The 2004 hazardous waste figure excludes a spillage of chrome plating materials which occurred at the manufacturing site in Memphis, Tennessee.
Working closely with the state authorities, prompt action was taken resulting in a total of 920 tonnes of affected soil being removed from the site to eliminate any possible contamination.
Continued emphasis on recycling waste across the Group has led to an increase in the percentage of waste recycledfrom26%to30%.
In the 2008 Sustainability Report, Smith & Nephew published targets for the above environmental measurements for the second year.
These targets were based on figures normalised for changes in productionlevels rather than the absolute figures shown in the previous table.
This is so that any impact arising from changes in production is takenintoaccount.
 thepublishedtargets isas follows, togetherwithtargets for2009: Target2009 Actual2008 Target2008 Energyconsumption...... Improvementprogramme 11%reduction 5%reduction acrossall manufacturingsites, targets tobe fixed by GBU Waste................. 10%reduction 7%reduction 10%reduction Losttimeaccidents....... n a 16%reduction 5%reduction Workrelated injuries...... n a 26%reduction 5%reduction OSHA Recordable incidents i........... 5-25%reduction n a n a dependingon2008 performance InternalAudit n a performance.......... MinimumInternalAudit n a Ratingof75% HSE management........  n a n a measures forHSE i The US Occupational Safety & Health Administration require certain cases of occupational injury and ill health to be recorded if they result in lost time from work, modifications to the persons work or require treatment by a medical practitioner.
It is a broader definition of a Work Related Injury than lost time accidents and, although it is only of legal significance in the US, it has been adopted as a measure acrosstheGroup.
A full analysis of these measurements and key health and safety performance measures will be included in the  ontheGroupswebsite whenitispublishedat theendofMay2009.
Social responsibility Employees The Smith & Nephew Code of Conduct and Business Principles and Code of Ethics govern the Groups interactions with all of its stakeholders including employees.
This sets out the values and behaviours that the Group expects from every employee.
The first part of the Code of Conduct relating to interactions with Health Care Professionals HCPs and suppliers was launched in January 2009.
This document describes the standards that all employees in Smith & Nephew and third parties representing the company must operate to when working with HCPs and agents.
The Business principles and associated policies and procedures have also been reviewed and are scheduled to be launched to all employees in April 2009.
Every employee is expected to worktothese standards.
17 Group Description The HR Policy Framework introduced in 2006 continues to provide a framework of key HR policies, values and behaviours and management principles that provide the structure within which the business units and Global functions plan and deliver successful results.
There is also a published HR Strategy document whichprovides the direction on how the Group intends to attract, retain and develop the right talent to meet the business needs and create aculturethat isalignedtoSmith&Nephewvalues  plans.
Smith & Nephew has a policy of non-discrimination and aims to provide an open environment based on constructive relationships.
Smith & Nephew welcomes people with disabilities and makes every effort to retain any employee who has a disability.
The Group is committed to engaging with employees through the regular and timely dissemination of Group information and encouraging their feedback and ideas.
An employee global opinionsurveyisused everytwoyears as acatalyst .
The 2008 Global Opinion Survey was completed towards the end of 2008 and the results reported to employees were completed in early 2009.
The survey extended the scope of previous research.
Across the Group, the response rate was very good with nearly 6,500 people taking the survey.
Overall the results were positive and indicated continued high levels of employee engagement with the values and direction of the Group.
95% of employees said that they were proud to work for Smith & Nephew, and most 70% would recommend it as a great place to work.
There were high marks 86% for the honesty and ethical behaviour of employees.
The feedback identified several areas where the Group needed to improve, including the alignment and overhauling of systems and processes to enable better execution of plans and greater visibility of results.
The most encouraging outcome was that the survey reinforced the value of the Groups new One Company strategy and the efforts to reengineer many of the Groups processes and systems.
While the Group still has work to do to fully align its organisation and the strategy and to build-in accountability at every level, employees believe the Group .
In 2008, the Group has continued to assess indicators of employee engagement.
These measurements are a useful monitoring tool and alert mechanism for action as well as giving trend indicators of improved performance.
During 2008 the Group introduced a more robust employee data collection process for the majority of the business i. e. US and UK and will report on these in 2009.
These systems will be rolled out to the rest of Smith &   infuture.
Internal Appointments The internal appointments measure is an indicator of how well the Group believes it is developing its employees and the success of the Groups internal recruitment policy.
In 2008, the percentage of vacancies filled by internal applicants showed significant variation across the Groups businesses.
The range for non-management positions was 0-38% and the range for management positions was 3-50%.
The Group target for all employees is 40%, including management positions which the Group believes is challenging but achievable.
The target for management positions is 70%.
The Group has a policy of open advertising and providing opportunities for existing employees wherever possible, while recognising the need to bring in new ideas and approaches that external recruitmentbrings.
Labour Turnover The Group measures both general voluntary labour turnover and turnover relating specifically to employees who have been with the business less than two years.
The latter measure is an indication of how well the Group  employees sothat .
As reported in the 2007 Annual Report, the impact of EIP, the integration of Plus and the transition of many countries from indirect to direct market operations had the effect of increasing voluntary labour turnover from 2.8% in2006 to 10.5% in2007.
In 2008 the voluntarylabour turnoverstatistic has fallen to 1.6% whichtheGroup believes  level.
Training and  The Group is committed to providing training and information so that all employees can make the best contribution possible.
To ensure that the Group continues to improve in this important area, during 2007, a central global organisational development team was created to lead talent management, performance management and learning and development across the whole of the Group.
Learning and development programmes are used to attract, retain and develop employees.
These programmes are linked to formal 18 performance appraisal and development planning.
The Group operates training programmes under the banner of Management Excellence.
These continue to provide the key management skills required to be successful managers and leaders, covering the requirements of both new and experienced individuals.
Further programmes were added in 2008 and the Group has continuedto invest  to further enable access .
Leadership The Group continues to develop its current and future leaders to improve the performance of the business.
Senior management supports a set of group-wide leadership competencies and management development and talent tracking is a regular item on their meeting agenda.
Performance evaluation, coaching and attendance at leadership .
The Groups leadership excellence programme is a three-day purpose designed residential course facilitated by abusiness schoolcoach.
Workplace Smith & Nephew aims to provide healthy and safe working conditions for all its employees.
Health and safety is managed as an integral part of the business and employee involvement is recognised as a key part of the process.
The Group does not use any form of forced, compulsory or child labour.
The Group supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations and respects human rights, the dignity and privacy of the individual, therightofemployees , freedomofexpression andtherighttobe heard.
The legal frameworks governing employee relations vary from country to country, as does custom and practice.
Relations with trade unions are nationally determined and managed locally in line with the applicable legal framework and standards of good practice.
The well-developed arrangements for interactions with trade union and worker councils provide the forum for productive discussion and collaborations with regard to collective bargaining agreements and other employment issues.
It is the Groups policy to conform to the nationally .
Societyand Community The Group works with national and local governments and other organisations to meet its legal and civic obligations, manage its impact on the environment, and contribute to the development of laws and regulations that affect its business.
Smith & Nephew values community involvement and is an active member of its local  employees .
The Groups principles for charitable giving are based on criteria relevant to its business, with priority given to medical education.
Individual company sites support their local communities in a range of charitable causes , gifts .
The Group is dedicated to the advancement of innovation, education and patient care.
In Orthopaedics, to facilitate the Groups continuingsupport for , theGrouphasentered   .
The Group realises that its technologies and products do not reach everyone.
Project Apollo is a charitable and humanitarian service programme of the Orthopaedics business.
This links up with physicians and non-profit groups engaged in medical philanthropy that receive donations of Smith & Nephew products through sponsorship and help from the Groups employees.
By working in collaboration with these individuals and organisations, Smith & Nephew considers that this is a way of increasing the impact of charitable giving and the workitundertakes.
The Smith & Nephew Foundation is an independent charitable trust funded by Smith & Nephew Advanced Wound Management.
The Foundation makes awards to individuals in the nursing profession for postgraduate research to improve clinical practice in nursing and midwifery.
The Foundation is the largest single charitable .
19 Group Description In 2008, direct donations to charitable and community activities totalled $1,498,000, of which $550,000 was giventotheSmith&NephewFoundation.
Customers The Group is committed to providing innovative, cost-effective healthcare solutions benefiting healthcare professionals and their patients through improved treatment, ease and speed of product use and reduced healthcarecosts.
The Groups products are designed to be safe and reliable for their intended use and comply with or exceed all legal and regulatory requirements, includingthose concerningpackaging, labelling and user instructions.
BusinessPartners Smith & Nephew is committed to establishing mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers, customers and business partners.
The Group works only with partners whom it believes adhere to business principles and health, safety, social and environmental standards consistent with its own.
Additional work continues each year to improve the monitoring of supplier standards for service quality and activities relevant to their corporate responsibility.
Additional focus on supplier standards has been implemented in the manufacturing area to ensure Smith&Nephewsstandards .
Economic Contribution The Groups business policies are designed to achieve long-term growth and profits which in turn bring continued economic benefits to shareholders, employees, suppliers and local communities.
Smith & Nephews sustainable development depends onits  economicreturn.
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other healthcare professionals with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits from the Groups products improve patient outcomes, treatments and procedures for both clinician and patient and create costeffective .
A description of the principles of healthcare economics and its integration into the business is given in the SustainabilityReport.
LookingAhead The Group is fulfilling an important role in the healthcare sector.
Increased demands are being placed on healthcare systems by the demographic trends of an ageing population and as the problems with obesity become more widespread.
More active lifestyles and the increased incidence of diabetes, and other diseases also increase the demand for Smith & Nephews products.
In addition, developing and newly industrialised countries are increasing their demands for advanced products driven by similar demographic and health issues as developed nations.
Smith & Nephews vision is to be the best in helping people regain their lives by improving and healing the human body.
The Group believes that it can achieve this by setting and meeting ambitious performance targets, by constant innovation in products and services and by earning the trust of its stakeholders.
In all its business activities, the drive towards sustainability is an ongoing process and Smith & Nephew is committed to  toimprove.
