32 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Corporate responsibility The Code applies to all Smiths businesses and employees worldwide Smiths Code of Business Ethics and provides the framework for policies, programmes and procedures 'the Code' is based on 12 principles: for a range of corporate responsibility issues.
It is endorsed and fully supported by the Board.
1 Compliance with all applicable laws Compliance support to Smiths businesses is provided through legal counsel serving the businesses and other experts who provide advice, and regulations export control policies, education, training, guidance materials and risk assessment tools.
2 Fair and vigorous competition in the During the financial year ended 31 July 2008, Smiths retained the consultancy URS to benchmark the Code against those of peer marketplace companies and a gap analysis was completed.
This work found that there were no major omissions to the Code but a revised version has 3 Integrity and ethical conduct as the been produced to more fully reflect the current challenges facing a global company.
The revised Code, although expanded, retains the 12 standard of individual and corporate core principles that were central to its predecessors structure and has business behaviour the simplified title Code of Business Ethics.
It has been produced in all of the main Smiths operating languages, and is being made available to each employee in both hard copy format and on the Smiths intranet.
4 Fair and honest treatment of suppliers, Managing corporate responsibility business partners and customers The Code is monitored by the Business Ethics Compliance Council, which reports to the Audit Committee of the Board and has 5 Proper and respectful treatment representation from each of the divisions.
Responsibility for managing specific areas of activity depends on the nature of the issue and how it of employees can most effectively be managed: environment, health and safety issues are managed through a Group- 6 High standards for health, safety wide steering committee, a technical implementation committee and and security in the workplace local co-ordinators: security is managed in each business by line management: 7 Respect for the environment employee issues are managed by line management and through the human resources function: 8 Contributing to the communities supplier and customer programmes are managed by each business: in which we live and work and community programmes are principally managed locally, although 9 Engaging appropriately with there is also some Group-level activity.
government departments and agencies 10 Respect for human rights 11 Prudent and transparent public accounting and reporting 12 A culture of compliance throughout the entire Smiths organisation embracing all employees 33 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Health and safety Environment Smiths is committed to conducting all its activities in a manner which Smiths is committed to ensuring that, as far as is reasonably practicable, achieves the highest practicable standards of health and safety.
any detrimental effects of its activities, products and services upon the environment are minimised.
In practice, this means using performanceIn 2007 Smiths made the commitment to achieve certification to the based environmental management systems to drive improvement occupational health and safety management system standard throughout the business.
OHSAS18001 by July 2010 at all of its facilities with more than 50 employees.
This financial year has seen pilot programmes, the The environmental management system ISO14001 has been development of standard materials and training workshops to support implemented at all Smiths manufacturing sites with more than 50 this programme.
The success of OHSAS18001, together with other employees.
New acquisitions, or businesses that grow above the 50 targeted initiatives is measured against the recordable incident rate employee threshold, are required to seek certification.
ISO14001 ensures performance where a rate of better than 1.5 recordable incidents per that a culture of continual improvement is embedded throughout the 100 employees is expected.
Performance against targets Three-year targets were set in August 2007 to be achieved by July 2010 for greenhouse gas emissions, waste disposal and water consumption.
Target August 2007 - July 2010 2008 result Progress is reported below.
Recordable incident rate Performance against targets Better than 1.5 per 100 employees 1.27 Target August 2007 - July 2010 2008 result Lost time incident rate No target set 0.57 ISO14001 certication All targeted sites for all sites with more than 50 employees have been certied OHSAS18001 certication 17 out of 83 Certification at all sites with more certied Greenhouse gas emissions 3% reduction than 50 employees by July 2010 No absolute increase over the 2007 baseline Total non-recycled waste 25% reduction Last year we reported on three incidents that resulted in extended 9% reduction over three years hospital stays for the injured parties.
We are pleased to report that we normalised against turnover have had no incidents of the same severity this year.
Water consumption 12% reduction Following a concerted effort, driven from the highest levels of the 9% reduction over three years organisation, our safety performance, as measured through recordable normalised against turnover incident and lost time incident rates, continues to improve.
The improvements are supported by enhanced incident investigation and Each of our key indicators shows improvement during the year and we return to work programmes.
The financial year that we have just will report on further progress and initiatives to ensure that this progress completed has been the safest on record for Smiths.
34 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Corporate responsibility continued Employees Smiths Medical is increasing High level It is the Company's policy to provide equal opportunities for employment.
its R&D investment to boost Smiths recruits, selects and promotes employees on the basis of their investigation may the number of new product qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
In employment-related launches and drive sales.
help improve decisions, Smiths complies with all applicable anti-discrimination It is currently developing a requirements in the relevant jurisdictions including concerning matters breathing revolutionary breathing circuit of race, colour, national origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, which was tested on Mount religious belief, age, or physical or mental disability.
Disabled people are Everest as part of a ground given full consideration for employment and subsequent training, career breaking medical study that development and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
Smiths Medical supported in collaboration with Great All Smiths employees are treated with respect and dignity.
Accordingly, Ormond Street Hospital and any harassment or bullying is unacceptable.
Smiths respects the right University College London.
of each employee to join or not to join a trade union or other bona fide The system is undergoing employee representative organisation.
Smiths believes in good clinical trials and regulatory communications with employees and in promoting consultation, assessments.
If approved, co-operation and teamwork on matters of mutual concern.
it will for the first time enable Smiths offers employees in the US and the UK opportunities to patients with chronic breathing participate in share plans that enable employees to benefit from difficulties to stay active whilst increases to the companys share price and to align their interests more receiving treatment, greatly closely with those of shareholders.
improving their chances of recovery.
Reaching full potential Smiths invests in employees' skills and capabilities, which in turn helps the Company and its businesses to succeed.
Current priorities for Smiths are talent development, succession planning and employee engagement.
Developing talent Smiths has a number of development programmes designed to evaluate and enhance core leadership competencies.
These development programmes are designed and tailored to address a wide range of learning styles, incorporating workshops, experiential learning, mentoring, team working and project experience.
Smiths continues to be actively involved in training and developing young people, including initiatives designed to ease the transition from school or study to work.
For example, Horizons is a two-year programme for newly and recently appointed graduates and those early in their career.
It provides an understanding of the Group and the business world in general, and develops personal and team working skills.
35 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Succession management Controls on defence sales Smiths operates a systematic succession management process for All sales of defence equipment are undertaken in accordance with leadership roles.
Our businesses identify leadership talent and government export and approval procedures and regulations, such as development needs using common tools and a consistent language.
the International Traffic in Arms Regulation and the Export Development plans are monitored by senior management to optimise Administration Regulations in the USA.
These laws prohibit export of effective succession opportunities.
certain items to specific countries.
Smiths adheres to all relevant government guidelines designed to ensure that products are not Employee engagement incorporated into weapons or other equipment used for the purposes of Smiths provides information to and communicates with employees as terrorism or abuse of human rights, with internal controls to ensure an important part of doing business.
Employees are regularly provided compliance with these guidelines.
with a wide range of information concerning the performance and prospects of the business in which they are involved by means of FTSE4Good employee councils, information and consultation forums, and other In 2008, Smiths was awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index consultative bodies that allow their views to be taken into account.
which recognises companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Whilst we are not complacent about the Communities ongoing work required, we were pleased to receive this external Smiths contributes positively to the communities in which we operate.
recognition of our corporate responsibility initiatives and business ethics In addition to providing employment opportunities and playing a programme.
beneficial role in local economies, we support community involvement through charitable giving and education initiatives.
This activity is primarily managed at a divisional level.
However, Smiths does offer some support to community and charitable organisations from a central budget.
Consideration is given to charities and organisations that demonstrate how a donation will enhance the wellbeing of people through improved education, health and welfare or environment.
Projects local to our operational facilities or connected to the industries in which we operate are the primary focus of Smiths support.
Education is a major recipient of our support.
For example together with the Royal Academy of Engineering in the UK, the Smiths Technology Education Programme is now in its second year.
Through the programme, school students are offered the opportunity to participate in summer school courses in engineering and technology.
Those students who then go on to take an engineering or technology degree course at university are eligible to receive Smiths bursaries.
Smiths also supports the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at St Andrews University by funding a research assistant.
Smiths divisions also deliver significant support.
The Smiths Medical Chair of Anaesthesia and Critical Care at University College London is an important example of long-term funding that has enhanced medical care.
In addition to donations, Smiths people devote time to local community projects around the world.
For further information, please see the 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
