Corporate Responsibility As an international oil and gas exploration and production company SOCO has projects in regions of the world that have varied economic, social and environmental conditions, cultures and challenges.
SOCOs projects are located in five countries: Vietnam, Thailand, the Republic of Congo Brazzaville, the Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa DRC and Angola and its headquarters are in the United Kingdom.
26 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Business Review Financials Financials Economic and Social Development The Board recognises its primary Our host countries are primary responsibility to return value to its stakeholders in each of the respective shareholders, but also takes into projects due to the potential for positive full account the interests of its other and sustainable economic and social stakeholders and understands the benefit on a national scale that natural opportunity and charge to promote resources from a successful project sustainable economic, social and could generate.
The Company has accordingly aligned its The Company understands that its corporate responsibility CR values to operational success is highly dependent the detailed guidance that has been set on the support of the communities in out by the World Bank and adopted into which we operate.
Maximised local the Equator Principles.
involvement is our policy in all the operations we control, providing potential The Board believes that a high standard for positive, economic and social benefits, of CR, established as a core business both locally and nationally.
All our priority, enhances the Companys operations are underpinned with a strong effectiveness in achieving its business commitment to build and utilise skills objectives and our risk profile is among local communities through reduced when sustainable development the creation and expansion of local good practice is integrated into infrastructure, the creation of jobs management culture.
and our support for training, technical co-operation and capacity building.
Policy SOCO also provides support to local SOCOs framework of policy documents education and invests time and funds and procedures is reflective of the into the non-profit sector.
relatively small scale and nature of the Companys operations and size of organisation.
Our Code of Business We promote a workplace culture where Conduct and Ethics the Code is a each person is treated with fairness and dynamic policy that was approved by respect.
We are committed to providing the Board in 2004 and encapsulates the our employees with a working values of the Company in its economic, environment that is free from harassment social and environmental performance.
and discrimination and where each individual has the opportunity to develop We value our relationships with our their talents and capabilities and to fulfil business partners, host governments and their potential based on merit and ability.
local communities where we operate.
The SOCO is committed to protecting the Code sets out the standards of business health and safety of all our employees conduct that the Company requires of its and to safeguarding employee records.
personnel to ensure that its day-to-day We strive to facilitate honest, timely and business affairs are conducted in a fair, two-way communication and to honest and ethical manner.
The Code maintaining avenues for the equitable is implemented by all Directors, officers resolution of employee complaints.
and employees of the Group who are given detailed guidelines for application.
Environmental The guidelines include criteria and The health, safety and environment HSE checklists for ethical decision making policy, which has been in place since on an individual level so as to directly the Companys inception, conforms to impede inappropriate and corrupt international best practice and includes business practices.
bespoke HSE management systems tailored to the Companys projects SOCO has greater CR influence over in Vietnam and the Africa region.
In projects where we hold the operating interest, we SOCO commits to meet legal and are able to exercise direct CR influence.
regulatory requirements governing Our influence is less direct where we environmental practices, as a minimum hold a minority interest, as an investor standard.
We strive to ensure our or participant in a project.
However, in activities are consistent with sound both scenarios, our approach is to clearly environmental management and communicate our values and to promote conservation practices.
We seek to sound CR management practices.
minimise the adverse effects of the by-products of our processes on the SOCO endorses the guidelines set out natural resources and ecosystems in in the Extractive Industries Transparency which we operate.
Initiative and supports its goal of strengthening governance through The Company recognises the improved transparency and accountability.
environmental impact of emissions from Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 27 the positive benefits of this approach, the both its operated and non-operated Corporate Responsibility Company recognises the CR management activities.
Currently, SOCO has minimal continued risks that a highly localised approach can operated emissions in terms of carbon introduce.
SOCO manages this area of dioxide equivalent.
However, as part of its risk carefully, both in its selection of growth in operations, the Company is contractors and the subsequent monitoring establishing a reporting mechanism, of their performance.
through which the environmental impact of operations is measured, and continues Communication and Reporting to seek ways of reducing its emissions of In major project activities, we utilise greenhouse gases in particular.
communication channels which are designed to manage communication CR Management with stakeholders, particularly the The Chief Executive Officer is the Director local communities, and to highlight responsible to the Board for HSE and employment and contractor opportunities other CR performance.
He delegates arising from direct operations as well as day-to-day responsibility for managing any indirect socio-economic activities.
HSE CR matters to the Vice President Operations and Production, who is invited SOCO communicates its CR activities to attend all Board meetings.
CR matters using its annual report and corporate are reported to the full Board in a monthly website.
Our reporting and participation operations report and a separate agenda in public benchmarking activities reflect item at each quarterly Board meeting the size and nature of our operations.
addresses any significant HSE CR issues.
Review of 2008 The Audit Committee is responsible Vietnam for reviewing all areas of the Groups SOCO has offshore operations in corporate risk management processes, Vietnam, in the Cuu Long Basin including HSE CR.
The effectiveness of these processes is monitored on comprising oil production from the a continuous basis and a formal Ca Ngu Vang CNV field and appraisal assessment is conducted at least development operations in the Te Giac annually.
The Senior Independent Trang, Te Giac Den and Voi Trang fields.
Director, who has experience in the SOCO holds its interest through the relevant area, reviews HSE CR Hoang Long and Hoan Vu Joint performance in detail with senior Operating Companies JOCs, along with managers and is kept routinely informed Petrovietnam, the national oil company of any material performance issues as of Vietnam and PTTEP, the national oil they arise.
The JOCs currently have 106 employees and contractors The Company recognises through its of which 87 are Vietnamese nationals.
recruitment and training processes that key managers and operations personnel, The first flow of crude oil and wet gas who understand the CR values of from CNV occurred in July 2008.
The the Company, have a specific role hydrocarbons are transported via a in the success of the Companys CR subsea pipeline system to the processing commitment.
It is a priority consideration facilities at Bach Ho.
Crude oil is that the relevant employees each processed and then stored in a floating understand the importance of CR and storage and offloading vessel prior have knowledge of what constitutes to sale.
The wet gas is separated best practice standards.
This fosters offshore and transported to an onshore informed decision making and an gas facility for further distribution to meet instinctive appreciation of the relevant domestic demand.
business implications associated with each operation.
The Company, through the two JOCs, focuses its social development External advisors are utilised to ensure commitment in Vietnam through that best practice is achieved and CR programmes aimed primarily at projects objectives are met.
Deployment of which serve those most at need in external, rather than dedicated internal, society, particularly children, the elderly resources ensures optimal access to and those with limited ability to work.
sound expertise in each area which is not In 2008, following Typhoon 4, we compromised by management numbers contributed to the rebuilding for and layers and which would not otherwise households in the Phu Tho province be available in a staff of our size.
affected by this natural disaster.
At the same time, the Company contributed SOCOs policy is to maximise local to the construction of a learning block employment and contract outsourcing in all with eight classrooms at Truc Thanh the operations we control.
Whilst realising Preliminary School Cat Thanh, Nam Dinh 28 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Business Review Financials Financials including the Department of Mineral province, and the upgrading of existing Fuel, the Provincial Energy Officer, local and provision of new educational facilities non-governmental organisations NGOs, for Thanh Tuyen Secondary School in Ha tourism operators, local fishermen and Nam province.
Additionally, funds have the Fisheries Association.
been made available for emergency relief assistance in other parts of Vietnam Since August 2008, emissions from the during the year.
Company interests in Thailand were negligible levels of carbon dioxide, which The CNV field utilises an unmanned came from engine combustion, and 1.8 platform that is tied back to the Bach Ho million standard cubic feet of gas which central processing platform.
This is the was not in sufficient quantities to flare.
first project in the Vietnam petroleum industry to utilise the existing facilities Yemen in order to maximise the life of existing Until April 2008, SOCO held a 17% infrastructure, minimise the investment non-operated interest in the onshore costs and reduce the impact on the East Shabwa Development Area in the environment.
Oil production will pass Say-un-Al Masilah Basin in eastern to existing onshore facilities, so the Yemen.
During SOCOs period of principal impact will be an extension of partnership, the East Shabwa partners the useful life of these assets, thus having continued to explore options for reducing a beneficial sustainability influence.
and or eliminating the flaring of the associated gas production.
At the time The most material environmental issue of SOCOs disposal of the asset, gas will be the production of significant re-injection was operational, with a quantities of associated gas.
This capacity of 10 million standard cubic represents an important economic asset feet per day.
SOCO encouraged and for the Company and for the Vietnamese supported the operator in a thorough people and the Company has now signed a gas sales agreement for national use.
review of all the options for gas disposal, including using gas fired power During 2008, emissions from the Company generation to replace diesel powered interests in Vietnam were negligible.
engines that produce more harmful emissions than gas and would also Thailand reduce road tanker traffic that transported SOCOs Thailand operations are located diesel to site.
Detailed studies for NGL offshore, in the Bualuang oil field in Block extraction from the gas were also B8 38 in the Gulf of Thailand.
The East Shabwa partners farm-in partner is designated the technical were also working closely with the Yemeni operator of the Block.
Oil production authorities to look at regional power commenced in August 2008.
The crude generation and industrial gas usage, oil is processed and then stored in a which were targeting gas flaring being floating production storage and offloading reduced to a minimum.
facility vessel prior to sale.
Africa Region Under the terms of the petroleum licence, In the Africa Region, SOCO has four SOCO contributes, in the form of a operated interests, two offshore and two petroleum royalty on production, to onshore, and one non-operated onshore Thailands Petroleum Fund, which is a interest.
The offshore interests, the Marine monetary reserve used to stablise the XI and Marine XIV Blocks, are located in domestic retail price of petroleum.
shallow waters in the Lower Congo Basin, offshore Congo Brazzaville.
The onshore In our Thailand office, all our personnel interests are the Nganzi Block, which are Thai nationals and the Company covers 800 square kilometres in the utilises local contractors where feasible.
Bas-Congo Province of DRC, Block 5 located in eastern DRC, near to the Sustainability initiatives in Thailand border with Uganda and covering an supported by SOCO include the area of 7,105 square kilometres, including Department of Mineral Fuels reforestation part of Lake Edward, and the Cabinda project and the Fisheries Resources Onshore North Block in Cabinda located Conservation Project, involving the near to the coast.
Each of the projects release of juvenile fish and shrimp larvae.
are in the block evaluation exploration SOCO has also supported local fund phase.
During 2008, operations activities raising activities to promote tourism in the Africa Region comprised a seismic in the Chumpo Province, the onshore campaign on the Nganzi Block and area adjacent to the Companys offshore an aeromagnetic and aerogravity survey interest.
SOCO has participated in on Block 5. environmental impact assessments EIA in consultation with local stakeholders, Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 29 the construction of a public dispensary, The Nganzi Block is located in the BasCorporate Responsibility Soeurs St Joseph fide Cluny, provision Congo Province of the DRC.
Efficient road continued of school furniture to Halte Sida, an and air access was a focal consideration organisation for children orphaned by in SOCOs preparation for the seismic HIV, and additional support given to the campaign and the Company invested in the Africa Foundation orphanage and the introduction and upgrade of transportation Blind Association of Congo.
SOCO also infrastructure across the area.
This included sponsored an orphaned child through the the building of a 1,000 metre air strip Association Femmes fide la Charit and with related infrastructure at Kipholo, provided sewing machines and kitchen the construction of six bridges over the equipment to the same organisation.
Lukunga, Lubuzi and Lemba rivers and the maintenance and improvement of 135 In the suburbs of Pointe Noire, SOCO kilometres of road.
These building initiatives provided medical equipment to the Ngoyo will provide lasting infrastructure for the maternity clinic and mosquito nets to local populace and has already inspired communities in the Inda District.
indirect socio-economic benefits by opening up the rural area.
This has In all our joint ventures in the Africa stimulated an increase in trade and other Region, virtually all our personnel, both stakeholder interest, including the building employees and contractors, are nationals.
of a medical clinic by an NGO.
SOCO provides access to training and experience of a high international The development initiatives in Bas-Congo standard.
During 2008, SOCO employees province were overseen by SOCO DRC from Pointe Noire and Kinshasa received Exploration & Productions Assistant formal training in France with the Institut Director, a DRC national, who was Franais du Ptrole.
responsible for managing communication and consultation with the local Prior to the seismic acquisition in Nganzi, communities.
Manpower for both the seismic acquisition work and the related an EIA was carried out and approved by development initiatives was sourced the DRC Minister of Environment.
During from the local population.
Approximately the seismic campaign, progress was 450 local employees were recruited tracked by a committee, including for geophysical work and given the representatives from SOCO and the local relevant seismic drilling, topography and community and experts from the DRC recording training.
Housing improvements Ministry of Environment, to ensure that can be seen across the area, reflecting all of SOCOs obligations listed in the EIA raised employment levels during the were fulfilled, which included repair to all seismic campaign.
damages incurred during the campaign.
SOCO also supports local communities An EIA is being carried out on Marine XI by providing resources to the non-profit in preparation for the forthcoming drilling sector and supporting local education.
In the Bas-Congo Province of DRC, two classrooms were built and equipped During 2008, emissions from the at an elementary school at Ramani and Companys interests in the Africa Region four classrooms were refurbished and were negligible.
equipped at an elementary school at Kumbi.
A water well was drilled in three villages: Kipholo in the south of the Bas-Congo Province, Sebonzobe in the north and Yenze in the central part of the Province.
SOCO also sponsored a campaign against HIV and supplied mosquito nets to the Mbambi Medical Centre for pregnant women and young children.
Equipment for the medical clinic built by the NGO was supplied by SOCO.
In the capital of the Republic of Congo, Brazzaville, the Company provided a patient lift and computer equipment to Petites Soeurs des Pauvres.
In Pointe Noire, where SOCO Exploration and Production Congo has its offices, the Company gave resources and support to various community projects and charitable organisations.
These include 30 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 31
