O Ove ver rv viie ew w Business Review Governance Financial Statements Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility documented and regularly monitored for compliance with the Spectris is committed to creating business relevant regulations.
A nominated individual is responsible for growth through adding value for its customers safety compliance and all employees are informed and trained in whilst ensuring that its impact on the safety procedures, depending upon the extent of their involvement with the product presenting the risk.
Documented processes are in environment is minimised.
place to reduce the likelihood of an occurrence.
Material risk processes and procedures are regularly reviewed by the group Spectris operates from 160 offices in 29 countries around the internal audit function.
The companys products are used to monitor and control processes for enhancing productivity for customers in a wide range Potential social and environmental risk in Spectris operations is of industries.
However, the PANalytical business, which supplies instrumentation for X-ray analysis, makes limited use of beryllium Spectris continues to meet the criteria for membership of the in detector windows and X-ray tubes, whilst certain NDC Infrared FTSE4Good UK index, which measures and benchmarks the Engineering products utilise low-level sealed radioactive sources.
performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate In all cases, the legal requirements for the correct handling and responsibility standards.
The criteria are assessed on a regular basis labelling of such products are documented and regularly audited by the independent research organisation EIRIS, with increasing for compliance.
Procedures also exist for the disposal of emphasis on ethics and human rights.
contaminated waste and for recovering used products from The policies and information described below apply to all customers and disposing of them safely.
The Servomex gas analysis Spectris operations.
business includes the storage of flammable and toxic gases at its testing facility.
Operating procedures for the movement and use of Policy setting and monitoring cylinders containing such gases are in accordance with the Overall responsibility for developing corporate policies on appropriate legal requirements and are inspected annually by an environmental, social, ethical, and health and safety matters, and independent authority.
Chemical and hazardous waste is disposed for reviewing their effectiveness, lies with the Spectris Board.
The of in accordance with written procedures.
policies are communicated to all business units via the Spectris Group Manual.
The individual operating companies are then responsible for ensuring that these policies are communicated and Environment applied within their particular business, taking account of local Many Spectris products and technologies have positive legislation and regulation.
All policies and procedures are reviewed periodically and any updates are communicated to the environmental benefits by providing customers with the ability to reduce energy consumption or material wastage or to control operating companies.
Our curing lamps, for example, use ultraviolet light to cure or dry  inks and coatings, replacing Reporting and compliance Conformity with these policies is monitored by self-certification, conventional heat treatment of traditional materials which is energy-intensive and emits toxic solvent vapours.
Our on an annual basis, by the Managing Director and Finance Director of each operating company that their business has instrumentation helps wind farm operators to keep their turbines complied in full.
Any instances of non-compliance must running by using remote predictive monitoring to detect and be reported.
Our products can also help customers to meet environmental legislation.
For example, we supply instrumentation Such certification forms an integral part of the companys risk which can measure low levels of materials such as lead and cadmium management and corporate governance processes, and is regularly to meet legislation on the restriction of hazardous substances.
We reviewed by the groups internal audit function and the companys also supply systems which analyse the amount of sulphur in fuel to external auditors.
Compliance testing is a formal part of internal ensure compliance with regulations on the levels permitted.
Through a structured review process, the internal examples of the use of Spectris products having a direct beneficial audit function undertakes visits to group locations on a rotational contribution to the environment are shown on our website.
These visits involve an assessment of the business key internal controls as well as compliance with the groups policies We are also committed to adopting environmentally responsible and procedures.
The results of internal audits and any nonpolicies wherever our companies operate.
We aim to reduce the compliance events are reported to the Audit Committee.
environmental impact of our operations by developing products which are energy-efficient and avoid the use of harmful substances.
Risk assessment Design processes take into account the operational lifetime of every The key potential risks and uncertainties which could have a product and end-of-life removal or disposal.
Consideration is also material impact on the groups long-term performance are given to environment-friendly production, packaging and shipping.
described elsewhere in this Business Review.
Potential social and Products have been developed which meet the new European environmental risks to the business may arise within product regulations on the Restriction of Hazardous Substances RoHS and manufacture or operation of a product at the customers site.
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE.
For example, Where a significant risk is identified, procedures for storage, printed circuit boards used in instrumentation sold to customers in normal operating conditions and emergency situations are this region no longer use lead-based solder in their manufacture.
25 Annual report and accounts 2008 Spectris plc
