Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility continued All businesses are conscious of the need to conserve energy and and development opportunities to enable them to meet their resources and local initiatives are in place at many sites to reduce full potential.
energy consumption and minimise wastage.
These include recycling of items such as waste paper, cardboard, aluminium cans, batteries, toner cartridges and mobile phones, reducing energy Employment consumption through the use of timers and sensors to control hot water, air conditioning and lighting, reducing water consumption Policy and re-use of packaging and filling materials.
The new technical Spectris operates mainly in Europe and the US, but with a growing centre for Servomex in Crowborough, England, which was opened presence in Asia.
Although different social and employment in November 2008, has been designed and built to the latest conditions exist in different locations, Spectris places high priority environmental standards, including the use of heat exchangers to on compliance with the legislative and ethical requirements of the maximise heating efficiency and motion sensor lighting to reduce countries in which we operate, particularly with respect to power wastage.
At NDCs facility in the US, remote control units employment practices, labour rights and equal opportunities.
The for the lighting system have been installed to enable the company Company Secretary has overall responsibility for employment to achieve energy and cost savings.
At PANalytical in the policies, but responsibility for implementation is delegated to Netherlands, despite a doubling of production volumes over the individual business units, with operational policies and procedures past ten years, the companys overall energy consumption has tailored to suit local needs.
The companys employment policy is decreased by around 10%.
Spectris complies with the UK Producer Responsibility Obligations Overall HR policies are set at the centre and implemented by each Packaging Waste Regulations which set targets for the recovery operating business, taking account of local conditions.
Spectris and recycling of packaging waste.
retains a diverse workforce, valuing the different perspectives of its employees, and the company is committed to equal opportunities Our environmental policy is published on our website at for all employees in terms of recruitment and employment, www.
The nature of our manufacturing activities training and development, and promotion.
We strive to create a means that Spectris operations have very little impact on the culture of honesty, respect and professional excellence whilst environment, as our products do not require energy-intensive maintaining a healthy balance between working and personal lives, manufacturing processes and we endeavour to employ nonwith initiatives such as part-time and job share opportunities polluting technology wherever possible.
Although we have four providing family-friendly working conditions.
Employee surveys production facilities in the UK, their low power consumption are carried out in a number of companies to measure the views of means that the amount of greenhouse gas emissions produced is employees on company issues and action plans agreed to address not significant and hence Spectris is not required to participate in the issues raised.
the second round of the European Emissions Trading Scheme, nor is it expected that the company will be included in the UKs Staff turnover is dependent to a large extent upon local market Carbon Reduction Commitment plan.
conditions, but is generally low, particularly at senior management level and amongst technical R&D staff, where in-depth technical Environmental management systems knowledge brings loyalty and commitment to the company.
Whilst Approximately half of Spectris operations by turnover have data on employee turnover is not collated centrally, it is monitored received accreditation to the environmental standard ISO14001.
Other companies are working towards accreditation where this is deemed beneficial for their customers.
Graduate recruitment programmes and student work placements exist in several companies, providing opportunities for young During 2008 no significant environmental incidents were recorded.
people, particularly scientists, to be introduced to the business environment.
Reporting Employees It is the responsibility of the managing directors in each operating Spectris employees are key to the success of the company.
company to ensure that all employees are fully aware of Spectris We employ around 6,000 people in 160 offices throughout the HR policies.
The group monitors compliance through various world, with a high proportion of employees qualified at, or processes, including confirmation in writing by each business unit above, degree level.
We are committed to providing our people annually, and consolidated Equal Employment Opportunities with a creative working environment with plenty of scope for Commission returns which are produced in the US.
In 2008, on average, 3,000 employees were employed in production and engineering, Training and development with 2,220 in sales and marketing and 500 in administrative Spectris commitment to training and personal development functions.
Compensation and benefits, which are in line with emphasises the importance of retaining staff throughout the group other leading companies in the sector, are designed to reward and ensuring that all employees are encouraged to realise their full the achievement of objectives.
Annual reviews provide feedback potential.
Annual appraisals and performance reviews are carried on employees performance, set objectives and identify training out to determine training and development needs for individual 26 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008 O Ove ver rv viie ew w Business Review Governance Financial Statements employees.
Malvern and Servomex, our two principal UK Expedition Greenhouse World businesses, have received the Investors in People award for their programmes of training, appraisal, employee development and skills recognition.
Financial participation in the group is encouraged through the Savings Related Share Option Scheme, available to all UK employees, and through grants under the groups Performance Share Plan made to senior management across the group.
Employee communications The company has a policy of encouraging its operating companies to provide information to their employees on a regular basis.
This information includes matters relating to their companys performance, its prospects in the markets it serves and the future outlook for its business.
In addition to regular staff briefings, most companies have intranets where news bulletins are posted.
As part of their commitment to activities that stimulate interest in the sciences, PANalytical sponsored two students in the 2008 Expedition Health and Safety Greenhouse World an initiative run by Utrecht University in the Netherlands.
On the week-long Policy expedition in October to Spitsbergen, Norway, the The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for environment, students visited Longyearbyen glacier where they health and safety matters.
Senior executives in each of the business collected rocks full of 4060 million year old fossils units are responsible for implementing the companys health and of the plants that caused the greenhouse effect at safety policy at local level and ensuring compliance with local that time.
They investigated core samples where legislation and regulations.
The companys health and safety policy the ancient carbon layers demonstrated the high can be viewed on our website at www.
These climate 2 Spectris is committed to providing a working environment at all changes devastated the Palaeocene animal population of its sites which, so far as is possible, is safe and without risk to and, during a trip that took them 4km underground, health.
Each operating company is responsible for ensuring that the students saw 55-million year old footprints made the highest standards of health and safety are achieved by its by extinct hippopotamus-like mammals.
employees and by sub-contractors and suppliers.
Reporting Any serious health and safety incidents are required to be reported by the Managing Director of the business in an accident report to the Company Secretary, who reports on such issues to the Board.
All accidents are thoroughly investigated and appropriate corrective and preventative actions put in place.
No serious injuries or deaths have been reported in the last ten years.
Although minor incidents are monitored locally, statistics for these are not compiled for the group as a whole.
Audits of health and safety policies and procedures are undertaken at all major locations by external assessors acting on behalf of the groups insurers on an annual basis and recommendations are made for improving practices where appropriate.
Human rights Spectris believes in the fundamental rights of people in all parts of the world and is committed to adopting internationally recognised human rights standards wherever it operates.
27 Annual report and accounts 2008 Spectris plc Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility continued Policy on harassment and non-discrimination to all employees.
In some The companys human rights policy, which can be viewed at companies there are worldwide programmes on corporate values www.
com, is consistent with the Principles of Human and desired behaviour, with employees being measured against Rights, as set out in the International Labour Organizations Core these values in their annual performance appraisals.
Conventions, and includes policies on non-discrimination, harassment, pay and forced labour.
The policy is reviewed periodically and any updates are communicated to the operating companies.
The Ethics Chief Executive has overall responsibility for human rights.
All employees are expected to behave in accordance with the companys behavioural values, which are shown opposite.
Spectris takes its commitments to human rights seriously and our These values define who we are and how we do business, both operating companies are required to ensure that all employees are as individuals and as a company.
aware of the policy and understand it.
In most of the operating companies, new employees are provided with an employee Policy handbook which includes sections on employee responsibilities The ethical standards we expect each employee to meet are set out with regard to equal opportunities, non-discrimination, harassment, in our Ethics policy which is communicated to all employees.
The bullying, disciplinary practices, etc, and new employees must sign Ethics policy can be viewed on our website at www.
to say that they have read and understood this.
The policy prohibits bribery, corruption and similar facilitation payments.
Donations to political parties or similar organisations In Asia, the General Manager is responsible for ensuring that the are also prohibited.
Any allegations of misconduct are thoroughly highest ethical standards are maintained in all of our Asia-based investigated.
All operating companies are required to comply with operations.
Spectris has a number of sales offices in China and also owns a factory which supplies high quality weighing components.
export control regulations governing shipment of products and the appropriate compliance procedures are in place.
This comprises a modern facility located in a business park along with other western companies.
The factory employs skilled Reporting workers, adopts employment conditions consistent with best local As with all Spectris policies, conformity is monitored by selfpractice, and pays wages that are higher than average for the area.
certification, on an annual basis, by the Managing Director and Finance Director of each operating company that they have Spectris considers human rights as part of its due diligence process complied with the policy.
Any instances of non-compliance must for acquisitions, ensuring that the core labour rights, including be reported.
In particular any known instances of fraud, including non-discrimination, equal opportunities and freedom of bribery and corruption, must be specifically disclosed.
association, of the company to be acquired are taken into account.
Certification forms an integral part of the companys risk Reporting management and corporate governance processes, and is regularly The Managing Director and Finance Director of each operating reviewed by the groups internal audit function and the companys company are required to certify, on an annual basis, compliance with all Spectris policies.
Any non-compliance is investigated by external auditors.
Compliance testing is a formal part of internal audit reviews.
Through a structured review process, the internal local human resources managers or by Spectris management or the internal audit function if it is serious.
Pay practices are monitored audit function undertakes visits to group locations on a rotational basis.
These visits involve an assessment of the businesss key to ensure they are non-discriminatory.
internal controls as well as compliance with the groups policies and procedures.
The scope of the work performed during internal Circumstances may also come to light via the companys Whistleblowing policy, via which employees may report to the audit visits includes testing to confirm compliance with the groups overall position and policy regarding anti-bribery and businesss management team or any Board member, via a confidential email address, any concerns they may have over corruption measures.
unethical business practices or conduct, dangers to health and safety, or breach of company policies.
Any such disclosures are The results of internal audits and any non-compliance events are reported to the Audit Committee.
In addition, Spectris is committed to protecting the career and reputation of employees who report The company operates a Whistleblowing policy, described above, wrongdoing in accordance with established procedures, so long as their disclosures are delivered in good faith and seek to safeguard through which known instances of fraud, including bribery and corruption, may be reported confidentially.
This will be the best interests of the group.
strengthened in 2009 to include a telephone hotline and an on-line reporting system which employees will be able to access Some individual operating companies also have their own Whistleblowing processes whereby employees can anonymously in anonymity.
report concerns over discrimination, harassment etc.
Training Currently a number of Spectris companies provide training to Training employees, however Spectris intends to formalise this with a In the US, awareness training on harassment and discrimination is group-wide ethics programme which will be introduced during carried out, with companies providing regular refresher training 28 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008 O Ove ver rv viie ew w Business Review Governance Financial Statements 2009.
This formal programme will ensure that the groups ethics Our values policy which includes statements on anti-bribery and corruption is communicated to and acknowledged by all employees in local Honesty language, and will make training compulsory in all companies, Acting with absolute integrity in all that we do.
either via the HR department or on-line training modules.
All companies will be required to nominate an ethics compliance officer.
Compliance with the ethics policy and training within each Empowerment company will be monitored by the internal audit function as part of the risk assessment process.
Creating an environment of autonomy in our operating companies where people are expected to take the initiative and to succeed.
Customers Spectris sells  instrumentation and services Ownership to a large number of customers around the world.
We have Taking personal ownership of the responsibility of developed close working relationships with our customers and in our roles.
many instances involve them in the development of new products to ensure they meet their requirements.
Surveys of customer satisfaction are conducted on a regular basis.
Delivery Performing to the highest standards against the commitments we make both internally and, especially, Suppliers externally to our customers.
Spectris has no significant suppliers who are dependent upon the companys business.
Suppliers are paid in line with contractual and legal obligations.
Spectris businesses work with their suppliers to Speed help them to reduce their impact on the environment and to ensure Ensuring that our business decisions are made and that their products meet the relevant legislation.
Outsourcing of actions executed with a sense of urgency.
products, particularly in Asia, is to quality-approved organisations only which are regularly inspected and audited by the strategic purchasing teams and local managements.
Appropriate procedures are taken, where practicable, to ensure that the companys policies, in particular in relation to human rights and ethics, are applied to suppliers.
Local communities Spectris companies worldwide participate in a range of local activities and educational initiatives in support of their local communities.
For example, as part of its sponsorship of activities that stimulate interest in the sciences, PANalytical sponsored two students on a week-long expedition to Spitsbergen, Norway, in the 2008 Expedition Greenhouse World to explore the climate change that took place 55 million years ago.
In the UK, Malvern has sponsored scientists attending key scientific conferences, Servomex has five apprentices on a scheme and Brel & Kjr are participating in the Working with Engineering Education Scheme which links teams of students and their teachers with local companies to work on real scientific, engineering and technical problems.
Donations to charities and community causes in 2008 totalled 44,000, of which 22,400 were in the UK 2007: 28,000 of which 10,400 in UK.
This included donations to charities following the earthquake in China, Cancer Research, the Red Cross, Heifer International, and to local arts and educational projects.
29 Annual report and accounts 2008 Spectris plc
