Business review Corporate social responsibility statement We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical discrimination or harassment of any kind will not conduct has an impact on our reputation.
We therefore be tolerated: take our corporate social responsibilities CSR as a matter of policy, we do not make political seriously and are committed to advancing our policies donations: and systems across the Group to ensure we address and no bribes shall be given or received: monitor all aspects of CSR that are relevant to our conflicts of interest must be avoided: business.
These include good ethical behaviour, concern we aim to be a responsible partner within our local for employee health and safety, care for the environment communities: and and community involvement.
employees are encouraged and supported to report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings We strive to maintain a productive and open dialogue whistleblowing.
with all parties who may have an interest in our activities including shareholders, customers, suppliers and Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the employees.
We have an established investor relations Groups internal control process.
programme, work closely with our customers, monitor supplier performance and actively encourage feedback Employees from our employees.
We maintain our website as one of Spirent is its employees.
So, the Group aims to find, the main routes for providing information to interested keep and engage the highest calibre of employees and parties and for contacting us.
encourages their contribution and development.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is An environment that fosters innovation and collaboration committed to developing and implementing appropriate is critical to the Companys success.
Appropriate career policies while adhering to a fundamental commitment to paths and internal recognition programmes are create and sustain long term value for shareholders.
As a developed for both technical and non-technical staff.
Group driven largely by technological innovation, our main assets are the talents and skills of the people we Employees are provided with numerous learning and employ.
The Board does not believe that the activities of development opportunities to fulfil their potential.
For the Group present any significant environmental risks.
example, our US employees enjoy a tax free tuition reimbursement benefit for classes taken towards Ethics college-level degrees such as a master of business Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted administration or master of science in electrical in compliance with high ethical standards of business engineering.
A wide variety of courses and training practice.
We apply these standards to all dealings opportunities are also available to employees globally with employees, customers, suppliers and other to enhance their skills.
In our Beijing office, we had 33 stakeholders.
employees during the last fiscal year taking English language training through guided multimedia and The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the supported self-study combined with face-to-face Board, is available on our website at www.
These development opportunities are Our Ethics Policy has been developed to ensure that the structured to align with our organisational objectives and Groups business is conducted in adherence with high to help employees in furthering their career aspirations.
ethical and legal principles and sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and Spirent demonstrates that it values its employees operations worldwide.
The Ethics Policy was reviewed through several reward and recognition programmes.
and revised by the Board during 2008 and sent to every One example is our Presidents Club, which recognises Spirent employee.
our most exceptional sales employees on an annual basis in every geographic region.
Another way we reward The following is a summary of the Ethics Policy: and recognise excellence is through our Spot Bonus Programme.
Employees in any function or business unit all employees have the right and responsibility to are eligible for a spot bonus award for performing at a ensure that Spirents business is conducted with high level above and beyond the call of duty, including ethical and legal principles: contributions that produce results that will continually our policy is to operate within applicable laws: improve current operations, that delight our customers or that result in a significant reduction of expenses.
Spirent Communications plc 18 Annual Report 2008 Business review All business units are responsible for providing Employees continued employees with a written health and safety policy.
An Similarly, the importance of two-way communication is annual questionnaire on health and safety performance recognised particularly as it relates to the business and is completed by all our business units and any issues are its performance.
The leadership team is responsible for addressed and resolved.
Independent external reviews of providing forums for employees to understand the the Companys health and safety performance are business objectives and to ask questions.
A variety of conducted annually at selected business units.
Regular tools are utilised to foster two-way communications, designated health and safety awareness training including management meetings, all-hands employee programmes are also carried out.
meetings, and the Companys intranet.
Environmental Leadership and management development programmes Good environmental practice and the impact that are regularly reviewed and updated as the competition our operations have on the environment are of great for talented employees increases and the leadership importance to Spirent.
The main aim of Spirents needs of our business grow.
Formal performance reviews Environmental Policy is to comply with all applicable are conducted annually and are linked to the goals of environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which the organisation.
we operate and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
The full text of our Environmental Policy The Group is committed to providing equality of is available on our website at www.
opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without unlawful discrimination on the basis of religion, Business units are required to comply with the Group disability, gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation, Policy and local statutory regulations and are race, ethnicity or any other protected status.
We encouraged to set their own environmental targets.
encourage diversity and opportunity, which is reinforced An annual environmental questionnaire is completed through the Groups Ethics Policy.
by each business unit which highlights their environmental performance.
Health and safety The Chief Financial Officer is the director appointed by The vast majority of our products continue to be the Board to have responsibility for the health and safety manufactured by outside contract manufacturers and performance of the Group.
The Chief Financial Officer we check the environmental policies of these suppliers reports any major health and safety issues to the Audit through audits and surveys.
Wherever possible our Committee and the Board as necessary.
products are designed and manufactured to take account of the recycling and disposal of the product The health and safety risk profile of the Group again at the end of its lifecycle.
Our businesses comply with improved in 2008 as further Group manufacturing moved both The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment to an outsourcing model.
The main risks of the Group Regulations and The Restriction of the Use of Certain are based around final test and assembly of products Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic and working environment issues such as ergonomics and Equipment Regulations 2004.
The Group continued to have very low accident rates in 2008 and no incidents The Groups main environmental impact now largely required any hospitalisation.
No major health and safety involves the effects produced from offices housing issues were reported to the Audit Committee and Board employees.
Where possible, business units monitor during the year.
energy consumption, water consumption and waste production.
All business units continue to take positive The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility steps to reduce energy consumption, such as better for the management of health and safety on local space utilisation, more efficient running of equipment management, who are supported by local external and machinery and sensor controlled equipment.
It is the Groups intention Environmental waste management in the Group that each business unit should have a senior individual continues to improve with most business units operating designated as being responsible for ensuring the waste minimisation schemes mainly focusing on business unit conforms to local statutory health and increased recycling.
safety regulations as well as the Group Policy.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 19 Business review Corporate social responsibility statement continued The Group has formed lasting partnerships with several Environmental continued local non-profit organisations to provide essential The vacant site reported on last year where historical resources and services to those in need.
During the activity had led to minor land and groundwater winter holiday season in 2008, our employees in the US contamination is continuing to be monitored to confirm participated in food drives for the Second Harvest Food that remedial work carried out has been successful.
org and for the Santa have also been contacted by authorities regarding Comes to Agoura and Beyond programme.
Our California another previously owned property which appears to also employees also collect toys during the holidays for have historic land and groundwater contamination.
It is underprivileged children as part of the annual California our position that we do not have legal responsibility for Highway Patrols holiday toy drive CHiPs for Kids.
the clean up costs on this site.
Charitable Donation Policy Community Our businesses are encouraged to support the particular Spirent aims to build stronger and healthier global needs of their population by contributing to local communities through education, charitable donations charities and participating in community initiatives.
and support of non-profit agencies in the communities in Support takes the form of employee time and skills, gifts which we operate.
Working with established non-profit in kind and cash donations.
organisations maximises the impact of our community building initiatives.
While our Charitable Donation Policy matches employee contributions on a regular basis, there are times when Education extraordinary events lead to extraordinary action.
The Group has established links with certain publicFollowing the devastating earthquake in Chinas Sichuan private non-profit educational organisations to help province in May 2008, our employees in China donated students develop the skills needed to succeed in the time, money and gifts generously.
Spirent also made a global economy.
Throughout 2008, we continued to special contribution to the Red Cross China Relief Fund support education by offering internships and work of 10,700. experience programmes.
For example, in the UK, one of our employees is a Science and Engineering In addition to the special contribution to the Red Cross, Ambassador for STEMNET, the Science Technology Spirent made charitable cash donations of 41,300 in Engineering Mathematics Network www.
Spirent also periodically provides work experience Spirent continues to support all of our employees and opportunities for local teenagers in our Paignton, UK businesses in finding new ways of becoming involved to office, where 15 year olds spend a week with our team, give back to their communities.
visiting each department that is of interest to them.
Our Service Assurance division in Maryland partners with its local Junior Achievement chapter to bring the real-world to students through hands-on curriculum.
Local community support of Non-Profit Agencies We recognise the significance of our communities through our relationship with local non-profit agencies.
Our employees help their communities by volunteering their time to various programmes and donating materials and equipment to local causes.
Spirent Communications plc 20 Annual Report 2008
