spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 45 coMMuNiTY AND sociAl RespoNsiBiliTY RepoRT The Board recognises the importance of balancing the interests of all The Group is committed to the equal treatment of its employees and its key stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, employees, has adopted effective equal opportunity and diversity policies.
suppliers and the communities in which it operates.
The Group has Employees are treated as individuals, fairly and with respect: all adopted a formal Corporate and Social Responsibility Policy to ensure employment policies are fair and provide equal opportunities to that the Group attains appropriate standards of corporate behaviour employees regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, social background, throughout its operations.
The Board is committed to developing this religion, disability or sexuality.
Every effort is made to provide disabled people with equal The Group will focus its CSR activities on five key areas: employees, opportunities for work, training and promotion.
Where an existing health and safety, customers, the environment, and the community.
employee becomes disabled the business makes every effort to The Board has adopted Key Performance Indicators KPIs to assist in provide continued employment under normal terms and conditions.
measuring success certain of these areas, and these KPIs are set out in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review on page 17.
Retention of employees is extremely important and the Board receives a monthly report on the turnover of staff.
Staff turnover in the Year has been affected by the continued consolidation of head office and employees support services at Shirebrook.
There are currently 15,700 employees throughout the Group and their skill and enthusiasm is key to the success of the businesses.
The Group will continue to widen the variety of training programmes to adapt to employees needs and changes in legislation.
The Group will To enable the Groups employees to carry out their roles and to also ensure that a rolling programme of refresher training is understand their career paths the Group provides comprehensive undertaken by all employees to reinforce the training they receive at training programmes, which seek to improve performance, quality and the beginning of their career.
customer service, to support the long term progress of the Group.
In the retail business training begins with all area managers and Health and safety assistant managers and area managers participating in an induction The Group is committed to appropriate standards of health and safety process at the Shirebrook campus.
This induction covers health and performance.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for Group health safety, and environmental awareness, as well as customer service and and safety performance overall, and receives a monthly report on the day to day running of a retail unit.
In the 52 weeks ended 27 April reportable accidents.
The Chief Executive has specific responsibility 2008 the Year 171 managers attended this training 2007: 118. for health and safety and is the Chairman of the Health and Safety Committee, which meets at least four times a year and considers All National Distribution Centre employees are given appropriate legislation, monitors accidents and seeks improvements in health and training on health and safety matters, communication, and relevant safety matters throughout the businesses.
aspects of employment law on joining.
English is not the first language of many of these, and the Group acknowledges that as it Good health and safety performance can only be achieved with the recruits from a diverse talent pool the needs of these employees must participation of all employees.
Training is included in the induction be addressed.
Accordingly, training often involves the use of process for all new employees, which includes training on dealing with interpreters, and training materials, policy documents and building evacuation of disabled persons in an emergency.
The Group Health signage are usually in multiple languages.
and Safety Policy is communicated further through the employee handbook, store briefings, refresher training, area newsletters, notice A management training programme is being introduced in 2008 boards and by line management.
The strategy for health and safety covering interview skills, effective communication, people skills and training and compliance with Group standards in stores is to ensure employment law.
that all store managers are competent to train their own employees, ensuring that each store will be able to promote good health and The Groups training strategy is to ensure that managers have the safety practice as well as customising training to address any issues skills needed to pass on their knowledge to employees at a local level, specific to it.
developing bespoke induction training programmes.
This strategy ensures that training is relevant to the particular issues faced locally, Compliance with health and safety standards is monitored by a central whether in a shop, warehouse or head office environment.
team of Health and Safety Officers who undertake store inspections as part of a rolling programme of health and safety audits and fire risk As the Group continues to grow greater emphasis is being given to assessments on a six monthly basis.
During the Year the Staff Forum was established in Shirebrook, comprising elected representatives from During the Year 1,141 accidents across the Group were reported to across business disciplines and representatives of management.
The Head Office, but only 25 were serious enough to be reported to the Forum meets monthly and covers issues ranging from pay, holidays Health and Safety Executive, and most accidents resulted from slips and hours to health and safety, working conditions and equipment and trips within stores or from minor cuts.
The Board believes that needs and developments in the business.
overall the accident statistics remain consistent with the number of stores and customer footfall through stores.
The Year has seen a The health and well being of Group employees is very important, and slight increase in the number of accidents reported, due the Board all employees have access to the Occupational Health provider.
believes to the increased profile of health and safety reporting and the Employees who are absent from work with a long term illness are increased awareness of staff of their obligation to record and report referred to the Occupational Health provider to determine whether the all incidents.
Group can assist with an employees recovery.
The current health and safety management systems will be developed further, current procedures improved and risk assessments reviewed.
46 coMMuNiTY AND sociAl RespoNsiBiliTY RepoRT continued customers The Group aims to ensure that all its customers enjoy a quality The Group strives to reduce its carbon foot print and reduce energy customer service and that they are provided with products that are consumption, and most importantly, energy waste, throughout its operations.
The store network is our largest user of energy and safe and fit for purpose.
The business recognises that customers have diverse needs and works constantly towards meeting them.
therefore the biggest contributor to CO2 emissions.
Whilst the Group seeks to make stores more energy efficient during working hours it Monitoring customer satisfaction and responding to correspondence has identified improvements in energy use while stores are closed.
Customer Service teams collate In conjunction with a company licensed by the Carbon Trust, the Group management information on service levels and this is circulated to the executive on a monthly basis.
has put in place an initiative to reduce the night time energy usage of all retail outlets to 7% of daily consumption, saving over 10% of the All written complaints are recorded, including an analysis of the total energy bill within a year.
nature of the complaint so that trends can be assessed and Currently 150 stores are being monitored on a half hourly basis to appropriate action taken.
A report on customer complaints is made to the Board monthly.
Customer feedback and suggestions are assess their electricity consumption.
Poorly performing stores are considered seriously and, where appropriate, improvements are made identified, steps taken to reduce waste, and lessons learned applied in stores and to our procedures.
All store employees receive energy training as part of their All store employees are given customer service training upon joining and refresher training thereafter.
As part of the customer employment induction.
To emphasise further the importance of service training employees are given training on the needs of complying with the energy efficiency policy, the Group is working on customers who have disabilities.
an incentive based bonus scheme which recognises stores efforts to reduce waste.
The Group is committed to maintaining and improving levels of customer service and will continue to analyse customer feedback in Energy efficiency is a key factor when fitting out a new store.
Existing order to improve the experience that our customers have while properties that are retrofitted are also subject to the same energy visiting our stores or using the internet.
The business will continue to standards as a new store.
monitor the number of complaints received from customers and act The fleet of delivery vehicles is the second largest producer of CO2 on any identified trends occurring, while rewarding those employees who gain positive customer feedback.
The fleet is currently being updated and unnecessary mileage avoided by not having set delivery routes but instead optimising route planning and ensuring that trailers are environment always full.
The Group has a network of 375 stores in the UK excluding Northern Ireland, and to keep them running and fully stocked with merchandise The use of plastic carrier bags also impacts on the environment.
In used 108,243,529 kwh of electricity in the Year and runs a fleet of 40 the UK the Groups retail businesses currently use 60 million carrier trailers and 131 company cars that travel 5.45 million miles a year.
In June 2008 biodegradable carrier bags were The Group is aware of the impact that this has on CO2 emissions and introduced into our stores.
These bags contain an additive that allows the bags to break down into organic matter within 18 to 24 months of the Group is committed to controlling and reducing it by managing the use of energy.
The Group wished to make sure that if our bags were thrown away they would have minimal impact on the amount in The products that are delivered to the Group are protected in transit by landfill.
Allowing for the use of the current stock of non recyclable significant quantities of packaging, which the Group seeks to reduce bags the Group expects that by the end of 2008 all stores will only be using biodegradable carrier bags.
In addition by the end of 2008 all and recycle.
stores will offer the option to customers of a bag for life.
Recycling within the National Distribution Centre is an important way of reducing the impact the Group has on the environment.
By The Group continues to research and develop clothing and footwear recycling, the energy and other resources used in producing from sustainable and environmentally friendly processes.
In particular the business is investigating the production of recyclable shoes and packaging, and the amount put to landfill is reduced.
garments made from sustainable natural materials, thereby reducing The Group recycles waste paper, cardboard and plastic.
In the Year 60 the amount of polyester or other oil based clothing within stores.
tonnes of waste paper and 5557 tonnes of cardboard were recycled.
During that year 860 tonnes of baled plastic were also recycled, mainly as a result of stores backfilling their waste to the National Distribution Centre.
Wherever possible waste such as ink toners, redundant IT equipment and light bulbs is recycled.
The Group works hard to reduce the amount of rubbish put into landfill, which amounted to 1400 tonnes in the Year.
There are within the Group dedicated personnel who focus on recycling initiatives and who are constantly seeking out ways to reduce the Groups impact on the environment.
spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 47 community The Group is committed to procuring merchandise from Everlast also provides some $20,000 worth of products to the New manufacturers who can show that they uphold ethical employment York Golden Gloves tournament.
The tournament is run by the USA Boxing Metropolitan Association, an amateur association for the and trading practices.
The Group has a Code of Ethics that it requires every supplier to adhere to.
Amongst other matters the Code provides benefit of men and women between the ages of 16 to 34. for fair treatment of workers and their wages, non-use of child labour, safe and healthy systems of work and no use of illegal means or During the past Year Everlast donated $40,000 of equipment and materials in the production of goods.
apparel to the National Association of Police Athletic Activities League Inc. National PAL exists to help prevent juvenile crime by providing The Group has worked for many years with two leading supply chain civic, recreational and athletic activities throughout the USA.
companies in Singapore and in Korea to procure much of its own brand goods.
The Group believes that using their local knowledge, expertise Everlast supports other initiatives such as the National PE4Life day and experience benefits the business and the communities in which by participating in a yearly event in Washington DC to help raise the profile of physical education within the school network.
they operate more effectively than would be the case if the Group carried on its own procurement activities in those countries.
Both companies have the highest social and business ethics codes which match our Code of Ethics, and one adheres to the Social Accountability 8000 SA8000 Code.
The Group relies on those supply chain companies to inspect all suppliers and manufacturers premises.
Between them they have over 100 employees to carry out these inspections and these inspectors will operate within each manufacturing unit for 2 to 3 days per week.
Frequent inspections are carried out on a daily or at least weekly basis and they ensure that the goods meet the Groups quality standards as well as assessing continued compliance with SA8000 and the Groups Code of Ethics.
The Group has forged long term relationships with suppliers who have demonstrated that their work practices are consistent with the Groups standards.
Approximately 40% of the Groups current suppliers have been working with Group companies for 10 years or more.
The Group assists charitable organisations that have particular relevance to the areas in which the Group operates.
In particular, the Group seeks to promote activities that encourage children to participate in some sort of physical activity.
The Brands division, in conjunction with the International Tennis Federation, have established the D Squad programme to promote participation in tennis to promising young people worldwide.
During the Year 2007-08 the Group provided free tennis kits, rackets, grips, strings and other equipment to over 600 young people to assist them with their game.
Some of the D Squad members are already playing at professional level and the programme has received the backing of tennis stars such as John McEnroe.
Also in conjunction with the International Tennis Federation, the Group supplies tennis equipment to the Junior Development Programme, which promotes tournaments for young people aged between 14 and 18 in Central America and the Caribbean, South America, Eastern Europe, Africa, Asia and Pacific regions.
The Group participates in the Chance to Shine programme, a charitable initiative run by the Cricket Foundation.
It is aimed to address the decline in competitive school cricket across the UK.
The Group assisted the Foundation by providing, during the Year, 180,000 worth of cricket kits, bats, pads, grips, gloves etc, at a significant discount, to the 200 coaches who participate in the programme.
These coaches visit over 1000 schools every year, reintroducing cricket to the PE timetable and teaching the children how to play the game.
In the United States Everlast, acquired by the Group during the Year, assists USA Boxing, the non profit national governing body of amateur boxing in the US, to develop and promote boxing throughout the USA.
The association benefits men, women and young people primarily between the ages of 14 to 34.
Everlast provides some $60,000 worth of equipment and apparel a year to USA Boxing.
