Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 02 Business Statement Corporate Responsibility 34 Introduction fully understand the need for a clear and The results of the Index for 2007, in which Shareholders expect companies not simply stable policy and regulatory framework.
111 companies participated, and which was to be profitable, but to be responsible in how It also believes that, fundamentally, the the most challenging yet, were published in those profits are made.
For SSE, this means framework in the UK is supportive of May 2008.
SSEs score was 98.0%, compared that its Generation activities should be as SSEs core purpose of providing energy with 98.5% in the previous year, putting sustainable as possible and that the energy it in a reliable and sustainable way.
the company in the highest possible supplies should be as affordable as possible.
Within In addition, its networks should be reliable At an operational level, comprehensive the main Index is the Business in the and its energy-related services dependable.
procedures for internal control and risk Environment Index, SSEs score was 99.0%, management are in place throughout SSE.
compared with 99.5% in the previous year.
Principal Risks These procedures are actively maintained The principal risk factors to which SSE is and regularly reviewed through an audit Teamwork potentially exposed were reviewed by the programme which addresses the full On 31 March 2008, SSE employed 16,892 Board in March 2008.
They are: the operation spectrum of SSEs potential risks.
This is people, an increase of 3,465 on the previous of assets, equipment and processes: capital complemented by an ongoing programme of year.
The progress made by SSE is due to the investment risks, in respect of major projects: business improvement initiatives designed to professionalism, commitment and teamwork financial risks, such as interest rate and secure continuous progress in processes and of its employees.
For that reason, and to commodity exposure, including a lack of procedures and further improve the overall mark the tenth anniversary of SSEs liquidity in traded markets: the impact of management and performance of SSE, formation in 1998, every person who was public policy or regulatory developments avoiding undue business concentration.
employed by SSE on 31 March 2008, and who in the areas of energy and the environment: is still in employment on 1 August 2008, will resource shortages, in terms of people with Safety and the Environment receive a special award comprising: an offer, the relevant skills and in terms of equipment SSE aims to create value for shareholders by free of charge, of 10 shares in the company: and materials, including fossil fuels: the running the business with a strong emphasis an online voucher worth 200 for SSEs retail impact of the weather on SSEs interests in on safety and on sustainability achieving business: and an additional days holiday.
the generation of electricity from renewable growth while safeguarding the environment.
sources, in energy supply and in energy During 2007 08, the number of lost time and The acquisitions of Airtricity and Slough Heat distribution: and an economic slowdown.
reportable accidents within the company and Power brought to SSE talented teams of The latter risk potentially affects both the level was 11, or 0.04 per 100,000 hours worked, people with skills and knowledge which are of business activity and bad debt write-offs.
compared with 0.05 in 2006 07 and with already complementing the well-established 0.17 five years ago, in 2002 03.
The number capabilities of the people already in SSE.
At a corporate level, SSE seeks to address of serious, or potentially serious, road traffic these risks by: maintaining the strongest accidents involving employees driving Board possible focus on the consistent delivery company vehicles was 0.18 per 100 vehicles, Sir Kevin Smith, who joined SSE as a nonof excellence across all aspects of its compared with 0.29 in 2006 07.
Executive Director in 2004, has decided not operations: rigorous management and to seek re-election to the Board at this years scrutiny of major projects: adhering to In 2008 09, SSE will report its safety Annual General Meeting and will step down the series of well-defined and established performance on the basis of the Total from it at the conclusion of the Meeting.
financial principles set out under Financial Recordable Injury Rate, as its central At that point, the Board of SSE will comprise Overview: strong oversight by a Risk workplace safety indicator.
four Executive Directors and four nonCommittee: full and transparent engagement Executive Directors, plus the Chairman.
with Ministers, elected members and officials A significant issue for SSE is process safety in the relevant executives and legislatures: the engineering and management skills Corporate Responsibility Priorities upgrading its human resources and focused on preventing major incidents arising in 2008 09 and Beyond procurement functions to ensure SSE from the use of, amongst other things, fossil SSEs priorities in 2008 09, and beyond, are to: has access to the best possible people fuels.
Its approach in this area has been manage its principal risks effectively: make and equipment: maintaining a variety of comprehensively reviewed in the light of the further progress towards its ultimate goal energy production, distribution and supply report of the Baker Panel into the BP incident of injury-free working: avoid environmental businesses, with actively-managed fuel at Texas City published in early 2007. incidents: and make progress towards procurement where appropriate: and securing a reduction in the carbon dioxide effective credit management.
SSEs target for any given year is zero intensity of electricity produced at power reportable environmental incidents.
There stations in which it has an ownership or In summary, SSEs principal risk was one such incident during 2007 08. contractual interest: and maintain SSE management approach is its fundamental In January 2008, the Environment Agency as a fulfilling place to work.
strategy: operating and investing in a served an enforcement action on SSE for balanced range of regulated and nonfailure to make sufficient progress on an regulated energy and utility businesses.
agreed programme of improvements at its This limits both the extent of any single risk Smurfit Townsend Hook CHP plant in Kent.
and the value associated with it and the need to limit the value at risk is at the heart of Corporate Responsibility Index and SSEs decision-making processes.
Business in the Environment Index Business in the Communitys Corporate The investigations and reviews being Responsibility Index provides an undertaken by Ofgem, and a number of authoritative benchmark for companies UK government policy developments, could to evaluate their management practice in reinforce some perceptions of the extent of four key areas of corporate responsibility the risk associated with the impact of public community, environment, marketplace policy or regulatory developments.
SSE is and workplace and performance in a range fully engaged with all key stakeholders and of environmental and social impact areas believes that Ofgem and the UK government material to their business.
