SSL aims to operate in a way which reflects our values, while understanding and responding to Corporate stakeholder views and connecting business decisions to environmental, ethical and social concerns.
responsibility We have developed a new framework for our approach to corporate responsibility which is tailored to the needs and development of SSL.
This will enhance awareness of our commitment in this area and maximise the benefits being achieved by developing a coherent and co-ordinated approach.
The new framework has four core elements: In the Marketplace, In the Workplace, In the Environment and In the Community: In the Marketplace: covers the whole supply chain from selection of raw materials, third-party supplier assessments, in-house manufacture, packaging, delivery to customers and responsible and effective communication with consumers.
In the Workplace: reflects the core areas of the Global HR strategy resourcing, reward, communication and development and health and safety for all employees.
In the Environment: refers to SSLs commitment to continual improvement in its practices in environmental care, review of its environmental performance and use of sustainable resources.
In the Community: relates to work carried out by SSL in the global, national and local communities.
It includes areas such as the activities of the Durex Network, relationships with national health authorities, local social responsibility programmes as well as SSLs responsibilities to shareholders and investors.
We have set five objectives for 2008 09 and are in the process of developing a five-year plan to ensure a sustainable approach is achieved in each of these areas.
Our objectives for 2008 09 are: Training and development: continuing the expansion of the three-tier training and development programme into new countries providing more opportunities for our employees to improve their business awareness as well as technical and personal skills.
Health and safety: to build upon a positive, behaviour-led, safety culture with an initial focus on developing new health and safety procedures at manufacturing sites.
Durex Network: to continue to lead and participate in activities to raise awareness of HIV AIDS, safer sex and consistent condom use.
Environment: increasing awareness of environmental issues by establishing expertise across SSLs operations and assessment of the full impact of green consumerism and how it affects SSLs commercial operations.
Supply chain: to develop and commence implementation of a standard supplier assessment process and code of conduct across all business categories.
expanding our focus 21 In the marketplace We aim to ensure that we take care of our consumers by providing products for their use that are safe and effective, are sourced from a supply chain that is ethical and delivered through business practices that are legal, ethical and socially responsible.
We have robust quality and compliance procedures and management systems across our business which help safeguard our consumers.
Due to the complexity and scope of this area we are still in the process of developing and refining the holistic approach.
As stated in the objectives above, our aim for 2008 09 is to build a platform to standardise the assessment process for selecting suppliers across all product categories to encompass quality, environment, health and safety, ethics and human rights issues.
Protecting our consumers and our brands Counterfeit products erode the prestige, profitability and reputation of premium brands and protection of consumers is at the heart of our approach to dealing with this.
Whilst stamping out counterfeit products at source is not easy, we have developed robust procedures and controls which help identify genuine Durex from counterfeits.
One such measure is the provision of specially produced information leaflets to customs officers in the European Commission to assist them in identifying the fake products.
However, if counterfeit products have entered a country, we work closely with the regulatory agencies to take all the steps necessary to act in the best interests of consumers.
In addition, during 2008 09 we will implement a new, advanced anti-counterfeit labelling system for all Scholl footwear sold in Europe.
REACH During 2007 08, we began the registration process to comply with REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals as adopted by the European Union.
Under the terms of REACH, industry is required to register certain substances that are manufactured, imported or used in Europe.
In the workplace By creating a positive and safe working environment for our employees, which supports their professional and personal development: encourages open and honest communication: provides reward packages to drive behaviours that are aligned with business objectives: looks to attract and retain talent: and by encouraging behaviour-led safety, SSL supports motivated, successful people who are passionate about our future.
Professional and personal development Training and development is an important part of attracting and motivating talented people.
We are continuing the expansion of our three-tier training and development programme which Employees by geography 1 1 1.
Americas 50 2 2 Total 5,350 3 Employees by function 1 1 1.
Commercial 2,400 2 2 Total 5,350 1 Includes 2,000 employees at our joint ventures in India 2 Headcount as at 31 March 2008 22 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Wednesday 9.32pm Durex Play Ultra provides 40 minutes of quivering pleasure, and, as it is now waterproof, part of the fun will be experimenting with where and which way to wear it for maximum stimulation.
23 covers three core areas personal skills development, business awareness and lifestyle into new geographical areas.
A specific initiative aims to foster a culture of innovation for our marketing teams refer to page 18 for further information.
We recognise and value the importance of our employees and how we treat each other in our working environment.
Reflecting this, we launched a new programme Dignity at Work to build upon awareness of the issues affecting and resulting from our behaviour at work.
This approach to Dignity at Work is fundamental in defining and developing our organisational culture and is entirely aligned with SSLs vision to become and remain Successful Socially responsible Lively and our ABC operating principles.
The objectives of the Dignity at Work training programme are to understand clearly what we mean by Dignity at Work, the impact of behaviours at work, the responsibilities of every employee and to provide practical guidelines in dealing with related issues in the workplace.
This programme was initially launched in the UK, but the principles it espouses will form the basis for a global employee code of conduct to be developed during 2008 09.
Open and honest communication A culture of open and honest communication is key to a successful business.
We have designed our internal strategy to focus on three areas: people, brands and business performance.
We recognise that two-way communication is very important and welcome feedback from all our employees.
We hold global employee surveys on a biannual basis.
Our second will be held in October 2008 which will cover areas such as leadership, communication, satisfaction and motivation.
As a brand-led company, we aim to ensure that all employees, whatever their role or wherever they are located, have the opportunity to learn about our brands and latest products through distribution of posters, knowledge-based factfiles, briefing notes and samples.
We continue to support all our communication programmes through our toolbox employee magazine Be Inspired, intranet Insight and poster campaigns supporting SSLs vision and values.
Attracting talent We aim to attract highly talented people with the appropriate balance of competencies, potential and cultural fit with our organisation to help take SSL to the next level of development.
We are committed to recognising and encouraging diversity across the organisation and espouse the principle of equality of opportunity for all employees regardless of gender, race, age, religion or sexual orientation.
We aim to give people with a disability or who become disabled whilst in our employment the same opportunities for career progression and training as other employees.
Creating a safer workplace Providing a safe working environment for our employees has always been a high priority for SSL, and it continues to be so.
A new five-year programme has been launched with the objective of ensuring We recognise and value the importance of our employees and training and development is an important part of attracting and motivating talented people 24 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2008 a positive safety culture throughout all SSL sites with an initial focus on manufacturing and logistics, then roll-out in subsequent years to commercial offices.
With the focus on educating people to behave in the right way to prevent accidents, our target is to achieve a zero accident rate over the longer term.
This programme follows recent successes achieved at a number of sites, for example our manufacturing facility at Redruth has recently been accredited with OHSAS 18001 certificate for its occupational health and safety management systems: and our commercial office in Budapest received The Healthy Workplace Award presented by The American Chamber of Commerce for creating a working environment which is ergonomically designed and where various initiatives have been introduced to encourage a healthier lifestyle.
In the environment In response to the rise in the level of awareness of environmental issues and the importance of these in relation to manufacturing processes, product development and material sourcing, we have redefined our environmental programme.
Further information on this new programme and our performance against our environmental targets can be found in the Environment Report on SSLs website www.
com A sustainable future For the first time, SSL participated in World Environment Day in June 2007.
Led by the United Nations Environment Programme UNEP, the theme was climate change.
A range of activities was organised at SSL sites across the world to heighten awareness of how we can contribute to minimising our effects on climate change.
Using materials sourced from UNEP together with hints and tips on being more aware of how we use energy, employees at SSL sites developed a wide range of initiatives.
These ranged from installing a device to turn off lights automatically at times when the offices are empty in Thailand, to planting trees in India, to competitions with environmental and recycling themes run for employees children at Redruth.
In the community SSL continues to support global, national and local communities through the ongoing development of the Durex Network, working in partnership with third-party organisations and supporting employees in their own endeavours.
Durex Network The Durex Network is a key player in the global sexual health arena.
Over the past year, the Networks social marketing, advocacy and research work have succeeded in firmly positioning it as an expert in the field, and with it, reaffirming that SSL is committed to helping improve sexual health worldwide.
The success of Yaari Dosti, a comprehensive behaviour-change initiative based in Mumbai and Gorakhpur SSL employees at Redruth who took part in World Environment Day activities.
25 in India, has been a major social marketing milestone.
The project, designed to improve young mens attitudes towards gender roles, was led by a partnership between the Durex Network and several nongovernmental organisations.
The Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS, TB and Malaria, of which SSL is a founding member, showcased Program H, one of the Durex Networks joint initiatives, as global best practice in a report on the feminisation of HIV AIDS.
Research has brought several successes too: the 2007 Face of Global Sex report was presented at several high-profile, global sexual health conferences, and two scientific papers were published in the European Journal of Contraception and Foreign Policy Magazine.
Some new tools have also been developed to help further raise the Durex Network profile.
Challenges, the new, quarterly, Durex Network e-newsletter, was created to explore key issues in the global sexual health arena.
The newsletter, now in its 4th issue, is increasingly being referenced on sexual health websites, proof of its growing success.
And the Durex Network is now online at www.
This new platform will be crucial in continuing to raise awareness of the work we are doing via the Durex Network.
Looking ahead, the Durex Network is set to carry onward and upward with further invitations to present at conferences including the 2008 Global Health Council Conference and the publication of the 2008 Face of Global Sex report which will look at sexual confidence.
Helping to change lives During 2007, in partnership with youth-led international development agency Students Partnership Worldwide SPW, five SSL employees each spent two weeks using their professional skills to assist in the development of SPW organisations in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia.
SPWs methodology is to place young people at the forefront of change and development to address HIV AIDS, sexual and reproductive health, environmental and educational issues.
Through implementing a new accounting and reporting system: developing communication strategies to help attract additional funding and recruit volunteers: and building techniques and processes to support appraisals, motivation and delegation, SSL employees from the UK, Poland, the Netherlands, Hungary and Germany contributed greatly to the ongoing development of the local SPW organisations in countries as wide-ranging as Zambia, Nepal and Zimbabwe.
Through this partnership, our employees benefited from gaining different life experiences and also from the opportunity to provide value-added benefits for communities in remote parts of the world.
We plan to continue this partnership with SPW in 2008 by expanding the programme to offer a further 10 placement opportunities to SSL employees globally.
Local country initiatives Our commercial and manufacturing units take their responsibility towards aiding their local communities very seriously.
During 2007 08, activities have included construction of tsunami cyclone shelters in India, promoting the importance of mathematics in the workplace for school children in Peterlee, UK and environmental improvement at the public Bangsaen Beach in Thailand.
Experiences of SSLs employees during their SPW placements.
26 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Thursday 7.13am Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream is a clinically proven fast-acting solution for repairing rough, dry and cracked skin which is specially concentrated for the skin on the heel with visible results in just three days.
