but also that we can speed up our innovation in marketing as well.
Further emphasising the importance of innovation, we have strengthened and consolidated our existing research and development centres, located at our manufacturing facilities in India and Peterlee meanwhile closing down a small site in Cambridge and created a new technical centre at the Thailand factory.
Global compliance Compliance with global product regulations is a vital element for business growth.
To ensure that we are fully supporting our global business we have restructured our Group Regulatory function so that it can become truly customer-focused and proactive in providing support, not only to our current product portfolio but also to our stream of new products.
Scholl footwear in Europe As part of developing the European Scholl footwear business, we have devised a new organisational structure to ensure our strategy can be implemented effectively.
We aim to deliver our operational objectives through supply chain management, quality control, sales and marketing expertise focused on the needs of each of the heartland pharmacy sector and the developing mainstream shoe trade channel.
People To drive business growth, we must have the right people with the right skills, competencies and potential doing the right jobs.
We manage our pool of talent to achieve this.
By providing development opportunities, through different work experiences and training programmes, we can help our employees to achieve their maximum potential and contribution to the business.
As a brand-led company, developing our marketing talent pool is crucial, for example following an initial European marketing course held in Paris in 2006, a second workshop on Consumer Drive and Innovation was held in November 2007.
Marketeers from across Europe worked in teams to identify breakthrough solutions to lifes problems with products that are not currently available.
The objective was to foster a culture of innovation, to enhance teamworking and to develop core marketing skills across our European team.
The programme provided the opportunity for people from different countries and cultures to work together.
A similar programme is being rolled out for our marketeers in Asia Pacific commencing in June 2008.
Our approach, wherever possible, is to promote employees from within and, to facilitate this, we are in the process of implementing a systematic, Group-wide standard approach to succession planning which not only recognises individual development profiles but also ensures that we have provision in place to maintain business continuity.
Standardising the approach on a global basis means that we can gain better understanding of our employees and our current business needs.
More information about our training and development programmes, communication and resourcing, is on page 22.
SSL European marketeers during the Consumer Drive and Innovation workshop.
18 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2008
