How we run the business Corporate social responsibility For Tate & Lyle, corporate social responsibility equates to applying our four core values safety, integrity, knowledge and innovation to the way we run our business.
This means continuous progress in achieving the highest standards of safety, considering the environmental impact of every aspect of what we do, and treating our employees, suppliers and the communities in which we work as long-term partners.
Putting these concerns at the centre of our business Safety requires proactive management at every level within the Company.
The Board reviews Tate & Lyles policies and Tate & Lyle has no higher priority than safety, which we performance annually, and the Chief Executive is the believe is fundamental to running a successful business.
Board member accountable for all aspects of This means ensuring safe and healthy conditions for corporate social responsibility.
everyone at our sites: employees, contractors and visitors.
By reporting, recognising and rewarding safety Revising the Business Code of Conduct performance, we aim to ensure that all our operations Our Business Code of Conduct the Code governs our focus on continuous improvement.
approach to corporate social responsibility.
The Code applies unconditionally to all parts of the wholly owned Overview Group, and we also aim to apply the Code in those Our employee safety performance showed good operations in which we have a 50% stake or more.
improvement in 2007, with progress in all areas.
Where we have a minority stake, we encourage our However, while employees efforts have paid off, partners to adopt the Code.
we were disappointed that our contractors safety results were down on a particularly good previous year.
Over the past year, we have updated our Code to ensure it is relevant to todays business, and the expectations of external stakeholders.
Our first step was to conduct an internal consultation process with senior managers from all parts of our global operations, to get their views on what is important to their part of the business, and to their customers and suppliers, in their respective geographies.
We then worked with the consultancy Business for Social Responsibility, a global expert in corporate social responsibility, to redraft the Code in light of these views and taking into account best practice.
The new Code was approved by the Board in April 2008.
We are now communicating the Code to business partners and all employees, and will include training where relevant.
The Code will help us ensure our business sets and Our lockouttagout system helps ensure the safety of everyone upholds consistently high standards across the world.
working on a piece of equipment.
68 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Group safety index Benchmarking safety Benchmarking safety recordable injury rate lost-time accident rate 3.51 2.84 1.72 2.41 2.08 7.40 5.30 2.00 5.80 1.92 0.80 1.03 4.80 3.00 1.10 3.00 0.51 0.29 0.92 US industry 4.40 US industry 2.30 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 A B C D E F G A B C D E F G The smaller the index, the better A US food manufacturing A US food manufacturing the performance.
B US grain milling B US grain milling C US corn refiners C US corn refiners Our target is zero for every D US sugar industry D US sugar industry Tate & Lyle operation.
Tate & Lyle Tate & Lyle E Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas E Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas F Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe F Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe G Sugars Europe G Sugars Europe Number of injuries per 200,000 employee hours Rate of recordable injuries sufficiently serious to requiring more than first aid.
result in lost work days or restricted work activities.
US industry statistics as reported by the US industry statistics as reported by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Employee safety results for calendar year 2007 Contractor safety results for calendar year 2007 Most locations equalled or improved on their 2006 For the fourth consecutive year we have compiled performance, including 15 that reported no lost-time contractor safety statistics.
One consequence of heavy accidents and ten that reported no recordable injuries for construction activity this year has been an unfortunate the year.
We were pleased that our overall results returned worsening of our contractor safety statistics, although to the pattern of improvement we had seen in previous they are still considerably better than 2005.
We are years, with all our measures showing better performance pleased, however, that our contractor safety statistics compared with calendar year 2006 results.
still compare favourably with those reported by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Group safety index weighted average of injuries sustained in the workplace across Tate & Lyle, with Compared with the 2006 calendar year results: more severe incidents having greater impact improved by 13.7%.
Contractor safety index worsened by 22.6%.
Recordable injury rate injury requiring treatment Recordable injury rate improved by 2.9%.
beyond first aid improved by 19.7%.
Lost-time accident rate worsened by 1.9%.
Lost-time accident rate recordable injury sufficiently Severity rate worsened by 30.6%.
severe to result in lost work days or to restrict the employees ability to perform his her job improved Benchmarking results by 13.5%.
Contractor safety continues to compare well with the Severity rate number of work days lost due to injuries US Bureau of Labor Statistics 2006 the most recent data per 200,000 employee hours improved by 13.1%.
The Bureau reports the overall recordable injury rate per 200,000 employee hours for US contractors to be Benchmarking results 5.50 against 1.67 at Tate & Lyle, and the overall lost-time The USA and Europe compile safety statistics differently accident rate to be 2.00 against our 0.55. and therefore comparisons are difficult.
However, we can compare the performance of each of our divisions with results from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The most recent results available from the Bureau are from 2006, with the exception of the US corn refiners, whose results are from 2007.
Again this year, our divisions are outperforming the average reported standard for their peers in their respective sectors and in the US private sector as a whole.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 69 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR How we run the business Corporate social responsibility Benchmarking Benchmarking contractor safety contractor safety lost-time accident Contractor safety index recordable injury rate rate 1.25 1.77 4.32 14.80 7.45 3.36 4.61 0.17 3.63 5.32 3.77 12.48 2.86 6.04 0.97 2.05 0.00 0.00 1.67 5.50 0.55 2.00 A A A B B B C C C D D D E E E F F F A B A B 2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 A Tate & Lyle A Tate & Lyle A Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas B US industry B US industry B Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe C Sucralose Number of injuries per Rate of recordable injuries D Sugars Europe 200,000 employee hours sufficiently serious to result E Citric acid requiring more than first aid.
in lost work days or restricted F Sugars Vietnam work activities.
US industry statistics as reported by the US Bureau US industry statistics as of Labor Statistics.
reported by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Managing safety Awards Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy workplace for To qualify for entry to our World Class Safety Excellence our people requires effective, proactive management.
awards programme, plants must: We operate network safety committees in the Americas and Europe that share knowledge and experience between operate the entire year without lost time: plants with the aim of ensuring consistently high standards have active employee participation in their safety of safety across Tate & Lyle.
The core elements of our programme: approach to safety are: have an active auditing programme: and demonstrate adherence to Tate & Lyles standards during emphasis on the importance of behaviour by executive, management and network audits.
encouraging a culture of safety at all locations: improving communications and sharing best practice 2007 winners were: throughout the Group: the auditing of safety and loss control programmes: and large plant over 250,000 employee hours per year : the active involvement of senior executives in auditing Jurong Island, Singapore: and promoting safety.
small plant fewer than 250,000 employee hours per year : Plaistow, UK: and Projects and activities most improved safety performance Our network safety committees have worked on a number Europe: Koog an fide zaan, The Netherlands of programmes this year, including: Americas: Tate & Lyle Grain, USA.
establishing a technical framework for applying Outlook Tate & Lyles safety and safety engineering standards Contractor safety and behavioural auditing will be globally: important areas to focus on in 2008.
We are developing conducting behavioural audits across the Group: and a tracking system for behavioural audits, which will allow recognising and encouraging contractor safety us to analyse trends more effectively and therefore focus performance through contractor safety committees better on what our main issues are.
By focusing on the and award schemes.
importance of behaviour, increasing our efforts to improve contractor safeworking systems, focusing on leading safety indicators, confirming best practice and promoting the active involvement of employees in safety efforts, our aim is to improve performance against all our safety measures in 2008.
70 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Environment need for replanting.
It is then transported to our European refineries by ship.
Our current secondary carbon footprint Tate & Lyle believes that companies must take steps is around 0.43 tonnes of CO per one tonne of sugar 2 to manage their impact on the natural environment.
produced, which means that the carbon footprint of a As a consequence, we are committed to conducting our bag of sugar made from cane sugar is currently about business in a manner that is sensitive to the environmental half that of beet sugar.
The carbon footprint of cane sugar needs of the communities within which we operate.
We aim produced at our Thames Refinery will be reduced by 25% to achieve this by upholding defined, key environmental in just over one year when our new biomass boiler comes standards in all of our operations, and we actively on stream in March 2009. encourage our business partners to demonstrate similar levels of commitment.
We then rolled out a model to measure the primary carbon footprint for our large sites across all divisions.
A primary All our locations fully integrate environmental management carbon footprint measures the carbon associated with into their operational systems and procedures.
The Board production at a specific site.
This is the most applicable reviews environmental performance and our policy annually.
measure for a business-to-business company, as the ingredients produced are then used in a wide range of Overview other goods.
Managing our impacts to produce a more positive result is good for the environment and also brings economic Our current primary carbon footprint across all major sites benefits to Tate & Lyle.
When reviewing our environmental is 0.39 tonnes of CO per tonne of production.
Because 2 footprint, it has always been Tate & Lyles policy to focus this is a relatively new area of analysis, it is difficult at this particularly on those impacts that have most effect on stage to benchmark our performance against others.
the environment and over which we have direct control.
However, we hope that by calculating our total carbon Our three most significant environmental impacts are, footprint, we will be much better able to manage our in order of magnitude, energy use, water use and overall impact on the environment and can use it to non-hazardous solid waste production.
Energy use is benchmark our own performance year on year.
by far our most significant impact, and we therefore give it the highest priority.
Revising our environmental policy Tate & Lyles environmental policy, which applies to all parts of the Group, was updated this year to bring it into line with current best practice.
A copy of our policy can be found on our website at www.
We also adopted an environmental mission statement covering the following points: as a minimum, we comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and we exceed local requirements or legislation where commercially feasible: we make continuous efforts to prevent pollution and improve environmental performance throughout all our activities: we seek to minimise the use of energy, materials and natural resources: we strive to develop renewable sources for energy The new water treatment system at our Sagamore, Indiana, plant and materials used in our processes: has reduced water discharge to the city of Lafayette by 330,000 we assess environmental risks associated with existing gallons per day.
and new activities or when decommissioning facilities, and establish controls to ensure that any risks remain Carbon footprint at an acceptable level: In 2007, with the help of environmental consultancy URS, we develop renewable products for our customers we developed a carbon footprint model to measure the to help them reduce their impact on the natural impact of our operations on the environment.
We began environment: by measuring the carbon footprint of our UK cane sugar we encourage all employees to respect and have refining business from sugar cane field to supermarket concern for the environment through procedures shelf.
This is known as secondary carbon footprint data, and training: and as it covers cultivation to disposal.
Raw cane sugar milling we have clearly defined and communicated procedures is almost carbon neutral.
Cane grows in the field, waste as part of our management systems for achieving fibre from the cane powers the factory and the cane these commitments.
re-grows each year, usually up to five times without the Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 71 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVER OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR VIEW OF THE YEAR How we run the business Corporate social responsibility Group non-hazardous Group energy index Group water index solid waste index 0.83 0.84 0.81 0.80 0.79 0.81 0.80 0.80 0.78 0.81 1.07 1.16 1.32 0.93 1.02 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 The smaller the index, the better The smaller the index, the better The smaller the index, the better the performance.
Calendar year 2007 results To help reduce energy costs and to improve our We focus our measurement and our improvement efforts environmental performance, we have developed proprietary on the areas that have most environmental and financial technology to use renewable energy sources biomass in impact.
Compared with 2006 results: our plants.
During the year, construction began on our 20 million project to build a biomass boiler at Thames Energy consumption reduced by 1.3%.
Refinery, UK, which is on target to be completed by Water consumption increased by 3.8%.
This will supply 70% of the refinerys energy Non-hazardous solid waste production requirements.
We are using similar technology at our new increased by 9.7%.
corn wet mill which is under construction at Fort Dodge, Iowa.
We are also exploring the potential application of Every 1% improvement in our energy index offers a this technology at other plants around the world.
cost saving estimated at 1.7 million.
An equivalent improvement in the water index would save 100,000 Violation, abatement and compliance orders and, in the non-hazardous solid waste index, 17,500.
The vast majority of our operations completed 2007 without incident.
Where Tate & Lyle inadvertently This year we again did not achieve our Group target contravened regulations, largely to do with emission of an annual 3% reduction on a per unit basis in energy levels, we reacted immediately to correct the problems.
consumption, although as a result of our continuous investment programmes we were pleased to have achieved Managing environmental impacts a slightly greater reduction than the previous year.
However, Managing environmental impacts is very important at we did not succeed in reducing Group water consumption Tate & Lyle.
Environmental risks are included in the or non-hazardous solid waste production, and therefore Group-wide risk management process, and are reviewed improvements to both these indices are important targets and assessed regularly.
For more information, see risk for 2008. factors on page 34 and corporate governance on page 66.
In January 2008, Tate & Lyle was one of 20 leading food Measuring data and drink companies to agree to a UK industry-wide We collect detailed data and report results from each commitment to improve water efficiency and reduce operating unit quarterly, using a comprehensive system water use.
This agreement was jointly developed by the that has been validated by our Global Audit and Assurance UK Food and Drink Federation and resource efficiency department.
We then normalise the data to reflect the experts Envirowise.
This protects the commercial sensitivities of the data while allowing us to Investing in renewable energy sources report publicly on our progress, and make comparisons Reducing energy consumption gets more difficult each between years.
The results are then aggregated to create year as we produce more value added products, which a single set of indices for the Group, adjusted to take use more energy than producing our traditional products.
account of acquisitions and disposals.
Energy is a particular concern for us, because not only is it a big contributor to our overall carbon footprint, but it is also one of the most significant costs in our business.
72 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Management systems Employee health and wellbeing Every operating unit has an environmental management system.
Each unit is required to assess its environmental At Tate & Lyle, we aim to lead the way in employee health.
impact and develop an improvement plan based on Programmes will differ across the Group according to local identified areas of priority, focus and opportunity, in line with needs, but all are based on the principle that the Company the Groups overall environmental management strategy.
has a role to play in helping employees improve their health by providing information, advice and other support on Capital projects are assessed for their environmental impact, and we investigate whether there are more health and wellbeing.
environmentally sound ways of achieving our aims.
Each operating unit has incident, emergency and contingency plans.
These are regularly updated to meet new conditions and requirements.
We have crisis management procedures to provide an effective response in case of incident or emergency, including escalation to the Group Crisis Management Team when appropriate.
Training Employees receive regular training on managing environmental impacts and changes in legislation, so that they are always aware of relevant issues.
Many operating units have environmental management committees that meet regularly to discuss progress.
The occupational health clinic at Thames Refinery, London, UK.
Customers and suppliers We work closely with our customers to ensure our systems meet their requirements.
We brief all contractors Calendar year 2007 highlights on key environmental issues to make sure that we and UK they are managing our environmental impact effectively.
Tate & Lyles occupational health programme includes health promotion activities, an occupational health clinic, Outlook and advice on healthy eating and counselling services.
Energy consumption will continue to be our major It has been used as a model for other businesses and environmental challenge, as energy costs rise and we look public sector organisations by the UK Department of to reduce our per unit carbon emissions.
By continuing Healths Business Communities of Health initiative.
to invest in reducing per unit consumption, exploring In 2007, we were invited to run workshops at the Skills alternative energy sources and technology, and encouraging for Health Pan London Healthcare Employer Fair to help a culture of concern for environmental issues at all our others learn from our programme.
plants, we aim both to control costs and improve our impact on the environment.
Tate & Lyle won a number of awards in 2007, including the vocational rehabilitation award from Occupational Health magazine, and a silver award for our active backcare management programme at the UK Food and Drink Federation Community Partnership Awards.
Sandra Neylon, who leads our occupational programme, was also awarded the East London Business Alliances Health Programme Supporter of the Year Award for her wide-ranging contribution.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 73 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVER OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR VIEW OF THE YEAR How we run the business Corporate social responsibility Developments in our UK programme this year include: Commercial partners suppliers support for giving up smoking in association with the Good, long-term relationships with our partners and statutory ban on smoking in public places, which came suppliers are very important at Tate & Lyle.
We have a into force on 1 July 2007: consistent, Group-wide approach, based on our Code stress risk assessment training for managers in line of Conduct, which covers purchasing strategies at global, with the Health and Safety Executives best practice regional and local levels.
Supply chain ethics are important guidelines: to us, and we are committed to sharing best practice baby care first aid classes: and improving standards among suppliers.
comprehensive travel advice and support, including inoculations: participation in the training of general practitioners doctors : and support for national campaigns for back care, prostate and breast cancer.
Europe Many of our mainland European plants offer similar health programmes to the UK.
These include Companysponsored fitness programmes, health and wellbeing awareness campaigns, healthy menu options in employee restaurants and annual health and fitness check-ups.
USA Tate & Lyle continues to encourage employees to adopt Sugar cane growing in the Peoples Democratic Republic of Laos healthy lifestyles by offering tools and programmes, from where raw sugar will be shipped to Tate & Lyle for refining such as: from mid-2009 onwards.
Blue Points system: we offer this web-based system to all employees via our healthcare provider.
It provides Raw material suppliers a platform for employees to initiate and track healthy Growers and producers of corn and sugar cane, the raw behaviours.
Employees earn points for meeting certain materials we use to make our products, are our biggest health targets, which can be redeemed online for healthsuppliers, and we have developed long-standing and related items such as yoga mats and gym bags.
mutually beneficial relationships with them over many Health risk self-assessment: we encourage employees years.
We apply rigorous standards to our raw materials to complete this online self-assessment, which is then suppliers, and survey many of them on their ethical reviewed by medical experts from our healthcare commitment.
We work closely with them to ensure provider.
These experts then give feedback and compliance with our needs, implementing traceability and recommendations to employees.
ensuring that our customers requirements are fully met.
Health and fitness: many plants offer exercise facilities or Company-sponsored fitness programmes.
Sugar cane Stopping smoking weight management: employees Auditing the supply chain enrolled in the Blue Cross Blue Shield health plan have During the year, we introduced an auditing programme access to various programmes either to help stop designed to evaluate the social, ethical and environmental smoking or to manage their weight.
performance of our suppliers and to identify any shortcomings.
Where these are found, we will work with Outlook that supplier to encourage the necessary improvement.
Our long-term goal is to raise the standards of employee We do not purchase our raw sugar from farmers or sugar health and wellbeing throughout Tate & Lyle.
We will mills, but from contract parties, which are government continue to share best practice and ideas more widely organisations, co-operatives, etc.
Auditing the contract across the Group, as well as with other employers party alone will not necessarily determine or improve and healthcare partners, particularly in the UK.
conditions in the mills supplying sugar for our refining operations, or of the farmers themselves.
We have therefore taken the decision to audit our second-tier suppliers with, at this stage, some random sampling of farmers included.
74 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 In order to ensure independence, we have contracted Communities a third-party organisation, Cert ID, to run this auditing programme for us.
Cert ID is a European certification body Tate & Lyle aims to play a positive role in all the that undertakes social, ethical and sustainable auditing communities in which we operate.
Over the years we have against the internationally recognised ProTerra standard.
developed a Group-wide community involvement policy In a rolling three-year period, the auditing programme will that forms one of the core components underpinning cover over 80 supplying mills in 18 countries, with annual our ethical behaviour.
Our programme involves building repeat audits scheduled for those operations based in long-term relationships with local partners to deliver a countries of particularly high risk.
shared objective: establishing strong, safe and healthy communities by investing time and resources into Fairtrade projects that directly address local needs.
Reflecting our long-term commitment to our suppliers, in February 2008 we announced our decision to convert all UK retail cane sugar to Fairtrade by the end of 2009.
See page 16 in the sustainable sourcing section for more details.
Better Sugarcane Initiative We continue to support the Better Sugarcane Initiative BSI, a multi-stakeholder collaboration, whose mission is to promote measurable improvements in the key environmental and social impacts of sugar cane production and primary processing.
Hari Morar, Technical Director, Sugars for Tate & Lyle, is now chairing the BSI.
Over the last year, the initiative has made good progress in establishing itself on a firm operational footing, including finalising its core principles and criteria, terms of reference for technical working groups and appointing the group leaders, gaining recognition within the UK and internationally, and recruiting new members and supporters.
Children from Drew Primary School learn through art on the VerbalEyes programme with Tate Britain, London, UK.
Corn We process around 2% of the US corn crop each year.
Overview The long-term relationships we have built over the years Our community partnerships are well supported by with the family-owned grain businesses, local farmers employees, many of whom take part in our programmes.
and other commercial partners who provide us with corn Tate & Lyles community involvement benefits our ensure we have the supplies we need for our corn wet employees by enhancing their own local community, mills.
See page 14 in the sustainable sourcing section offering significant personal development opportunities for more details.
and making Tate & Lyle a company for which they are proud to work.
Sustainable procurement Aside from our raw material suppliers, we continue to Each year we support around 300 organisations, ranging review procurement to look at how we can encompass from long-established charities to fledgling community sustainability more fully in our strategies.
Community support takes many forms, depending on the needs of the organisation, and includes Outlook funding, employee volunteering, consultancy, donation of We aim to continue to improve standards in our supply products and equipment donation and, for selected chain through developing our work on supply chain ethics, partners, free use of the Companys warehousing, office risk management and sustainable procurement, and by accommodation and meeting room facilities.
working increasingly closely with suppliers to share best practice on a range of issues.
We will continue to develop We were delighted to win a silver Big Tick award at the our supplier audit programme to ensure consistently high UKs Business in the Communitys 2007 Jubilee Awards standards across the Group.
in recognition of our long-term partnerships with local organisations.
These stretch back almost 30 years in the case of Community Links and are aimed at supporting the regeneration of the local community around Thames Refinery.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 75 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR How we run the business Corporate social responsibility Charitable donations Europe not UK Our Corporate Donations Committee oversees community Support for children: our German business, policy throughout the world.
Our aims are to select projects G. C. HAHN & Co. supports a programme in Upsalathat target local needs and deliver the most positive circus, St Petersburg, that helps reintegrate children impact, and to ensure that ultimately our community who have been at risk back into the community.
involvement work reflects our broader responsibilities as Veronesi: our Italian business, Cesalpinia, supports a company.
Our guidelines for funding and support are: this cancer research charity.
Education 50%: USA Environment 25%: Boys & Girls Club of America: a programme Health 15%: and in Decatur, Illinois, designed to inspire and enable Arts 10%.
all young people to realise their full potential.
Education: Tate & Lyle gives regular support to a number of educational institutions, including Brush Actual community spend by allocation College, Associated Colleges of Illinois, and Milliken Year ended 31 March 2008 and Purdue universities.
Loudon Tate & Lyle Performing Arts Center: an Arts amphitheatre that holds a variety of entertainment 9% such as seasonal concerts and events.
Health 15% Education South Africa 56% Domino Servite School: Tate & Lyle has funded developments at this school in Kwazulu Natal, and is partnering with them in the long term to support the Environment running of the science laboratory.
20% Helenic Community of the West Rand: we support this Greek school community.
Kids Haven: we provide support for this childrens care centre.
In the financial year to 31 March 2008, Tate & Lyles total worldwide charitable donations were 642,000 2007 Vietnam 687,000.
Our total global pro bono contribution in goods Nghe An Tate & Lyle, our sugar business in Vietnam, and services is estimated to have been 254,000, up from supports the following programmes: 218,000 in the previous year.
Roads: provincial and communal road maintenance We support many initiatives and local organisations in the factorys cane plantation area.
involved in community regeneration around the world.
For the Future: supplying text books and school Listed here is a selection from each region in the past year.
stationery for under-privileged children when they start school.
UK Housing: helping to improve housing for cane farmers.
VerbalEyes: in partnership with Tate Britain, we continue to support this programme in which primary school China children complete a six-month project that uses original Nanji village, Nanj Cun West district: we provide waste works of art to improve language and literacy skills.
clearance and improvements to the village environment.
Community Links: a local charity working to regenerate the area of Newham in east London.
Employee volunteering Community Food Enterprise: a social enterprise Tate & Lyle employees around the world make huge efforts improving community access to affordable fresh fruit to support their local communities.
Their involvement is and vegetables in east London.
vital to maintain the long-term good relationships we have Eastside Young Leaders Academy: east London developed with these communities: volunteering also institution that works with young African and Caribbean brings skills and experience from the workplace into the men to inspire them to become leaders.
community that corporate funding alone cannot achieve.
Hoops4Health: a group of professional basketball Of the organisations we support, several have been players who work with primary schools to promote partners for over a decade and our employees join their healthy eating and emphasise the importance of committees, advocate their causes in the wider community physical exercise.
and provide mentoring and business skills.
76 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Results of 2007 Community Involvement Report UK survey: Tate & Lyles performance Marks out of 4 3.7 3.8 3.9 3.8 3.7 3.8 4.0 3.9 3.6 3.7 3.8 3.9 3.8 3.8 3.7 A A A A A B B B B B C C C C C 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 A Efficiency of response B Willingness to support C Contribution to the community Volunteering also brings benefits to Tate & Lyle.
Employees Managing our impact tell us that they benefit hugely from community work, Our aim is to ensure that all our sites around the which helps them develop their skills and become more world develop programmes in line with our community rounded as individuals.
A strong volunteer network is vital involvement policy, which is ratified by the Board.
We to the success of our community involvement programme, continue to make progress in this, but there are different and developing that network across Tate & Lyle is an levels of activity reflecting the history of Tate & Lyles important ongoing aim.
Here we highlight some of our involvement in the area and the size of our presence.
employees volunteering activities from around the world.
In locations where we have operated for a long time, such as the East End of London around Thames Refinery UK and Plaistow Wharf, and the Decatur, Illinois, area, we have Educational visits: 850 students and 100 teachers long-running partnerships with local organisations and visited Thames Refinery, Plaistow Wharf and Sugar Quay make a considerable contribution.
In other areas where during 50 curriculum-based visits.
we have recently acquired sites or built new plants, our Gifted & Talented: Tate & Lyle supports the UK involvement is at an earlier stage.
Our aim continues to be governments programme for gifted and talented to share best practice and improve internal standards and children, including an art project hosted at Sugar Quay reporting around the world through our global Corporate and a maths event held at Thames Refinery.
Donations Committee, so that all parts of the Group develop Supporting teachers: working with the Newham mutually beneficial long-term community partnerships.
Education Business Partnership and the Royal Academy of Engineers, we hosted a Shape the Future personal UK community survey results development day for school teachers at our London plants.
Finding out from our partners what they think of our community involvement work is very important if we are USA to continue to improve our programmes and encourage Supporting universities: Tate & Lyle supports a number more employees to volunteer.
of research initiatives at local universities, while a number of senior executives support various educational This year, responses showed that we are continuing to programmes.
maintain our traditionally high level of performance.
Our Agricultural Day at Lafayette: employees from our contribution to the community was rated at 3.7 out of 4, plants in Lafayette and Sagamore volunteer to help while 69% of respondents reported an improved capability run the local agricultural day each year.
to help their target cause, which, while not as high as last BabyTalk: Tate & Lyle employees are supporters of this year, still remains significantly higher than previous years.
local organisation in Decatur, Illinois, which helps positively impact early child development.
Outlook The aim for the coming year will be to integrate further our community efforts around the world and particularly to share the benefits of our community involvement programmes with operations new to the Group.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 77 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR This section sets out our financial statements and other statutory information.
Our aim is to provide clear and comprehensive information to investors and other stakeholders in a manner that meets their needs.
Statutory information 79 Directors report 82 Directors remuneration report 94 Group financial statements 154 Parent company financial statements 160 Ten-year review non-statutory 162 Information for investors non-statutory 78 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008
