What we do People Running a diverse business like Tate & Lyle, which develops, manufactures and sells a huge variety of products and services to customers in different markets across the world, relies on a team of highly skilled, motivated people from a wide range of disciplines.
At 31 March 2008, Tate & Lyle employed 6,488 people in its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Our workforce encompasses a broad range of skills and Working across experience in areas such as food science, sales and marketing, engineering the world and business support services.
The pie chart below shows the split of 1 employees between our four divisions.
Talent management It is a key objective for the Group to attract and retain top-quality recruits, Sucralose and to ensure that our employees develop and grow in their roles and meet Food & Industrial 4% Ingredients, Americas new challenges as their careers progress.
To help achieve these objectives, 39% we have developed and are implementing The Tate & Lyle People Strategy.
Sugars This consists of four main components: 22% Behaviours for Success these encourage our people to display strong leadership at all stages of seniority by exhibiting identified key characteristics and behaviours we need for success, such as a focus on excellent customer service.
Food & Industrial Talent Management a system which addresses key business issues Ingredients, Europe 35% such as succession planning and filling development gaps to ensure we have the right skills to grow the Group at all levels.
1 For the continuing operations as at 31 March 2008 Leadership Curriculum this provides opportunities for all managers across the Group to improve their skills and expand their knowledge through a number of tailored programmes, seminars and courses.
Graduate Development a Group-wide graduate recruitment and development programme to attract and develop top talent and prepare them for key roles across the Group.
Our remuneration policies are designed to attract, retain and reward employees of the highest calibre and experience to help execute the Groups strategy.
32 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Heading Heading Working with talented people across diverse business functions from R&D to logistics both in the USA and internationally, is stimulating and hugely rewarding.
Mark Wenda, Vice President Sales and Marketing, Sweeteners, Americas Decatur, USA Year started: 1991 Due to our network of plants worldwide, opportunities exist within Tate & Lyle to develop professionally and gain experience across a range of engineering and science-related disciplines.
Marvin Wiederhold, Operations Manager, Sagamore, USA Year started: 1990 Since joining as a graduate, Promotion through the ranks, support from peers and from window clerk 12 years ago, encouragement to take on means I have a solid understanding responsibility has meant that of how distribution fits our strategy my career has developed and adds value to the business.
significantly in just five years.
Gary Copeland, Industrial Distribution Michelle Kozora, Food Scientist, Manager, Sugars, London, UK Technical Services, Decatur, USA Year started: 1996 Year started: 2003 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 33 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
