What we do Sustainable sourcing Ensuring we have a long-term, reliable supply of corn and cane sugar for our plants is essential.
This involves developing long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with growers, farmers and other commercial partners to secure supply, understanding commodity markets, and hedging costs where feasible.
Tate & Lyle was founded in the UK in 1921 but its roots can be traced back From farm to factory to a number of companies established in the middle of the 19th century focused on sugars in Europe, and corn milling in the USA and Europe.
Providing an efficient, high-quality service Tate & Lyle has been purchasing corn from US farmers and cane sugar from at our elevators helps us build strong, longa variety of countries for over a century.
Making sure we have high-quality raw term relationships with our corn suppliers.
materials at the right price is the starting point for how we do business.
In the USA, at harvest time, due to the high volumes, corn is delivered initially to the Corn elevators then sent on to our plants by Tate & Lyle purchases two types of corn: dent and waxy.
Dent corn is the river barge, rail car, or truck: during the rest of the year corn may also be most common crop and is used to make high fructose corn syrup, food starch, delivered direct to the plants.
Waxy corn has to be contracted direct from the farmer and has special functionality that makes it ideal for creating stabilisers, thickeners and emulsifiers for the food industry.
It is also used in adhesives and gums for the paper industry.
USA Running our plants 24 hours a day relies on good management of the corn supply chain.
We own a network of elevators silos that is responsible for purchasing millions of bushels of corn every year for our plants from farmerowned co-operatives, family-owned grain companies and farmer producers.
Corn purchase contracts may be negotiated with corn suppliers for delivery the same day, or in some cases delivery price and terms may be for delivery up to 18 months forward.
Tate & Lyle has recently added corn storage and unloading capacity at our processing plants and country elevator network to better service our suppliers.
Europe Our European business has three wholly owned plants, with another five in Central and Eastern Europe as part of our joint venture, Eaststarch.
Due to the sweetener quota system in Europe and other factors such as transport Wapella corn elevator at dusk, Illinois, USA infrastructure, our plants primarily serve local markets and are therefore significantly smaller than our US plants, processing in total just over two million tonnes of corn per year.
We purchase dent corn locally where possible, and commission waxy corn direct from European farmers for speciality food starch production at our plant in The Netherlands.
14 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 15 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR What we do Sustainable sourcing In terms of size and scale, this is the biggest ever Fairtrade switch by a UK company and its tremendous this iconic UK brand is backing Fairtrade.
Harriet Lamb, Executive Director, Fairtrade Foundation Fairtrade is like a door to a great opportunity within our community: it can help us build schools, health centres, clinics and much more.
For us, Fairtrade is a new beginning.
Giovanni Loria, Chairman of Corozal district, Belize Sugar Cane Farmers Association Fairtrade has become increasingly visible on the high street and this will only strengthen its presence up and down the country ultimately guaranteeing more farmers a fair price.
David McCullough, Trading Director, Oxfam Just good business Tate & Lyles UK retail sugar business goes Fairtrade.
Our decision to move our entire range of UK retail cane Over the years, these farming communities in Belize have sugars involved two years of planning and working in been affected by higher input prices and changes in the partnership with the Fairtrade Foundation to help cane EU market, not to mention natural disasters.
Now, every time farmers in Belize to meet Fairtrade standards.
This involved a customer buys a pack of Tate & Lyle Fairtrade cane sugar, working with over 6,000 smallholder farmers represented by the farmers will benefit from our commitment.
In the first the Belize Sugar Cane Farmers Association, and with Belize year alone, our move to Fairtrade will create an additional Sugar Industries, the sole sugar processor in the country.
return of at least 2 million in premiums for these communities.
This money will be invested collectively by farmers who decide democratically how to use it, overseen by an elected committee.
16 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Cane sugar Tate & Lyle produces over 1.3 million tonnes of cane sugar per year from our two refineries in Europe, and processes over a million tonnes of sugar cane at our factory in Vietnam.
While our Vietnamese operation sources from local growers, our European business secures supply from African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and least-developed countries under the EU sugar regime.
These suppliers have preferential access to the European sugar market under various agreements with the EU.
Reform of the EU sugar regime and resulting price cuts are affecting the whole of the supply chain, including the growers.
This means that maintaining strong working relationships with our suppliers is increasingly important to improve the profitability of the industry for all stakeholders and to ensure we can continue to source the cane sugar we need for our refineries.
During regular visits to our cane sugar Good relationships are based on open dialogue and ensuring that suppliers, we listen to whats important our refineries remain attractive destinations for suppliers.
It could be that they are investing in our plants both to expand our business and increase concerned about changes to EU legislation, or perhaps they have a efficiency.
One example from our UK refinery is the installation of new production or logistical constraint.
In 2007, our unloading equipment, which, over 20 years, Whatever the issue, we always aim had lifted some 18 million tonnes of raw sugar from vessels from across to find suitable solutions, which can the world, was replaced with new cranes, which will significantly increase sometimes be found from other parts reliability and prepare us for future opportunities for expanding output of the business.
In doing this and by at the refinery.
promoting responsible trade, we not only forge close partnerships, but also maintain the integrity of our cane sugar As well as refining sugar, our international sugar trading operation supply chain.
purchases and trades sugar in markets across the world.
Gavin Wakley, Ensuring a fair price through Fairtrade Raw Materials Purchasing Director, Sugars In February 2008, we announced our decision to convert all UK retail cane sugar to Fairtrade by the end of 2009, the largest ever switch to the ethical labelling scheme by any major UK food or drink brand.
The first product licensed to carry the Fairtrade mark is Tate & Lyle Granulated White Cane Sugar.
Tate & Lyles first accredited growerpartner is Belize, from whom we have purchased sugar for over 35 years.
This commitment will help small-scale sugar cane farmers in Belize to improve their livelihoods, and the Fairtrade premium they receive from us will be invested to develop sustainable communities.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 17 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR What we do Creating volume To create the hundreds of quality ingredients our customers want, we begin by processing large volumes of raw materials from which we create basic products that are either sold on or used as the starting point for developing speciality ingredients and branded goods.
Creating this volume and operating large-scale, efficient plants, allow us to keep unit costs low across the business.
Corn elevator at the Decatur plant, Illinois, USA 18 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Tate & Lyle operates over 50 production facilities mainly in the USA, Europe and South East Asia.
Tate & Lyle is US corn plants the largest cane sugar refiner in Europe, and in the USA, and elevators our corn milling plants process some 2% of the annual corn crop.
Our four major corn wet mills in the USA are strategically located in prime corn growing areas or near key markets.
These plants Investing in capacity process around 2% of the US corn crop every To grow our business to meet the increasing demands year.
We are also constructing a new corn of customers as they respond to consumer needs, we wet mill in Fort Dodge, Iowa, which is due are investing in capacity, both by expanding existing to be completed by March 2009, our first in plants and by building new plants.
By March 2009, the western corn belt.
we will have completed a major four-year programme of capital investment to support long-term growth.
Over the first three years of this programme, capital expenditure totalled more than 500 million above ongoing levels of depreciation.
We have recently expanded our US ingredient Fort Dodge under construction manufacturing facilities in Loudon, Tennessee, and Sagamore Sagamore, Indiana.
We have also doubled capacity Lafayette Decatur at our US SPLENDA Sucralose plant in McIntosh, Alabama, and have started up our new SPLENDA US cornbelt Sucralose facility in Singapore.
Loudon We are constructing a new corn wet mill in Fort Dodge, Iowa, which is due to be completed by March 2009.
This plant will produce industrial starch and ethanol.
It will free up capacity at our Sagamore, Indiana, plant, Corn processing plants Corn elevators as at which is currently used for producing industrial starches, 31 March 2008 to make value added food ingredients.
Manufacturing efficiency Operating our plants efficiently and safely at high volumes requires reliable and up-to-date manufacturing processes.
We have a highly qualified team of engineers who ensure that our plants function effectively and efficiently.
Our engineers are actively involved in the manufacturing line, and use a number of sophisticated computer-based process tools to track and model data to help identify opportunities for production efficiencies such as improving yields, saving energy or minimising waste.
When new products or processes have been developed, our team of engineers ensures that these are incorporated into our existing facilities quickly and efficiently, with minimum interruption to production.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 19 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR What we do Creating volume Researching new technologies Our research and technology team is dedicated to developing the latest Meeting demand engineering technologies, both for our existing plants and for new builds.
for growth Tate & Lyle acquired the SPLENDA Our new plant in Fort Dodge, Iowa, is being constructed using new Sucralose manufacturing business in 2004, proprietary technology that will increase starch yields and reduce energy consisting of one plant in McIntosh, Alabama.
This energy conservation technology, which will use To enable us to grow this business, our major a renewable energy source rather than fossil fuels, is also being introduced customers needed the security of supply in one of our oldest plants our UK cane sugar refinery in London afforded by a second facility.
Therefore, we and will be operational by March 2009 see page 22. built a new facility in Singapore, which was completed in 2007.
This facility makes a Tate & Lyle Process Technology new granulated form of SPLENDA Sucralose, As part of our Sugars business, we have a specialist team, Tate & Lyle Process specially developed for food customers.
This incorporated new technology, developed Technology, which provides support services, process engineering and design by our engineering team, and required expertise to the sugar cane industry worldwide.
At any one time, the team is recruiting around 40 Singaporeans who working on around 20 projects, which range from engineering feasibility studies were trained at our McIntosh, Alabama, to full refinery design.
Recent projects include designing new processes plant.
Sharing engineering expertise helps for customers in the Far East and India, designing and assisting with the us to continue to develop the worlds most commissioning of a large cane sugar refinery in Egypt and a liquid sugar efficient methods for manufacturing quality plant in Israel, and similar, smaller projects in Mexico, Central and sucralose on a commercial scale while South America.
meeting rigorous purity and hygiene standards.
Protecting our technical expertise To support our businesses and protect our competitive advantage, we maintain a significant number of patents.
Much of the product innovation and development work we do results in patentable or proprietary new technology.
We monitor market developments closely to identify any potential violations of our patents and intellectual property and take appropriate legal action where considered necessary.
A training session at our SPLENDA Sucralose facility, McIntosh, Alabama, USA 20 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Heading Heading Clockwise from top: Sagamore plant, Indiana, USA Lafayette plant, Indiana, USA Thames Refinery, London, UK Decatur plant, Illinois, USA Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 21 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
