Directors Report Corporate social responsibility Thomas Cook believed affordable travel could change ordinary peoples lives for the better.
Today, we are still inspired by that vision.
How we see CSR How we manage CSR Focus areas Thomas Cook had a clear vision when he CSR is recognised as key to the Group: These are the areas that particularly concern us in relation to our principal devised the first package holiday over 160 strategy and progress against targets are reviewed at the highest level.
The Boards stakeholder groups and activities: years ago.
He believed affordable travel could Health, Safety & Environmental Committee change working peoples lives for the better.
Customers meets regularly to review the management His company was inspired by a strong sense To succeed as a business, we have to build of health, safety and environmental risks of social justice and moral responsibility.
the best possible relationships with our and their impact on our activities, and customers and build trust with everyone Today, we are still inspired to deliver our the development and implementation we take on holiday.
We strive for continuous founders values.
We believe they make of relevant Group policies.
improvement across all our customer-facing a tangible difference to our customers It oversees the work of the Sustainability activities.
This was recognised by a number holiday experience and to all the other of industry awards during the year, including team, which formulates and implements people whose lives we touch.
three of the top British Travel Awards, CSR strategy, shares best practice around In our corporate social responsibility policy, the Group, and reports on performance.
two at the Globe Travel Awards including we define CSR as operating responsibly to Best Ski Activity Operator for the fifth year The teams primary role is to help secure minimise negative and enhance positive running, Best Sun Holiday Tour Operator the long-term sustainability of the business environmental, social and economic impact: also for the fifth year running at the Irish by integrating our CSR strategy into our ensuring the long-term sustainability of Travel Trade News Awards, and three top normal business culture.
It now has four our business and of the resources on awards at the Scottish Passenger Agents full-time professionals.
Association Awards, including overall Key stakeholders Best Tour Operator.
The nature of our business means that we Our stakeholders include customers, We listen to our customers through cannot treat CSR as peripheral or optional.
employees, investors, suppliers, local independent research and their direct The environment and communities in communities, industry partners, feedback, and use their comments to governments and non-governmental destinations where we operate are integral guide changes and improvements.
We pay organisations, in our source countries to the products we sell: protecting them particular attention to customers health and the destinations where we operate.
is fundamental to our business and to and safety: our move in 2008 to devolve everyone on whom our business depends.
We work with them on identifying the issues responsibility for this to the operating that can move our business forward.
In Manny Fontenla-Novoa divisions helps us respond quickly to local particular, we need the support of customers, Chief Executive officer conditions and regulatory requirements.
employees and suppliers: without them we Employees cannot achieve real sustainability, so we Read our CSR policy in full on our CSR website Our success depends absolutely on how attach particular importance to raising their at: http: csr.
co. uk well we recruit, develop, train and motivate awareness of CSR issues and work with them to enhance policies, standards and practices.
Since the merger, Thomas Cook Childrens Critical Care Centre In May 2008, Manny Fontenla-Novoa proudly opened the doors of the Thomas Cook Childrens Critical Care Centre at Londons Kings College Hospital.
This new 2.3m centre is one of the first of its kind in the UK, housing Paediatric Intensive Care and a specialised Paediatric High Dependency Unit.
Made possible by fundraising from Thomas Cook employees and the generosity of our customers, the state-of-the-art centre will treat more than 400,000 sick children each year.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW 2008 2008 priorities progress Details and further action Employees Launch share schemes for all employees, Achieved Save As You Earn SAYE launched internationally, with 10% take-up among eligible with shareholder approval.
Buy As You Earn BAYE launched in the UK with 6% take-up.
Maintain UK Investors in People accreditation.
Achieved Re-accredited, including prestigious World Class recognition.
Accreditation excludes Retail and Airline businesses.
Diversity training developed for new employees and managers, included in induction at all levels.
Local population profiling tool developed for recruitment.
Make UK health and safety management system more Achieved UK systems made more user-friendly.
Retail management system streamlined, with all risk user-friendly, with access for all Retail employees.
assessment forms and other information available online.
Work continues on new intranet.
Environment Create new and expanded Group Partially At draft stage.
Target date for publication July 2009. environmental policy.
Group audit now underway to ensure completion Appoint a member of staff dedicated to Achieved of other targets.
Report on CO emissions from UK airline in future.
Ongoing CO emission data published in main CSR report on www.
com 2 2 Cut Northern European airline fuel consumption Partially We set increasingly demanding standards to continue our long-term programme, and emissions per passenger km by 1% and cut achieved but narrowly missed last years targets.
cabin waste per passenger by further 5%.
Customers and products Comply fully with new EU regulations on access Achieved Work continues to improve access beyond statutory requirements.
to air travel for people with reduced mobility in force from July 2008.
Maintain IATA Operational Safety Audit IOSA Achieved We maintained our IOSA position: next full audit due February 2009. registration for the combined UK airlines.
Move suppliers towards recognised international Ongoing In the UK we continue to work with suppliers to reach Federation of Tour Operators fire and safety standards.
FTO standards, based on EU recommendations.
We are backing a major industry drive for uniform safety legislation throughout the EU.
Self-assessment protocols in place, web-enabled systems due 2009.
Work towards meeting UK Ofsted good practice Our Child Protection Policy applies both in the UK and in resorts.
We work with Ongoing guidance in all in-house childrens club facilities.
independent child protection consultants to monitor and enhance this policy.
Communities Raise 300,000 from customers for the Travel Foundation.
Ongoing Launch Thomas Cook Foundation as primary Launch planned for early 2009. vehicle for our corporate giving and support of employees charity work.
Ongoing Initial drafts shared with stakeholders for review before publication.
Appoint a member of staff dedicated to Achieved Appointed March 2008. sustainable tourism.
Audit a further 100 properties against Travelife criteria.
Extensive section included in new mini-site.
Expand information about animal welfare Achieved on customer websites.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 39 Directors Report Corporate social responsibility continued Thomas Cook has adopted a common set attractions and cultural heritage.
But if Responsible Large Tour Operator categories.
of five values as the template for employee managed irresponsibly, it can harm We constantly strive to reduce negative behaviour throughout the organisation communities and damage the human and impacts resulting from our operations and with an initial focus on one value in natural heritage that tourists have come to see.
help our suppliers to do the same.
We focus particular: united as one team.
In 2009, To avoid fostering these negative consequences, particularly on aviation emissions and noise, the emphasis will move to another of these we work closely with the Travel Foundation, natural resource use and waste management.
The PROUD an initiative launched by the UK Government Our work in these areas has gained considerable values are set out on page 26.
In 2008, we and major travel operators, which focuses impetus from the appointment of a full-time introduced share plans for all employees, on people and the environment in tourism environmental manager in September, after launched consistent rewards and succession destinations.
It has become one of our key a lengthy search for someone with the right planning for senior managers across partners and, in 2008, our customers raised qualications and experience.
We are making the Group, and created a fast-track over 350,000 towards its work.
progress in monitoring our environmental development programme for our highimpacts and fuel consumption and emission Supply chain potential employees.
data for our UK airline is included in our Our principal suppliers are hotel owners online CSR report.
This report includes some Home communities and operators.
We are working with them to data for energy consumption in our ofces.
We believe we should play an active part ensure increasingly high health, safety and In the meantime, we have developed in the communities where most of our environmental standards.
We have worked environmental labels for our UK aircraft eet: people live and work through encouraging with the Federation of Tour Operators FTO these give boarding passengers environmental charitable donations and by supporting to launch the Travelife Awards an EUinformation in a form similar to the labels employee volunteering and fundraising.
backed and internationally recognised used for cars and household appliances.
We have been developing a more coherent sustainability scheme for hotels and other The information will also be published framework for our support, including tourism partners.
To achieve a Travelife Bronze, on our UK airline website at establishing the Thomas Cook Foundation Silver or Gold Award, suppliers must be www.
We now as our primary vehicle for charitable giving audited across a wide range of sustainability need to work hard to create a more consistent by our customers and employees, who will criteria.
During the year we audited 113 programme with our airlines across the Group.
be invited to serve as trustees.
properties, and we currently feature over 70 award winners in our brochures.
During a More information Increasingly, we focus our community The Thomas Cook Group corporate website visit to Cyprus, members of our Sustainability and charitable support on causes related includes a CSR section which sets out our team completed eight Travelife audits while to children, education and the environment.
We also promoting water conservation the During 2008, the Paediatric Intensive Care and also publish an annual report on our CSR island is suffering critical water shortages Paediatric High Dependency Units opened in the priorities, activities and performance: to and hotels are keen to adopt the initiatives Thomas Cook Childrens Critical Care Centre in conserve resources this is available online they learned about during the audits.
We welcome your feedback on all pledge to cover the cost of building materials, Environment aspects of CSR and you can nd full reaching a final target of 2.3m through funds Our Group environmental policy commits contact details on the website.
raised from customers and employees.
us to doing as much as we can to protect the CSR website and annual CSR report: resources on which our business depends.
co. uk Our progress in these areas was recognised For destination communities and at the 2008 British Travel Awards, where we environments, tourism can bring great Email and contact details: won silver awards in the Most Environmentally http: csr.
co. uk tcg economic and social benets.
It also provides Responsible Airline and Most Environmentally services contact an incentive to preserve precious natural 1 Customers planting trees in Sri Lanka as part of a regeneration project after the tsunami.
2 Thomas Cook aims to build the best possible relationships with its customers.
