BUSINESS Corporate Headquarters Research and Development Our corporate headquarters seeks to foster a group-wide approach Innovation is essential to our success and is one of our primary to management while allowing the Markets and Professional bases of competition.
Our businesses are continuously engaged divisions sufficient operational exibility to serve their customers in research to develop new products and services, to improve effectively.
The corporate headquarters three primary areas and enhance the effectiveness and ease of existing products and of focus are strategy and capital allocation, technology and services and to develop new applications for existing products innovation and talent management.
The corporate headquarters and services.
is also responsible for overall direction on communications, investor relations, tax, accounting, finance, treasury and legal, Environmental Matters and administers certain human resources services, such as We believe that our business has a relatively low environmental employee compensation, benets administration and training impact, as we deliver most of our information and services and development.
electronically as opposed to print.
In 2008, we derived 90% of Our corporate headquarters are located in New York, New York our pro forma revenues from electronic, software and services.
with major operations in London and Eagan, Minnesota.
Electronic delivery improves our ability to rapidly provide additional products and services to our existing customers and to access Technology new customers around the world.
Moving more paper information to digital saves trees in printing and fossil fuel in shipping.
We maintain sophisticated infrastructures and highly developed online systems and support capabilities to provide our customers We also seek to operate our central data centers as efficiently with electronic products and services, primarily through the Internet.
We have installed videoconference units in our largest locations to reduce travel.
We are also creating a new We are continuing to develop our online delivery platforms, which data-gathering system to provide a more comprehensive utilize highly scalable technologies resulting in signicantly understanding of our global resource consumption baseline, enhanced capabilities.
Our platforms allow us to more easily concentrating on relevant indicators such as energy, water, waste combine content from our various online services, reduce product and paper consumption.
One additional way we address global delivery costs and reduce development time for new products and environmental challenges is through the information we provide services.
We continue to upgrade and standardize our applications to customers and the public.
Through Reuters Media, we provide and infrastructure, enabling us to enhance our ability to market news on these topics, and encourage debate and increased and sell products through the Internet.
awareness via dedicated environment-focused blogs and video channels.
Sales and Marketing We believe that our operations are in material compliance with We primarily sell our products and services directly to our applicable environmental laws, as well as laws and regulations customers.
Some of our businesses have regional sales relating to worker health and safety.
Compliance with these representatives in addition to a team of account managers and laws and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, sales representatives who work out of our ofces to ensure that a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or existing customers needs are met.
In addition, some of our competitive position.
businesses have regional sales forces that focus on marketing and selling products to customers located in a particular country or Corporate Responsibility area.
We sometimes supplement our regional sales and account management presence with a telemarketing group to assist in Corporate Responsibility CR is an integral part of the way we meeting our customers informational requirements.
As we integrate the Reuters businesses, we are drawing upon the heritage of both Thomson and Reuters to define In addition, we have been successful in selling some of our our CR efforts.
Our executive committee approved our CR policy products and services through the Internet.
Focusing some of our in 2008, establishing how we will manage our relationships marketing and sales efforts on Internet sales has allowed us to with stakeholders in four areas: our workplace employees, broaden our range of customers and reduce sales and marketing the community the places and societies in which we operate, costs.
A number of our businesses also use the Internet to provide the marketplace customers, suppliers and investors and the product support to existing customers.
By articulating focus areas, we are able to define our response to global standards and charters in ways that are Intellectual Property meaningful and relevant to our business.
Our immediate CR priorities are diversity, community impact, responsible sourcing Many of our products and services are comprised of information and the environment.
Additionally, in 2008, we launched our delivered through a variety of media, including the Internet, software-based applications, books, journals, compact discs, new Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to all staff.
During dedicated transmission lines and handheld wireless devices.
2009, we will launch our implementation plans for these Our principal IP assets include patents, trademarks, databases priorities, including measurement, reporting and governance.
Against each commitment, we will assign a business owner and and copyrights in our content and in our trade names.
We believe a performance target in order to meet legislative requirements, that our IP is sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted.
We also rely on condentiality agreements specic quantitative goals or our own CR ambitions.
Our to protect our rights.
In addition, we obtain significant content targets will be reviewed at least annually.
and data through third party licensing arrangements with content providers.
We have also registered a number of website domain names in connection with our publishing and Internet operations.
