The credit agreement contains certain customary afrmative and became the beneficial owner of more than 50% of our total voting negative covenants, each with customary exceptions.
In particular, interests, a change in control would occur.
the credit agreement requires us to maintain a leverage ratio of net debt as of the last day of each scal quarter to adjusted DLC Structure Documents EBITDA earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and The agreements and documents that govern and give effect to the amortization and other modications for the last four scal DLC structure are the following, all of which were entered into on quarters ended of not more than 4.5:1.
A change in control of April 17, 2008.
The DLC structure is also governed by provisions in Thomson Reuters would be an event of default under the credit the Thomson Reuters Corporation Articles of Incorporation and agreement, following which the lenders could decide to terminate By-laws and the Thomson Reuters PLC Articles and Memorandum the agreement.
If a person or group other than Woodbridge of Association, each of which are discussed below.
The directors of Canadian securities regulatory authorities.
Additional information Reuters Founders Share Company have a duty to ensure, to the is provided in the Dual Listed Company Structure section in this extent possible, that the Reuters Trust Principles are complied with.
The directors of Reuters Founders Share Company are experienced and eminent people from the world of politics, diplomacy, REUTERS TRUST PRINCIPLES AND REUTERS journalism, public service and business.
They generally have all FOUNDERS SHARE COMPANY held high ofces in their respective sectors and one has even been imprisoned as a proponent of democracy.
The directors Thomson Reuters is dedicated to upholding the Reuters Trust are selected by a nomination committee and proposed to the Principles and to preserving its independence, integrity and board of Reuters Founders Share Company for appointment.
freedom from bias in the gathering and dissemination of The nomination committee also has unique features.
Two of its information and news.
members are judges from the European Court of Human Rights The Reuters Trust Principles are: and assist in scrutinizing candidates suitability.
Our board has two representatives and Reuters Founders Share Companys board That Thomson Reuters shall at no time pass into the hands has five representatives, including its chairman.
Other members of any one interest, group or faction: are representatives of the press associations from the U. K. That the integrity, independence and freedom from bias of Australia and New Zealand.
Thomson Reuters shall at all times be fully preserved: The number of directors has to be at least 14 and not more That Thomson Reuters shall supply unbiased and reliable news than 18.
Directors have a minimum of two meetings per year.
services to newspapers, news agencies, broadcasters and other Directors receive reports on our activities in the different elds media subscribers and to businesses, governments, institutions, in which we operate and the directors meet with both our board individuals and others with whom Thomson Reuters has or and representatives of senior management.
Through Reuters may have contracts: Founders Share Companys chairman, regular contact is maintained with Thomson Reuters.
The relationship is one That Thomson Reuters shall pay due regard to the many of trust and confidence.
interests which it serves in addition to those of the media: and That no effort shall be spared to expand, develop and adapt the news and other services and products of Thomson Reuters so as to maintain its leading position in the international news and information business.
