Information that we INTEREST OF EXPERTS announce in the United Kingdom through RNS, a Regulatory Thomson Reuters Corporations auditors are  Service, is available on our website as well as on Coopers LLP, Chartered Accountants, Licensed Public Accountants SEDAR and EDGAR.
Toronto, Canada, who have prepared an independent auditors Additional information, including directors and ofcers report dated March 26, 2009 in respect of our consolidated remuneration and indebtedness, principal holders of our shares, financial statements with accompanying notes as at and for the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, as well plans, is contained in our management information circular dated as a report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial March 26, 2009, which has been prepared in connection with our reporting as of December 31, 2008.
 LLP upcoming annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 13, has advised that they are independent with respect to our 2009.
Copies of our management information circular are available company within the meaning of the Rules of Professional Conduct upon request in writing to: Investor Relations Department, of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ontario and the rules Thomson Reuters, 3 Times Square, New York, NY 10036, of the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States.
Requests may also be sent by e-mail to: requirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Thomson Reuters PLCs auditors are  LLP, Information required to be provided pursuant to Canadian Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm London, Securities Administrators National Instrument Form 52-110F1 Audit United Kingdom.
Committees for Thomson Reuters Corporation is included in the Additional information on Thomson Reuters auditors is included in Senior Management and Directors section of this annual report.
our management information circular dated March 26, 2009.
Under NYSE listing standards, we are required to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ COMMUNICATIONS WITH EMPLOYEES from those required to be followed by U. S. domestic companies under NYSE listing standards.
There are no significant differences We use a number of communications vehicles to keep our between our corporate governance practices and those required of employees informed about Thomson Reuters.
Our intranet, domestic companies under NYSE listing standards.
We also comply theLink, includes a Daily Brieng, which provides an online with all Nasdaq governance requirements, with the exception of multimedia information service covering news and events about one provision.
Reuters previously received a waiver from Nasdaq our company and people.
Our intranet also includes information which applies to Thomson Reuters PLC as a successor on the basis about health and welfare benets.
Our CEO and other senior that compliance with the Nasdaq requirement that all shareholder executives host webcasts, town halls, teleconference briengs meetings require a quorum of at least one-third of outstanding and question and answer sessions for employees, and also meet voting shares would be contrary to standard U. K. business practice.
informally with groups of employees around the world.
Meetings Thomson Reuters PLCs Articles of Association provide, as is typical are also held from time to time between management, employees for English public companies, that a quorum shall consist of any union representatives and groups of employees.
Information regarding our compliance with the U. K. Combined Code is provided in our management information EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES circular dated March 26, 2009.
We are committed to providing equal employment opportunities Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, corporate governance for all persons regardless of race, color, religion, sex gender guidelines and board committee charters are available on including pregnancy, age, marital status, sexual orientation, www.
com as well as in print or electronically national origin, citizenship status, disability, veteran status, or any without charge to any shareholder who requests a copy in writing other classication protected by applicable laws.
Our management or by e-mail to our Investor Relations Department.
Shareholders is dedicated to ensuring the fulllment of this policy with respect to and other interested parties may contact the board or its nonhiring, discharge, compensation, promotion, classication, training, management or independent directors as a group, or the directors apprenticeship, referral for employment, or other terms, conditions who preside over their meetings, by writing to them c o Secretary and privileges of employment.
We comply with applicable laws to the Board, 65 Queen Street West, Suite 2400, Toronto, Ontario governing nondiscrimination in every location in which we have M5H 2M8, Canada.
We are committed to reasonably accommodating qualied Any statement in this annual report about any of our contracts individuals with disabilities in order to provide employment or other documents is not necessarily complete.
If the contract or opportunities for them.
We are also committed to reasonably document is led as an exhibit to our annual report with the SEC accommodating employees sincerely held religious practices.
or as a material contract with the Canadian securities regulatory authorities, then the contract or document is deemed to modify the FURTHER INFORMATION DOCUMENTS description contained in this annual report.
You should review the ON DISPLAY contracts or documents themselves for a complete description.
For more information about Thomson Reuters, please see We are required to le reports and other information with the our various lings and notications posted on our website, SEC under the U. S. Securities Exchange Act and regulations under www.
com, the Canadian Securities Administrators that act.
As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules SEDAR website, www.
com, and in the EDGAR section of under the U. S. Securities Exchange Act prescribing the form the Securities and Exchange Commissions SEC website at and content of proxy statements and our ofcers, directors and www.
In addition, you may review a copy of our lings principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short with at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N. E. swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Room 1580, Washington, D. C. 20549.
Please call the SEC at U. S. Securities Exchange Act.
