CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY At Thomson Reuters, Corporate Responsibility CR is an integral Community Impact part of the way we do business.
As we integrate the Reuters We are committed to using our specialized knowledge, businesses, we draw upon the heritage of both The Thomson information, technology and other resources to develop great Corporation and Reuters Group PLC to define our CR efforts.
programs to help individuals, families and communities reach Our executive committee approved our CR policy in 2008, their full potential.
These programs will be delivered through establishing how we will manage our relationships with our more than 50,000 employees and by the Thomson Reuters stakeholders in four areas: our workplace employees, the Foundation, our U. K. and U. S. registered charity.
community the places and societies in which we operate, In 2008, our executive committee approved a community support the marketplace customers, suppliers and investors and the policy, which sets out key programs that include volunteering and environment.
By articulating focus areas, we are able to define matched funding, as well as our approach to causes that we do our response to global standards and charters in ways that and do not support.
We also introduced the Thomson Reuters are meaningful and relevant to our business.
Community Champions Award program across the organization, Our immediate CR priorities are diversity, community impact, through which 50 grants totaling $150,000 were awarded to responsible sourcing and the environment.
Additionally, in 2008 staff-nominated not-for-profit organizations.
A global volunteering we launched our new Code of Business Conduct and Ethics policy for employees will be implemented as a way of supporting to all staff.
the communities in which we work, allowing each of our employees to spend a minimum of one paid day each year volunteering time During 2009, we will launch our implementation plans for these to a local charity or community initiative.
The Markets division and priorities, including measurement, reporting and governance.
Legal employees, for example, each contributed approximately Against each commitment, we will assign a business owner and 1,800 volunteer days in 2008 to not-for-profit organizations a performance target in order to meet legislative requirements, and educational institutions in their communities.
specic quantitative goals or our own CR ambitions.
Our targets will be reviewed at least annually.
Also in 2008, Thomson Reuters gave $1.7 million in general funding to the Thomson Reuters Foundation, and an additional Our CR program is embedded in the way we do business, and $200,000 to the Foundations AIDFund program to support thus we do not produce a stand-alone report.
The following local relief efforts in the wake of the Myanmar cyclone and the discussion highlights two of our priority areas.
26 THOMSON REUTERS Environment The Trust Principles Consistent with our business model, our strategy is to move Thomson Reuters is dedicated to upholding the Reuters Trust paper information to digital, which saves trees in printing and Principles and to preserving our independence, integrity and fossil fuel in shipping, and to run central data centers as efficiently freedom from bias in the gathering and dissemination of as possible using the latest technologies.
We have installed information and news.
videoconference units in our largest locations to reduce travel.
We use 100% recycled paper for our annual review and are offering THE REUTERS TRUST PRINCIPLES ARE: our shareholders the option to receive information online.
That Thomson Reuters shall at no time pass into the hands of However, our data centers, properties and staff have environmental any one interest, group or faction: impacts.
In 2009, we will create a new data-gathering system That the integrity, independence and freedom from bias of to provide a more comprehensive understanding of our global Thomson Reuters shall at all times be fully preserved: resource consumption baseline, concentrating on relevant indicators such as energy, water, waste and paper consumption.
That Thomson Reuters shall supply unbiased and reliable news This system will help us to track the progress of resource-saving services to newspapers, news agencies, broadcasters and other initiatives as well as to prepare for the U. K. Carbon Reduction media subscribers and to businesses, governments, institutions, Commitment.
individuals and others with whom Thomson Reuters has or may have contracts: One additional way we address global environmental challenges is through the information we provide to customers and the That Thomson Reuters shall pay due regard to the many public.
Through Reuters Media we provide news on these topics, interests which it serves in addition to those of the media: and and encourage debate and increased awareness via dedicated That no effort shall be spared to expand, develop and adapt environment-focused blogs and video channels.
the news and other services and products of Thomson Reuters Our Eagan, Minn. campus has been a member of Minnesota so as to maintain its leading position in the international news Waste Wise since the early 1990s, collaborating with other and information business.
member companies on ways to reduce waste, conserve energy and adopt sustainable practices that save money and protect the The Reuters Founders Share Company RFSC exists to safeguard environment.
Additionally, the Eagan team applied for and won the Reuters Trust Principles.
The directors of the RFSC have a duty the Minnesota Waste Wise Leader Award in 2008, the third time to ensure, insofar as they are able to do, that the Reuters Trust we have been so recognized.
More than 11,200 tons of waste were recycled internally at the Eagan campus last year.
We estimate that approximately 50% of all paper used in our manufacturing has recycled content, and all paper suppliers used by this location are Forest Stewardship Council certied..
