MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS APPENDIX C Discount Rate Assumption EMPLOYEE FUTURE BENEFITS We sponsor dened benefit plans providing pension and other Our discount rate is selected based on a review of current market post-retirement benets to covered employees.
The largest plans interest rates of high-quality, xed-rate debt securities adjusted to consist of Thomson Reuters Group Pension TRGP, a qualied reect the duration of expected future cash outows for pension dened benefit pension plan in the United States and Reuters benefit payments.
In developing the 2009 discount rate assumption Pension Fund RPF which was acquired as part of Reuters.
The for our TRGP plan, we reviewed the high-grade bond indices RPF is a hybrid pension fund, with both dened company and published by Moodys and Merrill Lynch as of September 30, employee contributions, and dened employee benets.
Both 2008, which are based on debt securities with average durations plans are closed to new participants.
Other smaller plans exist of 10 to 15 years.
For the RPF, we reviewed the IBoxx indices at primarily in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Hong Kong and December 31, 2008 of similar duration as the plan obligations.
We use measurement dates of September 30 and Because we have a relatively young workforce, our expected future December 31 for the majority of these plans.
cash outows for our plans tend to be of longer duration than the bond indices we reviewed.
Therefore, our discount rate tends to be Because the determination of the cost and obligations associated higher than these benchmark rates.
To estimate our discount rate, with employee future benets requires the use of various our actuary constructed a hypothetical yield curve that represented assumptions, there is measurement uncertainty inherent in the yields on high quality zero-coupon bonds with durations that actuarial valuation process.
Management currently estimates that mirrored the expected payment stream of the benefit obligation.
the 2009 cost of employee future benets will be approximately On this basis, the 2009 discount rate will be 7.25% for the TRGP 21% lower than that of 2008, principally due to increases in the plan, approximately 90 basis points higher than the prior year, assumed discount rates, which decreases the value of our liability.
Adjusting the discount rate upward or While the value of our plan assets has also decreased, the impact downward by another 25 basis points would result in a decrease of the reduced asset values will not be recognized all at once or increase in pension expense by $2 million in 2009. because we use a market-related value for assets for our major plans, which is based on a five year average asset value.
Accumulated Actuarial Losses Expected Rate of Return Assumption As of December 31, 2008, we had cumulative unrecognized Management must make assumptions about the expected actuarial losses on our pension plans of $457 million compared long-term rate of return on plan assets, but there is no assurance to $220 million at December 31, 2007.
These losses primarily that the plan will be able to earn the assumed rate of return.
relate to asset losses, partially offset by lower obligations from In determining our long-term rate of return assumption, we increases in interest rates.
These amounts also include actuarial considered historical returns, input from investment advisors and gains and losses from the difference between our expected and our actuarys simulation model of expected long-term rates of actual returns on plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are return assuming our targeted investment portfolio mix.
We will included in the calculation of our annual pension expense subject reduce our 2009 assumption for the TRGP by 0.50% to 6.75% in to the following amortization methodology.
anticipation of changes to the plans investment portfolio mix.
The Unrecognized actuarial gains or losses are netted with the expected rate of return for the RPF will be 7% for 2009.
Adjusting difference between market-related value and fair value of the expected rate of return on assets for our significant plans plan assets.
upward or downward by another 25 basis points would decrease or increase pension expense by approximately $7 million in 2009.
To the extent this net amount exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or market-related value of plan assets, it is amortized into pension expense on a straightline basis over the expected average service life of active participants approximately eight years at December 31, 2008 for the TRGP plan and thirteen years for the RPF.
Unrecognized actuarial gains and losses below the 10% corridor are deferred.
In applying the amortization method, the estimated pension expense for 2009 includes $7 million of the unrecognized actuarial losses at December 31, 2008.
52 THOMSON REUTERS Funded Status and Company Contributions Other Post-Retirement Benets As of December 31, 2008, the fair value of plan assets for the We provide post-retirement healthcare benets for certain retired TRGP and the RPF represented approximately 98% and 112%, employees.
However, these liabilities are signicantly less than respectively, of the plans projected benefit obligation.
In 2008, those associated with our pension plans.
Retired employees share we made contributions to all plans of $110 million, including a portion of the cost of these benets.
We fund the accrued costs special contributions of $3 million and $67 million to the Reuters of these plans as benets are paid.
Annual post-retirement expense Supplementary Pension Plan SPS and RPF, respectively, following for 2008 was calculated based upon a number of actuarial discussions with plan Trustees.
During 2007, we contributed assumptions, including a healthcare cost trend rate of 9% that $37 million to our dened benefit plan in the United Kingdom.
declines 50 basis points per year for eight years, and thereafter Of the total, $25 million was required in connection with the remains constant at 5%.
The healthcare cost trend rate is based on disposal of Thomson Learning and $12 million was required in our actuarial medical claims experience and future projections of connection with Janes Information Group, which was sold to medical costs.
A 1% change in the trend rate would result in an Woodbridge in April 2001. increase or decrease in the benefit obligation for post-retirement benets of approximately $15 million at December 31, 2008.
In 2009, we expect to contribute approximately $49 million to our pension plans, primarily in the United Kingdom, in accordance with normal funding policy.
Additionally, we do not anticipate having to make any material special contributions to our pension plans in 2009.
From time to time, we may elect to make voluntary contributions in order to improve the funded status of our plans.
Relative to certain plans we acquired with Reuters, the Trustees have the right to call for special valuations, which could result in an unexpected contribution.
No such valuation has been called as of this date.
Because of the ability of Trustees to call for interim valuations for certain plans, as well as market driven changes that we cannot predict, we could be required to make contributions in the future that differ signicantly from our estimates.
