OUR PEOPLE A key strategic goal of the Reuters integration was to create In 2008, we focused on maintaining a high degree of employee one company in one year.
This means one team, one combined commitment and ensuring that our employees were energized management structure, one mission, one set of values and one about our purpose and strategy.
Results of the first joint Thomson way of doing business across our organization.
The adaptability, Reuters employee survey were very positive, despite the major exibility and focus demonstrated by our staff to meet this changes resulting from the integration and the external backdrop goal have allowed the company to perform strongly through of extraordinary economic turmoil.
Employee engagement has this period.
improved signicantly see graphic below.
Additionally, the survey results show powerful assets for the company, including a very As a knowledge business, our professional workforce is a major high degree of discretionary effort by employees and a high level strategic asset.
We have a highly talented and diverse employee of passion among our staff for the work that they do.
We will base, with more than 110 nationalities represented in more than continue to benchmark these results against a high-performing 90 countries.
We have a unique perspective across multiple company norm.
customer segments and geographic areas, reecting the different markets, cultures and countries in which we operate.
This also allows us to apply a range of different approaches to best meet our customers needs.
Improved Level of Engagement More Global Workforce During periods of major change, companies often see A substantially changed geographic footprint means that Thomson engagement scores dip, but the level of engagement across Reuters now has a signicantly more international presence, with our employee base increased by 5% compared to 2007. nearly half of the workforce outside the Americas.
2008 also saw our workforce balance tip toward Asia we now have more people in Asia than in Europe.
1 Employee Engagement Employees by Region 84% 79% Americas........................... 53% 24% Asia.................................... 24% Europe, Middle East and Africa...................... 23% 53% 23% 2007 2008 1 Employee engagement is measured through a survey of all Thomson Reuters employees, which is conducted by Towers Perrin ISR using its Engagement Index.
