SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTORS In particular, the board acknowledged that Messrs. Denning and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Thompson also have been directors of companies that Thomson In 2008, we adopted a new Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Reuters has a relationship with, but determined that these that applies to all employees, directors and ofcers, including our relationships were not material and did not preclude a nding CEO, CFO and Controller.
All employees, directors and ofcers are of independence.
required to submit an acknowledgement that they have received Until February 2009, Mr. Denning was a director of Hewittand read a copy of the Code and understand their obligations Associates Inc.
In February 2005, we entered into an agreement to comply with the principles and policies outlined in it.
In an with Hewitt Associates Inc. to outsource certain human resources effort to promote further a culture of ethical business conduct administrative functions in order to improve operating and cost throughout Thomson Reuters, a mandatory online training course efficiencies.
When we initially entered into the agreement, we related to the Code is expected to be launched in 2009 based expected to pay Hewitt an aggregate of $115 million over a on similar courses used by each of Thomson and Reuters prior to five-year period.
This agreement was subsequently renegotiated the formation of Thomson Reuters.
The Corporate Governance and extended in September 2006.
Under the new terms, we Committee receives an annual report regarding the Code from expect to pay Hewitt an aggregate of $165 million over a 10-year the General Counsel.
In 2008, we paid Hewitt $11 million for its services.
In 2008, no material violations by our directors or executive ofcers Mr. Denning did not participate in negotiations related to the were reported for the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Also, agreement and has refrained from deliberating and voting on any no waivers under the Code were sought by or granted to any of our matters relating to Hewitt Associates Inc. by the HR Committee directors or executive ofcers in 2008. and the board.
Additional information regarding the members of our board of Mr. Thompson is the non-executive independent Chairman of directors, including our corporate governance and compensation the board of The Toronto-Dominion Bank.
In the normal course practices, is provided in our management information circular of business, we have a banking relationship with The Torontodated March 26, 2009, which has been prepared in connection Dominion Bank and one of the banks afliates has served as a with our upcoming annual general meeting of shareholders to dealer for our recent offerings of debt securities in the United be held on May 13, 2009.
This information forms a part of this States and Canada.
annual report for purposes of U. K. legal and regulatory reporting requirements.
Each board committee has a written charter which Presiding Directors at Meetings of Non-Management is publicly available at www.
The audit and Independent Directors committees charter has been led on SEDAR and EDGAR and is At the conclusion of every board meeting, the board meets without incorporated by reference in, and forms a part of, this annual report.
The CEO is informed of the substance of these As of March 26, 2009, our executive ofcers and directors as a meetings to the extent that action is appropriate or required.
group beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, or exercised control In addition, at least once each year, the board meets without the or direction over, less than 1% of our outstanding voting interests, CEO and the directors afliated with Woodbridge present.
These based on the issued and outstanding shares of Thomson Reuters meetings, which follow a regularly scheduled board meeting, are Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC as of that date.
David chaired by the Chair of the Corporate Governance Committee.
Thomson and Peter J. Thomson are the Chairmen, and W. Geoffrey The Chair of the Corporate Governance Committee develops the Beattie is the President, of Woodbridge, our controlling shareholder.
agenda for these meetings, although discussion is not limited to it.
John A. Tory is a director of Woodbridge.
As of March 26, 2009, The agenda generally addresses any issues that might be specic Woodbridge had a voting interest in Thomson Reuters of to a public corporation with a controlling shareholder.
The Chair approximately 55% based on the issued share capital of Thomson of the Corporate Governance Committee reports to the Chairman Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC.
on the substance of these meetings to the extent that action is appropriate or required and is available for consultation with the independent directors as required.
One such meeting of the independent directors took place in January 2009 and was presided over by Niall FitzGerald.
114 THOMSON REUTERS The following table sets forth the total interests in Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and deferred share units DSUs and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares including underlying ADSs beneficially owned by each of our directors as of the dates indicated.
Information regarding interests in Thomson Reuters shares through stock options and RSUs is provided in our management information circular dated March 26, 2009.
Mr. Banga was appointed to the Thomson Reuters board on January 1, 2009.
2 In addition, Mrs. J. M. Thompson owns 300 Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares.
