38 Corporate Social Responsibility This year, at an operational level, we undertook Our workplace Group-wide training on ethics, discrimination and 19.2% reduction in injury rate harassment avoidance and anti-trust issues.
The training programme covered over 11,000 employees Three-year wellness initiatives started around the world.
In December 2008, in recognition of Focus on employee health and well-being our increasingly global reach and the need to manage risk, we introduced a new training initiative on the US Our global footprint Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977.
Improved environmental performance Our workplace: health and safety 118 sites with environmental management The importance placed on health and safety by the systems Board and management of Tomkins is reflective of the $1,075,580 charitable assistance belief that our commercial success is tied to strong health and safety performance.
We aspire to achieve Our marketplace the same high safety standards throughout the Group, New supplier charter regardless of the type of operation or its location.
This focus on safety has resulted in a 19.2% reduction in the 86 sites with quality management systems incident rate and a 2.7% fall in severity rate in 2008 Numerous customer awards versus 2007.
These improvements were achieved through the continuous efforts of all employees to Governance management make safety a way of life.
Full policy compliance Our Excellence Award Programme ran again in 2008, Group anti-discrimination and anti-trust with an increased number of our facilities participating.
training The Excellence metrics were reviewed at the end of the year to determine their effectiveness.
No new Excellent governance ratings criteria were proposed for 2009, but it was recommended that the targets for safety be more rigorous to encourage innovation and leadership in achieving excellent performance.
Introduction We selected employee wellness as one of our CSR At Tomkins, social responsibility is an integral part of focus areas for 2008.
As part of our wellness initiative, our everyday business practices and one of the drivers we introduced a tobacco-free in three programme as of our success.
We understand the need to balance an option for our companies.
As at the end of 2008, economic, environmental and social responsibilities in there are only restricted outdoor areas at the majority a manner that meets the needs of our stakeholders.
of Company properties where employees may smoke.
Indeed, during the current economic crisis, it has However, all locations are encouraged to be tobaccobecome even more important that we maintain our free in three years time.
Additionally, we have been focus on environmental and social matters.
We believe pursuing many voluntary preventive healthcare that excellence in CSR is consistent with, and initiatives at the operating level, ranging from personal enhances, our financial performance.
health assessments, annual health fairs, smokingcessation programmes, pre-shift stretching exercises, A summary of our progress and performance in 2008 company contributions to gym memberships through is set out below, describing our continued progress in to weight-loss competitions and the provision of the four key CSR areas, namely, corporate governance, healthy-eating options.
our workplace, our global footprint and our marketplace.
We have again published a separate, Our workplace: employees in-depth, Corporate Social Responsibility report which is available for download from our website, In the workplace, our aim is to be an employer of www.
We believe there is a strong correlation between effective people practices and business success.
We can improve the performance of the Corporate governance business by developing our employees to their full Corporate governance at Tomkins is recognised to be potential, by motivating staff appropriately and amongst the best in class.
At Board level, we continue through prudent succession planning.
Our Human to address the demands of the changing regulatory Resources function operates on a decentralised environment and place a strong emphasis on corporate structure, mirroring the organisation of the Group.
governance in all our activities.
This reflects our belief that localised teams, operating Each year, we require our Company Presidents to under common principles, are best equipped to deal confirm compliance with our corporate policies: with the varying cultures, operating structures and Tomkins Code of Conduct and Ethics, Human Rights geographic locations that exist around the Group.
I am pleased to report there were no also helps foster local entrepreneurship, a key element material cases of non-compliance.
Performance 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Key performance indicators Number of Number of facilities facilities 2008 reporting 2007 reporting Total waste million metric tonnes 0.179 132 0.195 126 Landfill waste million metric tonnes 0.040 132 0.044 126 Total energy consumed billion KWh 1.577 127 1.604 114 3 Water consumption million m 2.534 128 2.550 121 Total greenhouse gas emissions million tonnes 0.177 127 0.137 114 Each business in the Group is encouraged to $297,054 2007: $245,149 came from a Tomkinsimplement comprehensive employment policies funded charitable trust: and in the remaining overseas designed to motivate employees and to determine companies they totalled $184,889 2007: $171,363.
ways in which knowledge and skills can best It is Tomkins practice not to use shareholders funds contribute towards the success of the business.
to make political donations either in the form of Schemes are operated to encourage loyalty and monetary donations or other in-kind benefits.
For instance, the Tomkins 2005 political donations were made during the year Sharesave Scheme provides an opportunity to 2007: $nil.
purchase shares in Tomkins plc.
Our marketplace Employee involvement and communication We value highly our relationships with our many, programmes continue to be developed that are diverse customers.
Our products are sold in highly designed to provide equal opportunity to all, competitive markets and so excellence in customer irrespective of sex, race, religion or colour.
Each service, product quality and innovation are always our business in the Group endeavours to provide equality priority.
Likewise, we continue to value our of opportunity in recruiting, training, promoting and relationships with our wide supplier base.
developing the careers of disabled persons.
In late 2008, we introduced a Supplier Charter which Our global footprint: environment and climate outlines our expectations with regards to standards in change our supply chain.
We believe this initiative further Our facilities began reporting energy and water usage, evidences our commitment to CSR by mandating the air emissions, waste and recycling efforts in 2007. ethical and respectful treatment of individuals, the We have found this data allows our companies to environment and wider community.
The full Supplier better manage their businesses and we have seen Charter can be downloaded from our website.
a corresponding improvement in our environmental We maintain open communication channels with performance as evidenced by our key performance the investment community and have devoted indicators.
considerable time and resources to our Investor In the table above, we have set out absolute figures Relations programme.
We responded to many queries for waste production, energy and water consumption and requests for further information on our CSR and greenhouse gas emissions for 2008 and 2007. programme from a variety of stakeholders, ranging Although this data does not cover 100% of our from third-party survey and assessment organisations, operations, we believe it provides a meaningful guide local communities, through to the Carbon Disclosure as to the impact of our operations.
We maintained our status as a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index in 2008 and were Tomkins recognises that climate change is a global particularly pleased to have been very highly rated by business challenge.
We are committed to reducing GovernanceMetrics International, a leading socially our greenhouse gas emissions through efficiency responsible investment rating agency which specialises improvements and, in particular, the application of in corporate governance ratings.
We continue to make significant investments in our facilities, reducing Conclusion energy consumption, water usage and waste in order We are pleased with the progress achieved with our to achieve optimal efficiency levels.
Climate change CSR programme this year, in particular the addition of and the environment are also increasingly important a new Supplier Charter and our improved environmental drivers of product and process innovation within performance.
This progress is testimony to the efforts Tomkins.
of all our employees around the Group who, despite challenging economic and financial pressures, Our global footprint: community continue to value the pursuit of our CSR activities.
We recognise our responsibilities to the wider We will endeavour to further improve our CSR communities in which our businesses operate.
These performance on a continued basis.
responsibilities range from consulting with local bodies, to providing charitable assistance and supporting community and corporate citizenship projects.
Total charitable donations in the year were Struan Robertson $1,075,580 2007: $908,728, of which the UK Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee accounted for $297,020 2007: $196,036 : in the US they totalled $593,671 2007: $541,329, of which 24 February 2009
