Corporate, Social and Environmental Responsibilities The company endeavours to be honest and fair in its relationships with customers and suppliers, and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries in which it operates.
The company is accountable to its shareholders but also endeavours to consider the interests of all of its stakeholders, including its employees, customers and suppliers, as well as the local communities and environments in which the company operates.
In this context the company takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to its operations as part of its regular risk assessment procedures, with such matters regularly considered by the executive directors.
Sushovan Hussain, Chief Financial Officer and Board Director, has been appointed by the Board as the director responsible for all matters relating to corporate social, ethical, employment and environmental policies.
This year, at Mr Hussains recommendation management renewed the companys ethical policy, which sets forth the principles of proper conduct with regard to these matters.
The Board is committed to monitoring the companys corporate social responsibility policies in key areas.
Management monitors the companys day-to-day activities in order to assess risks in these areas and identify actions that may be taken to address those risks.
At present, the Board does not consider it appropriate to link the management of these risks to remuneration incentives, given the difficulties in measuring the changes to those risks objectively.
Given the company's relatively small size and low social and environmental impact, the company believes that there are few risks to its short and long term value proposition arising from these matters, although it considers the potential to deliver greater value by responding to these issues appropriately.
The Board believes the company has adequate information to assess these matters, and effective systems for managing any risks.
The companys website includes a section dedicated to corporate ethical, employment and environmental issues.
Whilst the Board considers that material risks arising from social, ethical, employment and environmental issues are limited, given the nature of the companys business, policies have been adopted in key areas to ensure that such risks are limited.
Examples of policies and practices in these areas are given below.
Employment Policies Autonomy employs approximately 1,200 people and in order to continue to grow as a business, the company needs to continue to recruit and retain only the best talent.
Therefore it is the companys policy to pursue practices that are sensitive to the needs of its people.
The company strives for equal opportunities for all of its employees, including disabled employees, and does not tolerate harassment of, or discrimination against, its staff.
The companys priorities are: Providing a safe workplace with equality of opportunity and diversity through our employment policies.
Encouraging our people to reach their full potential through career development and promotion from within where possible.
Communicating openly and transparently within the bounds of commercial confidentiality, whilst listening to our people and taking into account their feedback.
Recognizing and rewarding our people for their contribution and encouraging share ownership at all levels.
The company respects the rule of law within all jurisdictions in which it operates and supports appropriate internationally accepted standards including those on human rights.
The companys equal opportunities policies prohibit discrimination on grounds such as race, gender, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
This policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment of those who may become disabled during their employment.
The companys policies strive to ensure that all decisions about the appointment, treatment and promotion of employees are based entirely on merit, and continued development of the company is made with the maximum involvement and input from employees practicable.
Employees with Disabilities The companys policy is to give full and fair consideration to suitable applications from people with disabilities for employment.
If existing employees become disabled they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, every effort will be made to find suitable alternative employment and to provide appropriate training.
Environmental Policies It is the companys policy to ensure, by encouraging environmental best practice in the business, that its operations have as little environmental impact as is consistent with its business needs.
The effect on the environment of the companys activities are monitored, where appropriate, with regard to the low overall environmental impact of its primary activities as a software publisher.
As a developer of software the company has no manufacturing facilities and its premises are composed exclusively of offices.
Staff make use of computers to generate intellectual property.
This involves neither hazardous substances nor complex waste emissions.
The vast majority of the companys sales comprise software that is normally delivered electronically to customers.
Outmoded office equipment and computers are resold or recycled to the extent practicable.
The company recognises the increasing importance of environmental issues and these are discussed at Board level if appropriate.
A number of initiatives continued in 2008.
An environmental action plan is implemented at group and departmental level through various initiatives.
These include monitoring resource consumption and waste creation so that when targets are set for improvement they are realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing controls continue to operate satisfactorily and working with suppliers to improve environmental management along the supply chain.
The company has recycling facilities in all of its primary offices, and waste paper is minimised by promoting paperless processes and downloadable software products.
Renewable energy sources are also being investigated.
The provision of cycle sheds, showers and changing facilities at the companys Cambridge, San Francisco, Pleasanton, Munich and Dallas offices facilitate greener commuting, and the extensive provision of telephone and video conferencing equipment offer an alternative to international travel, where appropriate.
The companys environmental policy is published on its website.
21 Autonomy Corporation plc Corporate, Social and Environmental Responsibilities As noted above, the company monitors key consumption indicators, most effectively at its headquarters in Cambridge, UK where it has the largest number of employees.
Autonomy does not have manufacturing operations.
All employees are expected to behave ethically when working for the company and this is reflected in our policies which are detailed in the staff handbook.
Charitable Policies The company maintains a number of charitable giving policies.
The companys core philanthropic foundation under the corporate commitment program is education.
The company also annually budgets for specific charitable requests from individual staff members, in areas where the company has an opportunity to make a significant and measurable impact in the non-profit sector.
The companys matching gift programme matches employee donations to non-profit organizations meeting the companys requirements for charitable donations.
Finally, the company permits employees to volunteer a certain number of hours of paid time per year to the charity of their choice provided that the charitable organization meets the companys general requirements for charitable donations.
Last year, under these schemes donations and sponsorships totalled over $150,000.
The company actively encourages every employee to work together to meet the requirements of all of the above policies.
By order of the Board, Andrew M Kanter Company Secretary 27 February 2009 Autonomy Corporation plc 22
