qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:31 Page 48 Directors report: Business review Tullow people Our people deliver At Tullow we believe that people should be allowed to play to their strengths.
Our culture is based on giving individuals the freedom to operate and the skills to perform in an entrepreneurial environment that balances autonomy and accountability.
How weve progressed Talent development Our focus in this area is on delivering development and 46% training throughout the Group so that each employee can reach their full potential.
In our fast-growing business Increase in staff globally in 2008 we must ensure all our staff at every level are fully equipped to do their job.
We identify leaders and managers 45 of the future to ensure they have the skills they need to Ghanaians work for Tullow, building in-country capability contribute to our continued success.
Every employee, new or experienced, has the opportunity to grow and develop.
93% Of our employees would recommend Tullow as a good Performance management employer to a friend Our performance management process is a key tool in maintaining a high performing team.
We have a common process of managing performance and setting challenging Organised for growth goals for the business with all locations participating.
This New senior management team structure creates an environment where leaders and staff give open and honest feedback with the aim of achieving continuous improvement in all that we do.
To expand our organisational effectiveness we enhanced our HR capability with the appointment of a Chief HR Reward and recognition Officer, Group Talent Manager and Group Reward Manager, We conduct salary benchmarking surveys to ensure that providing essential support to a growing business.
We have we know what competitors are doing in terms of salaries also developed and rolled out a Group-wide HR strategy.
Our reward packages are highly competitive in the external marketplace and relative to our peer group.
Culture and engagement Every Tullow employee has a stake in the business and Our culture is entrepreneurial and innovative.
We provide its success through share options.
Our performance a creative environment which encourages taking on bonus arrangements are designed to reward the best challenges and rewards performance.
As we grow it performance, both corporate and individual.
These are is important that we maintain and foster the unique open and transparent, making a direct link between good characteristics that have supported our growth and performance and reward.
As a result, we continue to articulate and link the Groups Organised for growth strategic aims, objectives, ways of working and values A new management structure was formed in 2008.
In 2008, we rolled out Tullows strong vision senior management team is responsible for delivering across the Group and enhanced our induction processes.
the annual budget and plan and ensuring we are properly Maintaining strong levels of engagement is vital to resourced to do so.
This new structure serves as an employee retention and in 2009, we will undertake a global important conduit of information to Executive Directors staff survey to test engagement across Tullow.
Highlights and to the functional and operational teams throughout from the 2008 surveys were: 81% of employees felt valued: the business.
This in turn helps improve internal 95% said they were proud to work for us: and 93% would communications, integrates decision-making and builds recommend Tullow to their friends as a good employer.
com our people, going live summer 2009 48 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts TU017 p48-53 vAW5.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:32 Page 49 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Reward and recognition To support and enhance our reward design and delivery we have appointed a Group Reward Manager.
Uganda Exploration Team, Cape Town office.
Our people strategy Tullow launched a new people vision and strategy in 2008.
This is represented by this logo, which shows the four interlinking elements of the Groups HR strategy, with people at the centre of everything we do.
Culture & engagement Santiago Guevara drilling crew, Uganda.
Investing in HR Reward & Talent We have appointed a Group Talent recognition development Manager to ensure we develop every employee and give individuals and the Group the skills to support success in the future.
In 2009, we Performance will introduce a global e-learning management induction programme and e-based performance management.
Kristina Kasibayo, Legal & Compliance Adviser, Kampala office, Uganda.
Diverse training and development Our talent development programme embraces all types of training and development leadership, management, functional and people skills enabling all our employees to reach their full potential.
Jenna Luiten and Candice Wentworth, receptionists in the London head office.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 49
