qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:32 Page 50 Directors report: Business review Corporate Social Responsibility Focused on our responsibilities 2008 has been another successful year for Tullows EHS and operational teams, with the Group delivering an excellent EHS performance and meeting the majority of its challenging EHS performance targets.
How weve progressed At Tullow we are very focused on our responsibilities and we recognise, monitor and manage our environmental 0.49 LTIFR Group KPI and social impacts, including the health and safety of our employees and local communities.
Excellent safety performance in top industry quartile Our disciplined approach to CSR supports our licence 6.15 to operate, generating reputational benefits with key stakeholders, and obtaining long-term competitive Million hours worked across the Group in 2008 advantage.
We are proud of our track record of ensuring safe operations with minimal impact on our surroundings US$1.8 million whilst developing local infrastructure and communities.
Doubled our expenditure on voluntary social investment Strong EHS leadership Eight In 2008, we achieved great success in managing EHS, 2008 Objectives achieved out of 11 in total principally through the commitment and leadership shown by Tullow people across our organisation.
The Group has a strong culture of individual responsibility 2009 Challenges and empowerment with every single Tullow employee and contractor having the authority and the obligation to Achieve LTIFR of 0.5 or less stop any activity that could be unsafe.
This is complemented by a strong EHS Leadership Team, comprising managers Achieve ISO14001 certification of Ugandan operations from around the Group.
Re-issue and enhance EHS leadership commitment We recognised that it was very important to provide statements across the Group individuals with key tools to keep EHS at the top of their Develop crisis management team CMT training for daily agenda.
A dedicated EHS consultant was recruited to in-country teams in conjunction with Group CMT training specifically engage and support leadership.
An example of this proactive support was the preparation of individual commitment statements where 11 EHS leaders each documented their planned EHS personal commitments for the year.
They then rolled out these commitments to their operational teams.
As well as contributing to a great EHS record for the year, we were delighted that this innovative process was recognised by the UK oil and gas industry Step Change website as a best practice example of leadership engagement and support for improving EHS performance.
The EHS Leadership Team has also developed a focused EHS and CSR training matrix to ensure we continue to develop our leadership teams expertise in key areas.
Students at the Half Assini Secondary School Science Laboratory which has been refurbished by Tullow.
Glossary ISO International Organization for Standardization CMT Crisis Management Team LTI Lost Time Incident CSR Corporate Social Responsibility LTIFR Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate EHS Environment, Health and Safety TRI Total Recordable Incidents HIPO High Potential Incident TRIFR Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate 50 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts TU017 p48-53 vAW5.
qxp:Layout 1 31 3 09 13:35 Page 51 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements A sound approach Our awards in 2008 Towards Sustainability We set ambitious but achievable annual and long term In order to capitalise on our rapid growth in 2008 we have targets and objectives.
With well resourced and competent Best Companies to Work For RoSPA Gold Award BiTC Big Tick re-accreditation taken the opportunity to review and revise our Vision, Values teams capable of delivering performance we continue to We achieved three star status in the Sunday We are delighted to announce that for the third Our BitC Big Tick award was re-accredited for and Group Strategy.
This review allowed us to ofcially set reach these targets.
Times Best Companies to Work For awards and year running Tullow was awarded a Gold Award 2007.
The award was given in 2006 and in order to were placed 32nd in the Sunday Times 100 Best in the Royal Society for the Prevention of be re-accredited we had to be able to prove that out values which, in a smaller company, can remain Strong leadership at corporate, country and operational Small Companies to Work For awards.
the project we had undertaken continued to have undocumented.
Our approach to managing corporate level drives the sustainability agenda of our organisation a positive effect.
responsibility however remains unchanged, pragmatically and ensures we effectively deliver sound risk management.
taking into consideration the long term implications of our Good corporate governance systems and practices allow us business activity.
to ensure we comply in full with all applicable legislation.
We place emphasis on recording and communicating our Our approach demonstrates accountability and promotes social and environmental performance indicators, while a transparency whilst empowering employees and Tullow as programme of holistic stakeholder engagement enables a whole to deliver our growth responsibly.
us to understand our impacts.
Our responses to these impacts are based on informed decisions, and frequently Go online at: www.
com make us leading industry practicioners.
Managing our responsibilities Transparency and integrity are key to being a responsible operator.
We have increased the scope of our external data assurance and continue to report to the Global Reporting Initiatives GR3 guidelines in order to achieve this.
Read more on page 8 Minimising environmental impacts The oil and gas industry has an effect on the environment and it is our responsibility to ensure that we mitigate this as far as possible.
We do this through careful management and indepth impact assessments.
Read more on page 10 Vision Values Working safely The health, safety and wellbeing of our staff and contractors is vital to our successful operations globally.
We have a team of dedicated H&S professionals with a wide range of experience to ensure that we continue to work safely.
Read more on page 14 For more information on our CSR activities visit Engaging with our people Being the employer of choice for over 500 people is an Group strategy immense responsibility and we have a dedicated team of HR professionals to help us look after the Tullow Team.
com : Read more on page 17 Working with communities going live summer 2009 As a responsible operator, we have a duty to work with the communities local to our activities.
Working with communities, we address their most pressing needs to improve quality of life.
11 EHS commitment statements developed across the Group to support and improve EHS performance.
27% Reduction in emissions from UK operations under the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme.
967 LTI-free days at the Bangora production facility in Bangladesh.
77% Local staff at Tullows Accra office and the Takoradi operational base in Ghana.
1,104 Children immunised against eight common childhood diseases in Uganda.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 51 TU017 p48-53 vAW5.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:32 Page 52 Directors report: Business review Corporate Social Responsibility continued Key EHS metrics 2008 2007 2006 Group-wide Lost Time Incident LTI 3 10 5 Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR 0.49 1.95 0.81 High Potential Incident HIPO 24 29 3 Total Recordable Incidents TRI 28 65 74 Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate TRIFR 4.55 12.7 12.1 Hours worked millions 6.15 5.1 6.1 Oil and chemical spills 6 1 2 UK only EUETS C02 emissions tonnes 171,702 190,464 215,407 3 UK produced water quantity m 8,889.7 6,920.1 9,725.4 UK total oil in produced water tonnes 0.25 0.21 0.16 3 Water abstraction m Bacton only 30,639 31,899 18,678 Group figures 3 Water usage m all production sites, utilised in process 62,380 39,496 All production emissions tonnes CO2 165,543 199,198 All drilling emissions tonnes CO2 9,645 23,597 All well test emissions tonnes CO2 2,632 11,667 All 2008 data is preliminary and may be subject to change following completion of assurance work being undertaken by Deloitte LLP.
Positive health and safety performance Tullow achieved its best accident and incident performance to date in 2008 with reported incidents significantly down compared with 2007.
Three Lost Time Incidents LTIs resulted in a Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR of 0.49 LTIs per million hours worked, well below the challenge set by Tullow Senior Management of less than 1.0.
When benchmarked against the OGP 2007 published data, this puts our performance in the industrys top quartile.
The Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate TRIFR reduced by 64% in 2008.
During the year, there was an Libreville, Gabon.
increased focus on High Potential Incidents HIPOs.
Tullow conducted six monthly reviews of reported HIPOs across the business to ensure that reporting was consistent.
The 24 HIPOs in the year showed an 18% reduction from the previous year.
A recent review highlighted that we have set a more stringent HIPO definition when compared to industry standards.
As a result we have now aligned our definitions with industry practice.
Sound environmental management In 2008, there were no significant environmental incidents across Tullow.
A focus during the year was on enhancing environmental reporting at a Group and country level.
Gert-Jan Smulders visiting the Gopalnagar Primary School, Bangladesh.
52 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts TU017 p48-53 vAW5.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:33 Page 53 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements We have recently launched Tullow Oil Environmental Standards toes to communicate core standards for environmental management.
These innovative standards are intended to provide information to internal and external stakeholders on our approach to the following environmental issues biodiversity, climate change, resource management, stakeholder engagement, and monitoring and evaluation.
The standards will also act as a knowledge-sharing tool.
Each of the five toes defines Tullows position and, when combined, form the Groups environmental footprint.
Increased social investment Our Working with Communities WwC initiatives are designed to balance immediate community benefits and long-term sustainable development.
The collective focus of these initiatives is well aligned to the United Nations Millennium Development Goals.
With the growth of our Ghana and Uganda businesses, we increased the size of our in-country teams to expand our community engagement and successfully deliver WwC projects.
Our voluntary investment in WwC projects has doubled each year for the past three years and in 2008 amounted to US$1.8 million.
Pamela Uwakwe and Nahya Nkinzi, Ugandan CSR Advisers at the Kampala office.
Enhanced monthly reporting and improved tracking is supporting managers with responsibility for WwC budgets We will continue to engage and support local communities and assisting the CSR Committee, which continues to and all relevant stakeholders, particularly around current ensure that social investment projects are aligned with major developments projects in Ghana and Uganda.
the Groups business development goals.
With well resourced and competent EHS and operational Enhanced accountability teams, we are well positioned to meet our ambitious We are committed to transparent and accountable annual and longer-term EHS and CSR objectives.
Engagement and feedback continues to improve the materiality of our internal and external CSR reporting.
We are also improving the accountability of our reporting with increased third-party external assurance provided by Deloitte LLP.
64% Reduction in the TRIFR in 2008.
Outlook for 2009 In 2009, we will continue to effectively manage the challenging Environmental, Social and Governance issues arising from our expanding activities.
The EHS leadership commitment programme, in its expanded format, will continue to be rolled out in 2009 and will include the implementation of an EHS leadership training programme.
For health and safety management we will increase our focus on Total Recordable Incidents TRIs to ensure that we continue to minimise the number of all incidents to our employees and contractors.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 53
