32 Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility Employment policies Overview Detailed employment policies are in place across our businesses, The issues of sustainability, climate change and corporate which are constantly reviewed and adapted to meet the changing responsibility affect us all and, as a global business media group, needs of the business and the workforce.
Employment policies we are committed to minimising the environmental and social and practices cover areas such as recruitment, training, flexible impact of our operations.
Acting with respect for the various working, paid leave e. g. maternity, paternity, adoption, communities in which we operate is central to the way in which parental, carer and sabbatical leave, diversity, data protection, UBM does business, and we believe that being a good corporate anti-malpractice Whistleblowing and other policies tailored to citizen is an opportunity not only to respond to the concerns of meet, and often exceed, the requirements of local jurisdictions.
our employees, our customers and the wider community, but Diversity to enhance our businesses and contribute to the development We are a global business with employees, customers, partners of a positive workplace culture.
and suppliers from a wide range of cultures and backgrounds.
UBMs Deputy CEO and CFO, Nigel Wilson, leads corporate It is crucial to our success that we tap into these differences responsibility activity at Main Board level, however it is our belief to enable us to respond to the rapidly changing business that corporate responsibility should be embedded in the business environment, to meet the diverse needs of our customer base, culture at all levels.
Responsibility for the development and and to enhance creativity and personal development.
implementation of corporate responsibility initiatives therefore UBM aims to create a culture of diversity and inclusion, where rests within our divisions, which are encouraged to prioritise the unique talents that every individual can bring to the business corporate responsibility issues in line with their own business are fully recognised.
We have equal opportunities policies and needs and in relation to the specific communities within which programmes in place to ensure employees are selected and they operate, subject to the underlying principle that their promoted solely on the basis of their skills and ability to do the approach to corporate responsibility should focus on support job, regardless of age, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation for the business strategy and the mitigation of risk.
Employees receive training on diversity, equality and Through our membership of the Media CSR Forum we are anti-harassment issues.
For example, UK employees undertake able to engage more fully with stakeholders, sharing ideas on diversity training and complete an interactive test when they join best practice and continuing to monitor and debate issues of UBM a training tool which provides measurable results particular relevance to the media sector.
and extensive anti-harassment training programmes take place in the United States.
Governance and ethics Specific efforts are also made to increase the number of women and people of diverse backgrounds in senior executive UBMs Statement of Business Principles governs our relationship roles, including training and coaching, internships, and ensuring with our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers and the that benefits and leave programmes encourage retention of wider community and forms the basis of our corporate values.
45% of the participants in the Business Leaders Programme It is available on our website at www.
2008, UBMs flagship development programme, were women.
Our well established governance processes are described in more As at December 2008, 57% of the employees and 39% of detail in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 47 to 51. senior executives across UBM were women, including our Group Remuneration policy for senior management is aligned Company Secretary, Group Employment Lawyer, Group Legal with stakeholders interests and is described in the Directors Counsel, Director of People and Culture and three divisional CEOs.
Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 46.
Bonus targets for senior Our suite of flexible working policies, which were introduced management include measures aimed at developing and in the UK nearly ten years ago and are constantly reviewed and progressing corporate responsibility activity.
up-dated, are specifically designed to meet individual personal circumstances and to satisfy business needs.
These include UBM and people working from home, flexible hours, sabbatical leave and enhanced The ability to attract, develop and retain the most talented people parental leave.
Since their introduction, we believe these policies for its businesses at all levels is a key strategic priority, as described have made a significant contribution to the recruitment, on page 13.
UBM is investing in the development of its Company engagement and the retention of a more diverse workforce.
culture to support the evolution of a more agile, entrepreneurial We also undertook a fundamental review of our major office and innovative company.
Maintaining our ability to attract and locations in the USA, introducing open plan office spaces, which retain key talent is an important risk factor for UBM, as described creates a more flexible working environment and improves on page 28, and our employment policies, which are described communication among our employees.
below, are designed to address and mitigate that risk.
UBM employs approximately 6,500 people around the world.
33 As an illustration of the success of our policies, in 2008, for Reward strategies the fifth consecutive year, our UBM Technology division received UBM has developed policies on compensation, rewards and Best Place To Work GLBT Equality seal from the Human Rights benefits that ensure that the best talent is recruited, retained and Campaign Foundation, as one of Americas best companies engaged.
The objective is to ensure that all staff in all locations are for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender workers, and treated fairly and we aim to follow best employment practices CMP Technology was ranked number three in the US on the within the local markets in which we operate.
We promote and list of Top 100 adoption-friendly work places as assessed by the reward based on merit and the individuals contribution to the Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption and was praised for giving business.
Reward arrangements include bonus and long term financial assistance and paid leave to employees going through incentive schemes payable on the achievement of financial and the adoption process.
A wide range of other benefits are also As at December 2008, 10.6% of the workforce in the UK who available including Company pension schemes, life assurance stated their ethnic background in monitoring questionnaires were and medical facilities.
In the event of redundancies, UBM makes of black or minority ethnic backgrounds against a general ethnic sure that proper procedures are followed with affected staff in population of 8% in the 2001 UK Census.
In the US, 26.6% of accordance with Company policies, and that redundant staff are the workforce who stated their ethnic background in monitoring treated fairly in accordance with local best practices.
questionnaires were of minority ethnic background against a Benefits general minority ethnic population of 22.9% in the 2000 US Census.
We encourage employee saving and share ownership through UBM recognises the specific needs of individuals and, in sharesave, in which nearly a third of UK employees currently particular, ensures that appropriate adjustments are made to participate.
Initiatives which promote the health of our employees enable the employment of disabled persons.
Should employees include discounted gym membership and healthcare insurance, become disabled during employment, every effort is made, through and for the past three years we have, through our Salary appropriate training or other adjustments, to accommodate their Exchange Scheme and in line with our environmental ethos, disability and enable them to continue to pursue their career.
offered a Cycle2Work scheme, which enables our UK employees People, development and training to take advantage of the Governments tax exemption on bicycles UBM places a particular emphasis on the personal development provided for employees to cycle to work.
By the end of 2008, of all staff to achieve their full potential.
Employees across UBM 8.5% of the UK workforce 2007: 6.4% were benefiting from participate in ongoing appraisal and assessment procedures, the Cycle2Work scheme.
and within each business both internal and external training is Communication provided, ranging from management boot camps, leadership UBM believes that clear and open communication with employees development programmes, webinars and formal classroom is fundamental to fostering a positive culture and achieving our training to individual coaching programmes.
Staff are encouraged business aims.
An ongoing dialogue with employees is achieved to and are assisted in obtaining relevant qualifications.
In addition, through staff surveys with follow up action plans, appraisals, intra-group transfers are facilitated, providing development e-newsletters, town hall meetings, web chats, blogging, innovative opportunities for staff and ensuring that their skills and expertise use of webinars and wikis.
Regular UBM-wide updates from are applied to the most relevant parts of the business.
the CEO keep employees informed of business strategy and UBM actively seeks to attract the best talent, and development developments.
In addition, employee consultative forums in opportunities and management skills training are provided place in UBM businesses offer a valuable vehicle for the exchange throughout the organisation.
We also aim to develop tomorrows of information with management and also give employees the leaders through our flagship Business Leaders Programme BLP, opportunity to meet and share views.
which in 2008 brought together 20 senior executives from across The development of a Group-wide Wiki was a priority for 2008 the globe who participated in three modules spanning the year, and the Wiki now allows all UBM employees to be connected to and also led business projects pursuing UBMs agenda of strategic one community, where news, information, knowledge and ideas innovation.
During 2008 we undertook a comprehensive study can be shared.
on succession planning, which is an extremely valuable strategic tool and which is now dovetailing with the BLP.
Sharing best practice We also wanted to embed our Corporate Responsibility ethos The Company continues to work with organisations such as into the BLP.
Therefore, in 2008, the BLP participants, sponsored Opportunity Now, The Employers Forum On Age, Stonewall by Nigel Wilson, undertook a project on the environmental impact and The Corporate Leadership Council and The Learning and of our exhibition businesses.
BLP training, as well as with other Development Roundtable.
Membership of these organisations employee training across the Group, was held at the conference affords the opportunity to identify and share best practices and facilities offered by Novas Scarman Group, a charity tackling social to develop effective networks with other employers.
disadvantage, and the 2008 BLP participants also worked with BasicNeeds, a mental health charity.
34 Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility continued We are seeking to reduce the amount of paper used, with an UBM and the Environment emphasis on electronic communication both internally and Our principal environmental issues are energy usage, waste externally: electronic media packs: webcasts: and printing recycling, paper sourcing and usage, and transport.
As a leading double-sided where printing is necessary.
When we do purchase organiser of events around the world we are conscious of paper we promote purchases from sustainable forest growths.
the impact that our business can have on the environment.
Air travel by employees has a significant impact on the climate During 2008 we challenged ourselves, our suppliers and our and we are striving to reduce air travel both by encouraging the customers to maximise opportunities to reduce the factors use of rail travel where possible and expanding video-conferencing impacting on the environment.
We also encourage employees to cycle to work where We continue to pursue policies to reduce energy usage practicable and provide secure bike parking and offer the and energy waste in the workplace, and to improve recycling.
Cycle2Work scheme, see the Benefits section on page 33.
Our employees are integral to achieving these aims and over the past two years we have been encouraging employees to Health and Safety take ownership of the environmental initiatives at a local level.
Through regular electronic communications and environmental We recognise that providing a safe working environment for awareness campaigns, the sharing of ideas and good practice our employees, and for the exhibitors and visitors to our many on the UBM Wiki, and the introduction of changes to the office conferences and exhibitions, is an essential responsibility of environment, employee behaviour has been changing with very management and employees at all levels.
Divisional CEOs are positive results.
At our principal UK office total waste continues to responsible for making sure that their businesses operate in trend downwards and recycling for 2008 was 86%, our highest compliance with relevant health and safety legislation and annual rate.
The Carbon footprint for our principal UK office procedures.
During 2007 we introduced an online health and safety UBM have once again been shortlisted for Best Campaign for reporting system for all of our UK businesses to allow us to more the 2009 Low Carbon Performance Awards, having previously effectively and efficiently monitor and improve our performance.
won in 2007 and been shortlisted in 2008, and during the year In the UK during 2008 the number of reported workplace hazards our principal UK office won its second Green Apple award for fell by over 60% down from 306 to 115 compared to 2007, Best Environmental Practice.
and the average number of reported accidents per month more During 2008 our new office in Cheshire Oaks was built and than halved between 2006 and 2008, falling from an average modified to ensure the building was as environmentally friendly of three accidents per month to 1.4. as was feasible.
We incorporated a number of energy saving During 2009 we aim to continue our push to reduce initiatives, and the building subsequently received a very good workplace hazards and accidents, and to develop and improve Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment the framework for health and safety reporting in all of our Method rating.
Our exhibition businesses are consistently seeking to improve their environmental performance by, for example, recycling carpets: having online-only bookings and operations manuals: giving exhibitors a 1GB Eco-USB stick, made from 100% recycled material and containing all relevant documents electronically: electronic-only communication: working with venues to reduce energy and water usage: encouraging employees to switch from air travel to rail travel wherever practical and donating to Trees for Travel to offset travel by exhibitors.
Nearly 90% of waste from CPhI 2008 and Health Ingredients and Food Ingredients were either recycled or recyclable.
We are constantly upgrading our IT and investing in energy efficient equipment and either recycling or donating to charity any equipment no longer required.
Once again UBM, in conjunction with Digital Links International, donated IT equipment to enable people in the developing world to access Information Technology for the first time.
In 2008 our donations provided over 1,330 people with their first access to IT, and saved 7,000kg of waste from ending up in landfill.
35 Around 60% of our UK employees work at our principal UK office UBM in the Community in London, and during 2008 we committed over 40,000 UBM recognises the importance of its relationship with the to St. Giles Trust, a charity based close to our London office.
communities in which it operates, and aims to support and St. Giles Trust offers education, training and employment support encourage charitable activities of various kinds.
With the to some of the most vulnerable and socially excluded people involvement of our employees UBM supports charities and in London.
not-for-profit organisations around the globe: from smaller In 2008 we expanded our presence in South America, grass-roots donations, to large long term international projects launching Brazilian editions of some of our core brands, and where employees can really see UBMs money making a during the year the CMP Information Leadership Development difference: from volunteer project support to donations-in-kind, Programme travelled to Brazil to lead projects with four NGOs.
tapping into the wealth of expertise of our employees and The four groups of senior CMP Information Managers spent supporting their energy and enthusiasm in their charitable works.
eight days with each of the NGOs.
The projects ranged from As a media and information group, UBM particularly supports introducing financial and communication structures, to working projects which promote education and literacy, and media and on a feasibility study to identify how Doutores da Alegria communications.
Whilst UBM is keen to maintain this important The Doctors of Joy could build a centre in the heart of legacy we are also eager to assist in relieving poverty and Sao Paulo to help alleviate some of the suffering of terminally ill homelessness, and promoting healthcare both in the markets children.
CMP Information have continued to support NGOs we operate and in society more widely.
in Brazil through their local office in Sao Paulo.
We are also As we grow our business geographically we are particularly supporting an urban redevelopment project in Brazil with Oxfam, keen to support the local communities into which we are both through a cash donation and donations-in-kind.
In 2008, PR Newswire maintained its model of extending Over the past few years we have been expanding our business complimentary news releases for use in crisis communication in India, and in 2008 we launched new publishing, online and during natural disasters such as the China earthquake and data businesses there.
Since 2005 we have donated or pledged Myanmar cyclone, and UBM India printed a 2008 mental health over 150,000, being 10% of our global charitable donations brochure for BasicNeeds.
budget for that period, for charitable projects based in India.
Our charitable donations policy is administered by a central These include a donation of 50,000 one of our largest single charity committee which allocates funds to each division to be donations to CARE International for their girls education utilised in line with established guidelines.
The allocation of programme in India which allowed CARE to carry out teacher charitable funding is based either on proposals directly from training and ongoing support for 145 primary schools in the employees, or by reference to the level of volunteer work region as well as providing library books, resulting in 80% of undertaken by employees.
the schools in the area having a regularly used library and Employees are encouraged to undertake volunteering activities a pledge of 66,500 over a three-year period, to provide volunteer and are given time off each year, with pay, to volunteer.
UBM development and communications and fundraising programmes also operates a payroll giving scheme in the UK, whereby regular for Samraksha, which provides support and education about donations by employees are matched by their employer: and HIV and Aids, and seeks to educate and help local communities a separate matched giving scheme through which fundraising to deal with the stigma of this disease.
efforts by UBMs employees are matched.
During 2008 we donated 503,023 2007: 543,372 to over 70 charities: this represents cash donations only and does not include donations-in-kind such as employees time, services offered on a pro bono basis or used computer equipment.
3636 37 38 Board of Directors 40 Directors remuneration report 47 Corporate governance statement 52 Independent auditors report to the members of United Business Media Limited consolidated financial statements 53 Report of the directors Section 2: Governance
