Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Strategies to develop Ultras people The performance of Ultra is fundamentally driven by the individual and team contributions made by employees.
Ultras success in innovating to meet customer needs is based on the broad range of skills and capabilities of employees.
All managers in Ultra, supported by HR professionals, work towards the aim of delivering an efficient organisation with competent and committed people to meet the Groups business commitments.
It is vital to the continuing growth and success of Ultra that its to perform a larger role.
This assessment positions the individual investments are made wisely, that the quality of the management on the performance versus potential grid shown below.
Included team is constantly improved, that the right behaviours are in this assessment is consideration of the challenge posed by the encouraged and that appropriate processes are pursued around organic growth of the business driven by successful execution of the Group.
Many businesses state that their people are the the competitive strategy.
Any role in the business will become companys most important asset.
Ultra varies this slightly: the more challenging as the business grows.
Groups right people are its most important asset.
The structure of Ultra is characterised by a lean head ofce function only twelve staff in total work at the head ofce in London and a high degree of authority and responsibility delegated to the twenty four businesses.
Supported by their divisional managing directors, the management team of each business is required to focus on three key outcomes: developing and delivering the strategy meeting or beating the budget developing the people in the business If any business does not maintain a constant focus on growing the capabilities of the team, and the individuals in the team, it will Low Potential High become a constraint on the continuing growth and development of the business itself.
In 2008 the management span of control at the divisional managing director level was rebalanced with the creation of a Equal attention is given to enhancing the performance of the fourth position, as shown on the extract of the organisation individuals in the green zone of the grid and to addressing the chart on the inside front cover.
The management structure and challenges of the people in the amber and red zones.
This does processes at the executive team level were reviewed to ensure not always mean that these individuals must leave Ultra.
Often that they were capable of supporting the further growth of the they need to be placed in a role more suited to their talents and Group over the five year period of the strategic plan.
in which they can perform as required by the business.
Across Ultra the role of the human resources function is to work In 2008 Ultra achieved a retention rate of 98% of those individuals with the rest of the management team to ensure the supply of on the business senior management teams that were in the green the necessary high calibre, well trained and committed people.
By developing and retaining the high potential individuals in The challenge can be summarised as attracting, retaining, this zone, the Group is creating its next generation of business motivating and developing the right people.
A further facet of the leaders who will be able to take up the challenge, when required, challenge is managing the poor performance of, and potentially of continuing the growth and expansion of Ultra.
removing, the wrong people from the team.
The human resources The succession planning part of the process aims to ensure that function is, in addition, expected to manage succession, act as a catalyst for change, and actively support the acquisition process.
there are suitable successors for all the management team roles across each business and other senior level roles.
Ultra has, as a Ultras management strives constantly to improve recruitment and result, been able to appoint a high proportion of its leaders at personal development processes, to deliver high quality training divisional and business levels through internal promotion.
In and to share best practice across the Group.
2008 eight of the nine appointments at this level were filled All businesses in Ultra utilise an internally developed organisation internally.
This proportion has been broadly consistent over the and succession planning process.
In this, individuals are assessed last two years.
against their performance in their current role and their potential 08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Low Performance High Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Strategies to develop Ultras people The distinctive culture of Ultra and the behaviours of its people are Ultra also has very strong links with a large number of universities.
described elsewhere in this report.
It is a constant challenge to For example, TCS sponsors a Chair at the Ecole Technologie ensure that these features of Ultra are not diluted as the Group Suprieur ETS currently held by Professor Francois Gagnon who grows.
In a typical year Ultra recruits over 400 new employees.
In leads a number of research projects in wireless communications addition, acquisitions bring new people into the Ultra team.
2008 about 1,000 new employees joined Ultra in total.
Interaction of new employees with existing staff is encouraged where possible Benets to spread the Ultra culture as effectively as possible.
Ultra offers to all employees competitive and comprehensive benefits, which are regularly reviewed.
The Group believes in In 2008 over 30 in-house training courses were run in the UK and in rewarding its employees well for good performance.
Many of these are courses that are tailored to the specic requirements of Ultra and the trainers have an intimate All US and Canadian employees are offered medical plans.
Many knowledge of how the Group operates across all its businesses.
For businesses promote and offer specic wellness programmes such these courses, which typically have 12 to 20 participants, a focus is as smoking cessation, health screening and online resources.
maintained on bringing together people from different businesses.
Ultra also places a high level of importance on share plans that are In this way, that which makes Ultra different and special is spread open to all employees.
These are offered as savings related share more broadly across the Group.
In addition there is always value option plans in the UK, US and Canada on a regular basis and from such networking across different businesses.
The cross enable all employees to share in the success of Ultra as a whole.
fertilisation of ideas often spawns ideas for innovative solutions to real customer requirements through internal teaming.
These training events include programmes on leadership and management processes and techniques, along with workshops on Ultras successful competitive strategy, strategic selling, programme management and systems engineering processes.
Ultra recognises the importance of committed employees and, using its YOURviews employee survey, has developed a measure of employee engagement.
The survey is conducted at least every two years in each Ultra business and the businesses across the Group have successfully improved engagement by 1 to 2% per year over the last three years.
The YOURviews survey has also demonstrated the benets of the Groups consistent commitment to training and development over the past three years with an improvement in the employee rating in this regard of about 1% per year.
In order to ensure that Group businesses can recruit, retain, motivate and develop the right people, Ultra pursues a range of initiatives, which are described below.
Retirement benets Employment practices and standards Ultra offers retirement benefits to employees in the UK, US and Ultra believes that superior business performance can only be Canada.
Further details are provided on page 24. achieved through having committed and efficient people.
Achieving this high quality requires Ultra to recruit widely and with no bias or Employee consultation discrimination.
It is therefore the policy of Ultra to be an equal Gaining the commitment of everyone who works at Ultra involves opportunities employer and to oppose all forms of unlawful or effective communication and consultation.
This takes a number of unfair discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, nationality, forms such as the bi-annual Group magazine UltraNews, disability, sexual orientation, age, marital status, religion or political company-wide strategy and performance presentations, birthday belief.
In addition, the Group is a responsible employer, seeking to and communication lunches, cascade team brief meetings, achieve a culture of fairness to employees and of being a good specific consultation groups and YOURviews employee surveys.
place both to work and develop a career.
Employees and applicants are treated equally and fairly in respect of recruitment, As a result of this focus on developing its people, Ultra is seen remuneration, training, promotion and career development.
as an attractive place to work with many interesting and rewarding opportunities.
This was emphasised when the Groups None of Ultras businesses use forced, compulsory or child labour.
Advanced Tactical Systems business was recognised as one of the top 100 companies to work for in Texas for 2009 through an Development and training award from Texas Monthly Magazine and the Texas Association The Group actively supports and invests in training and of Businesses.
development linked to business needs.
Each business is responsible for identifying the training needs of its employees and managing its own training budget.
This typically takes place through individual employee performance and development reviews, which are held at least annually.
Specic training programmes are provided for individuals as necessary.
Individual businesses provide a wide variety of training and development opportunities.
As well as tuition reimbursement for shorter programmes, support also ranges from apprenticeship programmes to sponsorships at bachelor, master and doctorate level.
portfolio strength underpinning growth Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 C Ch hiie ef f E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five es s r re ep po or rt t
