Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Corporate responsibility 36% 47% battlespace IT geographic spread Sales of Ultras specialist battlespace North America represented 47% of IT systems and equipment the Groups 2008 revenue represented 36% of Group revenue in 2008 Ultra supports and respects the protection of internationally Ultra is a responsible citizen proclaimed human rights in the countries in which it operates.
Ultra believes that it should at all times be a responsible Ultra does not make any political donations.
As such the Group complies with all applicable legislation in the areas of trading, employment, health and safety Customers and the environment.
Ultra further believes that, in order to CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS achieve superior business performance, the Group must, in certain areas, exceed the minimum standards required by law.
Ultra promotes good working relationships with all its customers Ultras policies relating to its corporate responsibility are generally with a special emphasis on meeting its commitments.
The Group established by the Board with individual businesses taking a receives direct feedback on relationships from the UK MoD major role in their implementation.
Directorate of Supplier Relations and from many customers such as BAE Systems where Ultra is one of five members of its Strategic Supplier Programme.
Ultra is increasingly being recognised as a long-term partner to its customers.
For example Electrics has been nominated as one of ten strategic suppliers to BAE Systems Land Systems.
Airport Systems is regarded by BAA and BA as one of their top six strategic suppliers.
Ultra Electronics Canada Defence Inc. was recognised as one of the top defence companies in Canada by the Canadian Defence Review.
Ultras innovative exibility benets programme for UK employees has been in operation for seven years and 79% of employees use it to adapt their benets to suit their own needs Business ethics Ultra requires that its employees comply with the spirit and principles of the laws and standards of conduct of the countries in which it does business as well as behaving ethically and with fairness.
Ultra issued a corporate ethics policy during 2008 and The Groups bi-annual magazine, UltraNews, aids effective communication businesses are required to report on compliance every month.
In addition, the Board reviews compliance twice per year.
There were no non-compliance issues reported in 2008.
Directors and employees are required to avoid personal conicts of interest regarding company business and are bound by strict rules on insider dealing and insider information.
In addition, all businesses are strictly required to comply fully with the relevant national export control regulations.
They are also required to conduct their business in strict accordance with competition and anti-trust laws.
portfolio strength underpinning growth Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 25 Chief Executives report Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Corporate responsibility Individual businesses work very hard to promote excellent relationships with customers and receive feedback in the form of Ultras supplier relationships metrics as well as recognition of exceptional performance.
Many businesses conduct regular, formal customer surveys.
Feedback is engender a cooperative culture received in various ways.
For example, the Communications & Integrated Systems business received a letter of commendation which assists problem solving from its MoD customers for excellent support to trials of advanced and helps to accommodate data links on uninhabited air vehicles.
Brian MacDonald of MSI in the US received the Raytheon Six Sigma Presidents Award for his changes of requirements where work supporting a successful programme to deliver an advanced military surveillance system.
Ultra businesses also work very closely in partnership with customers in the development of new products.
At Sonar Systems an innovative proposal for recycling HIDAR sonobuoys was submitted under a formal MoD partnering contract.
Health and safety A healthy, committed workforce working in a safe environment is necessary to achieve superior business results.
Ultra therefore places great emphasis on maintaining high standards of health and safety.
All Ultra businesses are required to have a written local policy, to have the necessary resources to implement the policy, to provide adequate information, instruction and training for employees and to implement monitoring of health and safety standards.
The Chief Executive has been appointed as the main Board member with overall health and safety responsibility.
The Managing Directors and Presidents of the operating businesses are responsible for implementation of the policy.
Bi-annual audits by independent, external, qualied assessors covering health and safety matters are conducted, most recently in 2007.
Audits and the resulting follow-up process have proved effective in reaching and maintaining high standards across all sites.
Each business is required to submit a separate annual report on health and safety issues.
The results of the audits and annual reports from each business are reviewed by the Board annually in January.
Health and safety of employees, visitors and the local community alike is taken very seriously by the Group and the individual businesses.
PMES received an award for the third year in succession recognising its excellent record of safety in the workplace.
USSI in the US has initiated a programme to minimise the risk of injury at work.
This includes not only continued investment in ergonomics on the production oor but also the provision of professional support to encourage exercise and stretching to keep work injuries at a minimum.
Suppliers SUPPLIER AND OTHER PARTNER RELATIONSHIPS Contracts with suppliers are placed following a fair, competitive tendering process on an arms length basis or through formal teaming agreements.
Conicts of interest are avoided at all times.
Ultras supplier relationships engender a cooperative culture which assists problem solving and helps to accommodate changes of requirements where these occur.
Gain-share arrangements are also Brian MacDonald of MSI who entered into where appropriate and provide benets for Ultra and received a Raytheon Six Sigma its suppliers and its partners.
Presidents Award SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which they conduct business transactions with their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Corporate responsibility ENVIRONMENT Ultra recognises that it is important, both for its employees and Packaging waste t m sales UK Businesses the communities in which it operates, that effective measures are 0.30 in place to ensure that the Group minimises the environmental impact of its activities.
0.25 Ultra has a formal environmental policy that addresses 0.20 compliance with environmental legislation, conformity with standards for air, waste disposal and noise, the economical use 0.15 of materials and the establishment of appropriate environmental performance standards.
Progress is monitored through annual 0.10 reporting and a bi-annual audit process.
The Chief Executive has been appointed as the main Board member with overall 0.05 environmental responsibility.
The Managing Directors and Presidents of the operating businesses are responsible for 0.00 2005 2006 2007 2008 implementation of the policy.
Bi-annual external audits covering environmental matters are conducted by independent, external, qualied auditors: the last The net amount of packaging waste in tonnes per million pounds of revenue audit took place in 2007.
As with health and safety, the audits and has reduced consistently since 2005 the resulting follow-up process have proved effective in reaching and maintaining high standards of compliance across all sites.
SUPPLY CHAIN AND SC21 Where appropriate, some businesses have successfully achieved Ultra is a founding signatory of SC21, the UK SBAC-led action plan ISO14001 accreditation.
Specic environmental programmes took for 21st Century supply chains.
Ultra is therefore committed to place at a number of businesses ranging from a waste assessment working together with others in the UK aerospace and defence to the introduction of full scale recycling.
industry in order to develop supply chains that remain competitive, Energy consumption is measured annually and, where possible, the so that Ultra is able to deliver increased value to its customers.
data compared with previous years.
The results of the audits and Senior Ultra representatives participate in the various SC21 special annual reports from each business are reviewed by the Board interest groups and the key customers working group to drive annually in January.
In the UK Ultra measures and reports on its packaging waste Ultra businesses recognise the importance of an excellent supply annually.
Businesses are encouraged and incentivised to reduce the chain and various initiatives took place during 2008.
For example, net amount of waste they produce.
Manufacturing & Card Systems conducted a major supply chain Ultra businesses have modern video communication and development programme, part funded through the DTI Supply conferencing facilities.
These have been progressively installed and Chain Group Initiative.
The successful initiative delivered improved upgraded over the last nine years and have proven highly effective on-time delivery performance and enhanced quality.
in eliminating the need for travel to hold reviews and other meetings.
The most significant effect has been a reduction in the amount of air travel undertaken.
CHARITABLE AND COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES In addition to the charitable donations made by the Group see page 32 for details, Ultra employees are actively supported in their charitable fund-raising endeavours.
A large number of local and national charities is supported.
Charitable activities within Ultra vary across businesses and include donations to fund raising events including sponsored walks, runs and competitions.
Many thousands of pounds are raised in this way.
In addition, special assistance is given in a number of ways: these range from donating blood and clothes collections to work experience and mentoring.
For example, employees from Electrics supported the Samaritans Purse Christmas Appeal and donated gifts for children who would not normally receive any presents at Christmas.
DNE was recognised for its support of local youth mentoring A team from Electrics assessed the waste produced by the business in 2008 program and was selected for membership in the State of Connecticuts Corporate Honor Roll.
Local communities Ultra recognises the importance of being a responsible partner in the communities in which it operates and in which its employees live.
The Group has a positive attitude to environmental issues and is pleased to support selected charities and to maintain links with its local communities.
portfolio strength underpinning growth Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27 Chief Executives report
