Report of the Directors Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee Terms of reference Code of Business Principles The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee oversees Unilevers Code of Business Principles sets out the standards of Unilever's conduct as a responsible multinational business.
It is conduct to which we expect our employees to adhere.
In 2008 also charged with ensuring that Unilevers reputation is protected Unilever strengthened its management of the Code by appointing and enhanced.
Inherent in this is the need to identify any external a new full-time Global Code officer.
Priorities for the new role developments which are likely to have an inuence upon include building a network of country code ofcers, improving Unilevers standing in society and to bring these to the attention training and developing and sharing best practice.
training module on the Code was piloted in 2008.
The Committee endorsed these actions as they are key in ensuring The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive that Unilevers standards of conduct are well understood and Directors: Leon Brittan Chairman, Hixonia Nyasulu and Narayana enforced effectively.
The new Global Code officer attended a Murthy.
In 2008 two members of the Committee stood down: meeting of the Committee shortly after taking up his Executive Director Ralph Kugler, who retired from Unilever in May, appointment and reported on his plans and initial impressions.
and Genevive Berger, who stepped down as a Non-Executive Director to join the Unilever Executive in July.
Business Partner Code Unilevers Business Partner Code sets the standards that we expect To ensure it maintains a strategic overview of current and of suppliers in areas such as health and safety at work, business emerging sustainability issues, the Committee benets from the integrity, respect for labour standards, consumer safety and insights of the Unilever Sustainable Development Group USDG safeguarding the environment.
Unilevers supply management a body of five experts who advise on Unilevers sustainability function is responsible for the roll-out of the Business Partner strategy.
A multi-functional group of senior leaders from across Code and for gaining supplier assurance.
the business the Corporate Responsibility, Issues, Sustainability and Partnerships group CRISP also provides input to the As this is an important area of risk and reputation management, Committees discussions.
Both groups are chaired by the President the Committee emphasised the need for detailed standards and Foods, Home and Personal Care and member of the Unilever strong governance.
In 2008, a programme of audits was piloted Executive, Vindi Banga.
to assess compliance with the Code.
These pilots were used to inform the development of a new supplier assurance policy The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committees terms setting out operational practices and standards to deliver the of reference and details of the Unilever Sustainable Development Codes commitments.
Governance is via the Corporate Code Group are available on our website at Committee which oversees the operation of both the Business www.
com investorrelations corp governance Partner Code and the Code of Business Principles.
com investorrelations corp governance for the As part of its watching brief on current issues of concern to full text of the Code of Business Principles and Business Partner society, the Committee reviewed a range of topics in 2008.
Amongst these were: Unilevers approach to animal testing: the emerging science of nanotechnology: sustainable farming: Labour standards melamine contamination in products containing Chinese milk: the Between 2006 and 2008, four complaints have been brought to Groups operations in Zimbabwe and the Occupied Territories: and Unilevers attention by the International Union of Food Workers competition-related issues.
Subjects that received particular IUF and the transport union TUMTIS.
These concern site closure, scrutiny are listed below.
freedom of association, collective bargaining and the use of temporary and contracted labour at our factories in India and Business risk Pakistan and a suppliers factory in Turkey.
Under the terms of the Committee members reviewed Unilevers process for assessing OECDs Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the unions have business risk, focusing on how current and future risks are referred their complaints to the OECDs national contact points in identied and fed into management and business planning.
the UK and Turkey for investigation.
Unilever is seeking local resolution to these issues as well as co-operating fully with the OECD process.
Committee members stressed the need for active management of these matters.
The UEx has agreed a set of procedures and the appointment of a senior manager to address these complaints more rapidly.
Unilever is also reviewing its policies and practices to ensure that it continues to act within the law, as well as upholding the UN Global Compacts principles on human and labour rights and following the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
The Committee decided to give high priority to the monitoring of these developments.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 75 Report of the Directors Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee continued Sustainable sourcing of palm oil Unilever buys around 4% of world palm oil production for use across its portfolio, from soaps to spreads.
In May 2008 Unilever announced its intention to source all its palm oil from certied sustainable sources by 2015.
This is a major step that reects our concern that the palm oil industry in Indonesia and Malaysia contributes to the destruction of the worlds rainforests.
Unilever has taken the lead in setting up a coalition of likeminded companies, banks and NGOs.
This seeks to break the link between the cultivation of oil palm and deforestation by accelerating the move towards certied sustainable palm oil.
Unilever is working with Greenpeace to promote this aim.
The Committee emphasised the need for robust sustainability certication standards as the credibility of the initiative depends heavily on such third-party certication.
Unilever continues to work via the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil to rene these sustainability criteria and standards.
More information about Unilevers corporate responsibility initiatives is available in our Sustainable Development Report 2008 at www.
com sustainability Leon Brittan Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee Narayana Murthy Hixonia Nyasulu 76 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial statements Contents Statement of Directors responsibilities 78 Financial record 137 Auditors reports 79 Principal group companies and non-current investments 140 Consolidated income statement 81 Company accounts Unilever N. V. 142 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 81 Notes to the company accounts Unilever N. V. 144 Consolidated balance sheet 82 Further statutory and other information Unilever N. V. 146 Consolidated cash ow statement 83 Company accounts Unilever PLC 147 Notes to the consolidated accounts 84 Notes to the company accounts Unilever PLC 149 1 Accounting information and policies 84 Further statutory and other information Unilever PLC 151 2 Segment information 89 3 Gross profit and operating costs 93 4 Staff costs 94 5 Net finance costs 94 6 Taxation 95 7 Combined earnings per share 96 8 Dividends on ordinary capital 97 9 Goodwill and intangible assets 97 10 Property, plant and equipment 99 11 Other non-current assets 101 12 Deferred taxation 102 13 Inventories 102 14 Trade and other receivables 103 15 Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets 103 16 Financial liabilities 105 17 Financial instruments and treasury risk management 108 18 Trade payables and other liabilities 114 19 Provisions 114 20 Pensions and similar obligations 115 21 Equity 121 22 Share capital 122 23 Other reserves 123 24 Retained profit 124 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities 125 26 Acquisitions and disposals 128 27 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 130 28 Reconciliation of net profit to cash ow from operating activities 132 29 Share-based compensation plans 133 30 Related party transactions 135 31 Key management personnel 135 32 Remuneration of auditors 136 33 Events after the balance sheet date 136 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 77
