20 21 Corporate social responsibility report Our responsibilities we aim to recruit, train and develop the best As a Group we seek to operate responsibly and ethically people and help them take on board our values in all areas of our business.
We have a strong ethical while continuing to grow the business: belief in the way business should be conducted, how we provide clean, healt hy and safe working conditions: employees should be treated and have integrated social, environmental and ethical policies into the we are an equal opportunity employer and do not way we do business and the interaction we have with tolerate any sexual, racial or mental harassment our stakeholders including our shareholders, employees, of our employees: customers, suppliers and local communities.
the Group recognises the requirement to provide facilities for disabled employees and continues to be The Chief Executive has Board responsibilities for aware of any special needs an employee might have: matters relating to the Groups culture and ethical policies, environmental matters and customer and we encourage fuel efficient commuting through employee issues.
These matters are reviewed by the the provision of cycle sheds, showers and changing Board as part of its management of risk, on the basis facilities in the UK ofces: and that as the Group grows, maintenance of its core values the recent implementation of exible benets, becomes increasingly more difficult but even more vital.
allows the purchase of bicycles through the cycle to work scheme and the purchase of child care vouchers.
Customers and suppliers We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships with We also have a Joint Consultative Committee, a both customers and suppliers.
We offer the highest forum made up of employee representatives in the level of support and continue to enhance our product UK who meet frequently to discuss any staff issues offering to ensure our customers effective use of and concerns.
It comprises employee members from software thus minimising waste and improving all departments, including Human Resources.
We have a policy not to offer, pay or accept bribes or to accept substantial favours.
We encourage The Groups employment policies are continuously our suppliers and customers to adopt the same under review and are aimed at meeting or exceeding principles to which we ourselves aspire.
the legislative requirements in the countries in which the Group operates and wherever possible promote a Employees considerate and exible approach to work life balance.
The Group now has 730 employees of whom over 500 As part of this the Group continues to review and are based overseas.
As a result of our high rate of growth, improve communication with employees and has we have seen a 20% increase in the numbers we employ.
conducted surveys with employees to gain their We are dependent on the drive and goodwill of our views on key issues.
employees, they are our most important asset and key to our continuing success and as a result, the extent As part of the development and retention of staff, to which we have sufficient staff of the right calibre the Group introduced flexible benefits for all available to ll our critical roles is reviewed periodically UK employees, which provide a competitive and by the Board as part of the risk management process.
varied approach to benets to suit individual lifestyle needs.
In addition an Employee Assistance Programme We recognise that we must excel in the management is in place as the Group recognises that employees of people, helping them develop their careers within need support from time to time to handle work and the Group whilst maintaining a high level of morale.
Although staff turnover has remained low in the last 12 months, this is a continual changing process and as such: AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report 20 21 East Anglian Childrens Hospice EACH AVEVA will continue to review its benets programme In the last twelve months there were no RIDDOR throughout the Group to ensure valued and cost reportable accidents.
EACH supports families throughout their experience effective benefits are offered to all employees to of caring for children with life-threatening or attract new recruits and reward existing employees.
As a global business, our employees undertake travel life-limiting illnesses: to many areas of the world to visit customers sites or Central induction programme to assist customers in the deployment and testing of MAGPAS Mid-Anglia General Practitioner Accident Service our products.
The Group regularly takes advice from With so many new employees joining the Group during MAGPAS has provided emergency care in Cambridgeshire the year the Directors felt it important to ensure the the UK Foreign Ofce, the World Health Organisation and Peterborough since 1971 and works in partnership and similar organisations concerning health and with the East Anglian Air Ambulance and the East induction process was comprehensive and professional to ensure new employees feel welcome and can become safety in the various regions where we operate.
of England Ambulance Service Trust: effective as soon as possible.
Environment Arthur Rank Hospice In evaluating the environment management practices Arthur Rank House provides specialist palliative care The Group has successfully run five central induction courses bringing new employees together from being followed by the Group, it is important to note that services for people over 18 who have a life-limiting illness: the Group is classed as low impact in environmental throughout the business to welcome them to the Group and provide informative and useful training.
terms and that as the principal products are software, Headway these can be shipped to customers electronically.
To promote understanding of all aspects of brain injury and to provide information, support and services to Management development training programme people with a brain injury, their families and carers: Managing employees in a growing organisation Our software products are created by very knowledgeable, talented individuals using computers and a variety of with such diverse cultures brings with it a number software development tools.
There are no harmful Macmillan Cancer Support of challenges.
AVEVA has developed a training chemicals or anything that could give rise to noxious Macmillan Cancer Support is a source of support, programme to provide support and a learning waste employed in the process.
We purchase energy helping with all the things people affected by framework for the management team.
saving screens which are MPR-II and TCO 03 compliant.
cancer want and need: We are registered with WEECare plc for the disposal of all Group wide appraisal scheme computer hardware.
We encourage both employees and International Committee of the Red Cross Developing skills is important to individuals and The International Committee of the Red Cross, or ICRC, their families to undertake the recycling and composting to AVEVA developing people helps move the Group of all suitable items.
We are reviewing the costs for the is a humanitarian organisation which aims to help those forward and helps maintain the respect and tting of energy saving devices in the UK ofces.
caught up in armed conicts around the globe: reputation of our staff with our customers.
The appraisal process therefore: Further to help reduce the amount of travel the Group The Princes Trust has introduced and continues to promote the use The Princes Trust, founded in 1976 by The Prince of ensures staff receive regular, constructive of video and web conferencing.
Wales, has become the UKs leading youth charity, feedback on their performance: offering a range of opportunities including training, links job descriptions and individual objectives personal development, business start-up support, Community involvement with AVEVA business plans: and The Group is involved in a number of charitable mentoring and advice: and and good causes.
During the past year we have sets and reviews personal development goals.
donated 45,997 to a wide range of local and The Outward Bound Trust national organisations as summarised below: The Outward Bound Trusts mission is to unlock Health and safety the potential in young people through discovery We have a legal responsibility to ensure the safety and East Anglian Air Ambulance and adventure in the wild.
well-being of all our employees whilst carrying out their East Anglian Air Ambulance was founded in 2000. duties on behalf of the Group and maintain a safe The charity provides 365 day a year air ambulance The Group also gift matched the efforts of employees environment for customers and other visitors whilst service for Cambridgeshire, Norfolk and Suffolk who took part in the Chariots of Fire Charity Marathon, on our premises.
Health and Safety, Fire Safety and which is 11% of the total area of England: the Oxford to Cambridge Bike Ride and Red Nose Day.
Electrical Safety audits are carried out on a regular basis.
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report
