indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions sUstainaBle develoPMent rePort and is provided principally We see Sustainable Development as a key for our shareholders and potential shareholders.
part of Vedantas business philosophy and overall ethos.
It represents a core commitment of our management approacH A process based management management and employees.
system drives our Sustainable Development processes.
We see Sustainable Development Vedanta recognises the importance governance StrUctUre as a key part of Vedantas business of being open, transparent and Our Health, Safety and Environment philosophy and overall ethos.
We have, for example, HSE processes are governed by represents a core commitment of always recognised that an important a Board appointed Committee, our management and employees.
element of our licence to operate is to chaired by Dr SK Tamotia who is a enter into dialogue and work closely Non-executive Director.
The other Conducting our Sustainable with the local communities in which members of the Committee are: Development programmes in a manner we operate.
Mr KK Kaura that helps our communities become CEO of Vedanta Resources.
more sustainable whilst enhancing We have also developed our Sustainable Mr MS Mehta shareholder and stakeholder value Development communications and CEO Hindustan Zinc.
We plough reporting systems, applying our website Mr Pramod Suri substantial resources into our for the purpose and expanding our CEO Aluminium Sector programmes and believe that it is reporting.
This year we will be producing Operations imperative that we continue to be a stand alone report for the first time Mr Ramesh Nair Vice President forward looking and responsible in and continue towards our overall goal Sterlite Industries India.
of full compliance with the Global Mr CP Baid Reporting Initiative GRI and the sector Director of Operations Konkola During 2008 our sustainable supplements which are relevant to our Copper Mines.
development SD strategy prioritised activities.
The key information for this Mr CSR Mehta three sustainable areas: inclusive is being independently verified by an HSE Co-ordinator.
growth for our people and external auditor.
Ms Ruby Thapar communities, environmental CSR Co-ordinator.
management, and sustainable In general our efforts aim to maximise economic growth.
our related opportunities and minimise The Committee meets each calendar our related risks.
Going forward we are quarter and, occasionally invites the Our processes and performance in the committed to enter into dialogue with a involvement of other relevant senior areas of safety, health, environment wider group of stakeholders.
We have employees from around the business.
and social have continued to develop.
made progress against our goals, but This Committee guides our Sustainable Effective control and delivery in all we have more to learn in some and lot Development endeavours, sets annual of these areas is a management of work to do.
targets and regularly monitors imperative and is the subject of regular progress in line with our HSE and and detailed scrutiny at all levels The information within this Social policies.
We have dedicated of management.
Annual Report section is an teams and resources at each of the outline of our policies, systems companies guided by the local and performance in this area VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions sUstainaBilitY committees under the leadership of the are designed to reflect best practice, amounts of energy consumed CEOs.
Sustainable development minimise risk and maximise and conserved: performance is an important element opportunity.
Our health, safety and water consumed and conserved: of how all of our senior managers are environment policy, which is applied gas emitted and re-used: assessed and remunerated.
across all of our Group companies, is to: biodiversity indicators such as tree strive to achieve industry best planting : and environment Friendly tecHnologieS practice in our health and safety waste quantities disposed of, We endeavour to use technologies stewardship: recycled and re-used.
which are energy and water efficient, ensure that we provide a healthy and have adequate residue and safe workplace for all of our Detailed information concerning our management systems in place.
employees and contractors: environmental performance will appear ensure that our employees and in our forthcoming Sustainable environment impact aSSeSSment eia contractors respect their Development report.
Highlights include: Our decisions on possible environmental responsibilities: environmental, social and economic employing environment friendly Our total energy and water use per impacts of our projects are based on technologies: tonne of product made continues to rigorous EIAs like risk and base line optimise our use of energy and show improvement: studies, social mapping and needs resources through being more for the year 200708 we had set assessments and other sustainable efficient and employing recycling a target of 5.0% reduction in the practices both in our major expansion and re-use methods: specific energy consumption and new projects.
conservation of natural resources across our operations.
The actual and alternate use of residues: reductions were: HZL 13.0%, revieWS and aUditS address the challenges and BALCO 4.0%, KCM 3.0%, Ongoing internal reviews and external opportunities of climate change: MALCO 2.0%: periodic audits are conducted to comply with all applicable similarly for the fiscal year against monitor progress and measure legislative and statutory a target reductions of 510% in the performance against Score cards.
requirements: and specific water consumption across be good neighbours in the various locations the actual certiFicationS communities in which we operate.
reductions were HZL 12.5%, Most of our operating units are BALCO 10.0% & SIIL 7.0%: Certified against International Our Subsidiary companies have aligned our initiatives to find alternative Standards.
our Group policies appropriate to their uses for waste have gathered own requirements.
For instance MALCO commUnication now sends 24.0% of its red mud byOngoing communication and reporting perFormance product of alumina production to towards transparency and We have a team of over 350 HSE the cement industry: and accountability.
professionals managing our day-to-day most of our sites have now phased HSE activities across operations.
out the use of ozone depleting HealtH, SaFety and tHe substances entirely and the environment HSe environment remainder will do so within the We possess formal and rigorous HSE Our key environmental performance near future.
Our processes indicators include: have been developed over time and materials utilised in our production processes: VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 63 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions sUstainaBle develoPMent rePort CONTINUED Over the coming year we also intend to engage directly with a variety of stakeholders to increase awareness and understanding of our approach to sustainable development and CSR, our related performance and to engage in active dialogue with a variety of stakeholders.
HealtH and SaFety important area.
Over the last report matters which they believe to Our key health and safety performance financial year over 66,000 mantransgress or contravene our Code indicators include: days of training was imparted to of Conduct.
industry-wide health and safety employees and contractors.
ensure that our supplier and indicators such as Lost Time Injury customer relationships are Frequency Rate LTIFR and Lost Most of our units are ISO14001 and conducted in a fair, proper and Time Injury Severity Index SR : OHSAS 18001 certified transparent manner.
incidents of near misses relating to strive to achieve and drive forward potential accidents and injuries: Social industry best practice in our social incidence of occupational diseases: people stewardship.
safety training statistics: People are our key assets.
We believe on acquisitions and mergers, customer health and safety in nurturing leaders from within and uphold and honour all ongoing statistics: and providing opportunities for growth commitments ensuring smooth related fines and penalties across levels and geographies.
Our integration of the two organisations concerning our performance in vision is to build a fast, flexible and flat and sharing of best practices.
organisation with world class comply with all applicable capabilities and a high performance legislative and statutory Detailed information concerning our culture across all of our businesses.
requirements and align with the health and safety performance will principles in the Convention on the appear in our forthcoming Sustainable Our people policies, applied across Rights of the Child of the United Development Report.
Highlights all of our Group companies, is to: Nations and Convention 138 of the include: follow a philosophy of meritocracy International Labour Organisation.
and are committed to ensuring be a responsible and good Our safety record continues to improve.
that our workplaces are free from local neighbour.
The reducing trend in our Lost Time all forms of discrimination or Injury Frequency Rate is shown below.
harassment on the basis of age, Our Subsidiary companies have aligned caste, sex, religion during all our Group policies appropriate to their Period LTIFR our processes encompassing own requirements.
recruitment, employee 20056 3.84 20067 2.51 development and rewarding perFormance performance.
Our people performance indicators 20078 1.91 manage our businesses in a fair include: and equitable manner, meeting all measures relating to No occupational diseases have our social responsibilities as a diversity, equal opportunity been reported at any of our direct and indirect employer and and human rights: locations.
respect the human rights of all of learning, development and The conduct of a highly successful our stakeholders.
training statistics: Safety Week at all our units in which have robust processes and systems performance management business unit heads, employees, in place for leadership against set KRAs and Vedanta contractors and trade unions development, training and growth leadership model: actively participated.
to deliver value to the organization information relating to the conduct Training and awareness of health and society.
of our business such as bribery and safety issues continue to be as part of the whistle blower policy and corruption prevention : and central to our approach to this give employees an opportunity to employee communication.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions sUstainaBilitY commUnity Detailed information concerning our be a significant contributor to social performance will appear in our The communities around our plants are addressing social needs within the our key stakeholders.
They are a key forthcoming Sustainable Development communities in which we operate.
Highlights include: element of how we conduct business create partnerships for and the development of our medium our unique ACT-UP scheme sustainability identifies leaders at an early stage, and long-term plans and strategies at strive to actively enter into dialogue local, divisional and group level.
designated Stars of Business and and engagement with our places them on a fast track stakeholders Our work with the communities is programme.
This ensures that we strive to achieve and drive forward continue to have the succession defined through a framework and is industry best practice in our social customised based on the nature of the management plans in place and stewardship.
that many of our future senior business cycle from an R&R in green comply with all applicable field projects to begin with to a more managers come from within legislative and statutory the business.
focused and encompassing approach in requirements.
Our approach is our Global Leadership Program be a responsible and good provides key and talented two thronged with an intensive local neighbour intervention in select villages identified employees in the Group an opportunity to work on important through indicator driven process Three of our Group companies are designated as the Integrated Village projects and focused assignments, signatories to the UN Global Compact in an overseas environment for a Development Program and an Hindustan Zinc, BALCO and MALCO.
extensive approach in the remaining period of 6-12 months.
each of our operating locations villages that we work in.
perFormance follows a chosen performance Our community performance indicators improvement engine like Six Sigma, Our CSR and site management teams include: assess local needs and prioritise TQM, TPM, Quality Circles stakeholder engagement and employee turnover around all of our them.
We then design and roll out partnership for need identification comprehensive and extensive businesses throughout the year and sustainable planning: was only 4%.
development plans in partnership planned and result-oriented with the government, NGOs and the a large proportion of our approach with base line study, workforces are members of a trade community into an integrated village monitoring and evaluation development plan.
We parameters impact measurement: actively communicate and enter into reviews and social audits every 23 community development years facilitate transferring autonomy dialogue with our workforce and programmes such as measures believe in maintaining a positive to the villages and expanding our reach.
relating to our Integrated Village atmosphere by being proactive Development Programme : with respect to resolution of Our community policy, which is applied social audits: and across all of our Group companies, is to: labour issues.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 65 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions geo-teXtile: new aPProach For residUe ManageMent VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions sUstainaBilitY In the initial period mining was carried At Codli mine, geo-textiles are laid on out at upper layers and mine spread the dump surface before onset of the was horizontal, which ensured monsoon.
Special erosion control abundant supply of laterite for covering and nitrogen fixing grass seeds of clay portion of dump and also for Styllosanthus hamata, Congo & other making filters with series of rock walls mixed varieties are sown on the geoto arrest erosion.
However as the mine textiles along with organic manure of went deeper, the reject composition Glyricidia pigs and used for fixing the was mainly of clay of magniferous geo-textile in the first year and and phyllatic nature which was very subsequently, native plant species prone to erosion and does not support are planted.
Use of geo-textiles is a new approach to control erosion Geo-textiles reduce impact of rain on of mine dumps as well as to the dump surface, thus preventing establish plantations.
erosion and also conserving moisture by acting as mulch for the better Geo-textile is a thin permeable growth of the plant.
Grass seeds material consisting of coir fibers germinate, decompose within three interwoven with nylon filaments to years by which time the dump provide support and strength.
experiments using geo-textiles was conducted with the technical support Use of Geo-textiles is an integral of Coir Board Kerala.
The desired part of dump management and strength to withstand the monsoon and has now successfully been right species of grass was developed replicated at different mining after three years of trial.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 67 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions sUstainaBle develoPMent rePort CONTINUED We have robust processes and systems in place for leadership development, training and growth to deliver value to the organisation and society.
Detailed information concerning our encouraged community cohesion cii national aWard For excellence in energy and Water management social performance will appear in our and village development.
This forthcoming Sustainable Development year BALCO has constructed 90 This accreditation was awarded to Sterlite Industries in 2007.
Highlights include: Biogas plants in partnership with our reach: 383 villages and Chhattisgarh Renewable Energy cii Women exemplar aWard 2008 2.5 million lives: Development Authority CREDA : we have 70 villages from 15 in we now partner with 72 NGOs CII has, since 2005, institutionalised an annual Woman Exemplar Award.
The 20067 involved in our Integrated up from 48 in 20067 to jointly Development Programme of which participate in a variety of local Award promotes women empowerment at the community level by discovering 32 have been audited by ORG India: community projects: and around 1,450,000 people were 93 full time personnel and 624 and recognising those who have, against all odds, contributed accessed by the health outreach cluster champions and volunteers.
projects in which we participated significantly to the development process in India.
The Award is given around 1,000,000 in 20067 : aWardS and accreditationS our mobile medical health camps in We highlight here some of the many in the fields of primary education and literacy, health and micro-finance Zambia have motivated more than Sustainable Development awards and one million people to bring about a accreditations that our Group of and enterprise.
positive change in their own health companies have received over the past and their awareness of the health of year.
More detailed information will be This year in the micro-finance and enterprise category, Ms S others.
In particular our door to recorded in our forthcoming door campaigns have increased Sustainable Development Report.
Dhanalakshmi, head of one of the selfhelp groups promoted by Sterlite awareness on HIV related and other infections: golden peacock aWardS Industries India won the Award microfinance and enterprise category for her 55,350 students within our local For excellence in cSr and communities have studied in the corporate governance innovative pursuit of mushroom cultivation.
Her efforts have boosted computer education programmes in The Golden Peacock Awards are which we participate: managed by the Institute of Directors family incomes within her local community to Tuticorin and she is we have successfully encouraged in India and aim to recognise corporate womens empowerment within the excellence in a number of areas.
beckoned as Wealth of the Mushroom.
local communities with the Hindustan Zinc was the winner of both development of over 781 self help awards in 2007. cii-itc SUStainaBility commendation aWard groups with 10,055 members and hold a cumulative savings base of tHe conFederation oF indian The Confederation of Indian IndustryITC Centre of Excellence for 17.4 million rupees.
Up from 550 indUStry aWardS in 20067 : The Confederation of Indian Industry Sustainable Development instituted the Sustainability Awards to recognise our Biogas projects collection of CII is Indias premier business manure to generate bio-fuels have association, with a direct membership business leaders who have initiated activities and integrated practices provided a valuable source of of over 7,000 organisations from the energy in our local communities, private as well as public sectors.
Its into their business for Sustainable Development of the country.
This improved local sanitation, reduced business awards are among the most greenhouse gas emissions and prestigious that can be attained by prestigious award, won by Sterlite Industries India in 2007 recognises Indian companies.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions sUstainaBilitY outstanding sustainability achievement and focuses on the strong links between corporate reputation, customer trust, building brand value and the public positioning of companies.
greentecH environment excellence aWard The Greentech Foundation have instituted the Greentech Safety and Greentech Environment Excellence Awards to recognise, reward and promote exceptional goals in the field of safety and all positive aspects of environmental responsibilities.
These Awards are a unique form of benchmarking with stringent quality standards, credibility and honouring the proactive practices of the awardees enhancing their global stature.
Environment Excellence Awards 2007 Sterlite Industries India Ltd, Chanderiya Lead-Zinc Smelter HZL and Rampura national SaFety aWard Agucha Mine HZL got Gold Awards in Metals and Mining Sector with Zinc Instituted by Government of India in 1960, Ministry of Labour & Employment Smelter, Debari HZL, Zinc Smelter, Vishakhapattnam HZL, Madras Directorate General Factory Advice Service & Labour Institutes aims to Aluminum Company Ltd and Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd Korba recognise honour and encourage industrial establishments.
The National winning silver in the same sector.
Safety Awards are given based on the Lowest Average Frequency Rate and Greentech Safety Awards 2007 Sterlite Industries India Ltd, Chanderiya Accident Free year.
BALCOs Smelter Plant I was awarded the 1st prize and Lead-Zinc Smelter HZL, Zinc Smelter, Debari HZL and Bharat Aluminium the Fabrication Plant the runner up under scheme No.
II of the National Company Ltd Korba won the gold category in Metals and Mining Sector, Safety Awards.
while Rampura Agucha Mine HZL won a silver and Bharat Aluminium Company Limited, Captive Power Plant also won silver in Power Plant category.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 69 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions Our approach to community to five-year period for select villages.
development is holistic, robust, A village-wise matrix plots annual integrated, intensive, long-term performance indicators against set and sustainable, given the sheer targets.
The other villages are covered remoteness of our locations.
Our under our Good Neighbourhood stakeholder engagement process, Programme and eventually in a phased coupled with base line study and need manner aligned to the Integrated assessment helps us develop and Village Development Program.
shape our programmes for a threeintegrated village develoPMent VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions sUstainaBilitY VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 71 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions sUstainaBle develoPMent rePort CONTINUED case stUdies impacting tHe graSSrootS We have partnered the Asian Institute substantial increase in individual Since 2003 the communities based for Sustainable Development to incomes and provided a significant close to the Vedanta Alumina plant at improve the opportunities of 600 boost to the local economy.
The Lanjigarh have experienced farmers based close to our plant by farmers were divided into 56 working enhancements in the quality of their helping them enhance productivity groups comprising approximately of ten lives.
The project initiated with the across 650 acres of their land.
This structure of rehabilitation of 118 families to a new increased yield has resulted in a mutual activity produced optimal purpose-built village, which was substantial increase in individual results as all these farmers had their followed by a long-term plan under the incomes and provided a significant own land holding and a ready market integrated Village Development boost to the local economy.
is administered by dividing the farmers into 56 working groups comprising We have also directly involved many The new village featured amenities approximately of ten people.
We have local women in micro enterprise with including new purpose-built dwellings, found that this structure of mutual the consequent self empowerment, power and water connectivity, activity produces optimal results educational and local economy a primary school, a community centre, and supports local community benefits.
There are now 30 women self a market complex, a medical centre, development.
a child care centre, roads, temple, kitchen garden, colony water tank and We partnered the Asian Institute for Besides providing sanitised houses, many other facilities.
One member of Sustainable Development to improve medical and educational facilities each family has been directly and the opportunities of 600 farmers based coupled with employment opportunities indirectly given employment at our close to our plant by helping them and infrastructure development we plant.
The other family members enhance productivity across 650 acres also have 100% immunization coverage benefited from employability of their land through soil testing, multi against preventable diseases of enhancement programmes aimed at cropping and other measures.
The children below 5 years and pregnant building their vocational skills.
increased yield has resulted in a women with 95% local school pass VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions sUstainaBilitY percentage supported by a regular ten organic farming demonstration was also established.
Such results are scholarship, sports and cultural sites, fruit plantation in 6 acres through welcoming and would facilitate the programme for the children.
24 farmers collective, resource process of graduation remarked the mobilisation from district CSR team of Debari Zinc Smelter.
Collectively, 18 villages are covered administration for construction of intensively under the Integrated Village 3 kms road connecting to the local green energy Development programme at Lanjigarh market hub, child welfare centre for Most of the power generated in India is with an outreach of more than 12500 40 pre-school children and facilitating produced by thermal power plants that populations.
Besides this, 56 villages the establishment of primary school are fuelled by the large coal reserves in are being extensively covered under ensured sustainability.
We run our own captive good neighbourhood programme.
The important was ensuring access to power plants to meet the requirements overall assessment of these 18 villages services rather than being a service of our mining and smelting operations has shown significant improvement provider and we were motivated to be at all our locations.
They operate at an in school attendance, immunization, self sustainable from the beginning optimal capacity compared to the other and access to market and enhanced remarked the SHG group leader.
standard power utility plants leading to employability of local youth more efficient power generation.
Definitely, road and electricity are basic amenities.
HZLs initiative and In the previous financial year we Collectively, 18 villages are covered village collectiveness was the key to reported the commissioning of 38.4 intensively under Integrated Village our transformation.
It has taken us MW wind turbines.
This year we added Development programme at Lanjigarh threefour years to evolve as an about 68.8 MW of wind energy capacity with an outreach of more than 12,500 empowered village unit.
The electricity and by April 2008 our installed capacity populations.
Besides this, 56 villages connectivity for 94 of our households has become 107.2 MW.
We intend to are being extensively covered under was ensured through involvement of grow this capacity to 125 MW by the good neighbourhood programme.
each household including voluntary second quarter of 200809.
The overall assessment of these contribution for the same.
The time is 18 villages has shown significant set for significant enhancement in the cHairmanS WorkSHopS improvement in school attendance, quality of our life.
remarked Ganesh An important aspect of the way we do immunisation, access to market Dangi, village leader Godwa.
business is ensuring that our senior and enhanced employability of local management connects with our youth and women.
The finiteness of the efforts at HZL was employees.
The Chairmans workshop validated by ORG, New Delhi in January is one such platform.
Our Chairman, Similarly the Godwa village in 2008 who evaluated this village as part along with other members of our senior Rajasthan lacked basic amenities like of our social audit.
59 villages have management team, conducts a day electricity, primary school, road etc been covered in phases under the long interactive workshop with varied since independence.
The impact of SHG and small select employee forums from was to mobilise people to come organic farming initiatives were around the business throughout the together to address the challenge.
Apart from this, the village year.
Ten such forums took place work then expanded to form village development council comprising 33.0% during this period.
These forums have institutions to take the process trained women representation were the been successful in encouraging the forward.
Four self help groups with 52 hallmark of sustainability.
40.0% exchange of often novel and innovative members and a cumulative fund of INR improvement in nutrition level and ideas and information.
They have also 60,000, vocational training for rural 100.0% immunisation level of preschool succeeded in disseminating the vision youths by SANKALP, development of children through child welfare centre of the Group to our employees.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 73 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions Board oF directors 1 3 2 execUtive directorS 1. anil agarWal, aged 54 in organic growth opportunities 3. kUldip kaUra, aged 61 Executive Chairman including joint ventures and alliances, Chief Executive Mr Agarwal, who founded the Group in the strategic treasury and fund raising Mr Kaura is also Managing Director of 1976, is also Chairman of Sterlite and is initiative and global investor relations, Sterlite and Deputy Chairman of KCM.
a Director of BALCO, HZL, and Vedanta as well as augmenting and managing Mr Kaura, who joined Sterlite in 2002, Alumina Ltd.
Since 1976 the Group has the top talent of the Group.
was Managing Director of HZL and grown under his leadership, vision and became the Chief Operating Officer of strategy.
Mr Agarwal has over 30 years Mr Agarwal has also been instrumental Vedanta Resources plc at its inception.
in globalising Vedantas business and He is also a director of HZL, Vedanta operations.
He was actively involved in Alumina and CMT and has held various 2. navin agarWal, aged 47 the internal growth and expansion of positions in operations and business Deputy Executive Chairman the Groups business in Australia and management for 18 years at ABB India.
Mr Agarwal is also Executive ViceZambia.
He actively led Vedantas Mr Kaura was a member of the board Chairman and Director of Sterlite, successful listing on the London Stock of directors of ABB India from 1996 and Chairman of KCM and MALCO and a Exchange in 2003. was the Managing Director and Country Director of each of BALCO, MALCO Manager of ABB from 1998 to 2001. and HZL.
He joined Sterlite at its Mr Agarwal has over 20 years Mr Kaura has a Bachelors degree in inception and the Board of Vedanta experience in strategic and Mechanical Engineering Honours in November 2004. operational management.
He from the Birla Institute of Technology & received a degree in Commerce Sciences in Pilani and Executive Mr Agarwal is the Chairman of the from Sydenham College, Mumbai, education at London Business School Executive Committee of Vedanta.
In this India and has participated in and IFL, Sweden.
capacity, he is responsible for overall the Owner President Management delivery of the Groups strategy, Programme at Harvard including the overall development of University, USA.
the new green and brown field projects, VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions governance 4 5 6 7 non-execUtive directorS 4. nareSH cHandra, aged 73 arm of HSBC Holdings plc, and as Ltd from 2000 until 2004.
Dr Tamotia Mr Chandra joined the Board in May Deputy Chairman of HSBC Bank Middle has a Bachelor of Engineering 2004.
Mr Chandra was Home Secretary East, based in Dubai with responsibility Honours degree in Civil Engineering, in India in 1990, Cabinet Secretary from for the HSBC Groups operations in the a Masters degree in Engineering, 1990 to 1992, Senior Adviser to the Middle East.
In 1999, Mr Mehta was Soil Mechanics and Foundation Prime Minister of India from 1992 to appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Engineering.
1995 and the Indian Ambassador to Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking United States of America from 1996 to Corporation, a position he held until his 7. eUan macdonald, aged 68 2001.
He was Chairman of the Indian retirement.
Mr Mehta has a degree in Mr Macdonald spent over 20 years Government Committee on Corporate Economics from Delhi University.
with SG Warburg, specialising in Governance & Audit from 2002 to 2003 He now resides in Delhi and is a emerging market finance.
From and was Chairman of the Committee on member of a number of Corporate and 1995 to 1999, Mr Macdonald was Civil Aviation Policy in 20042005.
He Institutional Boards in India as well Chairman of SBC Warburg India, was awarded the prestigious award of as overseas.
responsible for all the banks activities Padma Vibhushan by the Honourable in India, and from 1999 to 2001, he President of India this year.
SHailendra kUmar tamotia, was Executive Vice Chairman of has a Masters degree in Mathematics aged 69 HSBC Securities and Capital Markets, from Allahabad University.
Dr Tamotia, an aluminium specialist, India.
Mr Macdonald has a degree in joined the Board in November 2004.
Economics from Cambridge University 5. aman meHta, aged 61 He started his career in 1962 with an and a Masters degree in Finance and Mr Mehta, a senior banker, joined the initial appointment at Bhilai Steel Plant International Business from Columbia Board in November 2004 following his in Chhattisgarh.
Dr Tamotia held Business School.
retirement from HSBC where he had a numerous positions at NALCO from career spanning 36 years.
He held 1984 until 1996, including Chairman numerous positions, including and Managing Director in 1993.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of also President and Chief Executive HSBC USA Inc the New York based Officer of Indian Aluminium Company VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 75
