Business and Finance Review ultimately reduce risk.
Active contract management is all about the Firstly, the lessons associated with the Chiswick delay are understood identification and reduction of the unknowns within projects which and will be applied, particularly in relation to future construction projects.
ultimately results in the reduction of risk and an increase in performance.
Secondly, the pre-project planning time will be extended, where appropriate, in order to allow time to anticipate and resolve potential This approach has led to the successful completion of the Grouse and problems.
Thirdly, a review of the processes for evaluating timing Stamford projects this year along with the removal from the North Sea uncertainties will be reported to the Board in 2009. of the Kittiwake Loading Buoy KLB.
The KLB was an 82m long, 4,132 tonnes structure which was moored in 100m of water at Kittiwake.
This Communication with Investors, Analysts represents Ventures first major North Sea decommissioning project and External Parties where over 85% of the materials removed have been recycled.
This risk centres on the difficulty of providing accurate and consistent Key long term contracts with suppliers, such as Subsea 7 for offshore information about business performance when outcomes are subject construction activities, Noble Drilling for the supply of drilling units, to many influences outside direct management control.
Given the Petrofac and Sevan Marine for the operation and supply of offshore timescales of Ventures business, it is important to focus on both the installations, ensure that Venture has the essential building blocks in delivery of short term objectives and to communicate progress on longer place to deliver the Venture business plan going forward, whilst ensuring term value creation.
The Company is committed to an open and timely continued levels of production are maintained.
During 2008, there was a continued programme of investor and analyst meetings, including an Analysts Day in January and a Capital Markets Day in November focusing on the Key Business Risks value of Ventures substantial gas business.
Resources in this area were After Board evaluation of the business risks presented by management, strengthened with the appointment of a Corporate Communications the following key risks facing the business have been identified.
For 2009, Venture remains committed to a high level of communication and transparency.
Low Volatile Commodity Prices Following the strong rise and rapid fall of the oil price during 2008 the Misstatement of Reserves Risk outlook for 2009 and beyond remains very uncertain.
With Ventures There is a robust and externally validated process applied to Ventures current reserves and production mix weighted towards gas, it is reserves statements.
This process is fully compliant with the Society of important to monitor and seek to understand the different dynamics Petroleum Engineers SPE PRMS standards.
Reserves are reviewed between oil and gas markets.
The key response to potentially lower by the Board twice yearly and producing field reserves are subject to and more volatile commodity prices is the continued use of prudent an annual third party audit.
During 2008, a full external audit of Ventures assumptions, both for investment and acquisition decision making and entire reserves portfolio was undertaken.
The results demonstrated for budgeting and planning.
Board policy continues to support a prudent that Ventures internal reserves booking process is appropriately programme of hedging to seek to assure investment activity.
Venture has conservative, with the auditors assessment of both 2P reserves and always maintained a high focus on cash generation and balance sheet total reserves being somewhat higher than the internal estimates.
With strength and this is reinforced during a period of heightened uncertainty.
the existing processes in place, the Board perceives this risk as low, but believes it should continue to be highlighted as a key area because of its Financial and Credit Market Risks fundamental relationship to value.
Ventures refinancing in 2007 places it in a strong financial position, with cash of approximately 200 million at the year end and a substantially Business Model Risk unutilised 365 million committed bank facility.
The Company continues Ventures business model has remained unchanged, being the to benefit from cash flow generation from existing production and has an acquisition and development of and production from the untapped established hedging position that protects a material proportion of near potential of stranded assets in the North Sea.
A number of production term production.
Nevertheless, the volatility and general restriction in the hubs have been developed, characterised by high levels of equity current availability of capital in the financial markets means that there is ownership and a high incidence of operatorship.
This model has the a risk that the Company could be affected, either directly or indirectly.
capacity to deliver through cycle growth.
Very high commodity prices Accordingly, the situation is being closely monitored with a disciplined through much of 2008 made for a difficult acquisitions market.
Despite approach to use of existing capital resources along with ongoing this, Venture completed 13 deals during the year, adding a 2P reserves assessment and diversification of counterparty risks.
volume of 19.5 million barrels of oil equivalent.
The sharp fall in oil price brings its own complications to the acquisition market, but, coupled Development Timing Risk with difficulties in capital markets, should create opportunities.
Ventures proven development and operational capacity, together Development timing was a key issue for Venture in 2008 with delays with its strong balance sheet should allow further value adding in bringing on the second Chiswick well and a substantial delay in the opportunities to be captured.
start-up of the Chestnut field.
We are responding in a number of ways.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Business and Finance Review Continued Third Party Infrastructure Risks Contractor Supplier Risks In common with many operators, Venture relies on third party Ventures partnership approach with contractors and suppliers has production hubs and pipelines to deliver its products to market.
The continued to work well during 2008.
High commodity prices undoubtedly successful development of Chiswick, together with the installation of the added to market pressure over the last 12 months, with risk not only Kittiwake pipeline, has provided a significant element of infrastructure surrounding performance assurance, but also around basic access diversification.
The fact remains that the Company will continue to have to key equipment and services.
The partnership approach, linked to a high degree of dependence on third party facilities.
There are some an ability to make long term commitments, allowed Venture to contain particular issues around the availability of pipeline facilities for SNS gas many effects of this pressure.
Entering 2009, the North Sea market for developments which will continue to receive a high level of management equipment and services remains tight.
However, if lower commodity attention.
Sound relationships and good communication with third party prices prevail, this is expected to ease in the course of the year.
management remains an ongoing priority and further diversification Together with our contractors and suppliers, we will carefully monitor opportunities will be kept under review, as appropriate.
market developments and will seek to reflect changing circumstances appropriately in our contractual relationships.
Technical and Geological Risks Safety and Environmental Risks Technical risk is inherent in all aspects of Ventures business.
The Company manages complex infrastructure, handles volatile, high Ventures HSE performance has been consistently good over time as pressure substances and must do so safely, efficiently and without the scale of activity has grown.
The area remains one of key focus for the damage to the environment.
It must also manage subsurface risk and Board, with regular reporting and review.
There is a continuing increase seek maximum understanding of its hydrocarbon reservoirs.
Drilling in the framework of regulation and the requirement for regulatory review costs are the Companys single largest item of expenditure so it is and reporting.
Ventures HSE Management System has been updated crucial to understand the technical risks of exploration, appraisal and enhanced with a greater emphasis on performance measures and development drilling.
both within the Company and for contractors and partners.
Emphasis on the performance of the Company and its contractors will remain high The drilling of exploration and appraisal wells contains the inherent with a major focus on leadership by senior management.
risk that we may not encounter commercially productive hydrocarbon reservoirs.
The seismic data and other technologies we use do not Gas Oil Balance Risks provide conclusive evidence prior to drilling a well that hydrocarbons The risk here is that a product imbalance could introduce an undesirable are present or may be produced economically.
Therefore, the wells skewing of risk in the business.
Ventures attitude to hydrocarbon type we drill or participate in may not be productive and we may not recover has so far been neutral, with the emphasis being on quality of deal in all or any portion of our investment in those wells.
relation to building the portfolio and project quality for developments.
The result of the outcomes of various projects now means that, based on The management of technical risk is under constant review within the the existing portfolio, the Company is heading towards a significant bias Company to ensure the existence of the right technical skills, control to gas production and reserves over the next few years.
processes and relationships with third parties.
Recognising the inherent uncertainty of subsurface issues, a range of mitigating measures is in As oil prices rose during 2008 and costs increased in response, gas place to maximise the likelihood of successful drilling and operational prices lagged somewhat, introducing a significant degree of margin performance.
There is a capital allocation process, which includes a pressure on gas production.
As oil prices have fallen sharply, the relative rigorous peer review and the Asset Integrity Management System has price of gas has improved and throughout 2008 gas prices have been been fully implemented.
The status of both is reviewed at Board level.
consistently above the level of the previous year.
Ventures analysis Strict project evaluation procedures are applied and audited to ensure remains that the market for gas especially for power generation that there is a consistent and robust approach to technical evaluation will continue to grow in the medium term and that the major producers and presentation of risk across all assets and projects.
will continue to act rationally in their own economic interests.
Therefore, with proper care in the selection of projects, the gas market will remain Organisational Capability Risks profitable.
The Company will continue to evaluate all projects in Ventures capacity to deliver operationally, commercially, in project relation to their value and profitability, regardless of hydrocarbon type.
development, and to do so safely has continued to grow and is a Nevertheless, the Company recognises the potential for a number of significant competitive factor.
The Group now has in excess of 150 full factors specific to the gas market to cause short term price volatility, time employees and retains a high level of focus on delivery and flexibility and will manage its gas business with appropriate hedging policies and to respond to changing circumstances.
In a more uncertain environment operational and commercial policies geared to maximising profitability it is vital to build on the organisations strength and accordingly, 2009 and value.
will see a renewed focus on internal communication, performance management and personal development.
The Board will be active in The Board is in agreement that appropriate processes and controls are seeking to reinforce the necessary mechanisms for the retention and in place to effectively manage the risks highlighted above, and will review motivation of all staff and to attract high quality new people.
the actions on a regular basis.
The Venture bus is one of Aberdeens few fully wrapped buses, which makes it pretty hard to miss!
24 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
