Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As noted on page 19, the Board considers performance.
He is responsible for ensuring monitoring at our Rotherham plant, the that the management of safety, health, that adequate arrangements and resources amount of emission measured oxides of environmental, social and ethical matters are in place to implement the SHE policy as nitrogen exceeded agreed limits.
No forms a key element of effective corporate outlined above and that these measures are observable environmental impact resulted governance which in turn supports the effective.
A dedicated SHE department from this event.
long-term performance and sustainability of support him in this.
The principal environmental impacts of the the business.
These areas are managed in Senior executives are responsible for Groups UK operations are set out in the conjunction with all other business risks and ensuring that the SHE policy is table below.
The environmental impact of are covered by the internal control systems implemented in their departments and that our overseas operations is not considered and procedures outlined on page 21. all employees have been trained in defined material.
A review of the Groups policies relating to safe working methods as required.
We are constantly striving to improve safety, health, environment, human resources All employees have a responsibility to efficiency in all areas of our operations, and business ethics is set out below.
prevent injury and damage to health and including energy use and therefore CO2 the environment and to contribute to emissions, water consumption and Safety, Health and Environment quantities of hazardous waste produced.
improvements in SHE performance through The Board believes that all employees regular communication and consultation.
This is achieved by implementing many should be able to work safely in a healthy procedures and projects, large and small, workplace and that the Groups activities The Groups excellent health and safety across the business.
should not harm the public or the performance has continued with only one environment.
Everyone in the Group is over-3-day reportable injury during the year, Increases in 2008 in energy usage and CO 2 expected to place the highest priority on when an operator suffered back strain.
The generation per tonne of product sold were achieving these aims.
Good safety, health Group again received the Royal Society for expected and were principally due to and environmental performance go hand in the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA commissioning and optimisation of the new hand with good business performance.
Presidents Award in 2008 in recognition of polymer manufacturing plant at our main sustained occupational health and safety UK site.
To a lesser extent, our film These policy objectives are achieved by: achievement after winning 10 consecutive manufacturing facility, the BDF uprate and identifying safety, health and RoSPA Gold Awards.
expanded technical facilities have also environmental hazards: increased energy usage.
Again, there have been no prosecutions, assessment of the risks associated with fines or enforcement action as a result of REACH the identified hazards: non-compliance with safety, health or The REACH Registration, Evaluation, implementation of appropriate control environmental legislation.
Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals measures, with external guidance and Regulations came into force on 1 June We seek to stay well ahead of relevant advice being sought and used where 2007.
Although polymers are outside the environmental standards.
Our appropriate: scope of the regulations, the Company is manufacturing plants are regulated by ensuring that all employees are working to ensure full REACH compliance Environmental Permitting legislation and, as appropriately and properly trained and for all raw materials and products which such, are subject to close monitoring of understand what they are required to do require registration.
Actions are in place environmental emissions.
During the year do: to ensure that all relevant materials are there was one notifiable event when, reviewing and learning from our own pre-registered on target.
during prescribed routine air emission and other peoples experiences and taking on board new legislation and other requirements and, ensuring that all employees contribute Environmental impacts per tonne of VICTREX PEEK sold to improving safety, health and 2005 2006 2007 2008 environmental performance through regular and effective communication Victrex PEEK sales volume tonnes 1,972 2,339 2,508 2,626 and consultation.
Energy use GJ 206 181 168 196 3 Water use m 224 210 189 148 The Board has ultimate responsibility for CO emissions tonnes equivalent 10.5 9.4 8.6 9.8 SHE policy and performance and receives a 2 Hazardous waste post treatment tonnes 3.0 0.2 0.2 0.0 report on safety, health and environmental issues on a monthly basis.
The figures above incorporate pro-forma estimates for certain manufacturing operations The Production and Technical Director is relating to BDF production prior to acquisition on 1 April 2005 to ensure the impacts for each year are provided on a consistent basis.
directly accountable to the Board for SHE 14 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Full implementation of the regulations takes The Company supports employee share Our suppliers place in a phased manner from 1 June 2008 ownership and, where practical, offers the Our commitment to our customers is to 31 May 2018 and we have a project opportunity to participate in share schemes.
underpinned by a strong supply chain.
team in place to manage this process.
We As at 30 September 2008, approximately We will seek to: do not anticipate any disruption to the 85% 2007: 87% of employees worldwide maintain appropriate standards of supply of products arising from the were participants in employee share business conduct in our dealings with regulations.
Although we cannot precisely schemes, principally as option holders under our suppliers: quantify the cost of implementing the the Companys employee share option encourage suppliers to adopt similar regulations, we do not expect it to be schemes.
We also sponsor pension plans for principles and standards of business material for Victrex.
These conduct to Victrexs own: comprise defined benefit or defined Employees where appropriate, collaborate with our contribution arrangements, savings schemes We recognise our talented and diverse suppliers to increase the performance, and provident funds designed to provide workforce as a key business asset.
Our quality and efficiency of the supply chain: appropriate retirement benefits based on business success is a reflection of the quality adhere to the contract terms agreed local laws, custom and market practice.
Victrex is committed with suppliers and, Details of the Groups principal pension to seeking out, retaining and developing the encourage our suppliers to meet schemes are set out in note 16 to the highest calibre employees to maximise Victrexs own safety, health and financial statements.
Largely as a result of the above approach, Assessment of ongoing training needs Our employees Victrex has low voluntary employee comprises a key element of the annual We recognise that, whilst being an assetturnover, 4.0% in 2008 2007: 2.8%.
based business, Victrex relies heavily on the We operate an equal opportunities policy Business ethics skills, experience and competence of our and regard this as a commitment to make We have a formal global ethics policy which employees to produce our products safely full use of the talents and resources of all incorporates the Groups key principles and and efficiently, develop innovative new our employees, and to provide a healthy standards governing business conduct products and support business development environment which will encourage good towards our key stakeholder groups.
We in our existing and new markets.
and productive working relationships within believe that we should treat all of these We will seek to: the organisation.
groups with honesty and integrity.
Our provide a clean, safe working policy is set out below: In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences environment which meets all legislative in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual Our customers requirements and to provide all the orientation, religion, socio-economic status, We recognise that satisfied customers necessary training support for physical and mental ability, thinking style, underpin our future commercial prosperity, employees to operate safely within it: experience and education.
We believe that and that understanding and meeting their provide appropriate remuneration for the wide array of perspectives that result needs is key to our success.
work carried out and equal from such diversity promotes innovation and We will seek to: opportunities for development and business success.
As part of this policy, have our products available to meet our career advancement: Victrex gives due consideration to promised delivery schedules and deliver be intolerant of any unacceptable employment applications from disabled them when they are needed: working practices such as any form of people consistent with their capabilities and continuously improve the quality and discrimination, bullying or harassment: provides every opportunity to employees performance of our products and prohibit the illegal use of drugs on our who become disabled to continue services in line with customer needs: sites and encourage anyone with any employment with appropriate training and provide prompt technical support for form of addiction to seek help and, career development.
the products that customers have be intolerant of any corrupt practices by The Group places considerable emphasis on purchased: any level of employee and to encourage the involvement of its employees and has provide timely, reliable technical advice whistleblowing through our formal continued its practice of keeping them to customers on new product procedure if such practices are informed on matters relating to the applications: encountered.
In particular, improper performance of the Group or relating payments are prohibited and no gift, collaborate with customers to provide directly to them as employees, either whose value is material and could be innovative solutions to their material formally through the Staff Committee, or interpreted as a form of inducement, requirements and, informally via newsletters and the Group should be offered or accepted by any operate to the highest ethical and intranet to which all employees worldwide employee.
Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15 Our shareholders Our shareholders are the ultimate owners of OUR PEOPLE the business and we recognise that we have We recognise our talented and responsibilities towards them as stewards of diverse workforce as a key business asset.
Our business success is a their investments.
reflection of the quality and skill of We will seek to: our people.
Victrex is committed to grow our business over time to seeking out, retaining and developing maximise shareholder value: the highest calibre employees to communicate in an open and timely maximise business growth and performance.
manner regarding the performance, position and prospects of the business We have a culture of clear communication, accountability and and, pro-active employment practices maintain sound systems of corporate throughout the organisation.
governance to ensure that the Company The Company supports employee is well directed and managed.
share ownership and, where The environment practical, offers the opportunity to participate in share schemes.
We recognise that our operations have an impact on the environment, and that we have a responsibility to minimise this.
We will seek to: work within the regulatory frameworks of the countries in which we operate and apply appropriate standards and, minimise the environmental impacts of our operations as far as reasonably practicable.
Social and community The Group participates in a range of activities within the local communities where we operate, from charitable giving, offering apprenticeships and supporting science education and awareness in schools, to sponsorship of undergraduates and the advancement of research work at universities.
In the UK, a proportion of the charitable donations budget is distributed by the Staff Committee mainly to local charities chosen from nominations made by employees.
National or overseas charities are supported where there is strong employee involvement.
The Group made charitable DISTRIBUTION donations of 15,454 2007: 17,706 The Groups headquarters is located in the UK where its manufacturing facilities are during the year of which 3,667 2007: based.
To complement our global sales and technical centres that serve more than 6,688 were in the UK.
In addition, old 30 countries worldwide we have a dedicated logistics team who maintain the highest computer equipment is given to either commitment to our customers needs.
Our freight partners share our commitment to local schools or charities chosen by the our customers and ensure an exceptional service.
All activities, including product distribution, are managed with the environment in mind and we continuously work to reduce our impact on the environment by improving the efficiency of our operations.
