VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 40 Corporate Responsibility Highlights Corporate responsibility is a What we achieved Next year we will fundamental part Business Commitment to defence industrys Review code of ethics and export Ethics anti-corruption standards control procedures of our business Customers Rated UK MoDs top performing supplier Implement a Group Vendor strategy.
For us and Suppliers Management System Successful partnering relationship with business success Surrey County Council means creating 527m procurement spend 7.4% long-term value, increase in procurement savings not just for our People 250K investment in coaching Assess employee engagement programme: 165 managers trained, across Group shareholders providing over 800 hours of coaching Enhance data collection but all our to individuals e. g. diversity, turnover etc.
stakeholders 36,151 days training 2.6 days employee Embed coaching practices and society.
16% women in senior management roles Align US policies and data Paul Lester Health 1,829 Audit days and over 4,000 H&SH&S improvement targets for Chief Executive and Safety related training days undertaken executive safety training and reportable incident rates 7% reduction in reportable accident rate Occupational road incidents 50% reduction in hand arm included in KPIs vibration cases Environment 76% of VT Group 96% UK only Establish a formal Environmental turnover included in environmental Strategy, including targets for energy, reporting and including joint ventures waste and water Improve reporting from all relevant Zero prosecutions, notices or US operations significant spillages Group-wide environmental conference Community 212K donated to charities Increase charitable donations Further develop employee Selection of three partnering charities volunteering Improved data for non-financial investments About this report Corporate responsibility performance is an integral part of our overall company reporting.
We measure our performance with regards to business ethics: our relationships with our people, our customers and our suppliers: our health and safety standards: our impact on the environment: and our investment in local communities.
We include Joint Ventures in our reporting, and define our report content in the light of our stakeholder feedback, the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines GRI3.
You can find more detailed information about our activities and performance, updated throughout the year, on our website www.
com, where we also invite feedback from all our stakeholders.
VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 41 drive to improve the accuracy and timeliness of our reporting.
Chief Executives overview We will continue to ensure our processes deliver the level of Our response to the challenges of climate assurance commensurate with our business risk and take the opportunity to review our codes for Export Control Compliance change is of fundamental importance to our and Business Ethics.
stakeholders and will underpin our future reputation and commercial success.
We will further seek the views of our stakeholders, on what they consider to be important in terms of corporate responsibility For us business success means creating long-term value, not issues and link this feedback to drive sustainability performance just for our shareholders but all our stakeholders and society.
We have set some challenging health and We understand the need to demonstrate responsible behaviour safety targets for next year and with training and the benefi ts of and through our business principles, compliance with national our coaching skills aim to further develop our safety culture and and international laws aim to ensure that our products and leadership programmes.
services are sustainable: environmentally sound, socially just and economically viable.
Business Ethics Todays challenges Our policies and procedures ensure The challenges posed by climate change and sustainability are our business is conducted to the highest among the most diffi cult issues facing society, and we recognise ethical standards.
that our response as a company is of fundamental importance to Honesty and integrity are fundamental to VT Groups business our customers, employees and local communities.
How we react principles and we have rigorous policies and procedures in place underpins our reputation, provides commercial advantage and to ensure that the Company operates ethically.
We consider helps recruit and retain talent.
While we feel the impacts of these bribery and other corrupt practices to be not only illegal, but issues through, for example, increased energy prices, operations essentially wrong, and are committed to conducting our business affected by fl ooding and escalating waste disposal costs, we also to the highest ethical standards.
We were a founder member recognise that they present us with opportunities for commercial of the UK Defence Industry Anti-corruption Forum, and have advantage such as the move into new sectors such as waste.
made a statement of adherence to the Aerospace and Defence Review of the year Industries Association of Europes Common Industry Standards for prohibiting corruption.
We made good progress integrating sustainability into our risk management and decision-making processes, specifi cally in Code of Ethics our commercial activities, the development of new products Our Code of Ethics provides a framework for all employees, and services and supply chain management.
We have carried to assist them in maintaining the Companys high standards.
out briefi ngs for the Board and health and safety and corporate It provides guidance on issues such as confl icts of interest: out of responsibility issues have been a consistent agenda item at hours activities: conduct at work and with colleagues: and conduct senior management meetings.
with other organisations, customers and the public.
Next year we We have maintained a strong focus on safety and are pleased will review this Code and its application within the business units, to report a 7% improvement in accident performance.
This has including necessary training for employees and key functions.
been underpinned by the formalisation and communication of our H&S strategy, improved governance, as well as personal safety Anti-corruption Policy commitments by our executives which has raised the profi le of VT Group does not tolerate corruption in any form, no matter where health and safety issues across the business.
Our Anti-corruption Policy applies to all VT businesses, We are progressing well in our management of environmental joint ventures and employees, and covers the following issues: issues our data is considerably more robust in this second year of Proper and accurate recording of all fi financial transactions and assessment and reliably underpins our KPIs and targets to reduce open inspection of records by the Board: our carbon footprint.
We have much improved understanding of our key impacts, and the areas where we can focus effort to make Strict procedures for the appointment of agents which material improvement, in particular through our service offering to are overseen by the VT Group Compliance Offi cer and our customers.
the Compliance Committee and receive where necessary approval by the Board: We are also pleased to sign-post you to our new and comprehensive corporate responsibility web pages www.
com where there is Application of our principles when acting as a sub-contractor and more information, details of our policies and case studies.
through our supply chain to our contractors, suppliers and agents: Declaration of gifts, entertainment and hospitality: The year ahead Approval of charitable donations: Next year our senior executive led Corporate Responsibility Taskforce will continue to monitor and drive performance Prohibition of facilitation payments: and improvement, challenge our objectives, and raise the bar on Protection of our employees from risks of extortion our future aspirations.
While we have made good progress to or physical threats.
date we will further refi ne our key performance indicators and How we run the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 42 Corporate Responsibility continued based at VT Shipbuilding which creates good working relationships Political donations and good lines of communication between parties.
Political donations are strictly prohibited and it is our policy to maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party politics.
Supply Chain Performance We do not make cash donations to any political party, politician or In 2008 the Groups procurement spend was 527m of which candidate for public office.
The Group does occasionally undertake 420m was under control of the Supply Chain teams: an increase activities such as sponsorship of receptions at party conferences of 18% from 2007. and attendance at party events and dinners for the purpose of better understanding the implications of public policy development We have rationalised the Groups supplier base to 12,500 28,000 in on business operations.
These occasions also present significant 2007 and made an 8% reduction in the number of suppliers we use opportunities to represent our views to politicians from across the regularly, from a monthly average of up to 4,500 4,900 in 2007. political spectrum, but are not designed to support or influence During the year we improved our processes for managing support for any political party.
During the financial year ended sustainability issues in our supply chain and published the 31 March 2008 the Group spent a total of 19,750 undertaking VT Group Procurement Manual.
We also delivered training for the such activities.
procurement team including CIPS training Chartered Institute of Purchase and Supply.
Export Control Compliance We operate a comprehensive procedure that aims to ensure full Creditor performance understanding and compliance of export licensing requirements We continue to monitor supplier payment terms at both Group by our operations.
The Group Commercial Director has overall and division level.
Where we find discrepancies we do our best to responsibility for export control matters and is supported by Export ensure that they are rectified promptly.
Control Coordinators within each of the business units.
Next year we will review again our export control procedures which were last updated in 2004.
Creditor days at year end Whistleblowers line 2005 44 VT employees are required and encouraged to report breaches of any of the Groups Policies companies without fear of recrimination.
2006 47 We offer an independently managed, free and confidential 2007 45 whistleblowers phone line but received no calls that required investigation in 2008 1 in 2007.
2008 33 Customers and suppliers Priorities for next year Strategic partnering delivers Next year we will continue to rationalise our supply base, long-term relationships where risk concentrating on our strategic commodity areas.
We will drive and reward can be shared.
efficiency and assurance improvements in the selection of our suppliers and improve our processes through introduction of We continue in our commitment to develop strong relationships the Group wide Vendor Management System.
with our customers and suppliers, recognising the increased efficiencies and benefits this delivers.
We run regular partnering People workshops, supplier conferences and proactively seek feedback.
We are proud that, having reviewed Group performance over Recruiting and retaining a talented and diverse a number of contracts, the UK Ministry of Defence MoD s workforce, supporting and motivating them to Directorate of Supplier Relations rated VT Group as its top be the best that they can be.
At 31 March 2008 VT employed 14,112 people.
We know that the Where appropriate, we share risk and reward with customers success of our business depends on the continuing high levels of and suppliers and last year identified 30 strategic suppliers with performance by our employees.
We aim to recruit, train, motivate, whom we will concentrate on developing long-term relationships.
and retain a talented and diverse workforce and encourage and Gainshare is a key component of our Building Schools for the support our employees to be the best that they can be.
Future project in Lewisham where efficiencies identified and implemented within the contract will be shared between the We have made progress in managing returns to work after absence, customer and contractor.
VT has also won several education including training for our HR teams, but recognise that there is contracts outside of Surrey through the capabilities of VT Four S, scope for improvement.
Our long-term sickness absence rate in and is now sharing the results of this with Surrey County Council, 2007 8 ranged between 0.7 and 2.3% of working time.
Our externally managed and confidential Employee Assistance Programme is provided via a free-phone helpline to our employees We encourage our customers to embed their contract teams within and their families.
Last year 104 calls were taken 82 in 2007: our organisation.
For example, we have personnel from both the re-stated and 68 cases were referred to 1:1 counselling.
Coastguard of Trinidad and Tobago and the Royal Navy of Oman VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 43 Diversity and Inclusion Training and development We regularly review and update our policies and processes to We aspire to ensure all our employees are provided with ensure they encourage diversity: respecting and harnessing opportunities for continuous learning and the development employees from different backgrounds, skills and capabilities.
Last year we invested in 36,151 training days In 2008 16% of senior management positions were women and representing 2.6 days employee 2.5 in 2007.
13% of employees were in part time roles.
In 2008 we reviewed the potential of our top 70 executives across Our data on ethnicity and diversity is much improved but the business, using the information to develop individual learning still incomplete.
plans, help manage the careers of our top talent, enable more cross-business transfers, and assist in succession planning.
Pay and bene ts Coaching We are continually reviewing our reward packages to ensure we Last year we invested over 250k in our coaching programme.
share success fairly and appropriately across the Group.
Benefi ts 45 senior executives completed our accredited Henley coaching currently include our employee Share Incentive Plan, share save programme and a further 120 managers completed our VT Roffey and pension schemes and voluntary fl exible benefi ts options.
Park coaching course, a shorter, more practical programme for People in VT operational managers.
Since the introduction of our programme VT coaches have delivered 578 hours coaching within VT and 228 hours coaching external personnel including Metropolitan Police and Royal Navy.
Core Capabilities Project Management, Commercial and Supply Chain management are core organisational capabilities which support continued business growth.
Our aim is to grow and consolidate these and we have partnered with external suppliers to run bespoke development programs and aim to raise the performance of our specialists.
Developing skills We strongly support the Governments initiative led by Lord Leitch to address the UKs urgent need to raise skills at all levels.
Supported by the Confederation of Shipbuilding and Engineering VT Communications VT Education and Skills Unions CSEU we have signed the Skills Pledge committing to VT Group Services VT Nuclear Services delivering in-house work based learning programmes, including apprenticeships, NVQs and basic skills training.
VT Services Inc VT Support Services VT Shipbuilding FSL JV 50% Human rights Flagship JV 50% VT Group operates mainly in countries where human rights are enshrined in the law.
We uphold and respect these laws, but also Countries of operation recognise that we have small numbers of employees in locations where these rights are not so clear, and where local legislation is weak or non-existent.
In these instances UK legislation is followed and we have processes in place to manage these issues.
We aim to deliver similar benefi ts given to UK staff, with alternative compensation where this is not possible as with share incentive plans, for example.
Pay reviews consider local conditions however central guidance is given to ensure that countries take account of UK practice.
Employee relations and consultation We recognise and encourage open communication and feedback at all levels, including the use of employee surveys.
We uphold the right of our employees to freely associate and join trade unions and seek to develop positive and constructive relationships with the unions that represent our employees.
UK USA Our policy is to consult with employees within specifi ed time frames Europe Middle East on organisational changes that affect their position and ensure Asia Pacifi c Other processes are in place at all locations to equitably address any issues.
How we run the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 44 Corporate Responsibility continued Across our locations we have a mix of collective and individually Auditing is key to managing and improving performance.
In 2008 we invested 1,361 days on internal audit and 468 days of external regulated employment arrangements and common-law contracts.
We continue to employ external auditors for While collective bargaining is not universally practised across our independent verification of our performance.
operations, this does not affect the rights of employees to choose to belong to trade unions.
Prospective employees are made aware Performance of employment arrangements prior to joining the Company.
We made good progress in 2007 8 towards our objective: to Priorities for next year achieve industry leading performance.
We are pleased to report a 7% improvement in reportable incident rate, corresponding to 2,161 Next year we will further improve our data collection, aligning our days lost as a result of accidents 1,975 in 2006 7.
We received one 3000 US operations, so we can accurately report diversity, turnover and fine of $1,400 in our US operation for unguarded machinery and a short-term sickness absence in the short-term future.
Building on prosecution for an accident that occurred in 2007.
2500 the work of our business units we will investigate gathering business-critical feedback from our employees.
We will also Many of our employees drive on company business and are 2000 work to embed coaching into our day-to-day processes.
exposed to the risks of road safety.
Tragically, in 2008, one of our US employees died in a road traffic accident.
1500 Health and safety We seek the persistent challenge of external benchmarking and con 1t 0i0 n0ue to drive for continued improvement and ensure we learn Solid progress in health by the comparison of performance across our operations.
500 We are also responsible for the safety of our products and services How we manage health and safety and have improved rigour for management of health and safety 0 risks through mandatory gateways in our project management Good health and safety performance is essential to the success VT UK Support Joint United VT Group processeS sh.
i p O bu uir d ir ne gspon Ss eirb viic lie ts ies extV e en nd tu rb es eyond o Stu ar te e smploy e ex ec s l. a Un Sd of our business and we continually drive improvement in this area.
we measure the safety performance for all agency and third party The law is our minimum standard for compliance and the VT Board 2006 07 2007 08 individuals.
We made good progress in the year improving our sets the Groups standards through our health and safety strategy processes for the evaluation of H&S through our supply chain.
Accountability for performance rests with the Chief Executive and at divisional level with the business division 1150 MAT Reportable Incident Rate managing directors.
1100 The Health and Safety Forum, made up of our heads of function from across the business including the US, provides an overseeing 1050 role and advises the Board on H&S performance and standards.
Our line managers are responsible for implementing safety 1000 procedures and are supported by advisers and specialists according to their business specific risks.
Our objective is to 950 continually build safety competencies, embed learning and to share best practices.
900 Mar 07 May 07 Jul 07 Sep 07 Nov 07 Jan 08 Mar 08 3000 MAT RIDDOR Reportable Accident Rate Health 2500 We have seen a reduction in occupational disease with 32 cases in 2008 66 in 2006 7.
Health screening increased to 2,852 2000 screening events 2,213 in 2006 7.
Active programmes exist for hand arm vibration.
1500 Priorities for next year 1000 We have set some challenging improvement targets for next year 500 for all of our operating divisions: Demonstration of an improving moving annual total MAT 0 RIDDOR rate per 100,000 employees, with a stretch target of a VT UK Support Joint United VT Group Shipbuiding Services Ventures States excl.
US 10% reduction in the MAT RIDDOR accident rate by March 2009: 2006 07 2007 08 1 day leadership safety training for 75% of leadership team by March 2009: Consideration of health and safety performance in embedded No new cases of work related occupation disease resulting into our business reviews and is supported by detailed six 1150 from newly exposed populations: monthly review with the Chief Executive and Director of Health and Safety.
We have introduced standardised divisional reporting Enhance the practical management of contractor operations: and 1100 to improve the understanding of risk profile including process Include road risk as a key performance indicator.
Implement safety, the effectiveness of our controls and progress against 1050 methodologies to improve the assessment and management of improvement plans.
driving risk and provide training support.
1000 950 900 Mar 07 May 07 Jul 07 Sep 07 Nov 07 Jan 08 Mar 08 Rate 100,000 employees Rate 100,000 employees Rate 100,000 employees Rate 100,000 employees VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 45 sustainability is considered in the development of our products and Engaging employees and leading safety services and increasing the rigour of our assessment and auditing Achieving high standards of health and safety requires a culture of suppliers.
Our policy is to purchase timber from certifi ed and of safety throughout the business with visible leadership by our FSC Forest Stewardship Council sources.
executives and managers, adopted and supported by every employee.
Our priority is to engage our employees with safety Data collection issues by raising awareness and encouraging performance.
This is our second year of publicly reporting environmental We monitor employees views through surveys and undertook performance and we have substantially improved the robustness a safety maturity survey of our leadership team.
The complex relationships we have with We have carried out safety briefi ngs for the Board and executive many of our public sector customers means that often we have little teams and initiated Group-wide safety training for our leadership direct infl uence on environmental impacts, and access to some teams.
Our executives are regularly involved in site safety visits data is diffi cult.
We now have a much better understanding of the and we see our investment in coaching as supporting the resulting boundaries of our reporting, and have this year included data from safety conversations.
our Joint Ventures and many of our overseas operations resulting in a completeness of environmental data for 76% of turnover 63% Our businesses manage health and safety training according in 2006 7.
However, we do recognise that we need to work harder to their own risk base and last year we invested 39,545 hours in some areas next year, in particular our US operations which of safety related training.
account for the majority of the missing data.
Environmental commitment We continue to align data disclosure with DEFRA Department of the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and GRI Global Reporting Substantial improvements to the robustness Initiative guidelines and participate in the public disclosure of and completeness of our data.
performance through the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Energy Managing environmental impacts Accountability for environmental performance rests with the Chief In this our second year of comprehensive data gathering the Executive and the Board.
Our business divisions management increase in our carbon footprint refl ects our considerably improved systems are aligned with ISO14001, and a number of our operations capture of emissions data.
have made excellent progress towards achieving external Reducing carbon dioxide emissions is a priority for all of our verifi cation for our operations and on behalf of our customers.
In 2008 we continued to work to improve our All business divisions have relevant permits and monitoring in place.
understanding of emissions and energy consumption.
We also Reporting against key impacts, objectives and KPIs are now fi rmly reviewed emissions relating to business travel and, with the help of embedded in our business reporting and review processes.
the Energy Saving Trust, reviewed our company fl eet, which as well We have aimed to improve environmental awareness and in 2008 as identifying many areas of good practice, gave us a good sound delivered briefi ngs to the Board and management teams.
Overall we basis for improvement.
delivered 92 training days in the UK exclusively on environmental Fleet Support assisted the MoD at the Portsmouth Naval Base issues in addition to training carried out during employee inductions via the EU Emissions Trading Scheme to cut emissions by 19% and site management procedures.
over the last 12 months resulting in a 50% total reduction over the We recognise our responsibilities for the environmentally sensitive allocation set in 2003. sites and buildings of architectural or historical value that 15 of our sites operate on or adjacent to and ensue that the relevant businesses have management systems in place to ensure their long-term protection.
Team Portsmouth EU Emissions Trading Scheme In 2008 we are pleased to report zero prosecutions, notices Baseline 2003 33,919 and signifi cant spillages.
We received one environmental complaint in respect of RF interference.
Immediate investigation Allocation 28,351 was implemented and pro-active monitoring continues to 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 provide assurance.
Tonnes CO emitted 20,110 17,350 14,096 2 Auditing, both internal and external, continues to be important for verifying performance.
In 2008 we undertook 68 days of internal audit and 45 days of external audit within our operations.
including GHC emissions We employed independent audit to carry out environmental audits We undertook an assessment of the Group to improve our at 17 of our sites which provided valuable feedback on compliance understanding of the risks and opportunities posed by climate and recommendations that will ensure continuous improvement.
change: we demonstrate our commitment by public disclosure via We will continue to implement an independent external validation the Carbon Disclosure Project, and are a member of the Business and certifi cation as appropriate.
in the Community May Day Network.
By doing so, we pledge to Supply chain measure and disclose emissions, raise staff awareness, and tackle climate change issues with our supply chain.
We have made good progress embedding life cycle analysis into our purchasing and project management processes ensuring that How we run the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 46 Corporate Responsibility continued 2007 8 2006 7 2007 8 2006 7 ktonnes MWh per MWh per Energy Use eq.
CO GWh GWh m NSV m NSV 2 Electricity 76 146.7 126 164 210 Gas 3.05 16.5 4.5 18.5 7 Fuel Oil 18.8 76 68 85.2 113 Total Energy Consumption 98 238 199 267 331 Total Absolute Tonnes Equivalent CO 2007 8 2006 7 2 Kilotonnes Equivalent CO 98 72 2 Tonnes Equivalent CO per m NSV 110 120 2 of servers that reduce power and Webex to reduce the need to Waste travel will also form part of the review of our IT technical strategy.
We report increased figures for waste compared to previous years, We will also consider the recommendations of our green fleet a reflection of a much more complete capture of data including our review that was undertaken by the Energy Saving Trust.
Joint Ventures and some overseas operations.
In the light of our changing business and recent acquisitions, in Community investment 2008 we reviewed our obligations under the Packaging Waste We aim to be a responsible contributor to our local communities, Regulations and established that we fall beneath the scope of by investing time, money and resources and in a way that makes these requirements.
During the year we reviewed our strategy for community investment to ensure our contributions achieve most impact for both our communities and are aligned with the 3 tonnes m per m NSV VT business strategy and values.
Waste 2007 8 2006 7 2007 8 2006 7 Our community investment programme focuses on three areas: Hazardous 291 180 0.3 0.3 Three partnering charities: Local Employment Access Project General 4190 2178 4.7 3.6 LEAP, SSAFA Forces Help and Action for ME Recycling 2056 1212 Initiatives and organisations in the communities close to our sites Supporting fundraising and volunteering by our employees Water including matching donations We monitor water usage carefully and conserve and recycle Charitable donations as priorities.
Our increased reported usage figures this year of Charitable donations are approved by the Groups Charity 3 3 111 thousand m compared with 58 thousand m last year, reflect Committees.
Last year we donated a total of 168k 93k in our success in improving the capture of data, and provides a base 2006 7.
Next year we plan to broaden the membership of the on which we can now make improvement targets.
VT Group Committee and will review our processes to improve the capture of non-monetary data.
We have also made a commitment 3 to increase our financial contributions to charities next year.
m per m NSV Water 2007 8 2006 7 2007 8 2006 7 Employee volunteering 3 Total Usage, Thousand m 111 58 124.4 96 We have much more to offer our local communities than purely 3 financial donations.
Through investing time and resources including Licensed Abstraction m 1050 500 coaching, volunteering, fundraising and mentoring, we can make Operational & Site Usage 94% 87% a bigger difference to our communities, while also generating positive team building and interaction amongst employees, and Office Use 7% 13% giving them the opportunity to develop new skills.
In 2008 we provided mentoring to pupils at Oaklands Community School Priorities for next year in Southampton, mentoring and coaching for employees within the Safer London Foundation of which VT Support Services Next year we will formalise our environmental strategy and is a trustee member and coaching to the Metropolitan Police.
communicate this throughout our business and supply chain.
VT senior executives also sit as trustees on a number of charities.
While our objectives to date have been centred on improving Next year we will investigate options for further developing the accuracy of data collection, the substantial increase in employee volunteering.
completeness of our data means that next year we will utilise this as a baseline for setting future performance targets and KPIs.
For more information on our approach to Corporate Responsibility, including examples of how we put it into practise, please visit We will continue with energy efficiency assessments and our work www.
com cr with the Carbon Trust.
Energy considerations such as virtualisation
