Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our approach well and areas for improvement.
Concern reports are used to track The Weir Group is a global organisation, working in sectors and completion of corrective actions.
During 2008, the Group held industries that have a significant impact on human and natural a Global Environmental, Safety and Health Conference, which resources.
As an organisation, our core values include integrity, brought together each of the local forums to identify best self-determination and valuing people.
These values ensure we practice and plan the priorities for the coming year.
remain focused on meeting our responsibilities to our customers, As indicated in last years report, all our operations have over suppliers, employees and shareholders, as well as to the the past year been working toward achieving OHSAS 18001 communities where we work.
To date all our major sites have achieved this By ensuring that corporate social responsibility is an inherent with the exception that our new acquisitions and some smaller part of leadership that crosses all boundaries in our organisation, businesses will not complete the process until 2010.
OHSAS we seek to combine business success with support for people, 18001 Occupational Health Safety Assessment Series was communities and the environment.
We recognise that corporate developed by the British Standards Institute as a health and safety social responsibility requires us first and foremost to listen to management framework allowing organisations to ensure that our external and internal customers in everything we do and they are consistently and accurately identifying hazards and risks to respond to their needs through the enduring excellence of within their organisation.
Providing a platform for eliminating our actions, policies and processes.
and managing these identified risks, the system supports the organisation to continually improve its products, people and We involve and inform our employees as much as possible within process by fulfilling the overhanging safety policy that indicates regulatory constraints.
Given the diverse nature and geographical the Groups commitment and objectives.
OHSAS 18001 offers spread of our operations, it would be inappropriate and impractical a proactive approach to reducing accidents, near misses and to apply uniform procedures group-wide and each company is other incidents year on year.
therefore responsible for achieving and maintaining appropriate consultation and communication with its employees.
We The root cause of 95% of accidents is as a result of behaviours.
communicate generally with employees through the production Conventional approaches to accident reduction will go some and distribution on a regular basis of printed and electronic way to help achieve the business goal of reducing injuries in newspapers and bulletins for employees to promote awareness the workplace.
However, to further reduce accident rates, of current progress and developments within the Group.
In a behavioural approach to safety must be adopted.
addition, policies, procedures and information are also available The Group has adopted a behavioural system known as on the Group intranet.
SAFESTART which has been rolled out to all operations and all The Group gives full and fair consideration to employment new employees are given this training as part of their induction.
Where an employee becomes The success of this programme throughout the Group is the disabled, arrangements are made wherever practicable to continue involvement and understanding at all levels of the organisation.
employment by identifying an available job suited to that persons The Group is committed to an accident free health and safety capabilities and providing any necessary retraining.
The Groups environment based on the belief that all accidents are preventable.
career development programme encourages disabled employees The Group Operations Executive Committee drives this commitment to reach their full potential.
The Group has a human rights policy through operations globally.
The businesses record all near misses applicable to all employees throughout the Group, details of and injuries within their operations and these are analysed on a which are available on the Group website.
continuous basis to reduce the number of lost time accidents Our people through improvement of the working environment.
Safety The Groups policy on health and safety requires that all our Throughout 2008, the Group Operations Executive Committee companies take a proactive responsible attitude to the protection of reviewed the safety, quality and environmental performance of their employees health and safety.
All companies carefully evaluate individual companies against the objectives set for 2008.
The risks to personnel wherever they are working and take appropriate primary concerns are to reduce accidents in the workplace and steps to minimise such risks.
These include ensuring that project maintain high standards of environmental management in all design engineers consider design factors that minimise or eliminate of our activities.
the risk of accidents to personnel during site installation and In line with this philosophy, we pursue excellence through our commissioning.
All Group companies are required to comply with global Environmental, Health and Safety Forums whose goal is local legislation governing health and safety at work and to conduct to eliminate work-related injuries, prevent pollution, conserve regular formal health and safety reviews at plant and site level.
resources, comply with regulatory requirements and improve These reviews are undertaken by nominated managers and performance.
These forums annually review our performance employees to ensure that risks are properly evaluated, events in these areas, collect data, share best practice and plan for the leading to accidents are examined and appropriate remedial or coming year.
In turn, these plans are disseminated and included avoidance action initiated and subsequently monitored.
Formal within individual business plans throughout our operations.
reporting procedures have been implemented so that the safety This ensures consistency in performance measurement and performance of individual companies is monitored and peer-to-peer improvement activities.
Forum members also perform cross audits are conducted in order to provide a critical assessment of company safety audits to identify practices that are working each companys performance.
40 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 The increased focus in this important issue includes full investigations The courses are aimed at developing existing and future managing of all accidents being carried out and reported at the Group directors and senior managers from across the Group to help Operations Executive Committee meetings on a monthly basis.
them achieve their maximum potential.
Lost time accidents To ensure the development and advancement of our employees the The key measure of safety performance is the number of lost time Weir Personal Development Profile analyses employee performance accidents LTAs.
The Group adopts a more stringent lost time and enables employees to receive the most relevant and tailored measurement criterion than the industry norm of three days.
The training to match their specific skills and needs.
recorded LTAs use the Group definition of incidents resulting in Our achievements lost time of more than four hours.
The results for 2006, 2007 Weir Minerals Europe was honoured with the Queens Award and 2008 are as follows: for Enterprise: International Trade 2008.
The award was announced in April, when managing director Kevin Spencer attended a special 120 event announcing the years winners in London.
In July, Kevin 100 Spencer and Nigel Halstead, an employee with 42 years service, attended a reception for this year's 78 winners hosted by H. M. 80 The Queen at Buckingham Palace.
During the year Weir Minerals 17 9 Acquired Businesses Europe was also presented with the Most Improved Facility Award 60 Existing Businesses 101 by Mark Selway.
40 In 2008, Weir Minerals India was commended in the 69 66 Confederation of Indian Industry and Export-Import Bank of 20 India awards for Business Excellence.
The awards encourage organisations to strengthen their management systems, practices 0 2006 2007 2008 and capabilities to enhance and sustain competitiveness.
The prior year comparatives have been restated to take account The company also received a top award in the manufacturing of disposals, and the acquired businesses include Weir Mesa, category at the 2008 Confederation of Indian Industry 5S Weir SOS and Weir Warman Africa.
Excellence Awards, for organisations following best practice in housekeeping.
The companies which have the highest numbers of accidents are audited externally by our insurers to ensure that proper systems and processes are in place.
The continuing reduction in existing businesses can also be attributed to improvements in education and training and adoption of Weir Production System principles.
Near misses are also monitored to further improve the safety culture that is being engendered across the Group.
Employee development We recognise that people are vital to the success of our business.
Training and development play a major part in improving businesses and retaining employees by developing the skills required for career advancement and business process improvements.
Training and development is managed either on a Group or company basis.
Group programmes include induction, high potential leadership and managing director In November 2008, The Hon.
Julia Gilliard MP, the Australian development.
The induction training provides awareness training Deputy Prime Minister, announced the winners of the Australian on the Group standard procedures and processes and senior Governments Training Awards 2008.
Weir Minerals Australia managers attend one of these courses within a short period won the prestigious Employer of the Year award.
The Australian of joining the Group.
The leadership courses are run for the Training Awards are the national awards for vocational education Groups current and future leaders.
and training, recognising innovation and excellence in the training sector.
The awards are the culmination of state and territory The principal aims of these courses are to provide: awards with winners from each state and territory competing personal development: in the national finals.
The conclusion of the judges was that Weir Minerals Australia provides training opportunities to all exposure to different disciplines: employees to improve their skills and enable them to thrive in the cultural integration: and challenging environment of manufacturing.
The company employs a total of 24 apprentices, eight of whom were recruited in 2008. networking across all disciplines and operations.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 41 Lost Time Accidents n Corporate Social Responsibility Report Continued Our suppliers Environmental impact We recognise that our corporate social responsibility also reflects the The Group is committed to identifying and assessing the way we behave towards our suppliers.
The Group does not operate a environmental impact of its operations.
We seek to reduce the standard policy in respect of payments to suppliers and each operating impact on the environment to the lowest practical levels and with company is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under each investment in capital expenditure within our facilities ensure which business transactions are conducted, including the terms of that best practice in environmental terms is followed.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in level, the chief executive has specific responsibility for the accordance with the agreed terms.
At 26 December 2008, the Group development of policy and management systems.
Responsibility had an average of 74 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
for environmental matters in each operating division is delegated to the divisional managing directors who report to the Group Many Weir companies are collaborating closely with suppliers to Operations Executive Committee on a monthly basis on address environmental considerations throughout the supply chain environmental incidents.
to our mutual benefit, particularly in areas such as raw materials, packaging and recycling.
The definition of a reportable incident is: Environment Any incident which involves the accidental release, emission Environmental policy or discharge of contaminants to air, water or land and requires The Group is committed to the protection of the environment outside resources to control or is required to be reported to a in which all its companies operate.
Each Weir company will comply with the relevant regulatory In 2008, there were no environmental incidents at any of the requirements applicable to its business.
Each Weir company will ensure that it is seen to be a good Our operations, through their Environmental Management Systems, citizen in the community in which it operates and adopt which are in place as part of their ISO 14001 compliance, have an practices aimed at minimising the environmental impact objective of continuous improvement, focussing on minimising of its operations.
waste generation, preventing pollution and reducing energy consumption.
All acquisitions are subject to appropriate Maintenance of the Groups environmental policy is the environmental due diligence and achievement of ISO 14001 responsibility of the Group Operations Executive Committee, is part of the integration plan.
while its implementation is the responsibility of divisional managing directors.
Each Weir division is required to report The Group is currently undertaking work to put in place common on environmental performance and maintain environmental measures which allow us to monitor and establish targets for management practices.
improvements in our carbon footprint going forward.
We anticipate being in a position to provide accurate data on The Group policy is that all its operations will be ISO 14001 existing usage and establish our improvement plans during accredited.
ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised specification the course of 2009. for an effective structured environmental management system which helps organisations achieve environmental and economic Significant progress has been made on the minimising and goals as well as assisting in the implementation of environmental recycling of waste.
As a manufacturing Group, the focus is on policy.
An ISO 14001 accredited environmental management raw materials together with residual waste and any opportunity system provides our customers, employees and shareholders with to reuse or recycle makes economic sense.
the assurance that our environmental performance meets and will Weir Minerals Europe has invested in a chromite separator, continue to meet our legal and environmental policy requirements.
which once commissioned will allow it to remove chromite Through the Group Environmental, Health and Safety Forums, sand from the sand reclamation plant.
This will have the effect all new businesses are brought into line with best practice in of reducing chromite sand purchases by 50% in the long-term the implementation of ISO 14001.
In addition, the Forums are and reducing the quantity of sand sent to landfill.
In the past a useful arena to allow local and international environmental 12 months over 165 tonnes of swarf has been reclaimed and legislative developments to be monitored before they become used in the melting process, reducing the consumption of rare law.
This proactive approach allows us to conform with future and expensive alloys.
In addition, a further 250 tonnes of metal environmental legislation before laws are passed by voluntarily has been reclaimed from their foundry by improved work taking action on specific issues.
practices, further improving the sustainability of the process.
As part of our integrated commitment to ISO 14001 accreditation, Weir Minerals Australias Henderson facility has put in place we have a rolling programme as part of our 100 day integration improvements to ensure that no waste water leaves the facility, plan which we put in place in relation to any new business unit.
with the exception of waste water from the bathrooms and During 2008, Weir Minerals China and Weir Gabbioneta achieved kitchens.
The perimeter of the facility has a series of storm water ISO 14001 accreditation.
It is expected that our only other nondrains built in, which run into a number of large soak wells where compliant companies, Weir SPM, Weir Multiflo, Weir Warman Africa, Weir SOS and Weir Mesa, will achieve full compliance in 2009.
42 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 the rainwater that falls on the facility is captured.
In addition, separator units, drain guards and spill kits are used to ensure no oil or debris goes into the soak wells.
The water in the soak wells slowly seeps back into the surrounding soil, removing the need for local council storm water connection.
In late 2008, Weir Minerals Australias Somersby Service Centre moved to a new facility in Beresfield.
The facility is aiming to be a world class service centre and as part of this process has installed a fully enclosed paint booth for painting of refurbished equipment.
The booth ensures that no volatile organic compounds are emitted to the atmosphere and also contains baffles to minimise noise pollution.
Weir Minerals Netherlands celebrated a milestone in its history Environmental improvements in 2008 with the supply of the 1,000th Geho piston diaphragm Research and development has a vital role to play in meeting our pump.
This pump was installed at the Coral Bay Nickel plant in corporate social responsibilities.
The development of new products Rio Tuba, on the island of Palawan in the Philippines and was that are more environmentally benign in both manufacture and officially inaugurated during a celebration weekend in June.
As a operation and the substitution of harmful materials offer competitive result of the existing relationship between the mineral processing advantage to ourselves and to our customers.
plant of Rio Tuba and the local community, Weir Minerals Netherlands is sponsoring on an ongoing basis the Rio Tuba We recognise that many of our products are themselves South Elementary school.
contributors to environmental protection in critical areas such as power generation, nuclear handling and subsea oil and gas The company also funded improvements to the current school exploration.
We are, therefore, investing in research and building and supplied additional class room furniture and development to continuously improve their performance.
2009 will see ongoing investment in design, research and development in which our corporate social responsibility and business objectives are closely aligned.
Our community During the year, Group companies were involved in numerous community and social initiatives, many of which were nominated and driven by our employees.
We also participate in a range of educational and training initiatives.
Weir Power & Industrial Alloa made a number of donations to Seamab House School, a local residential primary school offering year round education and care in a nurturing, therapeutic environment for children with severe social, emotional or behavioural difficulties.
The company also assisted the fund raising efforts of the Fire and Rescue Services Central Scotland and supported a benefit dinner in aid of the families of the Alloa Fire Brigade who had suffered Weir Minerals Brasil is supporting Aquarel, an initiative as a result of a serious accident, where an officer lost his life and founded in 1996 to help disadvantaged children and teenagers in several others were seriously injured.
Additionally, the employees the community adjacent to the companys manufacturing facility.
donated a sum of money that was matched by the company.
Last year over 100 employees volunteered to repair walls, carry out roof maintenance and paint internal and external areas.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Continued Weir Minerals Africa made donations to the Tembisa Child and Family Welfare for use in providing for children in their care and the Tembisa Self Help Association for the Disabled.
According to UNAIDS, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV AIDS, almost one in five adults and 280,000 children are living with HIV in South Africa.
Weir Minerals Africa put together a team of volunteers who have undergone training in the counselling and education of fellow employees and various roadshows have been held for all employees on the dangers of the HIV AIDS virus.
In addition, support is given to the Tembisa Orphanage to help look after a number of HIV AIDS babies.
Weir Minerals Africa also offers financial assistance towards Weir Minerals Chile is supporting Ignacio Carrera Pinto School the education of many of the children of employees in the local neighbourhood.
In November 2008, three teams of For the past 21 years, Weir Minerals Australia has sponsored employee volunteers painted the interior and exterior walls of the Design and Build competition held by the National Committee the school, refurbished the communal areas, crushed stone to on Engineering Design.
The competition is open to first and cover the areas of access to the playground and classrooms.
second year students in mechanical engineering from Australia, In addition, the company provided financial support to the New Zealand and the Asia Pacific Region.
In 2008, the winners Engineering Departments of two local universities.
were the University of Adelaide with their mechatronic vehicles using microprocessor control and electronic sensing.
Weir Minerals Latin America has been running a project to help the children of the Jesus fide Nazareth School in Manchay, Community support under two projects, We @ Weir and Weir 4 U, Peru.
Manchay, which adjoins the city of Lima, is an area of is given by all the employees of Weir Minerals India.
We @ Weir extreme poverty with no running water or sewage system focuses on workplace initiatives involving employees and their and little electricity.
family members and Weir 4 U focuses on community outreach The project involves funding repairs at the school to improve the programmes in the community.
Employees opt to associate with classroom lighting, upgrade the kitchen and bathroom facilities either one or both of the groups.
Two beneficiaries have been and improve the classrooms.
The company has also sponsored identified in the community, namely disadvantaged youngsters craft workshops for the parents and children.
studying in the Government Industrial Training Institutes and children attending the Samparka Shale or Transition Schools as part of the Government National Child Labour Eradication Programme.
Over the last eleven months, there have been many activities coordinated by different employee volunteers relating to health, education and skill enhancement.
The volunteers have also made regular school visits as mentors to the children in the Training Institutes and offer encouragement to carry on their education and aspire for higher goals.
A voluntary employee salary contribution fund was set up in April 2008 which makes monthly contributions to the Paraspara Trust to support the salaries of the staff in the two schools.
This fund also supports the various needs of the children.
44 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008
