COrPOraTE rESPONSibiLiTy rEViEW fOCUSEd ON THE fUTUrE At WHSmith, we believe that good corporate responsibility Ethical trading CR is essential to the long-term success of our business.
We are committed to ensuring good standards among We remain committed to managing our impact on society our suppliers and we engage with them to bring about and our environment, integrating this work into our day-toimprovement.
We will only place orders with reputable day management of the business.
suppliers and manufacturers who are committed to working towards compliance with the conditions set out This year, in recognition of our work, we were delighted in our Supplier Code of Conduct and Human Rights policy.
to achieve Business in the Communitys highest rank in their annual CR Index, the Platinum status.
WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trade Initiative ETI.
The ETI is an alliance of companies, Non-Government We recognise four key areas of CR: Marketplace, Organisations and trade unions which promotes and Environment, Workplace and Community.
Accountability improves the implementation of corporate codes of for each rests with our Board and every year they review practice covering supply chains.
Our supplier code is our strategy and agree the focus for the year ahead.
The based on the ETIs own base code and we work in concert following section provides a summary of our CR activities with them to meet our joint objectives.
Our full CR Report provides details of our participate in the ETI China Working Group which provides performance and establishes future corporate targets.
a forum for members to learn and share experiences.
It is available to view at: www.
co. uk cr We have an integrated ethical and technical audit team markETPLaCE based in our Hong Kong office.
Before an order is placed Above all else, our customers expect us to offer them with a new supplier, a member of this team will audit choice, value for money and a good shopping experience.
each factory to determine product quality, manufacturing Customer satisfaction is a key driver of our business processes, health and safety, treatment of workers performance.
To ensure we continue to meet our and environmental conditions.
Where necessary, any customers expectations, we regularly assess the service improvements will be agreed with the factory managers we offer.
Increasingly, customers also expect us to offer and we will continue to visit them, on a regular basis, to reassurance that our products have been made with a ensure compliance and provide support.
Every two years care for the environment and that factory workers are we undertake an independent benchmarking process fairly treated.
to ensure our ethical audits remain in line with industry best practice.
forest sourcing We audit all our direct source suppliers in Asia every two It is our continuing objective that all virgin i. e. nonyears.
This year, the team carried out 128 audits across recycled material used in our products is from known, China, India and the Far East.
This figure is slightly lower legal, well-managed and credibly certified forests.
than the previous year and reflects some seasonal During the year, we surveyed our own brand suppliers fluctuations and also some improvement in compliance, to trace timber and paper products back to their forest leading to the need for fewer audits at suppliers where source.
We achieved 90 per cent coverage of our supply we have established, long-term relationships.
Our focus base by volume and improved the accuracy of our data for the year ahead is to extend our audit plan to products gathering methodology.
The volume of material from recycled sources and We continue to work in partnership with three of our 1 certified forests was maintained at 41 per cent year on larger Asia suppliers to develop better working practices year.
While this represents a significant proportion of our to improve their general health and safety standards.
A total volume, we realise there is more work to be done detailed case study can be viewed in our full CR Report.
We to improve this performance.
The improved methodology are planning training workshops for our UK buyers so they has led to a review of our sourcing process and changes may better understand the risks and requirements of our in selection criteria.
In addition, we have targeted a Supplier Code of Conduct to enable them to work closely number of key suppliers who we plan to work with over with our suppliers and audit teams to improve compliance.
the coming year to generate improvements.
We provide our UK and Far East suppliers with guidance documents explaining the risks around forest sourcing and 1 Certified forests are managed in accordance with the requirements also our responsible sourcing policies.
In addition, we are of specific certification bodies setting out the steps that must be taken to ensure the long-term sustainability of the forest.
The certification planning training workshops for our UK buyers so they may schemes our suppliers use include the Forest Stewardship Council better understand the risks and requirements of our forest FSC scheme, Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification sourcing policy and can work with their key suppliers to PEFC scheme and Sustainable Forestry Initiative SFI.
The approach taken by each certification scheme varies.
We encourage suppliers to ensure our products are from well-managed sources.
move towards certification under the FSC scheme, which is recognised by WWF as an indicator of a well-managed forest.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 0 responsible retailing While this makes achieving our 2010 target more We take responsibility for the products we sell seriously challenging, we are still committed to this reduction.
and we are committed to listening to our customers The majority of our High Street stores have Automated feedback.
Our Marketing Code of Practice sets out the Meter Reading AMR systems which enable us to standards we will follow in our promotional activity, monitor, both in store and at our central offices, the marketing and advertising.
In practice, this ensures we energy consumption of individual stores throughout the sell products that are safe, fit for purpose, meet legal day.
To realise fully the benefits this provides, we have standards and are never described in a misleading manner, implemented a new reporting system with our Store particularly when marketing to children.
This will ensure we understand unplanned energy spikes as they occur and can facilitate Responsible retailing is also about offering choice to help prompt action to reduce energy wastage.
In addition, we our customers reduce their impact on the environment.
have an active programme of energy efficiency initiatives We do this by making it easier to identify these products to enable the achievement of our 2010 target.
This year, we have continued to develop our range of stationery products and have increased our Transport giving through our Adopt-an-Animal range of charity We have continued to improve fuel efficiency this year, Christmas gifts.
resulting in lower carbon dioxide emissions per package moved.
This reduction has been achieved in part by the ENVirONmENT continuing benefit of improvements made last year, for At WHSmith we remain committed to reducing our example, the introduction of double decker trailers leading environmental impact as we recognise this is an to fewer delivery vehicles on the road, and also, in part, due important issue for our customers, employees and wider to new initiatives introduced this year.
It is also good business management in include a renewed focus on store delivery scheduling and that steadily reducing our impacts, for example energy maximising the stock fill of our delivery totes at our and waste, results in a more efficient business and lower distribution centres.
Energy and emissions CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS PER PACKAGE MOVED In 2007 we set a progressive energy target to reduce Carbon Dioxide emissions kg : 5 years to 2007 08 consumption by 15 per cent, per square foot, by August 2010.
During the year, our overall energy consumption 0.82 0.76 increased slightly, with the majority of the increase coming through the winter months.
We anticipate further improvements in the coming year as we plan to upgrade our fleet to more fuel efficient vehicles and also from working collaboratively with other 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 2006 7 2007 8 retailers to share store deliveries, especially to remote areas of the UK.
As an example of how good environmental management can drive down costs, we have begun working with our suppliers to reduce their transport emissions.
Earlier this year we launched a Collection Service which takes stock from our suppliers, using our store delivery fleet, which would otherwise come back empty to our distribution centres.
This initiative brings a potential triple benefit of cost reduction for both parties, a reduction in vehicles on our roads and better stock control management.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC COrPOraTE rESPONSibiLiTy rEViEW fOCUSEd ON THE fUTUrE reducing waste programmes for our senior Store Managers and Head The majority of the waste generated by our business Office senior managers with the potential to succeed to is cardboard, plastic shrink wrap and damaged stock.
We also carried out a full review of our store This year, we enabled all our High Street stores that training programmes and subsequently launched new can incorporate the facilities to recycle their cardboard learning guides in our High Street and Travel stores, on site.
However, we recognise that there is more to and redesigned our training intranet site.
do and waste is a continued area of focus for us.
Employee engagement We are committed to reducing the environmental impact Employee engagement is a continuing focus for us and we of our plastic carrier bags and this year we reduced have plans to develop our engagement levels further over consumption by 12 per cent.
In partnership with the the year.
Last year we appointed Employee Engagement Woodland Trust, we encouraged customers not to take a Champions at our Head Office to discuss how we improve bag and rewarded this behaviour by making our working environment.
As we expand our High Street a donation to support the Trusts work.
As a result, we and Travel business to include Post Offices and Hospitals achieved our aim of funding the planting of 10,000 trees we take the time to engage those new employees with our across the UK.
In addition, we are taking further steps values, culture and ways of working.
We ensure everyone to encourage behaviour change: we have launched a receives an introduction to WHSmith and this year we plan re-usable carrier bag made from 100 per cent recycled to review and revise our training programmes to cater content and are investigating the effects of carrier bag specifically for the needs of these employees.
These trials have led to a significant reduction in usage and we plan to extend Health and safety the number of stores trialling the initiative during our Our Board is committed to maintaining high standards Christmas trading period.
The Management team, supported Continuing our theme of helping customers reduce their by professional safety advisers, monitors key safety impact on the environment, we have for a number of performance indicators and an annual report detailing years partnered with the Woodland Trust to provide trends, performance and recommendations is presented customers with a service to recycle their Christmas to the Board.
The business also has a properly constituted cards.
We are one of four UK retailers that offer the Health and Safety Committee that comprises employee scheme and together in 2008 we recycled 74 million representatives, management, trade union cards, resulting in the planting of a further 17,000 trees.
representatives and professional safety advisers.
This year, we continued our downward trend in the number of reported incidents, with the total number of reportable accidents falling by three per cent.
Maintaining this trend is an ongoing area of focus over the coming year.
Accidents and injuries 2008 2007 2006 2005 Registered charity number: 294344 Major injuries 16 16 22 22 Injuries resulting in over WOrkPLaCE 3 days absence from The quality of any business depends strongly on its work hospitalisation 51 53 48 57 people.
To develop a good team it is essential to recruit the right people, keep them motivated and create the All RIDDORS 67 69 70 79 right environment for them to perform well.
At WHSmith R eportable under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous we provide all our employees with training opportunities Occurrence Regulations.
to help them develop their careers and we focus on Over 60 per cent of accidents were due to slips and engaging employees across our business.
trips and falls from height.
During the year we trained 1,000 Store Managers in these specific issues, to enable developing our people them to cascade safety training to their staff.
In addition, We are keen to develop our future managers from within specific Health and Safety training is incorporated into WHSmith and so we work to ensure there is a pipeline our Management Development Programme for new of talent available for all managerial roles.
our succession planning programmes for our stores were attended by 135 Store Supervisors and 103 Store Managers.
In addition, we completed development WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WHSMITH COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 2007 08 ACCIDENTS BY TYPE 1 SEPT 2007 31 AUG 2008 2% 11% 115,200 3% 28% Manual handling 671,420 140,720 Striking fixed object 22% Struck by moving falling object Slip trip fall Cash Fall from height Gifts in kind Staff time management costs 34% Hand tools other Promoting well-being The WHSmith group Charitable Trust Our work on employee health and safety extends The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust is an independent beyond the management of accidents, as we seek to registered charity that actively supports employees who help employees improve their health.
During the early are involved with charitable organisations in their local months of 2008, we re-ran our WHSmith Healthy Living community.
For the fourth year, WH Smith PLC collaborated Campaign for staff in our distribution centres and Head with the Trust and the National Literacy Trust to fund Office, designed to help promote a healthy lifestyle.
This the WHSmith Summer Read which is designed to campaign featured a personal health screening, fitness encourage children to keep reading during their summer classes and the promotion of healthy eating.
This year we reached 3,600 children across 18 UK locations.
More information on this initiative is improving access to our stores available to view in our full CR report.
It is our aim to improve the service we provide to our During the year we launched a new voluntary payroll giving disabled customers, in compliance with DDA legislation.
scheme to raise awareness of the Trust amongst employees Our rolling programme of capital improvements has this and enable them to contribute to its work.
Called Pennies year included a number of installations of customer lifts, from Heaven, the scheme works by rounding up the automatic doors and hearing loops.
We have also invested pennies on employees salary to form a monthly donation.
in new evacuation chairs for disabled customers as part of our fire protection programme.
We have continued to recognising employee contribution around the Uk train our store staff, issuing new training guides to all The WHSmith Community Awards scheme is our way stores which were designed and printed by the Employers of recognising the contribution employees make to their Forum on Disability, of which we are a member.
This year, following a nomination process, continue to subscribe to the website service operated by 20 teams received awards of 500 each to support their Direct Enquiries that provides information to disabled charitable efforts further.
customers on the specific facilities at each of our stores and enables us to review feedback on the quality of service.
Our employees also participate in store focused events to promote worthy causes.
World Book Day aims to give COmmUNiTy every child the opportunity to choose a book of their own We value our community programme as an important tool and to promote the enjoyment of reading.
This year 245 through which we can support the local communities in of our stores hosted a childrens event aimed at promoting which we operate.
Our employees have the opportunity the fun of reading.
to support good causes and give time to participate in fund raising activities.
As a leading bookseller and stationer we Products in support of charitable giving focus our investment on education and life-long learning We continue to support charities and good causes through through our work with the WHSmith Group Charitable Trust.
the promotion and sale of tailored products in our stores.
Our Christmas gift ranges make significant contributions We set and achieve annual targets to invest at least one to the funds generated and this year was no exception per cent of our pre-tax profits in support of charities and with 167,000 raised from the sales of charity cards and community projects.
Also, our extended Adopt-an-Animal range generated further income for good causes.
More information on our corporate responsibility is available at: www.
co. uk cr Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC
