Governance Corporate Responsibility Report William Hill recognises that its business A non-executive director, David CR highlights 2008 has both social and environmental Edmonds, chairs the Corporate The year saw William Hill further impacts and that it has a responsibility Responsibility and Regulated Issues enhance its procedures on core issues, to manage these impacts effectively.
Its other members including responsible gambling and In some areas we are in direct control are Charles Scott, Chairman of the staff training.
of these impacts, while in others we Company, Ralph Topping, Chief can only attempt to influence the Executive, Ashley Highfield, Non- 2008 highlights include: actions of others.
The Group takes Executive Director and Thomas a good working relationship its responsibilities to stakeholders Murphy, General Counsel & Company established with the Gambling seriously and implements policies and Secretary.
This Committee monitors Commission and overseas regulators: procedures that meet the legitimate a range of CRRI issues throughout successful ongoing compliance with expectations of shareholders, staff and the year.
all relevant policies and procedures customers and the wider community.
required under the Gambling Act The CRRI Committee reports regularly 2005 the Act : Board commitment to the Board and all Board members staff training refresher course The Board is committed to taking steps ensure that, through a process of programmes under which relevant to improve continuously its practices in presentation and discussion with staff were reminded of their specific the Corporate Responsibility CR area staff, they have been properly briefed responsibilities under the Act and to embedding CR issues into its and have gained an appropriate and Gambling Commission corporate governance and operating understanding of the CRRI issues codes and conditions: framework.
It achieves this aim by affecting the Group.
an employee engagement survey, focusing on the following material issues: which received responses from compliance with existing laws, For part of the year, the committee almost 10,000 people 65% of regulations and codes of conduct was assisted by the CR Working Group.
total workforce : relating to responsible gambling: The CR Working Group was chaired by successful launch of a new corporate underage gambling and protection the Company Secretary and website: and of the vulnerable: prevention comprised the functional heads for the largest ever staff communications of crime and disorder related corporate strategy and development, presentation held for employees of to gambling: and product human resources, property, security, the Group at three top sporting integrity issues: customer services and compliance, venues in the UK.
the ongoing training, development together with representatives from and motivation of employees to the Retail and Remote businesses.
An retain the widest possible range action plan detailing work carried out of talented staff: since 2004 and revised and updated provision of a safe and healthy on an ongoing basis was considered workplace in accordance with by this Group with progress on relevant legislation: and outstanding actions monitored.
The providing a competition-beating Working Group acted as a forum for level of customer service.
operational management to discuss CR issues and reports were provided by working group members on CR issues arising from their particular areas of responsibility.
The Working Group has now been replaced by the Regulatory and Compliance Steering Group.
The main aim of the Steering Group is to discuss, review and implement policies and procedures concerned with compliance and regulatory issues.
William Hill 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information Gambling Act 2005 We train our employees to adhere Responsible and underage gambling William Hill continues to work closely to procedures for the safe handling Gambling is an exciting form with the Gambling Commission in of cash and cash equivalents.
of entertainment that can be furthering of the three licensing The Group is a member of the experienced in a range of objectives under the Act, namely: Crimestoppers scheme.
This, in environments with William Hill, namely to prevent gambling from being a conjunction with the Association of our LBOs, on racetracks, through the source of crime or disorder, being British Bookmakers reward scheme, Internet and by telephone.
Whereas associated with crime or disorder enables us to encourage the public for most customers, gambling is an or being used to support crime: to provide information in relation to enjoyable leisure activity, for a very to ensure that gambling is offences committed against both small number there can be problems conducted in a fair and open staff and property.
Crimestoppers and gambling can cease to be fun.
way: and leaflets are available in every LBO.
to protect children and other William Hills Security Department William Hill encourages a socially vulnerable persons from being undertakes an ongoing risk responsible attitude within the harmed or exploited by gambling.
assessment process for all our LBOs, betting and gaming industry and considering their potential vulnerability within our own organisation.
We are During 2008, William Hill continued to robberies and violence in the committed to protecting children to be heavily involved in ongoing workplace.
Appropriate crime and the vulnerable from being discussions and consultation with the prevention measures are introduced harmed or exploited by gambling.
Gambling Commission and its to meet the perceived risk.
Such sponsoring government department, measures include the fitting of security We are working closely with the the DCMS, both directly and via its screens in vulnerable shops, installation Gambling Commission in the UK and trade associations the Association of of digital closed circuit television our offshore regulators in Gibraltar British Bookmakers ABB and the CCTV systems and fitting of and Malta to ensure that we continue Remote Gambling Association RGA.
electronic and magnetic door locks.
to adhere to the highest industry In the event of an incident occurring, standards in responsible gambling.
Crime and disorder affected shops are reassessed by We are also committed to listening to William Hill is committed to the Security Department and steps the views of relevant stakeholder compliance with regulation to prevent taken to minimise further risk, where groups and have an active dialogue gambling from being a source of appropriate.
We liaise closely with GamCare, the national centre for crime or disorder, being associated with a number of local authority information, advice and practical help with crime or disorder, or being used environmental health departments, for anyone with a gambling problem.
local authority licensing officers and police crime prevention officers.
Our commitment to implementing Actions We provide the Gambling appropriate procedures within our A designated Money Laundering Commission with information we organisation to deal with problem Reporting Officer MLRO takes suspect may relate to the committing gambling and to encourage responsibility for suspicious activity of an offence under the Gambling responsible gambling is paramount.
reports made to the Serious Organised Act 2005 or a breach of the Crime Agency and its equivalent in Commissions licence conditions offshore jurisdictions in respect of the and codes of practice and with any prevention and detection of money information we suspect may lead laundering and our obligations under to the making by the Commission the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 and of an order to void a bet.
The Group for reports made under the Money co-operates with the ABB on integrity Laundering Regulations 2007. issues and also provides information All staff receive training detailing on any suspicious transactions their obligations in respect of money directly to those sporting authorities laundering reporting.
They are aware named under Schedule 6 Part 3 of of the procedures in place for the the Act.
We have co-operated with escalation of any suspected the Commission this year in a number incidents to the MLRO.
of investigations involving suspicious betting patterns, fraud and illegal betting activity.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Governance Corporate Responsibility Report Actions We provide a facility for individuals to William Hill takes particular care not We are a major contributor to the self-exclude from identified licensed to target advertising at people under Responsibility in Gambling Trust betting offices and telephone and the age of 18.
All our advertising is RIGT.
RIGT aims to provide support internet accounts for a period of no carefully considered in light of the to persons who experience fewer than six months and up to five Gambling Commissions licensing problems with their gambling and years.
Customers who wish to resume objectives, the specific requirements their dependants, to educate business with us at the end of their of the Gambling Commissions vulnerable persons about the risk of chosen self-exclusion period are licence conditions and codes of gambling and to conduct research required to complete a further practice and the Committee of into the best ways of providing that 24-hour cooling off period before Advertising Practice and Broadcast support and education.
they will be permitted to resume Committee of Advertising Practice Information on the tools available use of our gambling facilities.
In addition, we adhere to an to customers to monitor or control During 2008 the number of customers industry code of practice designed their gambling is available through who chose to self-exclude from the to promote socially responsible leaflets on display in our LBOs or Groups services in Retail was 3,382 advertising and the RIGTs gamble at racetracks, via our operational 2007 - 1,563 and in Remote was aware information website.
The websites and via our customer 3,163 2007 1,826. advertising agencies we use are services department.
We also We provide a facility for telephone fully briefed on our requirements provide information to customers and internet customers to limit the concerning responsible gambling.
relatives and friends who may amounts they are able to deposit William Hill does not enter into approach us asking for help.
with us in any 24-hour period.
Once contracts of employment with any We use clear notices in our LBOs and set, a deposit limit can only be individual under the age of 18. on gambling websites stating that the increased after a 24-hour cooling All William Hill employees receive minimum age to use the facilities is 18. off period.
training giving them an overall In our LBOs and on racetracks we have Although there is no one set of awareness of our commitment to adopted a Think 21 approach which behaviours definitively identifying social responsibility and the detailed requires our staff to seek proof of age customers with gambling problems, procedural knowledge appropriate from any customer who appears to William Hill encourages its employees to their specific business role.
In the UK and, to use their experience and to be continue to monitor best practice in where publicly available, overseas, aware of customers whose behaviour the area of responsible gambling as it we use an external agency to verify may indicate problem gambling.
develops and will review our policies the ages of customers opening new We have procedures in place to and procedures on a regular basis in internet or telephone accounts escalate any concerns and to the light of guidance from regulators, using deposit methods that may be consider whether or not it is gambling charities and our own available to under-18s.
All parts of the appropriate to initiate interaction practical experience.
business have established procedures with a customer.
When interaction to be followed in the event that we does take place the customer will be believe that a customer may be provided with contact details of a under the age of 18. gambling charity and with detailed information on the tools available to control their gambling behaviour.
William Hill provides customers with the information required to enable them to make informed decisions about their level of gambling but does not take those decisions on the customers behalf.
William Hill 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information Employees Training and development Communication The Groups success is dependent The Group is committed to investing William Hill places considerable value on its employees and it is committed in the training and development of on the involvement of its employees to high standards of employment all employees.
and is committed to providing practice.
The Group rewards effective communication on matters individuals fairly and is committed Initial induction training is provided for that may affect them and, more to providing equality of opportunity, all employees at the commencement generally, regarding the development training and development and a of employment, supported if necessary and performance of the Group.
by skills training relevant to their achieved through formal and informal particular role.
The Group undertakes meetings, and the Group produces A comprehensive set of human to provide further training and an in-house magazine six times a year, resources policies is in place including development opportunities throughout which is circulated to all employees.
documents covering health and individuals careers to enable them Employee representatives are safety including specific policies on to maintain and improve standards consulted regularly on a wide range stress management and smoking, of performance, cope effectively with of matters affecting their current and equal opportunities and harassment, any changes to the work environment, future interests and are encouraged disability, flexible working, training and develop their skills, and allow them to raise any issues or concerns.
development, the acceptance of gifts to realise their full potential.
Where opportunities arise, on-job The Group has established staff These are communicated to development will also be provided councils for retail staff in each of the employees as appropriate.
where appropriate through Groups geographic regions, which secondments to other positions, are chaired by the relevant Regional Equal opportunities departments or membership of Director, together with councils for the The Group is committed to equal special project groups.
In all Each council meets four times a year, aspects of employment including The Group is also committed to raising with the aim of providing an additional recruitment, promotion, training staff awareness of social responsibility channel of consultation between and development and terms and and responsible gambling and directors, management and staff and conditions of employment, all providing the necessary training to make the fullest use of employees employees and applicants for in these areas.
Representatives employment are given equal from the retail staff councils attend opportunities regardless of gender, A management development policy the National Staff Conference held marital or family status, race, is in place that focuses on identifying at least three times a year, which is nationality, ethnic origin, religion, individuals within the organisation chaired jointly by the Retail Operations age, disability and sexual orientation.
that demonstrate the personal drive Director and the Group Director, and ability to operate at a more senior Human Resources.
The Group endeavours to ensure that level.
The Group-wide performance all employees are made aware of the management process identifies provisions of the policy and of their specific individual development needs responsibility to uphold and promote it.
and provides evidence of exceptional The Group will not tolerate harassment, performance.
For those who are seen discrimination or victimisation in the as having the potential to succeed into workplace in any form.
The Human senior management and leadership Resources Director has overall roles in the future, the performance responsibility for ensuring the effective management process forms the basis operation of the policy.
of the application to the Talent Board and entry into the Group-wide talent Relevant policies are communicated pool.
Selection for further training and to Group employees and there are development is always based on clear lines of responsibility regarding individual needs and abilities and the monitoring their effectiveness, needs of the business.
implementation and communication to staff.
The average length of service across the Group is five years and nine months The Groups current workforce is 57% 2007 five years and four months female 2007 57% and 43% male whereas LBO managers average 2007 43%.
length of service is 13 years and five months 2007 13 years and one month.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 Governance Corporate Responsibility Report Sharesave We support the basic principles Actions On an annual basis since the Groups described in the UN Global Compact The Groups property department flotation in 2002, employees with derived from the principles in the takes primary responsibility for minimum service of one year have Universal Declaration of Human Rights identifying issues and opportunities been able to participate in the William and this policy sets out our approach within the Groups LBO estate and Hill Sharesave Scheme for a period of as it relates to our workforce.
The following actions three, five or seven years.
The 2008 We will not employ individuals have been taken: scheme attracted 1,797 staff savers.
who are under 18 years of age.
high-frequency light fittings are We will not use forced or specified in all new development Health and safety compulsory labour.
and refurbishment projects thereby A copy of the Groups health Working hours will comply with reducing the number of lamps and safety policy is available at relevant laws and regulations.
A Health and We will offer wages and benefits the Group is fully compliant with Safety Steering Group meets regularly which are consistent with relevant all current legislative guidelines to review compliance with applicable laws and industry standards.
regarding the disposal of hazardous health and safety legislation and We will respect the right of waste and complies with the Waste, regulation, to keep up to date with individuals to freedom of association Electrical and Electronic Equipment best practice and to review and and collective bargaining.
Directive, which was introduced maintain compliance with health We are committed to safe and in 2007: and safety procedures.
The Steering healthy working conditions for air-conditioning and fascia lighting Group includes senior managers our employees.
are controlled by time clocks to from the Groups human resources, We are committed to diversity in the ensure efficient use of energy: security, property and LSR departments, working environment and will not PIRs have been installed on a trial together with representatives of tolerate harassment, discrimination basis at Head Office to reduce operational management.
An external or victimisation in the workplace.
electricity consumption: health and safety consultant advises new-style fascias continue to be the Steering Group.
Environment rolled out as LBOs are upgraded, A copy of the Groups which will further reduce electricity Staff are provided with information and environmental policy is available at consumption: training on health and safety issues as www.
As a retail more energy-efficient inverter air part of their induction and on an and service organisation, the Groups conditioning units continue to be ongoing basis.
Risk assessments are main impact on the environment is installed on new projects and when undertaken and the Group monitors through the buildings in which William replacements are required: and the application and understanding Hill operates and the resources used water management systems for of safety instructions through a system by staff in their day-to-day work.
The toilet facilities are used to reduce of safety audits, Health and Safety Groups environmental practices water consumption and an Co-ordinators and the Health and reflect William Hills business operations increasing proportion of the LBO Safety Steering Group.
and its main risks and interactions with estate is fitted with water meters.
the environment, and are largely Human rights policy focused on: William Hill is committed to compliance with environmental undertaking its operations in a way laws and regulations: which respects individuals human minimising waste by the promotion rights and treats individuals with of recycling practices and re-use of dignity and respect.
materials as opposed to disposal, where this is practicable: efficient use of energy and water and investigating ways of reducing consumption in this area: and raising awareness of environmental issues within the Group.
The Group is delighted to be part of the FTSE4Good Index.
William Hill 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information Facilities for recycling paper and toner Suppliers During 2008, the retail business cartridges are in place at the Groups The Group recognises that it has a continued with its Competition Beating Head Office and regional office responsibility to ensure its purchasing Service CBS programme, the aim of buildings.
The Group has been unable practices are conducted in a manner which is to ensure a positive in-shop to establish an energy and costthat ensures compliance with good experience for customers.
CBS has efficient method of recycling from its labour and environmental standards quickly been established as an retail establishments.
Possible solutions within its supply chain.
essential element of the retail business have been considered during the and the Group believes that it will year and the Group is keen to Major suppliers have been asked play a vital part in the businesss future progress in this area.
to agree to commit to continuous success.
District Operations Managers improvement towards the following review performance against CBS The Group continues to work with the specified standards, both within standards on a regular basis and agree Carbon Trust in an effort to further their own companies and those action plans to tackle any issues.
Historically, of their suppliers, including: an external viewpoint on the levels of the Group has found it difficult to to support and act in a manner customer service experienced in LBOs, establish accurate utility consumption consistent with the principles in the Group uses a mystery shopper data covering all its 2,300 premises.
the Universal Declaration of programme provided by Retail Eyes, An exercise by which quarterly meter Human Rights: an international company specialising readings were taken at a sample of ensure that all employment laws in customer service.
A scoring system representative Group premises within the country of operation that measures the effectiveness of throughout the UK has been carried are adhered to: CBS is in place and top performers out and this type of base line data no children are employed within are identified and rewarded.
is used to determine future policy.
the supply chain who are below the local legal minimum age: Our comprehensive betting rules, Access to services employees wages and benefits which detail the terms and conditions Customers with disabilities have a meet local industry benchmarks under which all transactions placed rights of access to the Groups and national minimum requirements: with William Hill are accepted, were services.
Accessibility issues are taken operate a comprehensive policy of reviewed during 2008 with an into account in accordance with equal opportunity in employment: amended version scheduled to be appropriate codes of practice when ensure compliance with all national introduced in February 2009.
The opening and refitting the Groups and local health and safety Group endeavours to resolve all LBOs, and a combination of ramps, regulations and procedures betting disputes in a fair, consistent stair lifts, disabled toilets and induction in the countries of operation: and equitable manner.
However, if loops for the hard of hearing are fitted, ensure compliance with environmental these are unable to be resolved to the where appropriate.
In addition, laws and regulations: and customers satisfaction the customer services offered in the LBOs can be encourage the development is entitled to refer the matter to the accessed on the internet or via the of environmentally friendly Independent Betting Adjudication telephone.
Details of all of these working practices.
William Hill has agreed services can be obtained from to abide by any ruling they make.
the William Hill Customer Helpline.
Customers and communities During 2008, 306 2007 - 274 disputes Customer service were referred to IBAS.
In 5% 2007 4% The Group has implemented a new A commitment to high standards of of cases IBAS found in favour of platform for its online services.
Care customer service and to the fair and the customer.
has been taken to ensure that this open conduct of its gambling application reaches single A operations is key to William Hill.
The Although gambling transactions compliance status with the Disability Groups continued success depends became legally enforceable contracts Discrimination Act as a minimum.
Dedicated customer in September 2007 and are subject to service departments are in place for relevant consumer contract legislation, both the retail and the remote the majority of disputes continue to be channels.
Service complaints are adjudicated on by IBAS, the considered seriously and consistent, acknowledged industry expert.
monitored procedures are in place across the Group.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51 Governance Corporate Responsibility Report Product integrity established for the greyhound stadia The Group is also committed to William Hill has a number of products to be used to assist with greyhound providing support, wherever possible, where the outcome of an event is welfare issues.
The Group funds an to its employees in their own determined by a random number establishment which will enable up fundraising efforts.
The Group allocates generator RNG.
RNGs are to 24 dogs to be housed for up to a proportion of its annual charitable administered either by external third six months with the intention of donations budget to match funds parties or by the Group itself.
During up to a specified limit raised by Group has introduced rigorous 2008, 130 greyhounds were successfully employees on local charitable internal third-party procedures to re-homed by this facility and the projects.
During 2008, the nominated ensure that the randomness of its own benefits of retired greyhounds as pets charities of staff members benefited RNGs is certified, game outcomes are are actively promoted at the stadia.
by 29,030 from the matching scheme, fair and payouts correct, games are with staff endeavours, including free from defects and function to The Group recognises the depth of marathon running and parachute specifications, and that the games are public concern surrounding press jumps.
On occasion, the Group also secure and do not compromise either coverage regarding the fate of supports organisations with whom it the player or William Hill.
The Group greyhounds no longer required for does business in their fundraising continues to work with suppliers with racing.
Every trainer affiliated to a efforts, and in such cases donations the objective of ensuring they adopt William Hill track is required to complete may not fall within the donations a high level of fairness testing.
a weekly return listing dogs available policy referred to above.
for racing, injured dogs and those Privacy dogs who have left the trainers During 2008, the Group made The Group has systems in place to kennels.
Trainers must provide full charitable donations of 772,733, the protect the privacy of information details of any individual to whom largest proportion of which, was paid provided by customers.
William Hill care of a dog has been passed.
to the Responsibility in Gambling Trust.
complies with the Data Protection Act 1998 and the Data Protection Charitable donations The Group has established a Principles set out in that Act in the The Groups charitable donations are Charitable Donations Committee, collection and processing of personal mainly focused on organisations which reviews on a quarterly basis information.
A copy of the Groups involved in areas of greatest requests for charitable donations privacy policy is available at relevance to the William Hill business.
against the Boards agreed policy.
The Board has adopted a charitable William Hill does not make donations Supporting sports-related donations policy stating that the major to political parties.
and other bodies focus of the Groups efforts will be in William Hill is committed to being a supporting bodies involved in: CR actions for 2009 responsible corporate citizen and promoting a responsible approach to In 2009, the Group intends to continue recognises its wider social responsibility gambling: undertaking research into to progress those initiatives that are by seeking to support the communities problem gambling: and providing already ongoing and will concentrate in which the Group operates through information, advice and help to those on the following: charitable donations and other who are at risk or are experiencing enhancing recycling possibilities: relevant payments.
difficulties with their gambling: reducing the use of water and greyhound and racehorse electricity: Levies welfare: and maintaining the current position of The Group supports horse racing via supporting disadvantaged individuals fleet cars with low CO emissions: 2 the statutory levy and greyhound in horse and greyhound racing.
providing a competition-beating racing via the voluntary donation to service to our customers: and the British Greyhound Racing Fund continuing to work closely with the BGRF.
The sums payable for 2008 Gambling Commission and overseas were 23.9m and 2.9m respectively.
regulators to ensure we continue to These funds are used by the respective operate to the highest standard on bodies for a wide variety of purposes, social responsibility and integrity issues.
A budget has been independently William Hill 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
