CORPORatE RESPONSibility In recognition of the key role Corporate Responsibility plays in shaping our reputation and securing employee engagement, we have incorporated Responsibility as one of our brand values during 2007 08.
Governance Drivers KRAs Annual Operation The corporate responsibility strategy, which Targets includes social, ethical, safety and environmental Governance and Significant management considerations, is specified and agreed at Board environmental impacts level through our Group Human Resources Performance Implemented, Based on KRAs, measurement monitored and Director, Nigel Sullivan, who chairs the Safety objectives and Our ambition reviewed through Energy use and performance Health and Environment SHE committee.
and principles Group-wide EMS climate change This committee has responsibility for reporting Stakeholder and Waste and on all aspects of corporate responsibility to the management recycling Board and has also overseen the development priorities Progressive of our environmental strategy by the Social product and Environmental sub-committee.
leadership Environment As a leading provider of supply chain management: performance measurement: Since the start of the WEEE regulations, solutions, we recognise that we have a and progressive product leadership see Wincanton has offered employees the pivotal role to play in bringing goods to diagram above.
opportunity to dispose of old electrical and market, but also a responsibility to increase electronic equipment at work.
The Bring your the environmental sustainability of our own For each of the Key Results Areas we have WEEE to work initiative eliminates the need for operations and those of our customers.
developed objectives and targets for the first personal trips to civic amenity sites, saving year of our environmental programme.
WEEE containers have During 2007 08 we have set out a strategy will report annually on our progress, future been deployed at 39 of the largest UK sites and that has prioritised our challenges and set out objectives and targets.
During our have so far collected 40 tonnes of waste.
a clear path for achieving our environmental consultations, it became clear that the issues goals.
We see this as an opportunity which of prime importance are the associated In Mainland Europe, we have extended our also makes good business sense and represents challenges of energy use and climate change.
leadership in multi-modal transport solutions an exciting step for Wincanton.
In this we have We have therefore devoted a major part of our with the expansion of our Mannheim container built on the progress we have made to date in strategy to identifying how we will start to terminal.
We operate regular barge routes many areas of our business, such as developing increase carbon efficiency and reduce future between the ports of Antwerp and Rotterdam our products and services to deliver environmental carbon risks.
With this in mind, we have and inland locations in Belgium, Germany, benefits through improved efficiencies and developed a 20-year framework identifying Switzerland and France.
Our dedicated fleet the effective management and treatment how we intend to move towards the use of of roll-on roll-off river barges service terminals of waste.
less carbon-intensive forms of energy and along the Rhine and facilitate the transfer of the improved design and operation of our products to rail and road.
By rolling out this strategy, we will seek to transport networks, including the use of more encourage dialogue and debate with our energy-efficient modes of transport.
People partners on how we can collectively contribute We continue to make progress towards our to tackling the wider issue of climate change.
In February 2008, we launched a data stated ambition, which is to be recognised as collection project at five sites in the UK.
employer of choice in our industry.
A focus Initiatives The objective is to measure a range of factors on individual development provides We have developed a five-year Group associated with warehousing and transport employees with opportunities to build skills environmental strategy which will be published operations, including energy usage, waste and competencies, while our Operational during 2008 and will be made available on our produced and fuel consumption with a view to Excellence programme has focused on website.
To ensure that this strategy is aligned rolling this out to all operations in the next year.
mechanisms for capturing and using employee with our key environmental drivers, we have feedback to make continuous improvements.
undertaken a comprehensive review which The introduction of the WEEE legislation in July enabled us to identify our significant 2007 saw our recycling operation in Billingham, Initiatives environmental impacts, how they are currently UK, go from strength to strength, and we have Wincanton launched its first annual Group-wide being managed, and the environmental issues subsequently announced a 5m investment employee survey in February 2008 which that are of greatest importance to our in a second treatment facility in the Midlands.
covered all 30,000 employees across the 13 stakeholders.
This will open later this year and will double countries in which we operate.
The survey, One our current recycling capabilities to 200,000 Voice, invites employees to have their say on Based on the findings of the review, we have tonnes per year.
The new site will complement an anonymous basis on many aspects of their identified five Key Results Areas for the the existing facility and will also support our UK working environment, including their understrategy, which are energy use and climate network of sortation centres, which separate standing of business goals, communication change: waste and recycling: governance and out reusable product from recycling volumes.
processes, health and safety, management and 28 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 Nigel Sullivan Group Human Resources Director working for Wincanton in general.
The results The second Wincanton Driver of the Year are displayed in a secure database through competition was held in July 2007, attracting a simple dashboard format, which enables 1,100 entries, which exceeded the previous year managers to create locally relevant action plans by 400.
The rolling three-month scoring periods for the business year.
The early results have ensure that drivers remain focused on achieving been encouraging and will provide the the highest performance levels throughout the Company with a robust benchmark for future year with a view to qualifying for the final.
The engagement programmes with our people.
July 2008 event will incorporate the first ever Forklift Truck Driver of the Year competition, After a successful pilot at six sites, we have The award-winning SHELA programme has improved extending this opportunity to demonstrate employee engagement in our safety culture.
introduced a Learning & Development excellence to our warehouse operatives.
Framework LDF in our warehouses in the UK and Ireland.
Our goal is to use LDF to identify Our driver training programme in the UK has Following the success of our Driving learning needs, support development been mapped against the newly introduced Development programme in the LGV driver opportunities and provide a foundation for our NVQs and exceeds the standard with over 80 community, we extended the focus on safe site succession plans for both the immediate per cent of its content.
During 2007 08, around driving to our company car drivers.
Initial feedback has 900 drivers were put through NVQs, with a stage process includes a workshop to been very positive.
The framework provides a target going forward of 100 per month to take highlight hazards, risks and safe practices consistent appraisal and review process for all the assessment.
Wincanton is the first based on Institute of Advance Motoring and warehouse staff across Wincanton and maps company to introduce an NVQ qualification RoSPA guidelines, followed by a driver performance against guideline competencies.
programme that will ensure all of its drivers assessment and development programme.
The five development levels and LDF achieve the certification, including any that do During 2007 08 around 800 of our company Roadmap allow employees to track progress not qualify for funded support.
car drivers were trained and provided with a in easy steps from when they first start through revised company car drivers handbook to supervisor manager level.
Our commitment to health and safety excellence In order to improve levels of absenteeism and continues to deliver good progress across the We also achieved the OHSAS:18001 manage recovery from illness for employees in Group.
The establishment of the SHE leadership certification for our warehouse and transport our operations, an absence management pilot team with members from France, Germany, contract with Nestl Purina Petcare.
The programme was introduced at 20 of our sites Poland, the UK and Ireland is helping to deliver certificate, which recognises best practice in the UK and Ireland, covering a total of 5,500 a consistent, progressive approach.
Since 2001, in health and safety, was awarded for our employees.
The nine-month pilot in partnership our lost time accident rate has reduced by 56 collaborative approach with the transport with Active Health Partners required employees per cent and we have developed a reputation contractor and the customer.
As well as to phone a 24-hour call centre operated by as a benchmark operation through our creating a policy which defines employees qualified nurses who provide medical advice involvement in national strategic SHE roles in upholding the safe running of the and agree anticipated return to work dates.
We are Board members of contract, the team implemented a standardised During the pilot, the total days of absence Roadsafe and long-term sponsors of the Prince induction process covering the three reduced by 10,000 and the average illness Michael Road Safety Awards.
During 2007 08 businesses in the partnership, site safety duration reduced from 7 to 4 days.
A total of our established Driver of the Year and SHELA consultations that involved both companies 22,000 calls were placed with the nurses and Safety, Health and Environment Learning Aid employees and monthly briefings on over 90 per cent of people were satisfied with warehouse safety initiatives attracted greater Wincantons SHELA warehouse safety initiative.
The scheme will now be rolled out interest and industry-wide recognition, to further sites during the coming year.
highlighting our ability to engage employees Our SHELA campaign was recognised in the in an effective safety culture.
Safety & Health Practitioner Magazine Awards Our management development programme in October 2007, winning the Best Health and was relaunched in January 2007 to include a Initiatives Safety Achievement in Transport and Logistics Stepping Stones level for new managers and We have now integrated the Rivo Safeguard category.
SHELA targets the 15,000 revised content of the existing Management IT system across our operations in Mainland warehouse employees in distribution centres Development Programme and Leadership Europe, which has enabled us to standardise to raise awareness, develop a safety culture Development Programmes.
Since then, over incident reporting across the Group.
At the and reduce accidents year-on-year.
170 managers from 7 countries have taken up same time, we have completed the this training framework, which covers topics implementation of our Minimum Safety We secured RoSPA Gold awards at our Argos such as financial awareness, intercultural Standards and Key Principles in our Polish Kettering and Corby sites, evidencing the awareness, customer skills, creativity, business, following the launch in France and achievement of the highest standards in innovation and change management.
Germany during the previous year.
29 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 CORPORatE RESPONSibility CONTINUED In November 2007, the Health & Safety This year, we launched a Christmas card Health and safety Executive launched its Warehousing and competition for employees children and Risk area: A significant failure in health and storage guide to health and safety HSG76 relatives to design our corporate card for safety performance affecting the public, our at our Screwfix operation in Stafford.
We have customers and partners.
The competition ran employees, our customers or other third worked closely with them to develop this in France, Poland and the UK & Ireland and parties, could disrupt business operations.
through our membership of the Warehousing also involved a donation to childrens charities.
Health and Safety Forum and have contributed In our Dutch business, 10,000 euros were Wincanton response: Wincanton has a by writing content for two chapters, as well as donated to charities during the year instead strong health and safety culture with monthly providing photography and input on design.
of sending hampers to customers.
safety reviews completed at a local level, and central reviews of local health and safety Social Identifying our Corporate management carried out by the central SHE Our culture specifies the importance of Responsibility priorities department and monthly Executive review.
integrity, accountability and teamwork in our Our internal risk assessment processes identify A Business Continuity Plan for head office was day-to-day work, which is played out in strong the opportunities and challenges associated also launched in February 2008 including the links with the community, both corporately and with corporate responsibility.
The four priority establishment of a crisis management team.
During 2007 8 we were corporate  risk areas recognised with an award for our work with remain employee relations, business ethics, Risk area: A major road accident involving schools and continue to build our relationship health and safety and environmental impact.
a vehicle carrying a hazardous load or with our industry charity Transaid see case causing significant third-party damage could study opposite.
Risk area: The deterioration of relations with adversely affect Wincantons reputation and employees and employee representatives subsequently result in financial loss.
Initiatives resulting in disruption to operations and failure In June 2007 our road safety initiative for to meet customer expectations.
Wincanton response: We employ fully qualified schools, The Big Truck Club, was rolled out in managers and drivers who receive a minimum of conjunction with Matalan, B&Q and Argos to Wincanton response: Our people policies two days training each year and undergo annual 10 schools in Northampton.
The programme are designed to ensure that we consistently assessments.
We have also reinforced our ADR was developed by Wincanton to teach live up to our core values.
Our personnel Emergency Response System.
schoolchildren about the dangers presented procedures and European Works Council are by trucks and other traffic.
It is positioned in designed to ensure our employees interests Environmental impact line with the national curriculum and delivered are protected.
We actively encourage local Risk area: A failure to demonstrate a robust through assembly sessions, classroom management to develop and sustain relations policy and measured reduction in the activities and with the help of our drivers and at a local level, providing support through environmental impact of our operations could educational marketing specialists.
So far, over regular senior level meetings held with the Trade damage the Groups reputation and have 8,000 children have been introduced to the Unions and other employee representatives.
a negative impact on our ability to win and Big Truck Club and in February 2008 it was retain business.
recognised in the Hollis Sponsorship Awards, Risk area: Insufficient investment in employee winning the Education Sponsor category.
training leading to insufficient skills or Wincanton response: We conducted a inadequate succession planning, resulting detailed review of our environmental impacts The Wincanton Community Scheme was in a shortage of properly qualified managers.
and identified our key stakeholder priorities delivered in a further 30 primary schools area during the research and formulation of our during the year, providing children in the South Wincanton response: A capability review environmental strategy, which was launched West of England with tag rugby tuition from a is undertaken on an annual basis to help in March 2008.
This strategy details key leading Bath Rugby coach.
So far, around 10,000 develop our succession planning processes results areas and objectives for delivering children from over 60 schools have benefited across all business areas and to continue the improvements to our environmental from the programme which has been jointly development of a wide range of internally performance year-on-year.
funded by Wincanton and Sportsmatch, the delivered training programmes.
Government-endorsed initiative that encourages Corporate Responsibility businesses to invest in grass-roots sports.
Business ethics achievements in the year Risk area: Unethical behaviour by employees 9.5% reduction in accidents in the UK & Ireland In Holland, Wincantons 12-year sponsorship of could damage our reputation, customer 800 company car drivers trained the 15km Wincanton Montferland Run reached relations or cause financial loss.
in advanced techniques new heights in 2007 when Heile Gebrselassie Two industry award wins for safety campaigns took part and broke the course record.
Around Wincanton response: We have a robust 32,000 raised for Transaid 3,500 people race each year, many of them Code of Ethics and a whistle-blowing policy raising thousands of euros for charity.
designed to encourage appropriate behaviour at all levels.
30 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 tRaNSaiD Continued support for Transaid Wincanton is a long-standing supporter of Transaid, a charity which works primarily in Africa to reduce poverty and improve quality of life through providing better access to basic services such as health, education and economic opportunities.
By working with the UK transport and logistics industry Transaid builds local skills and knowledge to make transport safer, cheaper and more effective for those who need it most.
During 2007 08 Wincanton provided a range of support, including hands-on technical expertise through secondments, corporate donations and fundraising activities: Secondments Feasibility Study for a Transport Management System for the Provincial Directorate of Health in Tete Province, Mozambique by Warehouse Manager Ed OConnor.
His recommendations will help improve health service delivery at local levels Analysis of Transport Services for the Department for International Development Bangladesh by Operations Manager, Simon Weeks Development of a business plan and sharing of best practice with the Transport Officer of a Womens Transport Cooperative of market traders in Accra, Ghana by Caroline Barber, Business Integration Manager Fundraising In November 2007, Pierre OConghaile and John Meehan cycled over 400km across Kenya raising 7,000 12,000 raised by employees through Payroll-Giving and fundraising Donation of 3,000 via the lease of a Schmitz Cargobull Transaid-liveried trailer to our Dutch operation Revenue from recycled toner cartridges donated by the Sainsburys Northampton site 10,000 annual membership donation Wincantons contribution to our work in Africa cannot be understated.
While funds help us to do more, the professional and technical inputs ensure we deliver highquality work.
Chris Saunders, Chief Executive, Transaid.
31 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 bOaRD Of DiRECtORS David Malpas CBE Gerard Connell Jonson Cox Chairman Group Finance Director Non-executive Director David was formerly Chairman of Allianz Gerard trained with Price Waterhouse and Jonson became a non-executive Director of Dresdner Income Growth Investment Trust, then worked in the City, becoming a Managing Wincanton in October 2005.
He is currently having retired as Managing Director of Tesco Director of Bankers Trust and a Regional Group Chief Executive of Anglian Water Group in 1997.
He became a non-executive Director Director of Hill Samuel.
He joined Wincanton Plc and Morrison plc.
Previous senior positions of Wincanton in June 2001 and Chairman in in September 2000 to help prepare the include Chief Executive of Valpak Limited, a July 2005: he will resign from the Board at the Company for demerger.
Gerard is also the business services company, Chief Operating 2008 AGM.
Senior Independent non-executive Director Officer of Railtrack Group plc and Managing and Chairman of the Audit Committee, Director of Kelda Group plc formerly Yorkshire David Edmonds CBE Pennon Group Plc.
His early career was with Royal Deputy Chairman Dutch Shell.
David is Chairman of the Board of NHS Direct Nigel Sullivan and a Board member of the Legal Services Group Human Resources Director Neil England Commission.
He is a non-executive Director Nigel joined Wincanton as Group Human Non-executive Director of Hammerson PLC and William Hill PLC.
Resources Director in November 2002 from Neil is currently a non-executive director of ITE He is Chairman of NHS Shared Business Marconi plc.
Prior to that Nigel held a number Group plc, The Eastern European Trust PLC Services and a Trustee of the Social Market of human resources positions with Nortel and Silverstone Holdings Limited.
Prior to 2003, he held a series of Networks and Rover Group.
He was appointed previously a Director of Gallaher Group plc executive posts in government departments to the Board in January 2004. and prior to that Vice President of Mars Inc. and in the NatWest Group.
He became a nonHe became a non-executive Director of executive Director of Wincanton in December Philip Cox Wincanton in June 2008.
2004 and is the Senior Independent Director.
Non-executive Director He was appointed Deputy Chairman in Philip is Chief Executive Officer of International November 2007.
Power Plc, having previously been Group Finance Director of Siebe.
He became a nonGraeme McFaull executive Director of Wincanton in June 2001.
Chief Executive Graeme joined Wincanton in 1994 as Finance Dr Walter Hasselkus Director of the Retail Division following finance Non-executive Director roles with Geest, Cargill and Pepsico.
He has Walter is a non-executive Director of DAF held several Managing Directorships within Trucks NV, Chairman of the Supervisory Wincanton since 1999, most recently running Board of Ehlebracht AG, non-executive the UK & Ireland business.
He became Chief Director of W. E. T. Holding Lux S. A. and Executive in December 2005.
Graeme is a Supervisory Board Member of W. E. T. AG.
Fellow and Vice-President of the Chartered From 1996 to 1998 he was a member of the Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Board of Management of BMW AG and Chairman and CEO of Rover Group.
He became a non-executive Director of Wincanton in January 2004.
Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee David Edmonds Jonson Cox Jonson Cox David Malpas Chairman Philip Cox Philip Cox Chairman Graeme McFaull David Edmonds Chairman David Edmonds 1 1 Neil England Neil England Walter Hasselkus Walter Hasselkus David Malpas David Malpas 1 Appointed 3 June 2008 32 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial Number of Shareholder Type of Holding shares held Per cent statements for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Legal and General Group plc Direct 5,210,514 4.33% Principal activities BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited Indirect 4,544,388 3.74% Wincanton is a contract logistics services business which designs, IFG Corporate Services Limited Indirect 4,852,118 4.02% implements and operates a range of supply chain management as Trustee of the Wincanton plc solutions.
Employee Benefit Trust F&C Asset Management plc Indirect 6,045,153 5.03% Acquisitions On 8 November 2007 the Group acquired Swales Haulage Ltd for Aberforth Partners LLP Indirect 6,189,405 5.14% a debt-free consideration of 4.5m.
Newton Investment Management Limited Indirect 7,776,329 6.47% Rathbone Brothers Plc Indirect 9,058,170 7.54% On 17 January 2008 the Group acquired Hanbury Davies Ltd for an initial debt-free consideration of 25.0m.
Up to a further 2.5m may These holdings are stated as at the date of notification to the Company.
be payable pending agreement of the financial performance of the acquired business in the period to 31 March 2008.
During the year the Company did not purchase any of its own shares, except to meet its obligations to employees under the Share Incentive On 4 March 2008, the Group acquired HeBo GmbH for an initial debtPlan.
The only shares held throughout the year were held in the free consideration of 2.9m.
A further 0.5m may be payable subject Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
During the year, the Trust, in its to the financial performance of HeBo in the year to 31 March 2009. capacity as trustee, purchased a total of 1,996,519 shares at an average price, excluding costs, of 3.94 per share.
These shares were Results and Dividends purchased to enable the Trust to hedge against future exercises of A review of the activities of the Group during the financial year, share options awards.
As at 31 March 2008, the Trust, in its capacity analyses of revenue and profit and an indication of likely future as trustee, held 4,801,973 2007: 3,080,661 shares representing developments are presented in the Business review on pages 16 to 27, 3.96% of the issued share capital.
and the Corporate responsibility report on pages 28 to 31 which are incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
The Group profit Share capital and reserves attributable to shareholders for the financial year amounted to 24.5m.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital and reserves of the An interim dividend of 4.60p per share was paid on 8 January 2008.
Company are shown in note 6 to the Wincanton plc Company financial Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting statements on page 85.
The share capital of Wincanton plc is made AGM to be held at 11:30am on Thursday, 24 July 2008 at the offices up of 121,340,268 Ordinary shares of 10 pence as at the date of this of Buchanan Communications, 45 Moorfields, London, EC2Y 9AE, report.
The shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Other a final dividend of 10.31p per share will be paid on 8 August 2008 to than certain of those shares held in Trust in accordance with Employee those shareholders on the register of members of Wincanton plc at Share Schemes, and the provisions contained in the Articles of 11 July 2008.
Under the requirements of Adopted IFRS this dividend Association of the Company, all shares rank pari passu with each other.
is not provided until declared and therefore the total profit for the year of 25.0m, including 0.5m relating to minority interests, has been The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders transferred to reserves.
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors The Group does not have a formal code that it follows with regard to Directors payments to suppliers.
It agrees payment terms with its suppliers when The names and biographies of the Directors who served at any time it enters into binding purchase contracts for the supply of goods and during the financial year are shown on page 32.
Its suppliers are, in that way, made aware of these terms.
The Companys corporate governance policy are set out on pages 37 to 39.
Group seeks to abide by these payment terms when it is satisfied that Directors beneficial interests in the Companys share capital as at 31 the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the March 2008 and the date of this report are set out in the Directors agreed terms and conditions.
remuneration report on pages 40 to 48.
At the AGM, Wincanton plc will seek the re-election as Directors of G Connell and D Edmonds who are At the year end there were 54 days 2007: 54 days purchases in the resigning under the rotation provisions of the Articles of the Company.
The Directors support their re-election.
At the 2008 AGM, David Malpas is stepping down as Chairman and will be replaced by David Annual General Meeting Edmonds, who was appointed Deputy Chairman on 7 November 2007.
At the AGM, the Directors will propose the following special business: To maintain the required balance and independence on the Board, a to seek to renew the authority to disapply shareholders pre-emption further non-executive Director, Neil England, was appointed on 3 June rights in certain circumstances: to approve the Companys power to 2008.
The Company will seek his election at the AGM in accordance buy back a proportion of the Companys share capital: to make with the Articles of the Company.
The Directors support his election.
specific amendments to the Articles of Association of Wincanton plc so that they comply with new sections of the Companies Act 2006: Employees to authorise the Company to supply documents or information to The Group uses a number of ways to provide employees with members by making them available on a website: to allow the Directors information on matters of interest to them.
These include a report to to allot shares: and to approve the making of certain payments that employees dealing with Group and segmental results, an intranet, a may fall to be classified as donations to political parties.
quarterly in-house newsletter and briefing and consultative meetings.
Substantial interests In December 2005, a European Works Council was set up with the aim At the date of this report, the Company has been notified of the of bringing together employee representatives from across Europe, so following major shareholdings: 33 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 Directors report continued that they can be informed and consulted by management on the days to supply the Company with the information required by that Groups plans and performance.
Employee representatives are also notice, then that shareholder shall not be entitled to attend or vote at able to meet their colleagues from other countries, exchanging a shareholders meeting.
Where the shares represent 0.25% or more of information about the Group and working conditions across Europe.
the issued share capital, the Directors may in their absolute discretion retain any dividend which would otherwise be payable in respect of In February 2008, the Group launched its first annual employee survey, those shares and or that no transfer of those shares shall be registered One Voice, inviting employees to have their say on many aspects of unless the transfer is approved.
their working environment including their understanding of business goals, communication processes, health and safety, management and Variation of Share Capital and Rights working for Wincanton.
The early results have been encouraging and Wincanton may by ordinary resolution increase its share capital: will provide a robust benchmark for future engagement programmes.
consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger amount than its existing shares: subdivide all or any of its share The Group has established a variety of option schemes and share capital into shares of a smaller amount than that fixed by the incentive plans to align the interests of employees with those of Memorandum of Association subject to the provisions of the shareholders and to support Wincanton in the development of its Companies Acts : or cancel any shares which have not been taken business objectives.
or agreed to be taken and diminish the amount of its share capital.
Wincanton is committed to a policy of equal opportunities in Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, Wincanton may by employment by which the Group has and continues to: special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve and any share premium account in any way.
select, recruit, develop and promote the very best people basing its judgement solely on suitability for the job: Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, whenever share capital of Wincanton is divided into different classes of shares, the special ensure that all applicants and employees receive fair and equal rights attached to any class may, subject to the provisions of the treatment irrespective of sex, marital status, age, nationality, colour, Companies Act, be varied or abrogated whether or not Wincanton race, ethnicity, national origin, disability or gender reassignment: is being wound up, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three quarters of the nominal value of the issued shares of the class encourage diversity in its workforce, reflecting, where practicable, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate the diversity of the working population: general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
The quorum at any such meeting is two persons holding at least one-third in nominal maintain a working environment free from sexual and racial value of the issued shares of the class.
harassment and intimidation: and Buying Back Shares ensure that all employment conditions and job requirements reflect Subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies its commitment to equal opportunities.
Act and the Listing Rules, Wincanton may purchase its own shares of any class.
Where people become disabled during the course of their employment, every practical effort is made to retain their services, Directors Power to Allot make adjustments and to provide retraining if necessary.
All employees The Directors may, subject to the provisions of any legislation dealing are eligible for appropriate training, career development and promotion with authority, pre-emption rights and other matters, and of any and disabled people are not treated any differently.
resolution of the Company in general meeting passed pursuant thereto, deal with shares which have not been issued.
Directors may allot Political and charitable contributions shares, grant options over, or otherwise dispose of, shares to such In accordance with its policy, the Group made no political contributions persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
Donations to charities amounted to 65,000 2007: 14,000.
Dividends and other Distributions Wincanton shareholders may declare dividends by passing an Wincantons Articles of Association ordinary resolution.
No such dividend may, however, exceed the The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a amount recommended by the Directors.
Any dividend unclaimed after Special Resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the 2008 a period of 12 years from the date such dividend was declared shall AGM a Special Resolution will be put to shareholders proposing be forfeited and shall revert to Wincanton.
amendments to the Companys existing Articles in relation to the provisions of the new Companies Act 2006.
Distribution of Assets on Winding Up If Wincanton is wound up, the liquidator may, with the authority of an The Articles of Association of Wincanton currently contain amongst extraordinary resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among others the following provisions.
the shareholders the whole or any part of the assets of Wincanton and may determine how such division shall be carried out as between Voting Rights shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
For this purpose, the Subject to the restrictions set out below, on a show of hands every liquidator may set such value as he considers fair upon any property.
shareholder present in person has one vote and on a poll every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote per share held.
Transfer of Shares Any shareholder may transfer some or all of his shares to another Restrictions on Voting person.
The person making the transfer will be treated as continuing If any shareholder, or any person appearing to be interested in the to be the holder until the name of the person to whom the share is shares held by that shareholder, has been properly served with a being transferred is entered onto the register in respect of such shares.
notice under Section 212 of the Companies Act 1985 requiring Directors may in their absolute discretion, and without giving any information about interests in shares, and has failed for a period of 14 reason therefore, refuse to register any transfer of such shares which 34 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 are not fully paid shares provided that such discretion may not be c any proposal concerning an offer of shares or debentures or exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that other securities of or by the Company or any of its subsidiary class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
undertakings for subscription or purchase in which offer he is or is to be interested as a holder of securities or as a participant Directors of Wincanton in the underwriting or sub-underwriting thereof: Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, there must be at least two Directors but not more than 20.
The Directors shall determine d any proposal concerning any other company in which he is the ordinary fees of the Directors and the aggregate amount shall not interested, directly or indirectly and whether as an officer or exceed 500,000 per annum or such higher amount as Wincanton shareholder or otherwise howsoever, provided that he together shareholders may from time to time determine by ordinary resolution.
with persons connected with him within the meaning of Section 346 Any provision of the Statutes, which would have the effect of rendering of the Act does not have an interest as that term is used in any person ineligible for appointment or election as a Director or liable Sections 198 to 211 of the Act in one per cent or more of the issued to vacate office as a Director on account of having reached a specified shares of any class of such company or of any third company age, has been disapplied.
through which his interest is derived or of the voting rights available to members of the relevant company any such interest Directors Interests in Transactions with the Company being deemed for the purposes of this Article to be a material If the legislation allows, and if a Director has disclosed the nature and interest in all circumstances : extent of any interest to the other Directors, that Director may: e any proposal relating to an arrangement for the benefit of the a be a party to or otherwise interested in, any contract, transaction employees of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings or arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is which does not aware him any privilege or benefit not generally otherwise interested: awarded to the employees to whom such arrangement relates: and b be a director or other officer of, or employed by, or a party to any f any proposal concerning any insurance which the Company is contract, transaction or arrangement with, or otherwise interested empowered to purchase and or maintain for or for the benefit of in, any body corporate promoted by the Company or in which the any Directors of the Company or for persons who include Directors Company is otherwise interested: of the Company.
c act or any firm of which he is a partner, employee or member may Borrowing Powers act in a professional capacity for the Company other than as So far as legislation allows, the Directors may exercise all Wincantons auditor and be remunerated therefore: and powers to borrow money: to mortgage or charge all or any of Wincantons undertakings, property, and uncalled capital: to issue d not, save as otherwise agreed by him, be accountable to the debentures and other securities: and to give security either outright Company for any benefit which he derives from any contract, or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Wincanton transaction or arrangement or from any such office or employment or of any third party.
or from any interest in any such body corporate or for such remuneration and no such contract, transaction or arrangement Indemnity and Insurance of Officers shall be liable to be avoided on the grounds of any such interest So far as relevant legislation allows, every Director, Secretary and other or benefit.
Officer of the Company or its subsidiary undertakings shall be entitled to be indemnified by the Company.
Directors Interests and Voting A Director cannot cast a vote on any contract, arrangement or any Untraced Shareholders other kind of proposal in which he has a material interest other than in The Company is entitled to sell, at the best price reasonably obtainable the circumstances falling within the paragraph below.
For this purpose, at the time of the sale, shares of a member provided that during the 12 interests of a person who is connected with a Director under Section years prior to the date of the publication of advertisements in both a 346 of the Companies Act are added to the interests of the Director national newspaper and a newspaper circulated in the area of the last himself.
Interests purely as a result of an interest in the Companys known address of the member giving notice of its intention to sell the shares, debentures or other securities are disregarded.
In relation to said shares, at least three dividends in respect of the shares have an alternate Director an interest of his appointor shall be treated as become payable and no dividend in respect of those shares has been an interest of the alternate Director.
This is in addition to any interest claimed.
which the alternate Director has in his own right.
A Director may not be included in the quorum of a meeting in relation to any resolution he Research and development is not allowed to vote on.
During the year the Group was active in the development of new products and supply chain services to support current and future If the Statutes allow this, a Director can vote, and be counted in the customer requirements.
quorum on any resolution about any of the following matters, as long as the only material interests he has in it are included in the following list: Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable a the giving of any security, guarantee or indemnity to him in respect expectation that the Company and the Group overall have adequate of money lent or obligations incurred by him at the request of or for resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the benefit of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings: these financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
b the giving of any security, guarantee or indemnity to a third party in respect of a debt or obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings for which he himself has assumed responsibility in whole or in part under a guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security: 35 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 Directors report continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Report and Group financial statements.
Group and parent Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Board confirms that to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and applicable law undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position and that they face.
The Companies Act 1985 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant The Board approved the above Responsibility statement on 4 June 2008. part of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Auditors In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 and The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give with corporate governance best practice, separate resolutions for a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and for the approval of their remuneration are to be proposed at In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial the 2008 AGM.
statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of the which the parent Companys auditors are make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been information and to establish that the parent Companys auditors are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: aware of that information.
for the parent Company financial statements, state whether By order of the Board applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Charles Phillips Company financial statements: Company Secretary Methuen Park prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Chippenham it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Wiltshire Company will continue in business.
SN14 0WT 4 June 2008 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors Remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
36 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 corporate governance Introduction presented to the Board periodically on matters such as pensions, The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance insurance and treasury.
Health and safety is reviewed at every Board and supports the principles laid down in the revised Combined Code meeting and other specific business-related presentations are given on Corporate Governance the Code as issued by the Financial when appropriate.
This statement describes how the principles of the Code are applied and reports on the Companys There is an established procedure for the preparation and review, at compliance with the Codes provisions.
least annually, by the Board of medium-term plans and annual budgets for business units.
Each business unit reports monthly on its performance Board of Directors against its agreed budget.
The Board receives a monthly update on As at 31 March 2008, the Board had eight members, comprising the performance and reviews significant variances on a monthly basis.
non-executive Chairman, independent non-executive Deputy All major investment decisions are subject to post-completion reviews.
Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Human Resources Director and three further independent non-executive In line with agreed procedures, the Chairman has conducted Directors.
At the 2008 AGM, the Chairman will resign and the Deputy interviews with each Director and assessed their individual Chairman will take his role.
In order to maintain the required balance performance.
The Chairman has carried out an evaluation of the and independence on the Board following the resignation of the performance of the Board as a whole and of each Committee and, Chairman, a further non-executive Director was appointed on led by the senior non-executive Director, the non-executive Directors 3 June 2008.
All Directors bring strong judgement to the Boards have assessed the performance of the Chairman taking into account deliberations.
The Board is of sufficient size and diversity that the the views of the Executive Directors.
The Chairman and the senior balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate independent non-executive Director have presented the conclusions for the requirements of the business.
The non-executive Directors are of those assessments to the Board.
The evaluation process is designed all independent of management and free from any business or other to cover Board processes, the structure and capability of the Board, relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred strategic alignment, Board dynamics and the skills brought to the to in provision A.
3.1 of the Code, that could materially interfere with Board by each Director.
As part of the process, training needs are the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
The Company reviewed and acted upon as appropriate.
considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
3.1 of the Code and furthermore The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take, at the the preceding comments regarding freedom from business or other Companys expense, independent professional advice if necessary.
relationships also apply to him.
However, after appointment, the Code In addition, the Directors have direct access to the advice and services specifies that the Chairman ceases to be classed as independent.
of the Company Secretary, who is charged by the Board with ensuring The non-executive Directors have each been appointed for a threethat Board procedures are followed.
Both the appointment and removal year term.
The senior independent non-executive Director and of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Deputy Chairman during the year was D A Edmonds who will be Company Secretary and Group Human Resources Director take joint appointed Chairman at the 2008 AGM.
responsibility for preparing and implementing an induction programme for Board appointees, including guidance as to their duties, At all times during the year there has been a majority of independent responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company and non-executive Directors on the Board, excluding the Chairman, in business familiarisation.
3.2. Business familiarisation involves Directors visiting sites, in both the The biographical details of the Board members are set out on page 32.
UK and elsewhere in Europe, and giving the Directors the opportunity The Directors have all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in UK to meet senior managers around the business.
They also have the listed companies or, in the case of Dr W Hasselkus, German listed opportunity to discuss organisational, operational and administrative companies and have substantial experience in business.
The Company provides directors and officers insurance executive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups pension cover, in line with normal market practice, for the benefit of Directors schemes or in any of the Groups bonus, share option or other incentive in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
All Directors must stand for election at the first AGM after they are appointed.
The Articles provide that all Directors will stand for The different roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are re-election at least every three years.
A responsibility statement for each of those roles has been agreed with the Chairman and Chief Executive respectively and The Board is collectively responsible for the proper management of the adopted by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the Company.
The Board normally meets 10 times each financial year and workings of the Board and ensuring that its strategic and supervisory has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision-making, role is achieved.
The Board is responsible for high-level decisionincluding the approval of annual and interim results, annual budgets, making and approval of significant expenditure and there is a formal material acquisitions and disposals, material agreements and major listing of matters reserved for Board approval.
The Board has capital commitments.
Executive Board members are responsible for delegated appropriate responsibilities to the Chief Executive, the communicating the Groups strategy to senior managers and for the Group Finance Director, the Group Human Resources Director and the day-to-day operational activity of the Group.
The Company Secretary members of the Executive Board who are responsible for the day-tomaintains a record of attendance at Board meetings and Committee day running of the business, carrying out the agreed strategy and meetings, further details of which are set out on page 38.
During the implementing specific Board decisions relating to the operation of year the Chairman also met with the non-executive Directors without the Group.
Board Committees Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of There are a number of standing Committees of the Board to which each Board or Committee meeting.
This normally includes a detailed various matters are delegated.
The Committees all have formal Terms report on current trading and full papers on matters where the Board of Reference that have been approved by the Board and that are will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
Reports are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The Terms 37 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 corporate governance continued of Reference are not currently available on the Groups website and as agreeing internal and external audit plans: a result, the Company is not in compliance with provisions A.
The Company feels that making Committee receiving reports from external auditors and from the Head of Terms of Reference available at its registered office is sufficient for Internal Audit and dealing with any significant control issues arising: those shareholders that require to see the Terms of Reference.
No such requests were made in the year ended 31 March 2008.
Brief details are monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence and set out below: objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit process: The Nomination Committee comprises D A Edmonds and G McFaull, making recommendations for the appointment, re-appointment and under the chairmanship of A D Malpas.
4.1 removal of the external auditors and approving their remuneration requires that a majority of members of the Nomination Committee and terms of engagement: and should be independent non-executive Directors.
The Company does not comply with this provision of the Code.
However, the Board feels developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the that the small size of the Committee is best placed to act quickly and external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account efficiently on its behalf.
The Committee meets as necessary and is relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of such services responsible for considering and recommending to the Board persons by the external audit firm: and to report to the Board, identifying any who are appropriate for appointment as Executive and non-executive matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is Directors.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are The Audit Committee also reviews the arrangements by which staff proposed by either existing Board members or by an external search of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible company.
Careful consideration is given to ensure that appointees improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
It is an have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance objective of the Committee to ensure that arrangements are in place for of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When the proportionate and independent investigation of any such matters dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the and for overseeing the appropriate follow-up action, where required.
senior independent non-executive Director will chair the Committee instead of the Chairman.
When the Committee has found a suitable It is a specific responsibility of the Audit Committee to ensure that an candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make a proposal to the appropriate relationship is maintained between the Company and its whole Board and the appointment is the responsibility of the whole external auditors.
The Company has a policy of controlling the provision Board following recommendation from the Committee.
of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to maintain their independence and ensure that their objectivity and independence are The Remuneration Committee comprises J Cox, P G Cox, safeguarded.
This control is exercised by ensuring non-audit projects, N England, Dr W Hasselkus and A D Malpas, under the chairmanship where fees are expected to exceed 150,000, are subject to the prior of D A Edmonds.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible, approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group within a framework established by the Board overall, for setting the Finance Director.
If non-audit project fees are expected to exceed remuneration of senior executives, including the Executive Directors 250,000 the prior approval of the Board is required.
The Committee and senior management.
It is also responsible for granting executive meets at least three times each year.
The Chairman of the Committee options, long-term incentive plan awards, pension rights and any reports the outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives compensation packages, and for determining the terms of any the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
compensation package in the event of early termination of the contract of any Director or senior executive.
The Audit Committee met twice in the year and once more just outside the year and discharged its responsibilities as set out above through It meets at least three times a year.
The Chairman of the Committee the matters considered at those meetings.
reports the outcome of meetings to the Board.
Full details of its activities and of Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Attendance at meetings remuneration report on pages 40 to 48.
Those pages detail compliance The Company Secretary maintains a register of attendance of Directors with the legal requirements with regard to remuneration matters.
at Board and Committee meetings and the record of attendance during the year ended 31 March 2008 is as follows: The Audit Committee comprises J Cox, D A Edmonds, N England, Nomination Remuneration Audit Dr W Hasselkus and A D Malpas, under the chairmanship of P G Cox, Board Committee Committee Committee who is the former Chief Financial Officer and currently the Chief 1 1 G D Connell 9 1 2 Executive of International Power plc and, as such, has the requisite 1 1 G McFaull 10 4 2 recent and relevant financial experience.
The Code provision C. 3.1 1 1 N Sullivan 10 4 2 requires that all members of the Audit Committee should be J Cox 10 4 2 independent non-executive Directors.
The Company does not comply P G Cox 9 4 2 with this provision of the Code.
However, the Board feels that the D A Edmonds 10 4 2 experience of the Chairman is beneficial in ensuring that the Audit Dr W Hasselkus 10 4 2 Committee carries out its duties in line with its terms of reference.
A D Malpas 9 4 1 The Committee is responsible for, and during the year carried out, the following: Total number of meetings 10 4 2 1 Attended at the invitation of the Committee.
reviewing the annual and half year financial statements before they are presented to the Board: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control: 38 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 Shareholder relations All types of risk applicable to the business are regularly reviewed.
In The Company is committed to maintaining good communications addition, a formal risk assessment review is carried out on an annual with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief basis to highlight key risks to the business and to consider action that Executive and Group Finance Director, have dialogue with individual can reasonably and cost-effectively be taken to reduce them.
The institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their Board considers this review, which accords with the Code.
views which are fed back to the Board.
Although the other nonexecutive Directors, including the senior independent non-executive The Groups Internal Audit Department is involved in the review and Director, are available to major shareholders to listen to their views, no testing of the internal control system and of key risks across the Group, such meetings have taken place during the year and, to that extent, the in accordance with the annual programme agreed with the Audit Company has not complied with provision D. 1.1 of the Code.
From time to time it undertakes ad-hoc assignments year general presentations are given to analysts and investors covering requested by senior managers or the Audit Committee, the findings the annual and half year results.
The Business review set out on pages of which are discussed with the Audit Committee.
16 to 27 details the financial performance of the Group as well as setting out the risks it faces and plans for the future.
The Company Compliance Secretary generally deals with questions from individual shareholders.
The Directors consider that, with the exception of the three issues All shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the related to the availability of Committee Terms of Reference, Committee Companys AGM, which all Directors attend.
At the AGM, the Chief membership and the issue related to shareholder relations specifically Executive will give a statement on the Companys performance during identified in this report, the Company has been in compliance with the the year, together with a statement on current trading conditions.
The provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2008 and Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will to the date of this report.
Where the Company has departed from the be available to answer questions at the AGM.
The Chairman will advise requirements of the Code, the Board has addressed this and feels that shareholders on proxy voting levels.
In addition, the Groups website the reasons are justified.
containing published information and press releases can be found at www.
Internal control and risk The respective responsibilities in connection with the financial statements are set out in the Directors report on pages 33 to 36 and 49 for the Directors and Auditors respectively.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group has been in place throughout the year which accords with the Turnbull guidance on internal control.
The Audit Committee has, as part of its review process, considered the Groups system of internal control throughout the year.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to meet business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the control system are as follows: the Group has an organisational structure with established lines of accountability as well as clearly-defined levels of authority: the Group has issued manuals, including the Groups Code of Ethics, which provide details of the key policies and procedures to be followed and the overall environment in which the business is expected to operate: and the Group has a system of control self-certification, which provides a documented trail of accountability against the internal control policies and procedures.
This process is facilitated by the Internal Audit Department which also provides a degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal control.
These processes and systems continue to be extended to encompass the sites and operations of the growing Group.
