Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 32-41 6 10 08 13:52 Page 33 Corporate responsibility report Building Block Structure Over the years, our operating companies have developed Focus Area Group Minimum Improvement Group Goals Standard Actions good practices in environmental management and have Compliance with legal Proactive safety introduced award-winning requirements, monitoring culture, recognised 1 health and safety programmes.
Group and operating industry leader.
company Key Health Performance Indicators However, after rapid expansion through and Safety KPIs.
organic growth and acquisitions, there is an opportunity to share and strengthen Compliance with Carbon neutral best practices for the benefit of all Group legal requirements, operations, companies.
This year we have developed 2 establish KPIs, informing industry a strategy to deliver a coordinated develop improvement best practices.
approach to corporate responsibility programmes.
Environment The strategy was approved by the Board All employees are Industry-leading staff in July 2008 and will help us to build on competitively rewarded retention and 3 our strengths, improve performance, share and provided with productivity rates.
best practices and, where we are able to, development People opportunities.
Development It introduces, for the first time, a framework to set consistent standards across the Endorsement of the Group Code of Ethics Group Code of Ethics, and compliance Group.
This will allow individual operating 4 identify forest source programmes evidence companies, and the Group as a whole, of timber.
best practice, Responsible to measure progress over time.
Business Our strategy is based on five focus areas: Participating in, or Public recognition of health and safety: donating to, a number Wolseleys contribution 5 environment: of community projects.
people development: Community responsible business: Engagement community engagement.
The strategy establishes a clear framework We anticipate that those objectives will structure, an outline of which is shown for the Group over a five-year period.
evolve over time as the needs and priorities above, will allow operating companies The framework allows sufficient flexibility of our customers, employees, suppliers to measure their progress in reaching the for our operating companies to set their and shareholders develop.
highest standards and recognises that own objectives by reference to their local not all companies are at the same stage priorities and resources.
Progress against objectives will be of development in all five focus areas.
measured by each operating company using our Building Block concept: The drivers for progression through each each of the five focus areas has minimum level will be different in each business.
It standards and a hierarchy of progression is also envisaged that some businesses leading to the highest reasonable standard might achieve their goals within an earlier that can be achieved.
The Building Block time frame than the overall five-year plan.
Five Year Plan Year 1 Year 3 Year 5 Focus on building on existing corporate Corporate responsibility governance and Higher standards achieved by responsibility governance and implementation processes are consistent all businesses consolidating implementation processes and aligned across the Group implement enhancements Continuous improvement principles Priorities integrated into business processes Health and safety Further focus on Group-wide approach Ethical sourcing to improvements to priority corporate Prevention of fraud and corruption responsibility topics More detailed and consistent data gathering and reporting Corporate responsibility report 33 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 32-41 6 10 08 13:53 Page 34 Corporate responsibility report continued The values and behaviours which support improvement actions for key safety 200 managers completed the Institute of our corporate responsibility strategy, hazards, risks and controls: Occupational Safety and Healths Safety and which help us to sustain and build engaging more employees in training for Senior Executives training.
on our current achievements, include: programmes: Implementation of an industry-leading production of local safety action plans: substance abuse policy and screening making our work environments safe and programme.
for our employees and customers: identifying improvements from reviewing Wolseley UK has reduced its reportable placing our customers at the heart existing KPIs and developing new KPIs.
injury accident rate by over 30 per cent in of everything we do: three years.
In recognition of its continued creating efficient operations that Whilst data has been collected for some improvement in occupational health and minimise waste, reduce our contribution time, the following KPIs will be measured safety performance, the company was to climate change and promote on a common basis across the Group from awarded a Gold award by the UK Royal sustainable products: 1 August 2008: Society for the Prevention of Accidents conducting our business with integrity: for the second consecutive year.
supporting the communities and Medical injury frequency societies in which we work: and Number of at-work injuries requiring France developing our employees at all levels of medical treatment per 100 employees: The Health and Safety Committee our organisation to strengthen customer Fleet collision frequency promotes enhanced health and safety service and ensuring long-term career Number of third-party vehicle collisions performance throughout the French development.
A Safety Charter demonstrates a Essential to the delivery of our corporate With 74,000 employees and a fleet commitment by all Wolseley France responsibility strategy are our employees of 22,000 vehicles, the safety of our executive committee members in relation around the Group, whose expertise, people and our vehicles is essential to to health and safety matters.
experience and enthusiasm will help us our operations.
We always aim to identify Representatives of Brossette and its to achieve the ambitious targets that we areas for improvement and, where good employees sit on local health and safety set ourselves.
practices exist, we are improving our committees, together with occupational processes to share them across the Group.
We intend to introduce additional KPIs to Health further improve the measurement of our Austria and Safety 1 performance as our systems develop.
AG operates an employee immunisation programme.
We will provide a safe and We will report on progress against our Year 1 initiatives, including our KPIs, in 2009.
Wolseley North America healthy working environment The Health and Safety Committee was and we will not compromise In addition to health and safety training established to share best practices and the health and safety of any for all employees, examples of current has driven significant improvements to practices and progress in 2007 08 include: individual.
the long-term trends in health and safety records across the continent.
Wolseley Europe The Winning Ideas in Safety & Health Wolseleys health and safety policy UK W. I. S. H. competition for employees requires local management to have suitable The Executive Safety Steering Group promotes safety as an underlying theme in procedures in place to ensure compliance reviews the UK business performance the way the businesses operate each day.
with applicable laws and regulations.
Whilst in health and safety matters, promotes Over 7,000 drivers have completed a our operating companies have measured good practice and ensures appropriate Decision Driving online driver training performance and improvements efficiently, consultation on any intended changes to course and over 500 drivers have it is intended that we set consistent its health and safety management systems.
completed a one-day course which standards and adopt a consistent Internal health and safety awards, uses a train the trainer concept so methodology for review of performance covering five separate categories, are that lessons can be cascaded to across the Group.
awarded to the highest performing other drivers.
branch locations and promote a positive Drivers are trained in a variety of ways Our Year 1 initiatives are aimed at attitude towards occupational health to recognise hazardous conditions, plan standardising the governance of health and safety.
the appropriate response and take and safety and delivering information Wolseley UK has achieved a 50 per cent decisive action.
to enable performance to be measured reduction in third-party fleet collisions in Entry level driver training is required consistently: four years and was recognised for its of all newly recruited drivers.
achievements during the year with fleet a standardised process for reporting safety awards from the UK Royal Society major incidents, issuing safety alerts for the Prevention of Accidents, the UK and communicating key learning points: Minister for Transport and from Brake, the UK road safety charity.
34 Corporate responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 32-41 6 10 08 13:47 Page 35 At every stage of our products life-cycle, second year in which the Group has from the sourcing of materials through reported on its environmental performance.
2 Environment their transportation and ultimate use and We have continued to develop the disposal, we are finding ways to reduce systems to enable the reporting of our carbon impact.
Wolseley will continue reliable data across all Group businesses We will run efficient to make improvements in environmental and, over time, we expect to improve operations that minimise performance through the efficient use of the scope and integrity of the data that waste and reduce our energy, water and packaging and will we collect.
This year, we have been able promote the use of sustainable products.
to report on a larger proportion of the contribution to climate Groups operations compared with 2007, change.
We will promote with an improvement in data quality.
Environmental data collection sustainable development.
Because of the change in the Groups The Group has developed a data collection activities over the year, and the increase tool to evaluate the data reported in The Group has a responsibility to manage in volume of data gathered, comparison the impact of its operations on the this section.
The data was reviewed for of this years results with those from environment so that any harm is minimised completeness and quality and analysed 2007 does not provide a useful indication and positive contribution is maximised.
by an independent third party.
This is the of performance or trends.
We will continue to develop our data systems in order to present a basis for year-on-year comparisons in future reports.
CO2 emissions Direct impact Absolute, tonnes Data source and Carbon CO2 emissions Source Definition calculation methods FY 2008 Emissions of CO2 have been reported Business Emissions from Actual or estimated fuel according to the Greenhouse Gas operations operations-related consumption, converted using GHG Protocol, which was jointly fuel use DEFRA emission factors 171,527 developed by the World Business Vehicle fuel Emissions from Actual or estimated distance Council for Sustainable Development vehicle use travelled, converted using and the World Resources Institute.
GHG Protocol emission factors 460,833 The standard differentiates between 1 emissions for which businesses are Total 632,360 directly responsible, indirect emissions caused in the generation of supplied CO2 emissions Indirect impact electricity and all other indirect emissions Absolute, both upstream and downstream.
As it tonnes Data source and is impossible to know or control the Source Definition calculation methods FY 2008 downstream emissions caused when Electricity Directly purchased Actual or estimated products sold by the Group are used, electricity, which generates consumption of directly they have been excluded from this greenhouse gases purchased electricity in KWh, report.
Similarly, reporting on the including CO2 emissions converted using country-specific upstream emissions of our businesses GHG Protocol emission factors 457,907 would currently rely heavily on estimates Business Emissions from third party Actual or estimated distance and, as a result, they have also been travel provided transport travelled, converted using GHG excluded from this analysis.
However, air and rail Protocol emission factors 12,480 given the nature of our operations, the 1 Total 470,387 Group does believe that it is appropriate to report on the emissions from third- 1 The tables above comprise carbon emissions data from businesses representing 98 per cent of Group party provided transportation.
revenue for the year ended 31 July 2008.
Carbon emissions sources Our vision is to 1.1% Business operations be one of the Vehicle fuel 15.6% most trusted Electricity Business travel companies in the 41.5% markets in which we operate.
41.8% Chip Hornsby, Group Chief Executive Corporate responsibility report 35 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 32-41 6 10 08 13:51 Page 36 Corporate responsibility report continued Hazardous waste Waste management Absolute, tonnes Wolseley recognises its responsibility to Data source and Source Definition calculation methods FY 2008 measure and minimise the waste generated by its business activities.
Waste is divided Recycled Hazardous waste Actual or estimated weight of into hazardous and non-hazardous with recycled waste generated in tonnes 1,468 hazardous waste containing properties Landfill Hazardous waste Actual or estimated weight of which may render it harmful to human sent to landfill waste generated in tonnes 7 health or the environment and nonIncinerated Hazardous waste Actual or estimated weight of hazardous waste comprising general incinerated waste generated in tonnes 97 waste, such as paper, card, wood, 1 plastics and metals.
Total 1,572 Water use Non-hazardous waste Absolute, We have continued to measure water tonnes Data source and consumption throughout the Group during Source Definition calculation methods FY 2008 the year to enable the appropriate goals to Recycled Non-hazardous waste Actual or estimated weight of be set for greater water efficiency.
recycled waste generated in tonnes 19,320 Timber Landfill Non-hazardous waste Actual or estimated weight of sent to landfill waste generated in tonnes 79,145 Wolseley recognises the importance of Incinerated Non-hazardous waste Actual or estimated weight of sourcing timber from sustainable, wellincinerated waste generated in tonnes 5,617 managed forests.
We are committed to 1 the elimination of illegally logged timber Total 104,082 from our supply chain.
1 The tables above comprise waste consumption data from businesses representing 72 per cent of Group revenue for the year ended 31 July 2008.
In support of our global timber policy, which sets out Wolseleys commitment Supplied water use to the responsible purchasing of forest Absolute, products, we have developed a global tonnes Data source and risk assessment system that identifies the Source Definition calculation methods FY 2008 legal and sustainable status of the timber Supplied Consumption of Actual or estimated volume products we purchase.
The system 1 water piped water of water used 1,759,768 provides an assessment of product information from our suppliers, including 1 The table above comprises water consumption data from businesses representing 100 per cent of details of species and country of origin, Group revenue for the year ended 31 July 2008.
The amount of water directly abstracted by the Group and captures supporting documentary is not material.
This information is verified for Wolseley by an independent third party.
Timber purchased in the year to 31 July 2008 Europe North America 2008 2007 2008 2007 3 m Total 2,351,000 2,997,000 3,715,000 5,467,000 1 Certified 76% 65% FSC Forest Stewardship Council 2 PEFC Programme for the Endorsement Certified and Domestic 99% 90% of Forest Certification schemes 1 Timber sourced from forests certified by recognised sustainable forestry schemes such as FSC, PEFC, SFI North American Sustainable Forestry SFI and CSA.
Initiative 2 Timber as per 1 above or sourced from other forests located in North America where the legal ownership CSA Canadian Standards Association of the forest is assured.
Sustainable Forest Management Standard Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste 0.4% Recycled Recycled 6.2% 5.4% Landfill Landfill 18.6% Incinerated Incinerated 76.0% 93.4% 36 Corporate responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 32-41 6 10 08 13:50 Page 37 The system is particularly valuable where timber is sourced from forest areas The SBC opened formally in May 2008, where credible certification schemes do following a series of preview days not currently operate, which may pose for Wolseley staff.
Leading industry a greater risk of non-compliance with our figures and journalists also attended policy.
Assessments began in April 2008 other opening events resulting in and we continue to work with our suppliers widespread media coverage.
to collect and evaluate their data and to take appropriate action where required.
The SBC is already attracting great We will report on progress in next years interest from some of the UKs leading Corporate responsibility report.
developers and property companies engaged in major building programmes.
Wolseley operates chain of custody Wolseley Sustainable At the time of its opening, more than schemes in its European businesses that Building Center 140 groups had booked visits to the SBC.
provide independently certified verification These include existing and potential of the ownership of products throughout This year, Wolseley opened the UKs customers, government agencies, the supply chain.
Documentation to first showcase for sustainable building professional bodies and suppliers.
support the chain of custody is also products and construction methods.
captured by our risk assessment system, The Wolseley Sustainable Building In an industry first, self-builders across further supporting our efforts to supply Center SBC, at Leamington Spa in the UK are being given the opportunity only timber sourced from well-managed Warwickshire, aims to accelerate the to see first hand the range of sustainable forests.
In the US, Stock Building Supply UK building industrys move towards products and renewable technologies Stock relies upon the chain of custody sustainable construction.
In October 2008, the procedures operated by its suppliers.
SBC will host the first of a series of The vast majority of purchases made by Built at a cost of 3.2 million, the 6,800 Self-Build Saturdays, free events that Stock are from North American suppliers square feet SBC is a living, interactive will enable self-builders to gain a who hold recognised certifications and centre for decision-makers throughout greater understanding of the latest whose harvests are strictly controlled by the construction industry.
sustainable products and technologies US and Canadian Federal and State law.
from design and application to Stock also maintains an extensive The unique new building will enable efficiencies and payback.
Wolseleys dialogue with its suppliers regarding all involved in construction from SBC team and key suppliers will offer sustainability issues.
architects through to jobbing builders expert advice on the benefits of to experience the latest technologies choosing eco-friendly products.
Our aim is to be certain that all our timber and the widest range of sustainable, Seminars and demonstrations of is obtained from legal sources operating energy-efficient and recycled building sustainable products and technologies responsible forest management practices.
For the first time, it brings will form a key part of the SBCs ongoing Where we cannot be certain, we together information about 7,000 engagement with the building industry.
encourage our suppliers to make efforts sustainable products that are available to improve their own practices and work through Wolseley UKs network of The SBC has already been recognised towards credible certification.
These ensure that, as well as being compliant include an award for innovation from with all applicable laws, our timber The building itself features 170 types the UK Institution of Civil Engineers is sourced from sustainable forests.
of products, including photovoltaic and a sustainable supplier award from We monitor our progress each year.
technology for converting daylight into the UK health sector.
electricity, harvested rainwater used Examples of current practices and for flushing toilets and landscaping, More information is available on the progress in 2007 08 include: sustainable drainage systems, sedum SBC website at www.
roofing, sheeps wool natural insulation, Wolseley Europe biomass boiler heating, ground source UK heat pumps, engineered timber, natural Wolseley UK has continued and low energy lighting, water saving development of its Environmental devices and energy-efficient glazing.
ISO 14001 accreditation has been achieved in Wolseleys specially trained staff a further two branches, bringing the provide visitors with information, total to 13. data and guidance on the most Over the past year, more than 100 appropriate materials for specific vehicles have been removed from the projects, from single homes through to Wolseley UK fleet through transport large-scale commercial developments.
The two-storey building also features a training and presentation theatre and caf facilities for events, launches and demonstrations, to engage with groups from all sectors of the construction industry.
Corporate responsibility report 37 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 32-41 3 10 08 15:12 Page 38 Corporate responsibility report continued For example, where it is efficient to do so, development, learning and advancement.
Wolseley Europe the companys delivery fleet is utilised to Training programmes for all levels of Wolseley has continued to encourage collect orders from suppliers, saving over employee continue to be a high priority and enable employees in the Continental 10,000 supplier deliveries in the past year for the Group with over 13 million European companies to purchase with a net saving of 1.5 million kilometres spent on employee training during Wolseley shares through a renewed per year.
Wolseley UKs target is to the 2007 08 financial year.
invitation to participate in its European reduce its fleet by a further 75 vehicles Sharesave Plan.
Approximately 20,000 or 2 million kilometres per year.
Wolseley continues to operate continental employees are eligible to join the plan.
A Carbon Reduction Working Group has and global leadership development been established to develop a strategy to programmes designed to develop and Wolseley North America reduce carbon emissions.
improve the management and leadership All branches participate in a waste skills of its senior and high potential Our North American human resources backhauling initiative, sending their clear employees.
To date, over 800 employees function has continued its process of plastic, cardboard and good pallets back have attended Wolseley management consolidation in order to deliver cost to the distribution centres on Wolseley training programmes and 35 executives savings while improving the benefits UK-owned vehicles.
In addition to have attended leadership development package the business offers its employees.
reducing the amount of waste sent programmes at universities in North Examples include the introduction of to landfill, this creates a revenue stream America and Europe.
a primary retirement plan as well as a for the business.
combined life insurance and disability Over the past two years, Wolseley UK During the year to 31 July 2008, over 900 programme across Ferguson and Stock.
has increased its rate of waste recycling new graduates were recruited onto our six from 3 per cent to approximately graduate training programmes in Europe Responsible 40 per cent.
The programmes Business 4 A waste rationalisation programme in all have been very effective in developing branches has reduced scheduled waste talent within our businesses and our We are committed to collection services by approximately retention rates exceed industry standards 50 per cent in the year.
Once graduates working within the laws complete the programmes, they are placed and regulations of all Ireland into operational and management roles jurisdictions in which we All cardboard and plastic waste is with Wolseley businesses.
backhauled from branches to the operate and to comply with distribution centre for recycling.
Promotion from within is part of our culture.
We will There are no limits for those employees encourage our suppliers Netherlands who demonstrate the skills and experience A sustainable energy product centre to achieve their ambitions.
Over 90 per cent to meet similar standards.
was established in 2000. of Ferguson Enterprises Ferguson branch managers were developed through its The Groups Code of Ethics sets out a Nordic region training programme.
Many of our senior number of fundamental principles which Beijer Byggmaterial has achieved executives, including Chip Hornsby our all Group companies and employees ISO 14001 accreditation.
Group Chief Executive, began their careers are required to follow.
The Code covers as Ferguson branch manager trainees.
many areas including fair competition, Wolseley North America Our other businesses are aiming for compliance with laws, including anti-trust similar successes.
laws, and maintenance of the Groups Businesses aim to purchase forklift reputation for integrity, including a vehicles with enhanced emissions controls.
Key accomplishments and initiatives during prohibition on bribery and general Fleet mileage reduction initiatives for 2007 08 include: principles for dealing with suppliers all vehicles have been implemented.
The Code can be A Green Committee was established Group viewed on the Companys website at in 2007 to formalise a green business www.
com or a printed copy is strategy.
This year we launched a scheme available from the Company Secretary.
designed to link incentives from the Boardroom to the branch by aligning People Our subsidiary businesses are required operating companies objectives with 3 Development to adopt their own codes which respect the Groups Earn, Turn, Grow initiative.
local cultures and practices but which As part of our overall Business Change also set clear standards which are no We value our employees Programme, this year we have seen less exacting than those detailed in the excellent progress with the Groups and their diversity.
These individual codes Human Resource Management System develop our people, reward are appropriate to the scope of the solution.
By 31 December 2008, over local operation.
All new companies them competitively and 60 per cent of our operating companies joining the Group are required to adopt will be live on the system.
This begins a engage them in our corporate codes of ethics on the same basis as new era in the continued development responsibility activities.
of human resources within the business.
Employee satisfaction surveys were We encourage all employees to achieve carried out in DT Group, Ferguson, their best personal performance.
We aim Wolseley France and Wolseley UK.
to achieve this by providing a supportive workplace environment that promotes 38 Corporate responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 32-41 3 10 08 15:12 Page 39 Over the coming financial year, we intend businesses support many charities relevant Wolseley UK supplies building materials to develop two new initiatives, which will to the countries and locations in which they to skills centres around the UK run by strengthen our standards and demonstrate operate.
These are wide-ranging and cover MITIE, one of its largest customers.
our commitment to sustaining our ethical health, welfare, sports, education, civic and The centres teach construction industry business practices: community projects as well as culture and skills and students who complete the the arts.
programme are considered as potential we will begin the process of seeking Wolseley employees.
assurances from our suppliers regarding a number of social measures, including Ireland in relation to labour standards: and Wolseley businesses support many we will develop an anti-fraud and local sports events and charities.
corruption prevention programme which will reinforce the standards we expect Nordic region from our employees and suppliers.
DT Group companies sponsor various We will also provide further training In addition to the donations and local sports teams.
for our employees to minimise the contributions in kind made at a local risks associated with working in an business level, several hundred donations Wolseley North America increasingly competitive environment.
to charitable activities are made each year Ferguson has established a fund, by the Groups UK-based charitable trust.
which receives contributions from the We will report on the progress of these This year, the trustees of the charitable company and its employees, to give initiatives in 2009. trust will review its policies and strategy, financial support to colleagues who with the aim of developing a more focused face unexpected financial hardship.
programme of partnership with selected Wolseley North America and its Community organisations.
employees donate funds, materials 5 Engagement and employee time to many local and Further details of the amount of donations national community initiatives including We will be a responsible made during the year can be found on Habitat for Humanity and United Way.
page 43. member of the communities Ferguson donated materials to help the Red Cross relief effort during the severe in which we work.
Examples of some of the wide range of fires that spread throughout southern initiatives the Groups businesses were California in October 2007.
Our corporate responsibility strategy involved in during the year include: Following heavy storms and tornadoes defines targets at both Group and local in south-eastern Virginia in April 2008, levels designed to help us contribute Wolseley Europe Ferguson and Stock employees worked to society.
We aim to engage with the UK together to distribute relief materials local communities where our operations Wolseley UK is a patron of the such as tarpaulins, plywood, nails and are based, as well as nationally and UK construction industry charity hammers supplied by the businesses.
We recognise that the CRASH, which supports projects for Wolseley Canada is a national sponsor way we do business can have a positive homeless people.
of Special Olympics Canada, supporting impact at all levels.
We continue to build Wolseley UK has partnered with British athletes with intellectual disabilities.
As strong relationships with our neighbours, Gymnastics as part of the FTSE-British well as corporate donations, employees our suppliers and our customers in order Olympic Association initiative.
Wolseley across Canada volunteer in various to maximise our contribution to the is advising on various strategic and Special Olympics events.
communities that they and we support.
commercial projects as the Association works towards its goals for the London In the UK, we continue to work with 2012 Olympics.
Business in the Community to identify ways in which we can improve our impact as an employer.
Across the Group, local Corporate responsibility report 39 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 32-41 3 10 08 15:12 Page 40 Our Board 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 910 Our Board 40 Our Board Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
