How we behave Corporate responsibility Business impact Enhancing our reputation We reduce the risk of adverse publicity by ensuring that The significance of corporate responsibility CR to WPPs our work complies fully with regulations and marketing business continues to increase, notwithstanding the economic standards and carefully evaluating the risk associated with downturn.
Climate change continues to be a major concern new commissions.
Our pro bono work and support for for citizens, governments and businesses and is driving an charities and community organizations reinforces our increased focus on social and environmental issues.
Our reputation for making a positive contribution in society.
leading multinational and national clients are responding Meeting investor expectations to this agenda in their operations, products, supply chains WPP share owners continue to show interest in our CR and marketing.
Serving the CR communications needs practices and we aim to respond constructively to their of our clients is a growing business opportunity for WPP requests for information.
In 2008 this included requests companies.
In addition there are a number of CR issues for information from the following organizations: both risks and opportunities that we manage across our Carbon Disclosure Project own business.
Cooperative Insurance Services CIS Our CR activity supports our business strategy Dow Jones Sustainability Index see page 12 in a number of areas.
These include: Ethical Investment Research Service EIRIS Generating new business opportunities Governance Metrics International Increasingly, leading companies require a communications IWFinancial services partner to help them communicate their social and Pensions Investment Research Consultants PIRC environmental achievements.
Our CR program enhances our SiRi understanding of these issues and supports our businesses in Investors raised questions on a number of subjects including competitive pitches.
our climate change strategy, supply chain management, our Attracting and retaining the best people approach to managing ethical issues in client work and our There is strong competition for talent in our industry and procedures for protecting human rights.
WPP is included in questions relating to CR are frequently raised by our people the FTSE4Good Index.
and new candidates during job interviews.
Creating a diverse Improving efficiency company culture, adopting leading talent practices and Our climate change strategy is reducing costs associated demonstrating our commitment to social and environmental with business travel and energy use.
issues can help us to attract and retain the best people.
A diverse workforce also enhances our understanding of consumers in all markets.
How we manage CR risk and opportunity Issue How it is managed Aims the social and environmental impact of opportunities to advise clients on marketing with a Be a centre of excellence for environmental and our work for clients.
social or environmental dimension are identified by social communication.
Marketing ethics, compliance with Currently managed by our operating companies with Comply with all laws and industry codes governing marketing standards, and protection of referral to Group directors as necessary.
In 2009 we are marketing material.
Improve standards and measurement in personal, consumer and corporate data introducing quarterly review meetings for senior Group marketing practices.
and increasing transparency about our managers to discuss potential ethical issues in our client marketing practices.
work and identify risk areas see below.
employment, including diversity and Human resources policies are set and implemented Improve standards and measurement in employment.
equal opportunities, business ethics, at operating company level.
WPPs chief talent officer employee development, remuneration, has overall responsibility for attracting, developing and communication and health and safety.
Social investment, including pro bono Pro bono projects are agreed between WPP companies to make a significant contribution to good causes through work, donations to charity and and the charities concerned.
Many of our companies pro bono application of our marketing skills and direct employee volunteering.
have long-standing relationships with their pro bono donations to charity.
WPP the parent company helps to coordinate pro bono projects involving multiple WPP companies or cross-Group collaboration.
Climate change, including the emissions We have appointed cross-functional groupwide Measure and reduce our Co emissions and continue to 2 from energy used in our offices and energy Action teams and a network of agency purchase high quality carbon offset.
our goal is to reduce during business travel.
climate champions to help implement our climate Co emissions by 20% by 2010.
118 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How we behave Corporate responsibility CR issues in our supply chain and our environmental The impact of our work impacts beyond climate change, are also important for WPP.
Paul Richardson is the Board director responsible for The social and environmental impact of the work we assessing corporate responsibility risks.
He chairs WPPs undertake for clients is one of our most important CR Corporate Responsibility Committee, established in 2003. issues.
Our goal is for WPP to be a centre of excellence for The committee is made up of senior representatives from our environmental and social communication.
Its role is to advise on policy.
The committee met our work are significant: once formally in 2008 and its members communicated frequently to discuss a range of issues including: Corporate responsibility in our client work our climate change strategy: privacy and data protection issues: Successful brands have always needed creative and managing ethical issues in our companies compelling marketing.
Today, this is more important than work for clients: ever.
Concerns about climate change and poverty have improving data collection: and fuelled interest in green and fair trade products.
In many employment and diversity.
regions, businesses are subject to a growing volume of Paul Richardson provides an annual assessment of regulation and increased scrutiny from pressure groups, corporate responsibility risks and performance to the Audit the media and the public on a wide range of social and Committee.
This is in addition to the business and financial environmental issues.
reporting risks process described on pages 113 and 114.
Leading companies are responding positively, by WPPs Code of Business Conduct and CR Policy set out embedding ethical values in their brands and developing the standards we expect our people to meet in their work.
products with a reduced social or environmental footprint.
They provide guidance in dealing with a wide range of They need effective marketing to communicate the social ethical, social and environmental subjects.
Both documents and environmental benefits and make these new products are publicly available on our website, www.
desirable to the mass market.
We have established a set of key performance indicators In our Corporate Responsibility Report we profile KPIs relating to employment, social investment, campaigns for clients which contain work with an environment and climate change.
We report performance environmental or social impact.
This work is indicative against these in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report of a trend emerging in many markets around the world.
CR data is collected quarterly through our Group Social marketing financial reporting system.
WPPs internal audit function assesses CR risks relating to employment, marketing ethics These are campaigns with social or environmental objectives, and business ethics during reviews of Group companies.
usually undertaken for government or NGO clients.
Campaigns often tackle issues related to public health, safety or the environment.
They are designed to raise awareness or Reporting encourage people to change their behaviour.
Several WPP companies specialise in social marketing, including Ogilvy We will publish our seventh Corporate Responsibility Report Outreach, Ogilvy PRs social marketing practice and in 2009.
This will provide a detailed and objective account of Thompson Social.
how we are implementing WPPs Corporate Responsibility Examples of social marketing campaigns by WPP Policy across our businesses.
A summary of our progress is companies in 2008 are included in our Corporate provided in the following report.
Responsibility Report, available online at www.
Tackling climate change will require a huge shift in mindset and a willingness among the public to make lifestyle changes.
Effective communication will be essential.
WPP is participating in Shaping the Message on Climate Change, an initiative of the UN and International Advertising Association, to improve communication on climate change and ensure a successful outcome at the Copenhagen Climate Conference in December 2009.
As part of this, WPPs CEO Sir Martin Sorrell led the discussion session during the World Economic Forum in January 2009.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 119 How we behave Corporate responsibility Cause-related marketing Zimbabwe Following allegations that an agency in which one of our Cause-related marketing links brands to charities, usually subsidiaries, Y&R, held a minority interest, and over which through a donation for every product purchased.
Executed we had no legal control, may have advised Zanu-PF on its sensitively, these campaigns benefit both the brand and the electoral campaign, we launched an urgent investigation in charity.
Many WPP companies work on cause-related the course of which a senior member of the management of marketing.
Examples from 2008 are included in our the agency notified us that she had been advising President Corporate Responsibility Report, available online at Mugabe in a personal capacity.
WPPs Board and management have established clear guidelines for our companies on clients for which we are prepared to work and the Mugabe regime in Zimbabwe was Marketing ethics not an acceptable client in accordance with these standards.
We were not prepared to have any association with Robert As a minimum our companies are expected to comply Mugabe or Zanu-PF and we therefore took the immediate with all laws, regulations and codes of marketing practice.
decision to divest Y&Rs minority interests in Zimbabwe.
All advertising produced by WPP companies should This was actioned as quickly as possible.
present products fairly and accurately, comply with the relevant law and marketing codes, and reflect changing Strengthening our decision-making processes public attitudes to questions of taste and decency or marketing of sensitive products.
During 2008 we identified a number of improvements to our Our Code of Conduct and CR Policy set out our process for reviewing ethical issues in client work.
Changes approach and provide guidance to employees on the we will implement during 2009 include: standards we expect.
Key excerpts include: We will not knowingly create work which contains Referral procedures statements, suggestions or images offensive to general public Formalising our referral arrangements in a written procedure decency and will give appropriate consideration to the distributed to all company CEOs.
We will include impact of our work on minority segments of the population, accountability for escalating concerns over client work in the whether that minority be by race, religion, national origin, Code of Business Conduct compliance form signed by all colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or CEOs annually.
Quarterly review meetings will be held for expression, age or disability.
senior managers at Group level to discuss cases of concern We will comply with all applicable local laws and and identify new risk areas.
These will be communicated to regulations, and any other laws with an international reach, company CEOs and CFOs via quarterly bulletins from Paul such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, where relevant.
WPP companies will comply with applicable regulations and selfregulatory codes of practice in the countries in Benchmarking which they operate.
Benchmarking our Code of Conduct against those of other WPP companies will not undertake work designed to leading companies and strengthening the code provisions mislead in any respect, including social, environmental and as appropriate.
Training and support Ethical issues in client work Launching online ethics and risk training to raise awareness of the risks associated with client work and underline the Where we operate, who we work for and the type of work importance of compliance with WPPs Code of Business we undertake can give rise to ethical issues.
This will include prompts and guidance on when include: work undertaken for government clients: operating work should be referred to management.
The intention is for in countries with a poor human rights record: and marketing training to reach a majority of our companies employees on for sensitive or controversial products.
In cases where work may be a potential risk to WPPs reputation, employees are required to elevate the decision to Audit the most senior person in the relevant office and then to the Including client risk factors in our internal audit process.
most senior executive of the WPP company in the country concerned, who will decide if further referral to a WPP director is required.
120 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How we behave Corporate responsibility Involvement in industry groups Our turnover levels in 2007 8 remained at a similar level to previous years.
In 2009, like all businesses in the current Many professionals from within WPP companies play an economy, we will monitor staff costs closely and re-size important part in developing and revising industry codes where appropriate.
in sensitive areas such as advertising to children and the marketing of food and pharmaceutical products.
Diversity and inclusion Complaints A diverse workforce adds value to our business.
It helps us understand consumers from all walks of life and Few campaigns that we produce for clients provoke create compelling marketing for our clients.
An inclusive complaint, but occasionally complaints do occur relating to workplace culture helps us attract the most talented people matters of taste or fact.
In most countries these are arbitrated from all backgrounds.
by government or industry organizations.
Our Corporate We introduced a non-discrimination policy in 1992.
Responsibility Report contains details of infringements in This commits all WPP companies to select, develop and countries where these are available, and we intend to extend promote people based on merit and regardless of race, the scope of this.
religion, national origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age or disability.
Our Code Privacy of Business Conduct contains policies on harassment and non-discrimination.
Where existing employees become Privacy is particularly relevant for our digital, market disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment research and direct marketing companies which collect data and training wherever practicable.
on consumers, or study lifestyles and purchasing habits, the Our people can report any concerns or suspected cases of better to target marketing campaigns.
discrimination or misconduct confidentially and anonymously As a minimum, our companies must comply with data if desired through our Right to Speak helpline.
protection laws and marketing codes of practice such as the In 2008, women accounted for 32% of board members UK Data Protection Act, the EU Data Protection Directive, executive leaders, 47% of senior managers and 54% of total the US Safe Harbor principles as certified by the US employees.
There are currently three women on WPPs Board Department of Commerce, the ICC ESOMAR International and a female Company Secretary and Group chief counsel.
Code of Marketing and Social Research Practice, the US Gender diversity 2004-2008 % Direct Marketing Association Guidance and the UK Market Research Society Code of Conduct.
Many companies have Total employees additional policies and procedures to safeguard privacy.
Female 100 Our digital agencies share information on privacy issues Male through the WPP Digital group and with others in our 75 industry through organizations such as the Interactive 50 Advertising Bureau, of which David Moore, chairman of 25 24 7 Real Media, is currently vice chairman.
0 In January 2009, Kantar Group created the role of chief 03 04 05 06 07 08 privacy officer, to develop and implement a co-ordinated Senior managers privacy and data protection policy across Kantar companies Female and work directly with clients on these issues.
This is the 100 Male first such appointment by a leading information, insight and 75 consultancy business, and reflects the growing importance 50 of privacy and data protection issues for our industry.
25 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 WPP as an employer Board members executive leaders WPP employs over 135,000 people including employees Female 100 in our associate companies in almost 2,400 offices in Male 75 107 countries.
Attracting and retaining talent is a central 50 business issue for WPP.
Our approach includes competitive 25 remuneration, investment in training and development and 0 a commitment to an inclusive workplace culture.
03 04 05 06 07 08 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 121 How we behave Corporate responsibility All of our major companies in the US have internal In 2008, WPP formally launched its own Mini MBA programs to promote diversity and inclusion in their program, designed to build functional knowledge and workforce.
It combines online tutorials and simulations Partnerships: WPP companies work with diversity with instructor-led classroom training.
Business disciplines organizations and participate in initiatives to encourage covered are commercial acumen, strategy, marketing, people diversity in the advertising industry.
These include: the and organizational development, creating client value and American Association of Advertising Agencies AAAA working across cultures.
Operation Success: the Leadership, Education and Training and professional development opportunities are Development Program in Business: and the National Black provided at both the parent and operating company levels, Public Relations Society.
which together reach several thousand people in the Group.
Internships: several WPP companies participate in the AAAAs multicultural Advertising Internship Program Remuneration and share ownership MAIP and other initiatives that allow minority students to gain experience in the marketing industry.
Competitive remuneration packages help us attract and Targeted recruitment: many of our companies use retain the best people.
We regularly benchmark our specialist recruitment agencies and publications and attend compensation against other companies in our sector.
We motivate our people by providing performance-related Raising employee awareness: our companies provide remuneration in addition to basic salaries.
More senior training and information to ensure that employees employees are eligible for incentives based on their understand the importance of diversity.
performance against annual or multi-year goals for the operations they lead.
Development and training Share ownership gives our people a financial stake in the company and a share in its success.
WPPs Worldwide WPP is a people business and we aspire to high standards of Ownership Plan, introduced in 1997, has granted share employment progression and investment in the development options to approximately 72,000 of our people.
We offer development opportunities to enable our people to gain new skills and advance their careers.
Communication These include performance assessment, succession planning and training.
Our goal is for our people at all levels to receive With over 135,000 people in 107 countries, strong internal regular performance appraisals.
Some examples of our communications channels are: Staff training and welfare 2003-2008 m WPPs public website www.
com, Group intranet site and professional knowledge communities.
21.7 25.1 32.7 38.2 38.6 42.6 WPPs annual journal of original thinking, the Atticus Journal: WPPs multi-award winning global newspaper, The WIRE: regular FactFiles profiling specialist services and resources within the Group.
WPPs public monthly online news bulletin e. wire.
The WPP Reading Room, an extensive online library of thinkpieces both public and original from WPP 03 04 05 06 07 08 professionals worldwide.
Regular communication on Group initiatives such Training courses are co-ordinated at operating company as the Worldwide Partnership Program, BrandZ, level.
These cover all aspects of company business and the Atticus Awards, The WPPED Cream awards, the creative skills.
In 2008, WPP invested 42.6 million in WPP Marketing Fellowship Program and professional training and wellbeing across the Group.
Executive education helps our senior talent develop Periodic reports from Sir Martin Sorrell on topics of creative, client and personal leadership skills.
Our flagship importance to all people participating in shortand longprogram is Maestro: Orchestrating Client Value a five-day term incentive plans.
course aimed at strengthening the ability of our most senior Formal and informal meetings at operating company level.
client leaders to be valued and trusted advisors to their Our multi-award winning Annual Report & Accounts, clients, colleagues and teams.
Since the programs inception financial statements and Corporate Responsibility Report in 2003, it has reached more than 1,500 participants in are widely distributed across WPP and are available on 15 countries and involved 65 WPP companies.
122 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How we behave Corporate responsibility Health and wellbeing Our climate change strategy also helps us win work with business and public sector clients, who are looking for Promoting a healthy workforce benefits our business by suppliers with solid environmental credentials.
increasing productivity and reducing the costs of people We have established Energy Action Teams in North taking time off work due to illness.
We have identified two America, Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America.
These main risks to health and wellbeing associated with office include members of our IT, real estate and procurement workplaces, where most of our people are based.
Their job is to identify energy-saving measures and work-related stress and injuries connected to workstation provide technical guidance to our agencies on energy ergonomics.
Our companies seek to create an environment reduction.
They are supported by a network of on-thewhere people feel able to discuss any issues, including stress, ground Climate Champions, who help to implement energywith their manager or human resources department.
Our saving measures in our companies.
companies also assess the risk of work-related stress through regular staff surveys and by monitoring issues raised via our Our carbon footprint and energy use Right to Speak helpline, Employee Assistance Programs and during exit interviews.
Initiatives to combat workplace stress vary by company WPPs carbon footprint but include: CO emissions tonnes 2 Employee Assistance Programs a source of confidential 2006 2007 2008 2008 renewable energy advice, support and counselling.
rated zero emissions Flexible benefit programs, including subsidised childcare.
office energy use 144,354 120,032 112,901 94,376 Flexible work arrangements enabling people to work 1 Air travel 81,733 92,269 89,500 89,500 part-time or from home.
other includes unmet Medical checks and health screening.
impacts e. g. couriers and taxis 33,913 31,845 30,360 27,581 Training on stress and time management.
Total 260,000 244,146 232,761 211,457 Ensuring our workstations follow good practice 1 design reduces problems such as repetitive strain injury Air travel data partially estimated.
WPPs office energy use megawatt hours Employee external appointments 2006 2007 2008 energy use 297,406 251,685 223,720 The Company recognises that its directors and senior executives may be invited to become non-executive In 2008, we emitted 232,761 tonnes of CO, a 10.5% directors of other companies, and that such experience 2 reduction on our 2006 baseline level.
Our main climate may be beneficial to the Group.
Consequently, executives impact is from consumption of electricity and gas in our are allowed to accept non-executive appointments with 2,400 offices and employee air travel.
We add an additional non-competing companies, subject to obtaining the approval 15% to our CO footprint to account for unmeasured of the Group chief executive in the case of senior executives 2 impacts, such as couriers and taxis.
and the approval of the Nomination Committee in the In 2008, we used 223,720 megawatt hours of energy in case of executive directors.
Any fees receivable out of such our offices which resulted in emissions of 112,901 tonnes of appointments may be retained by the individuals concerned.
CO, a 22% reduction on our 2006 baseline.
This was 2 achieved despite a 14.5% increase in our property portfolio by floor space since 2006.
We estimate that we have saved Environment over 6 million through reductions in office energy use between 2006 and 2008.
The above emissions calculations One of our priorities is reducing our impact on the follow new UK government guidelines, which state that environment.
We have committed to: emissions from renewable energy should be calculated using Reducing our CO emissions by 20% by 2010 from a 2 the same conversion factors as conventional grid energy, 2006 baseline.
rather than rated as zero emissions.
If the renewable energy Achieving efficiency gains in our buildings and IT.
we purchase is rated as zero emissions, we have reduced CO Purchasing renewable electricity where available.
2 emissions from energy use by 35% since 2006.
Offsetting the balance of our emissions.
We collect our air travel data via an external provider, as In addition to the environmental benefits, meeting these part of our airline procurement process.
We have detailed targets will achieve cost reductions and help in our efforts to analysis covering our major cities relating to approximately recruit and retain  graduate talent.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 123 How we behave Corporate responsibility 70% of our journeys.
The balance we estimate based on Reducing travel through videoconferencing internal records.
In 2008, we offset 195,000 tonnes of CO through We encourage our people to meet via videoconferencing, 2 support for renewable energy projects.
avoiding the environmental impacts of travelling to We report our greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon meetings.
We have successfully trialled high-definition Disclosure Project CDP, a collaboration of institutional videoconferencing in London and New York, and we are investors and participate in the CDPs Supply Chain now investing $1.5 million to set up facilities in key cities Leadership Collaboration.
By the end of 2008, we had set up four high-definition videoconferencing units in London and Office energy efficiency New York.
By the end of 2009, we will have deployed 50 units around the world.
In 2008, we launched a global metering project to bring In 2009, we will launch a videoconferencing search and energy savings by cutting waste.
We are investing 750,000 booking system on the WPP intranet.
This will include a to install meters in 100 of our largest sites globally carbon calculator to show the amount of CO avoided by 2 representing 65% of our property portfolio by floor space using videoconferencing rather that flying to a meeting.
that centrally monitor energy use, enabling us to make savings of between 10% and 15%.
Improved metering Buying renewable energy will also ensure that we are being charged accurately by our energy suppliers.
We purchase renewable energy where we can, and regularly In 2008, we identified preferred suppliers in all regions, review energy sourcing across all markets to identify new which our operating companies can use to buy and install opportunities.
We estimate that 70% of the electricity we low-energy light fittings.
We will begin an installation purchase in the UK is from renewable sources, compared program for low-energy fittings in 2009.
We have set up to 50% in Germany and 22% in the US.
We also negotiated procurement contracts with furniture and carpet suppliers a small renewable energy contract in Australia in 2008. to ensure the products we purchase come from renewable If this energy is rated at zero emissions it is equivalent sources and can be disposed of in a responsible manner.
to a reduction of approximately 18,525 tonnes of CO 2 Where possible, we aim to ensure that any properties 16% of the total emissions from office energy use each year.
we purchase meet advanced environmental standards such as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED Carbon offset and BRE Environment Assessment Method BREEAM.
For example, a new purpose-built facility for nine of our After reducing our CO emissions as much as possible, we 2 companies in Singapore is being designed to the Green offset the majority of the rest.
This means paying someone Mark Scheme Gold Standard, which is equivalent to LEED.
else to reduce their carbon emissions by an amount equal to our own footprint saving one tonne of CO elsewhere in 2 Sustainable IT the world for one tonne that WPP creates.
Our operating companies meet the cost of offsetting their WPPs personal and network IT equipment accounts for a emissions.
This provides an incentive to cut their climate large proportion of our energy use.
We aim to cut the energy impact as the more they reduce their emissions the less they used by our computers by up to 30%, and have introduced will have to pay in offset costs.
requirements to improve the energy efficiency of our IT All carbon offset projects supported by WPP are equipment.
In 2009 we will reduce the numbers of servers renewable energy projects.
We do not support forestry offset.
We will also improve the energy efficiency Through the CarbonNeutral Company we currently fund of data centres and server rooms.
seven projects, including wind farm and hydroelectric In 2008, we ran a pilot project at the Ogilvy offices in projects in China and wind and solar generation in India.
Cabot Square, London, to find ways to reduce the amount One of these is the Jamnagar Wind Power Project, which of energy used by our printers.
In 2009, we will implement is helping to reduce Indias reliance on fossil fuels by building similar projects across the Group.
It costs more to generate electricity from wind rather than coal in India, which means finance from offset projects is often key to making wind farms in the country commercially viable.
The project will provide reliable, renewable power to the electricity grid and will provide jobs for people in nearby villages.
The turbines being built in the states of Rajasthan, Gujarat and Karnataka will have a combined capacity of 147MW.
124 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How we behave Corporate responsibility Supply chain It also benefits WPP by showcasing our creative skills and ability to create compelling communications on a wide WPP spends around $3 billion with suppliers each year.
range of social and environmental issues.
Our people gain We want to do business with suppliers that meet high a breadth of experience and the chance to contribute to standards on environment and employment practices.
We are committed to managing CR risks in our supply Examples of recent pro bono work by our companies are chain, both for ourselves and for our clients.
included in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
We focus our CR efforts on preferred suppliers that Pro bono work 2008 % provide centrally-purchased goods and services such as IT, travel, telecommunications, professional services e. g. consultancy and recruitment and facilities management.
Local community 25 WPPs Global Procurement Policy contains ethical and Education 11 environmental criteria, which our Group procurement teams Health 19 use in supplier selection and management.
We thoroughly Environment 6 evaluate companies against a set of business requirements before Arts 8 they can become a preferred supplier.
These include assurance Alcohol abuse 1 of supply, quality, service, cost, innovation and CR.
We do not Other 30 have a standard weighting for each criteria and they may vary from project to project.
As part of this process we ask potential suppliers to complete a simple five-point CR questionnaire to WPP the parent company raise awareness and make our requirements clear.
WPP, the parent company, supports a range of charities, with a particular focus on education, the arts and young people.
Social investment These include: Education Africa UK In 2008, the total value of our social investment was Gambian Education Development Trust 14.6 million compared with 16.3 million in 2007.
This is INSEAD Trust for European Management Education equivalent to 2% of reported profit before tax and includes NABS a charity which offers financial, practical and direct cash donations to charities of 4.3 million and emotional support to those in the advertising industry 10.3 million worth of pro bono work.
These figures are The London Business School based on fees the organizations would have paid for our The National Portrait Gallery work.
The reduction in pro bono work on last year is due The Paley Center for Media to the worsening economic conditions, which placed pressure The Roundhouse Trust on our companies to focus on fee-paying work.
University of Oxford In addition, WPP media agencies negotiated 13 million of Woodrow Wilson International Center For Scholars free media space on behalf of pro bono clients.
WPP is also a member of: Business in the Community an organization that promotes responsible business practice Social investment 2001-2008 m Employers Forum on Disability Charitable 40 The Media Trust which provides media support to donantions over 5,000 charities 30 Pro bono The Institute of Business Ethics work 20 Many senior WPP executives also give pro bono advice and support.
Sir Martin Sorrell is an active participant in 10 programs at the following international business schools: 0 London Business School: IESE, Spain: Indian Business 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 School: Harvard Business School: and Boston University, School of Management.
Pro bono work For a number of years, donations from WPP have been used to support the Lower Basic School in Sanyang village Our companies have a long tradition of pro bono work and the regional health clinic at Medina Salaam, both in providing creative services to charities at little or no cost.
During 2008, WPP funding provided computers for This work can be invaluable helping raise money and the schools internet centre and enabled the school to join the awareness for hundreds of good causes every year.
Eden Project Gardens for Life.
