38 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review Our beliefs Atkins is committed to acting responsibly Atkins is committed to all our stakeholders and to taking a leadership position within our sector.
We publish our corporate responsibility to acting responsibly strategy and performance on our website www.
com cr and summarise the major issues and developments during to all our stakeholders the year here.
Sustainability and to taking a Sustainability is a serious issue for all stakeholders, including governments, public and private sectors and communities leadership position across the world.
During the year, in conjunction with the within our sector.
British University in Dubai and Cardiff University, we completed a comprehensive review into how Atkins was approaching the broad topic of sustainability.
As a result, we introduced the Atkins Sustainability Policy in November 2007, declaring our commitment to: educating our staff on sustainability: continuing to work with academia to develop sustainable solutions: and inspiring and challenging our clients, employees and supply chain to deliver sustainable solutions.
We have two of our experts on pro bono secondment to the UK Construction Industry Council CIC which is working with the UK Government Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform to advise on sustainable construction.
In addition, we have launched a Group-wide sustainability awareness programme and e-learning modules to educate our employees.
Carbon Critical Design Atkins recognises that we need to act now to mitigate the effects of climate change.
We are therefore focusing our effort on the role planners, engineers and architects have to perform to respond to the changes, challenges and opportunities of a carbon critical economy.
Carbon is still not a core consideration when capital projects are evaluated, designed and procured.
We believe that carbon has WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 39 to be the driver if our sector is not only Safety leadership Our work to meet the targets being imposed across Atkins remains strongly committed to Atkins takes pride in the quality of the world but to help set the new standards key improvements in health and safety products and services we provide to our required.
We believe a fundamental change and continues to provide leadership clients.
During the year the US division is needed to the way our sector approaches within our industry.
During the year our of Faithful Gould achieved ISO 9001:2000 design and have mobilised our workforce chief executive continued to chair the certification which means that 100% to address this.
Construction Industry Council CIC health of Atkins operations are covered by this and safety standing committee and in standard.
Going forward, all Atkins We have set ourselves a 100-week target June 2008 will become chair of the CIC.
operations will use the same certification to actively engage a significant proportion In recognition of Keith Clarkes leadership body, Lloyds Register Quality Assurance of employees in Carbon Critical Design.
for the industry, he received the LRQA.
This will provide better analysis Outstanding Safety Achievement award of performance and identification of key We have already started to engage with from Building Magazine.
themes across the whole business.
some of our clients on Carbon Critical Design and have several exemplar design In the Middle East region, Atkins was the We continue to improve how we engage projects which include: first to introduce an international version of with our clients and to obtain better the Construction Skills Certification Scheme, feedback on our performance through the Bahrain World Trade Center which was developed with Construction Key Account Management KAM and the worlds first commercial development Skills.
Atkins has also committed to a charter Client Relationship Management CRM.
with integrated wind turbines which will known as BuildSafeDubai to improve the generate up to 15% of the towers standards of health and safety in the region.
Two of our businesses, Rail and Middle annual electricity consumption East, have been actively engaging with The Highways and Transportation business industry on environmental issues through the Lighthouse in Dubai the worlds has been working in partnership with the the Rail Industry Environmental Forum first tower to reduce total energy Health and Safety Executive HSE and RIEF and the Emirates Environmental consumption by up to 65% and water Highways Agency HA to develop a design Group EEG respectively.
consumption by up to 40% of current risk assessment tool which we hope will be standard designs adopted by other organisations working We are also reviewing how we engage and with the HA.
influence our supply chain on corporate in London managing the delivery of responsibility priorities depending on the the enabling works for the 2012 Games, The Rail business continues to work with services they provide to Atkins.
achieving over 90% reuse rates for Network Rail and the Rail Safety and demolition material making zero net Standards Board RSSB and introduced Our people waste construction a reality an internal safety leadership programme We aim to be an employer of choice and during the year.
This business also chaired provide an environment in which our Northumbria University in the design the Infrastructure Safety Liaison Group ISLG people can flourish and succeed.
Our of two new buildings, innovative energy and was part of the Network Rail Project Viewpoint survey recorded a 6% increase saving devices have reduced the sites Safety Leadership Group PSLG.
in response rates to 79% this year.
Satisfaction levels continued to improve, We also continue to improve safety which shows that we are achieving our It is also important that we minimise leadership within Atkins.
We invested 20.7m in staff our own impact to climate change and directors safety tours by organising training and development and received we therefore need to be carbon critical bespoke training for directors.
By 2008 third-party recognition for our achievements for our own operations in our offices and all directors across Atkins who undertake with awards in the UK such as The Sunday business travel.
This is discussed further safety tours will be trained, demonstrating Times 20 Best Big Companies to Work For in Our Performance on pages 40 to 42. our commitment to leadership in health and The Times Top 50 Companies Where and safety.
For more detailed information, see our Human Resources Review on pages 14 to 17.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 40 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review Continued Our communities 16 universities in the UK, 12 in the USA, Health and safety We are passionate about contributing to two in China, two in Singapore and one Our accident performance for last year is the communities in which we operate and in Dubai.
well within the Accident Incidence Rate engaging our people to join together to AIR benchmarks set by Atkins.
The make a difference where it matters.
We are working with Transport for benchmarks were 154 for office, 375 for London and New Civil Engineer journal engineering and 1,701 for construction Making a difference to produce resource materials for schools activities.
For the year for staff there was During the year we launched a new charity to excite youngsters about a career in an increase in AIR for office from 12 to 38, policy.
Traditionally, we have written cheques design and engineering.
engineering from 65 to 178 and construction to charities which have had little benefit to activities from 995 to 1,042 compared to engaging either staff, shareholders or the Atkins has also developed a course with last year.
However, the overall trend over charities we have supported.
The new policy an external provider specifically to raise the the last four years is still decreasing and moved towards supporting charities in awareness of health and safety risks for is better than industry performance as two ways.
The first course compiled by the HSE Labour Force Survey.
was delivered in October 2007 at Cambridge Atkins continues to set its own challenging Firstly by supporting our people in their University.
We will continue to sponsor this targets with a 5% reduction for office, own communities around the world through and intend to run two courses per year.
and 15% reduction for engineering and local charitable donations, fundraising, construction activities from last years volunteering activities and sports and social Our performance benchmarks.
We also actively encourage events.
We have actively encouraged This section reports on Atkins corporate the reporting of incidents and near misses.
offices to come together to organise and responsibility performance during the year.
As a result, reported incidents and near take part in a variety of sponsored events misses have doubled to 756, which is a for charities and good causes.
The Group One of the objectives for our operations positive step towards accident prevention.
offered support via a newly formed network during the year was the development of of house managers who help to co-ordinate a toolkit for house managers responsible and promote activity.
This provides guidance about their responsibilities and Secondly by providing pro bono consultancy advice about how continually to improve advice.
Atkins people possess a multitude office performance such as waste, energy, of skills and experience which can benefit travel and wellbeing.
An office database international relief and aid organisations has also been developed to capture this and by giving pro bono consultancy advice, information.
It was introduced in the UK rather than offering volunteers or cash during the year and we intend to expand donations, we contribute our skills and at it to cover all operations in 2008. the same time learn from our experiences.
Engaging with education We are actively engaged in a range of educational initiatives from sponsorships Accident Incident Rate AIR Office Engineering Construction of university chairs to mentoring 14 to Benchmark 154 375 1,701 16-year-olds and teaching primary school Staff children about energy efficiency.
07 08 38 178 1,042 06 07 12 65 995 During the year, our engagement with 05 06 104 151 556 universities has become more focused and 04 05 59 235 2,763 strategic through our University Liaison Contractors Directors ULDs programme.
We are 07 08 00 708 building relationships at multiple levels, with the objective of being regarded as 06 07 382 441 1,221 an industrial partner of choice.
Our ULDs 05 06 0 124 293 have developed ongoing relationships with 04 05 0 124 317 AIR number of accidents per 100,000 staff or contractors.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 41 During the year our US operations achieved Other health and safety priorities for Our business travel data covers road, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and 2008 09 include benchmarking, air and rail travel in the UK, in which we Safety Management specification and developing risk and stress management travelled 73.1m km by road, 40.7m km by Ireland was the first business within Atkins awareness programmes and integrating air and 26.8m km by rail, giving a total of to achieve certification of the revised safety training into our operations.
All our has decreased by 4m km and there has operations are now covered by OHSAS Environment been an increase in air travel of 1m km 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Our energy consumption for electricity and more positively an increase in rail travel Management with the exception and gas for our offices during the year of 6.4m km compared to last year.
was 34.2m kWh compared to 29.5m kWh of energy used in 2006 07.
This data is The calculation for CO emissions from our 2 Our successes within health and safety UK specific as we have not yet started energy consumption and business travel, during the year included the implementation to collate information across all our and hence our CO footprint, has changed 2 of an online driver assessment: the operations.
Also the UK data is verifiable with the revised DEFRA emission factors.
production of training materials about to 56% for electricity and 43% for gas, Data from previous years has also been asbestos: the promotion of manual as meter readings are not always available.
changed to include the revised DEFRA handling training as part of European Work started this year to undertake emission factors.
Our CO footprint per 2 Safety Week: and an awareness remote energy monitoring to help offices employee in the UK has remained similar programme about slips, trips and falls.
to improve their energy efficiency.
Going to last year rising from 2,974 kg to 2,978 forward, there will be more support kg of CO.
The electricity metered in the 2 Three of our businesses also received provided to help offices understand their UK is part of Atkins energy contract and RoSPA awards: Gold for Highways energy carbon footprint, which includes is 90% from renewable sources, which and Transportation and Design and providing an actual and potential energy has not been taken into account as part of Engineering Solutions: and Distinction rating for offices, to help to reduce our our CO footprint calculations.
For our UK 2 for Asset Management.
company car fleet, we continued to reduce the average emission rating which is now 158.0g km compared to 160.8g km last year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 42 Reviews Corporate Responsibility Review Continued Regulatory activity Our challenge for 2008 09 is to ensure we In the UK the HSE and Local Authorities record business travel and our company made seven visits and issued one car emissions for all our operations.
We are improvement notice to the Highways and also continuing to develop travel plans in Transportation business.
This was regarding the UK and will start in the Middle East risk assessment of hand arm vibration.
Actions were satisfactorily closed out within agreed timescales.
We have not been We have been improving our waste prosecuted for any breaches of health and management for offices and sites, which safety or environment regulations.
In last has meant a better understanding of our years report, we reported on the ongoing waste streams and promoted more re-use legal proceedings against two employees and recycling schemes.
However waste in Doha, Qatar, and we are pleased to data is still limited to the UK only.
A key report that both were found not guilty.
area for 2008 09 is to improve this data and cover worldwide operations.
Governance The Board sets Group policies on Corporate Data on water consumption is still difficult Responsibility.
Our chief executive is the to obtain, currently the data is only 29% Board member responsible for Corporate verifiable in the UK.
In 2008 there will Responsibility and for the Groups be a review of how water consumption performance, supported by Group-wide is managed across Atkins operations.
A common management structure governs quality, health and safety All our operations are now covered by and environment QSE.
A director of QSE, ISO 14001 Environmental Management reporting to the chief executive, is Systems, with the exception of Portugal, responsible for Group QSE at a corporate and are independently certified.
Each Atkins business also has dedicated the year our US operations achieved QSE representatives to manage issues the standard.
at a local level, reporting quarterly.
We also developed an IEMA environmental CR-related Group policies include quality, course for senior executives with an external health and safety, the environment, training provider with the purpose of raising sustainability, charities, business conduct, awareness at a senior management level.
data protection, dignity and equality at The Rail and Asset Management businesses work, employee disclosure whistle-blowing were involved in the pilot with the intention and the appropriate use of information to roll out across all businesses in 2008. technology.
These are published on the corporate intranet and are provided Our priorities for 2008 09 include raising the externally on request.
They are reviewed awareness of environmental sustainability: regularly and updated to reflect changes improving waste and water management to legislation, emerging good practice and across all our operations: and providing business needs.
practical guidance about how to improve environmental performance for offices and sites.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance Governance 44 Board of Directors 46 Directors Report 50 Corporate Governance Report 56 Remuneration Report 61 Independent Auditors Report
