annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate social responsibility and our people Integrating best practice Number of employees globally Xchanging is all about people.
Our people foster a working environment built on our values.
4,541 4,255 We constantly strive to improve as well as sustain.
3,449 Our CSR strategy is built on improvement activities 3,116 that are consistent with our aspirations as a business.
2,465 Melissa Bruno Group HR Director 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Figures for 2004 2006 are average numbers of employees and include Executive Directors.
Figures for 2007 2008 are actual numbers of employees as at 31 December 2007 and 2008 and exclude Executive Directors.
In this section Introduction behaviour.
It is driven by four elements: Our promise to our people, wherever people, environment, communities and Introduction they are in the Group, is that they will be marketplace.
CSR is embedded into all Learning and development managed and developed in ways that are our planning and processes.
It is closely Graduate programme consistent with our values.
We therefore aligned with our values.
We aim to further Career development follow a strong performance management grow in a socially responsible way one Reward culture.
Our bi-annual Personal Development that positively impacts our employees, the Equal opportunities Review PDR process measures performance communities in which we work and the and diversity against set objectives.
In 2008, we improved broader environment.
We are committed Health, safety PDR timely completion rates, from 77% to making a difference the Xchanging Way.
An internal audit was conducted ethics Learning and development to measure the effectiveness of PDR Offshoring In 2008, delegate attendance increased objective setting and to identify areas Environment by 183% on a number of the Xchanging that require improvement.
Community Way programmes in the UK on Sales, Marketplace Additionally, our annual Championship Implementation, Service and Production.
Our customers Team Survey CTS measures employee These programmes were also delivered Our suppliers satisfaction.
Our CTS completion rates globally.
Structure improved by 12%, from 63% to 75%, The Xchanging Executive Forum was SEE risk management year-on-year.
We are passionate about launched in 2008 in collaboration with Verification monitoring the effectiveness of our Cambridge Universitys Judge Business Targets, objectives people.
This is how we drive consistency School.
This programme is for our and measures and results, while embracing accepted high-potential senior managers.
to develop their leadership potential, Our CSR programme encourages everyone business knowledge and network.
to consider the wider aspects of their 38 Xchanging plc 4 XCH ar08 front section b. indd 11 31 03 2009 09:51:23 CSR and our people annual report and accounts 2008 76% Increase in the number of training programmes in the UK in 2008 from 2007 We delivered our Leadership Training for element, including bonuses, plays environment for everyone affected by Success programme again following the a key part in continuing to drive our Xchangings activities.
Our priority now is previous years success.
to review our existing wellbeing practices and provide a wide range of health and Graduate programme Equal opportunities and diversity wellbeing improvement programmes Our two-year graduate programme We promote equality of opportunity to throughout the Group.
gives graduates the opportunity to all our employees irrespective of gender, work closely with senior executives.
race, colour, ethnic or national origin, Ethics Our graduates undergo a Director-level disability, political opinions, age, nationality, All applicable laws, regulations and mentoring programme.
They are exposed sexual orientation, religion, marital status, standards in the places where we do to a mix of industry, geographical and social class or family circumstances.
Our values are functional experience, gaining a real We ensure that diversity is appropriately backed up by specific policies that set insight into the business.
Additionally, supported in our workforce and reflected out the standards that we expect our they have the opportunity to gain a in our leaders.
For instance, 47% of our employees to work to.
the Ethical Code of Business Conduct.
Our whistle-blowing policy encourages Career development Health, safety and wellbeing employees to report breaches of our A career development framework for Providing and promoting the health, policies or illegal activity.
our employees was launched in 2008. safety and wellbeing of all our employees We are phasing the roll out through 2009 remains a priority for Xchanging.
Further enhancements and All Xchanging employees work in an Xchanging has a socially responsible functionality will be developed during 2009. environment where health and safety risks business model.
Our Global Balancing are understood and managed responsibly.
approach includes the building of on-site, Reward Based on OHSAS 18001, our health and nearshore and offshore capacity.
We use Our reward structure is competitive safety management system has a number this capacity to service new customers and with the market and aligned closely of initiatives for a safe and healthy to avoid redundancies wherever possible.
The variable Xchanging plc 39 4 XCH ar08 front section b. indd 12 31 03 2009 09:51:25 annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate social responsibility and our people continued During the year, we updated our Group CSR is closely aligned with our values.
We are committed environmental policy.
It aims to integrate to incorporating best practice across all of our operations.
sound environmental practices into our operations.
Our activities include: Switch it off!
It encourages employees to take responsibility for the energy consumption at each of our sites.
Environment Groups carbon footprint in 2008 This includes unplugging mobile As a business processor, we think tonnes of CO e 2 phone chargers and switching off carefully about how we can positively uK 6,130 computer screens when not in use affect our environment.
Overall, we feel Malaysia 55 replacement chiller units in our City of our environmental footprint has a limited London office.
It delivered significant France 53 impact.
However, we recognise our savings in energy consumption and responsibility to conduct business in a India 2,079 carbon emissions.
The Carbon Trust sustainable manner.
Therefore, measuring usa 88 calculates this will deliver an annual our energy consumption and reducing Germany 2,325 energy saving of 112,002kWh with our global carbon footprint is high on a carbon saving of 13,216kg per year our agenda.
Australia 10 reducing waste for our customers.
We are developing a global environmental Our procurement team works Calculated using the GHG Protocol Corporate plan.
For example, we are reviewing our with United Biscuits to help them Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Includes waste management practices and will actual and estimated data for all offices operated reduce their waste going to landfill, by Xchanging.
Excludes employees working at take active steps in reducing the amount water consumption and road mileage customer sites.
Based on scope one, two and of waste going to landfill.
We will record increased use of video conferencing.
all data relating to energy use in our Installing facilities in more locations offices, collate it centrally and report will further reduce travel, saving time on it annually.
Holy Cross Employees donated their processing skills to an AIDS hospice in South Africa.
40 XCHANGING PlC 4 XCH ar08 front section b. indd 13 31 03 2009 09:51:27 CSR and our people annual report and accounts 2008 Community Xchangings community initiatives As a Group, we work with the communities Making a difference the Xchanging Way within the regions we operate.
Our specific focus is youth and education linking to one of our values skilled at releasing the entrepreneurial spirit in our people.
We provide skills, resources and support fundraising activities.
We encourage employees who wish to develop a community programme within their site.
We promote this through emails and UK employees in the South East are volunteering their time through a dedicated area on our Group as mentors for Career Academy students intranet where details of employee employees volunteered their time at the National Junior community initiatives can be found.
More than 1,100 inner city children competed for various titles Xchanging insurance employees spent their team away day clearing land for the Kent Wildlife Trust Xchanging Hosting Services volunteered their time to reinvigorate the sensory garden at the Little Havens Childrens Hospice near Basildon Lloyds Community Programme in East London receives our continued support Germany Frankfurt office supported Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship NFTE throughout 2008 and hosted a Biz Camp summer programme employees are supporting Frankfurter Brgerinstitut e. V. und CENIT and a number of childrens homes in the local area employees from our office in Hof supported Verein Kinderhilfe e. V. who care for sick children in hospitals, hospices and in foster care India employees contributed to Asharan, an orphanage run Below by Hope Foundation.
Several Xchanging teams have Volunteers from our office in India decorating a local schools furniture visited the orphanage to volunteer their time a number of employees ran the Delhi Half Marathon in support of the Concern India Foundation volunteers from our India office spent time decorating a local schools furniture Africa employees donated their skills to an AIDS hospice in South Africa.
They updated policies and helped the administration team prepare for an audit.
The benefits of this project were twofold.
The Holy Cross AIDS hospice received expert advice and skills that were beyond their financial reach.
The Xchanging volunteers did what they do best work in a diverse environment to make a difference the Xchanging Way Xchanging plc 41 4 XCH ar08 front section b. indd 14 31 03 2009 09:51:28 annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate social responsibility and our people continued Xchanging successfully entered the FTSE4Good Index Series in September 2008.
It confirms our commitment to responsible business practice.
Marketplace Our customers Structure Our marketplace demands the highest We appointed a Global Service Director The Corporate Social Responsibility professional standards and processes.
She is responsible for Committee met three times in 2008.
We aim to be honest, transparent ensuring our communication remains clear This Committee is responsible for overseeing and ethical in all of our interactions.
We deliver our services to the Companys performance in CSR.
Our five values and ethical code of customers in 38 countries.
Understanding The members are Stephen Brenninkmeijer, business conduct support what we them is critical for us to provide excellent the Non-Executive Director who chairs expect of our people and how we treat customer service.
Our Service teams these meetings, the Group HR Director, our customers and suppliers in the invest a considerable amount of time the Group Relations Director, and the marketplace.
Our purpose is to achieve speaking with our customers individually.
long-term business success with all They collect our performance feedback to We appointed CSR Champions in all of our stakeholders.
They lead We measure empirical and perceived local CSR teams and form a Group-wide performance for every customer.
Quarterly meetings are held month, these scores are reviewed by the to focus on developing the four elements customer service review boards, to ensure of our CSR programme.
business strategies are aligned to our customers requirements.
A Group-wide CSR policy is in place.
We are raising awareness through Our suppliers FTSE Group confirms that Xchanging plc has been induction, employee communication independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good We have more than 100 high-calibre processes and part of the employee criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become procurement professionals and leverage a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
more than 1 billion spend per annum.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social, ethical and environmental criteria, We have been reviewing our procurement SEE risk management and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of approach regarding ethical and Assessment of social, ethical and responsible business practice.
In 2009, we will environmental risks SEE was introduced work with suppliers to improve the social into our existing risk management and environmental impact of our purchases.
The CSR Committee review Responsible procurement principles will the Groups SEE register.
It checks that be adopted to help suppliers understand plans are in place to mitigate the impact our objectives.
This will lead to the creation of these risks.
Verification The CSR Committee is confident that the internal measures taken to review the CSR information is of a suitable level.
Xchanging calls upon industry specialists on specific issues as necessary.
Visit the Corporate Social Responsibility section of our website www.
com 42 Xchanging plc 4 XCH ar08 front section b. indd 15 31 03 2009 09:51:31 CSR and our people annual report and accounts 2008 Targets, objectives and measures 2008 marked the first year where we set and disclosed CSR-related objectives and targets.
The information below relates to the Group.
We continue to improve our global reporting processes and build on our existing local monitoring systems.
We also measure and report CSR within our performance management frameworks to the Xchanging Performance Committee.
Mostly achieved In progress Not yet started Issue Objective Target Progress Management Measuring Improve measuring and Improve our CSR data collection processes and monitoring monitoring of Group-wide End of 2009 CSR performance Employee Develop and measure employee Achieve employee awareness of Xchangings CSR engagement engagement in Xchangings activity of 75% End of 2010 CSR programme Acquisitions Evaluate the CSR practices Understand CSR activities of the Cambridge Group of Cambridge following the End of 2010 completion of the acquisition People Wellbeing Ensure the health and wellbeing Deliver a workplace health programme that is aligned of employees at work to the business and makes a positive contribution to End of 2011 the health and wellbeing of our people Career Continue to provide career Introduction of career development framework development development opportunities across the Group End of 2011 for all employees Environment Energy use Make efforts to reduce Understand ways in which we can reduce reduction Xchangings impact on the our energy consumption and create specific End of 2009 environment and help tackle reduction plans climate change Environmental Improve employee engagement Run an Environmental week to engage employees engagement in environmental issues across the Group End of 2009 Communities Give As You Earn Widen implementation of the Achieve silver payroll giving award GAYE GAYE initiative across the UK 5% of employees donating End of 2010 Marketplace Ethical Interact with our suppliers Implement ethical and environmental considerations supply chain to promote CSR into our into supplier policies, tools and processes End of 2009 supply chain Xchanging plc 43 4 XCH ar08 front section b. indd 16 31 03 2009 09:51:31
