n o i t s a e i e t r i c n - u e m u l m a e o v l c p l o l a e a p c u r o t u l u O, s m r S u e s d d t a l n i o n a a h b l e y e r c c a o n h m e s m r, u s a n r i p e t i s e m s n t o a n t e r s t m u n, c o n, r i s o v e n i e E t y a r o l e p H p e m a o l e t - h o h a c Sustainable Development Xstrata produces a separate, comprehensive Sustainability Report, which is expected to be published in April 2009.
The section below provides a summary of our policies and practices in a number of key areas: vision and strategy: governance: our people: health and safety: environment and community.
Our approach Vision and strategy To achieve our Mission and deliver industry-leading returns to our shareholders over the long term, we recognise that we must balance social, environmental and economic considerations in how we manage t our business.
We are committed to the goal of sustainable development.
We believe that operating to leading standards of health, safety and environmental management, contributing to the development of sustainable We will grow communities, and engaging with our stakeholders in two-way, open and manage a diversied dialogue, regardless of our location, enhances our corporate reputation portfolio of metals and and is a source of competitive advantage.
This enables us to gain access mining businesses with the to new resources, maintain a licence to operate, attract and retain the single aim of delivering best people, access diverse and low-cost sources of capital, identify and industry-leading returns for act upon business opportunities, and optimise our management of risks.
We comply in full with the laws and regulations in each country where we operate.
In addition, we operate in accordance with Xstratas sustainable development framework, aspiring to achieve the highest international standards regardless of location and without exception.
We conduct regular internal and external audits of our businesses and operations to assure compliance with our business principles, policies and standards.
Our aim is to be a leader in our industry in delivering value to our shareholders, contributing to the sustainable development of communities associated with our operations, operating safely, contributing to the well-being of our workforce and local communities and preserving the long-term health and viability of the environment in which we operate.
We achieve this through integrating sustainable development considerations into our day-to-day management practices, business planning and core strategy: monitoring and reporting on our performance and systems on a regular basis: and For more information visit: www.
com sustainability benchmarking against our competitors and other sectors to achieve our aim of continuous improvement.
In 2008, Xstrata was recognised by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index as the leading company in the basic resources sector for the second consecutive year.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 21 n i d, w y s a t f s i e r p t y i g s h c e s i t h r t n e e i n d t n n r a a o e p c d n e a e n n r s i e u a v n o b G e e g r h a g h u o c i r h h t w y l, n s r o e s d i h l t o h e v e e k i a h t c s a r n e a c h t e o W d n a Strategy: Business Review Sustainable Development continued Sustainable development framework Governance The Xstrata Board sets and reviews Sustainable Development Policy globally.
Xstratas Board Health, Safety, Environment and Community HSEC Committee was established in 2005 to assist the Board in its HSEC responsibilities and to provide guidance on sustainable development issues.
Further details about the Board HSEC Committee and its activities during 2008 are provided in the Corporate Governance section on pages 91 to 97.
Sustainable Development Framework Mission Xstratas Sustainable Development Framework sets out the Groups expectations and commitments relating to the sustainable management of our business, comprising: Business Business Principles: Provide an unambiguous statement of how Principles we conduct our business ethically, openly, responsibly, together and with others: SD Policy Sustainable Development Policy: Sets out the principles we apply to our management of health, safety, our people, communities and the environment: SD Standards Sustainable Development Standards: Set out the Group requirements and expectations for each of our commodity businesses on sustainability issues: and SD Procedures and Guidelines Independent Assurance Programme: The key mechanism through which the Xstrata Board and management gain assurance that the Groups policies and standards are being met.
Commodity Business SD Frameworks Xstratas business principles, policies and standards are available from our website www.
Operational SD Systems Xstratas Sustainable Development Framework is regularly reviewed and a revised version was approved by the Executive Committee and Board in December 2007.
Our Sustainable Development Framework has been mapped to show alignment to international standards including the ICMM and UN Global Compact principles, Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, ISO14001 and OHSAS18001.
Xstratas sustainable development assurance programme SD Risk and SD Standards Verication Verication Audits Audits third party self-managed or third party 1.
SD Opportunity and Ambitions Targets, Plans and Programmes, Identication Resources Systems, Processes, and Evaluation Reports 22 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Employees Health and safety Xstratas long-term interests rely on the Companys ability to attract We aim to operate a safe workplace that is injuryand fatality-free, and retain the best people, at every level, with the appropriate skills.
and to enhance the well-being of employees, contractors and We provide industry-leading career development opportunities, communities.
Safety is given the highest priority by management.
well structured employment contracts and fair and competitive To achieve our aim of zero injuries, occupational illnesses or fatalities, remuneration.
The majority of our workforce is engaged on we focus on the following: collective employment agreements negotiated with unions and visible safety leadership: other representative organisations.
We believe that all of the Groups operations have, in general, good relations with our employees and appropriate safety training at every level: the unions that represent them.
fostering a positive safety culture, behaviour and awareness: As set out in Xstratas Sustainable Development Policy SD policy, identication and elimination mitigation of safety and health hazards: we maintain a safe workplace that is based on mutual respect, fairness and integrity.
We support our employees right to freedom operational integrity: of association and collective bargaining, provide fair remuneration safe work systems: and employ and promote on the basis of merit, upholding legislation in certain regions that aim to benefit historically disadvantaged occupational and community health and hygiene programmes: groups.
We consult, communicate and provide appropriate support monitoring and management of contractors partners safety to employees during significant organisational changes including performance: closures, acquisitions, mergers and divestitures.
reporting, management and learning from actual and high In 2008, Xstrata created a total of 3,409 new positions 2007: 3,045. potential risk incidents: and A total of 311 permanent employees were made redundant and 1,721 employees contracts were compulsorily terminated excluding preparing for and effectively responding to emergencies and crises.
contractors in the period to 31 December 2008.
The average number Xstratas fatality prevention programmes have achieved substantial of employees in 2008 was 40,049 2007: 39,008 and the average reductions in some principal causes of previous fatalities or critical number of contractors was 28,291 2007: 22,504. incidents at its operations.
In particular, underground roof falls and Turnover increased in 2008 compared to the previous year, due near-miss or actual incidents involving mobile equipment underground to competition for skilled labour in the earlier part of the year have signicantly reduced in South Africa, where the majority of and increased redundancies in the latter part of the year, reecting fatalities have historically occurred.
Nonetheless in 2008, we deeply economic conditions in each case.
Given the low commodity price regret that six people lost their lives at Xstratas managed operations, environment, competition for skilled labour is reducing and voluntary including four fatalities at South African operations.
Every incident and turnover is expected to decline in 2009.
However, in response to the high potential risk incident is reported and thoroughly investigated to rapid deterioration of economic conditions in late 2008, a number ensure we learn from them and we implement all appropriate training of operations are suspending, scaling back or closing activities to or hazard management improvements identied.
conserve cash and ensure our businesses remain robust in challenging markets.
These actions often require headcount to be reduced Injury frequency rates continue to improve signicantly year-on-year, through redundancies, voluntary retirement or through not lling reecting the impact of ongoing training, learning from incident and vacant positions.
near-miss investigations, initiatives to address behavioural and cultural issues that impact safety performance and ongoing safe working In the six months from September, overall headcount has been programmes.
In 2008, the frequency of total recordable injuries reduced by approximately 5,500 positions across the Group, including reduced by 18% compared to 2007, or by 24% on a like-for-like contractors.
Employee assistance programmes, retraining and other basis excluding 2008 acquisitions.
community or financial assistance have been provided as appropriate for affected employees.
We encourage and support our people and the communities associated with our operations to participate in programmes which enhance their A wide range of training, leadership and skills development health and well-being.
Our health programmes encompass occupational programmes are in place at a Group and commodity business level health, the well-being of our employees and community health issues.
We value and promote diversity in At each location, we identify the main health issues affecting our management and the wider workforce.
Xstratas SD policy states that workforce, including global epidemic diseases such as HIV AIDS, malaria we do not tolerate any form of workplace discrimination, bullying, and tuberculosis, and implement healthcare programmes in partnership harassment or physical assault and we provide a fair and nonwith local health authorities and NGOs.
We do not set formal diversity targets, with the exception of South Africa, where our Xstratas South African workforce is particularly impacted by the HIV, businesses are complying with requirements under the Mining Charter.
AIDS and tuberculosis TB epidemics.
Comprehensive, fully funded workplace testing, counselling and treatment programmes are in place Key performance indicators comprising employee turnover, diversity, training hours and expenditure are provided on page 33, with a across our South African operations.
We have also initiated innovative description of performance against these indicators on page 35. public-private partnerships with provincial government and other Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 23 Strategy: Business Review Sustainable Development continued partners, to extend voluntary testing, counselling and treatment Further progress was achieved in the Sudbury Soils Study in Canada into communities associated with our operations.
In 2008, 97% of and the Whole of Emissions studies at Mount Isa, Australia, both Xstrata Coal South Africa employees and over 80% of Xstrata Alloys of which were initiated to examine potential human and ecological participated in voluntary HIV testing to know their HIV status.
Soil remediation projects to address historic contamination were successfully undertaken at a number of sites in Our health and safety performance against key indicators is shown Australia and Canada in partnership with local authorities and industry on page 33 and described on page 35. participants.
We also increased the capacity of our recycling operations to process additional base and precious metals, prolonging the life cycle of metals and reducing waste to landll.
Environment In 2008, Xstrata did not achieve its target of zero fines or penalties and incurred four environmental fines totalling $25,300.
Two of the four incidents occurred at Australian operations and two at our Xstratas SD policy sets out our aim to preserve the long-term health, Chilean operations.
All incidents subject to fines were categorised as function and viability of the natural environments affected by our category two minor impact requiring minor remediation or lower and operations.
We have ISO 14001 compliant management systems in remediation plans have been implemented to prevent reoccurrence.
place to ensure all Xstrata operations reach the high environmental Our performance against key environmental indicators is provided on standards we demand and that are expected by governments, industry page 34 and a description of our performance against environmental bodies and society as a whole.
Our SD Policy sets out our commitment indicators is provided on pages 35 to 36. to identify, reduce and, where possible, eliminate all significant impacts of our mining, metallurgical and exploration activities on the environment.
Our principal environmental impacts are in respect of: Community use of resources, particularly water and energy: climate change, due to direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions at our operations and the carbon emissions associated with burning Xstratas SD policy states our commitment to contribute to the social the coal we produce to generate energy: and economic development of sustainable communities associated with our operations.
We engage and consult with communities other emissions, including sulphur dioxide and heavy metals from affected by our operations in a transparent and culturally appropriate metallurgical plants: way.
We recognise their rights and respect local laws, customs and land disturbance and biodiversity impacts: cultural heritage.
At every stage of a projects life cycle, we identify and evaluate communities concerns and needs, as well as the actual waste material produced from our operations: and and potential social impacts of our operations.
All operations and environmental impacts associated with our products and supply chain.
projects have procedures in place for community engagement and grievances or conict resolution mechanisms.
Our SD policy states our commitment to reduce direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions and to work with governments, industry We prioritise local employment and procurement and provide and academia to help develop policies and technologies to address support for enterprise development, community skills development climate change, in particular to mitigate emissions from burning coal and training programmes, particularly in areas of high unemployment to generate power.
Climate change presents a significant long-term and greater economic need.
Our engagement and community support risk to our business because of increased regulation, rising energy programmes recognise that indigenous people and other groups costs, taxation of carbon emissions and physical threats from changes including women, the elderly and children are particularly vulnerable to weather patterns.
Xstrata Coal continued to fund a number of and seek to address the particular needs of these groups.
development projects into low emissions technologies and continues We avoid resettlement of communities wherever possible.
Where this to play a key advocacy role in engaging with government and industry is unavoidable, we adhere to the World Bank Operational Directive on bodies on carbon legislation and support for new technologies.
Involuntary Resettlement and seek to maintain or improve standards We aim to continually improve the efficiency with which we use of living and provide ongoing support for resettled communities.
In raw materials, energy and natural resources.
In 2008 our businesses 2008, 20 households in South Africa and 139 households in Southern continued to implement initiatives to improve energy efficiency and we Peru were resettled as a result of Xstratas activities.
signicantly increased our use of recycled water to replace fresh water Xstrata sets aside a minimum of 1% of Group profit before tax each use where appropriate.
In line with our policy commitment to reduce year to fund initiatives that benefit the communities associated with harmful emissions to air, water and land, we initiated a number of our operations, often through multi-stakeholder partnerships over capital projects to improve sulphur dioxide and heavy metals capture at several years.
Our funding programmes prioritise communities located our metallurgical operations in 2008.
An extensive Smelter Emissions in remote areas or in regions with a lower level of social and economic Project is under way at our Mount Isa operations to achieve significant development and infrastructure.
Although the overall level of funding reductions in emissions by 2012. set aside each year is determined by our profitability, we manage our We avoid net losses or degradation of natural habitats, biodiversity funding so that community initiatives receive stable and continuing and landscape functions.
Additional biodiversity offset areas were financial support throughout the commodity cycle.
A key priority is implemented during the year to set aside land for ora and fauna to avoid sole dependence on our nite operations.
conservation and a number of monitoring programmes were implemented to assess potential biodiversity impacts in higher risk regions.
