DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility review The Group is determined that it should Ethics is be recognised as a leader in responsible business worldwide, and we continue to fundamental to strive for ways to improve our business and its reputation.
our reputation Raj Rajagopal Managing Director, Corporate Responsibility Our approach Delivery of our Corporate Responsibility agenda is now firmly embedded as a Group Strategic Objective within the Groups strategy see page 10.
This reflects the increased emphasis and importance placed on ensuring that the Groups commitment to total performance includes every aspect of business, not only financial and programme performance, but also business conduct and the Corporate Responsibility agenda.
This is reflected in the new organisation structure.
The Groups Corporate Responsibility agenda and activity have matured considerably over recent years.
To continue to deliver on the Groups commitment to achieving a leadership position in responsible business worldwide will require a sustained and focused effort particularly in embedding the necessary behaviours and an inclusive culture across all of our businesses.
A key part of this will be delivering on the recommendations of the Woolf Committee to ensure high standards of business conduct see page 50.
Key to the delivery of our strategy are leadership and role model behaviours at the most senior level.
Our 2008 objectives on ethics, safety and diversity required both a demonstration of leadership, as well as measures of progress towards our stated goals.
To confirm the importance of these objectives, 12% of the available executive bonus allocation was set against performance on safety and ethics objectives.
We continue to develop other aspects of our Corporate Responsibility agenda, in particular environment and sustainability.
Governance of corporate responsibility Our objectives are delivered through our business operations and managed through the Executive Committee.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee evolved its role in 2008 to provide independent oversight, advice and strategic direction on social, ethical and environmental issues that face the Group.
The Committees report on its 2008 activity can be found on page 72.
During 2008, the Committee undertook a number of activities which included: oversight of health and safety performance: review and oversight of the development of the Global Code of Conduct: ongoing review of performance against the Groups objectives: and site visit to our Submarine Solutions site in Barrow-in-Furness to review and understand how Corporate Responsibility has been embedded within the business.
com Corporate responsibility objectives 1 2008 objectives Progress 2009 objectives Ethics Establish global leadership standards of business conduct: Senior leadership to lead two employee Senior leadership to communicate and Senior leadership used opportunities focus engagement sessions to discuss the demonstrate commitment to high ethical of team meetings and conferences to Global Code of Conduct and ethical issues.
emphasise importance of ethical Number of engagement events and business conduct.
Deliver the 2009 Woolf Committee implementation plan milestones and obtain employees reached to be measured.
independent external assurance of this.
Develop and roll out a Group-wide Code Roll-out of the Global Code of Conduct to Employee sample survey on selected of Conduct.
employees across the Group commenced ethics questions to be carried out in the in January 2009 see page 51. fourth quarter of 2009.
Results to show an improvement relative to the 2008 Implement the response to the Woolf Detailed programme in place to implement survey results.
Woolf recommendations, with a number of actions already addressed see page 50.
Safety Continue to drive performance in safety to a level comparable with leading performers: Senior leaders each to undertake three Days lost to work-related injuries: Reduce The gap between Group performance and safety audits, and flow-down training and the gap between 2007 Group performance the external benchmark was reduced by requirement to conduct safety reviews to and external benchmark by 10% in 2008 just over 9% during 2008. two levels below the Executive Committee.
benchmark is 2,000 days lost per 100,000 Minimum of Level 3 on the SMM, with 60% employees.
of sites progressed to Level 4 by the end Senior leadership to demonstrate Training sessions held between May and of 2009. commitment to safety by undertaking August.
Safety audits conducted by senior Incident rate targets to be set by business formal training and conducting safety leaders see page 52. at a level reflecting the progress required audits across our operations.
Number of to achieve the 2011 target of best in class.
safety audits conducted to be measured.
Incident rate in 2009 to show at least a Progress to benchmark safety performance All BAESystems major operational sites 10% improvement over 2008 and, for sites against a five level Safety Maturity Matrix other than those acquired during the year with significantly worse than best in class statistics, improvement targets to be set SMM all businesses to achieve Level 3 achieved Level 3 by the end of 2008. consistent with achieving best in class by the end of 2008 and have a plan in All businesses submitted Level 5 plans in 2011. place to attain Level 5 by the end of 2011 by the end of 2008.
Level 5 has been benchmarked against leading companies.
Diversity and inclusion Create an environment that values and respects the contribution, based on merit, of all members of the communities in which we operate: Senior leadership to participate in a Senior leadership to demonstrate A workshop on the role of leadership in workshop to develop the inclusion agenda commitment to such an environment by establishing a diverse and inclusive culture for their business.
Senior leaders to lead attending a diversity awareness training was held in June at a senior leaders forum.
two events with employee groups to programme by mid-year.
Many of the attendees led similar events develop action plans to address culture, with their management teams.
Inaugural virtual global Womens Forum Executive Committee to review the was held in June with 70 participants across Operational Framework and supporting seven locations from three countries.
policies and processes to identify potential improvements required to develop a more Eighteen locations in three countries inclusive culture.
Any changes to be participated in the second forum in October.
included in the updated July 2009 version Develop an action plan to enhance diversity Each business set an action plan to address of the Operational Framework.
specific diversity and inclusion issues Senior leadership to develop one personal identified in the Employee Opinion Survey.
objective on inclusion during the first half A summary of the 2008 survey results is of 2009 for implementation in the second set out on page 53. half of the year.
1 Ethics and safety objectives are two of the Executive Committees top ten objectives for 2009.
Diversity and inclusion objectives have been set within the individual performance objectives for the senior leadership.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 49 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility review continued Implementing the Woolf Committee recommendations The Woolf Committee Report was published in May 2008.
It made v External engagement recommending actions to support the Groups 23 recommendations for further improvement.
These will provide a leadership in the defence industry on key matters of ethical and route map for the Group to establish a global reputation for ethical reputational risk.
This covers a wide range of external stakeholders business conduct.
The Committees full report is available on our such as governments, non-governmental organisations, customers website at www.
We have committed to act on all of its recommendations and have vi Establishing a Global Code of Conduct focusing on the put in place a comprehensive implementation programme of up delivery and implementation of a new Global Code of Conduct to three years to achieve this.
The outputs of the implementation to communicate the required principles of business conduct programme will not be dealt with in isolation: in order for us to deliver and the standards expected of all employees, regardless of this programme successfully, the outputs must quickly become part location or role, consistent with the Groups aspiration and of how the Group conducts its day-to-day business as a key part of its intention to be a leader in standards of business conduct performance culture.
The Executive Committee has appointed the Group General Counsel Business Development Advisers as sponsor of a programme to implement the Woolf Committee In 2007, the Group undertook an extensive programme to revise its findings and reinforce high standards of business conduct as a policies, processes and procedures with regard to the appointment, sustainable way of working across the Group.
The programme, management and payment of Business Development Advisers.
which is led by a full-time Programme Director and a central team Central to this process is the creation of a Business Development of 14 people, applies project management disciplines and processes Adviser Compliance Panel.
The Panel is chaired by independent third to the programme similar to those applied to the Groups projects.
The revised process was described by the Woolf Committee A Steering Committee, drawn from members of the Executive as representing leading-edge practice.
Committee and other senior leaders, has been established to During 2007 and 2008, whilst the new process for the appointment, provide strategic oversight to the programme and to monitor management and payment of advisers was being designed and progress regularly.
implemented, the Group also undertook a review of current contracts with existing Business Development Advisers and of expired contracts As part of the Implementation Programme, the Programme Team with outstanding obligations: this exercise included a review of these has divided each of the 23 recommendations into six key areas of arrangements by the Panel.
As a result of the review, and the Groups operational activity, with each area being addressed by a Working stated strategy to focus on the development of home markets, many Group.
These six Working Groups consist of approximately 60 senior Business Development Adviser contracts were either terminated or managers drawn from across the global BAESystems business.
As defined in the revised process, decisions External professional advisers have also been engaged to support by the Group to re-appoint, or maintain the contract and services, of the focus of the Programme.
The scope of work being carried out a Business Development Adviser are subject to the Group receiving in the Working Groups is as follows: from the Panel prior affirmative advice to do so.
As a result of the i Customer Contracting developing procedures to assess the actions described above, the number of Business Development ethical and reputational risks involved with the selling of defence Advisers has been substantially reduced.
equipment and capability by BAE Systems.
Such assessments are Looking forward planned to form part of our consideration of what equipment and With the exception of the Global Code of Conduct, which is at a very capabilities we sell, to whom we sell it, and what contractual advanced stage, the first phase of the work for the Working Groups obligations we will accept.
This phase involves identification of the actions ii Anti-Corruption and Compliance assessing and recommending necessary to implement each of the recommendations in the Woolf changes to our anti-corruption policies, procedures and Committee Report, exploring options for change and proposing guidelines.
This work includes codifying and integrating the solutions.
The status of these proposed solutions was reviewed, existing policies on Business Development Adviser appointments, in detail, by the Steering Committee in December 2008. and recommending further enhancements to anti-bribery policies The next planned phase, to be undertaken in the first half of 2009, and procedures.
Other policies under review include those relating is a consultation process both inside and outside the Group on to facilitation payments, gifts, hospitality and donations, Group these proposed solutions.
We then plan that the feedback from this giving, sponsorship, conflicts of interest together with internal consultation will be fully considered in formulating the final design investigations and disciplinary policy concerning breaches of of the changes to be implemented.
The programme to implement the recommendations of the iii Board and Management Operations recommending Woolf Committee is an extensive and thorough undertaking over enhancements to corporate governance arrangements with a programme of up to three years during which changes will be respect to the management of non-financial risk.
This Working progressively implemented across the Group.
As stated above, we Group is also responsible for recommending the establishment already have a revised policy relating to the engagement of Business of a new role of Managing Director of Corporate Responsibility Development Advisers.
In addition, we have reinforced our training in as well as developing procedures to embed further the explicit standards of business conduct and have taken initial steps to include consideration of ethical and reputational risk in the Groups a greater emphasis on assessing non-financial risk in the assessment decision-making.
iv Leadership in Business Ethics defining and articulating the Once we have fully implemented the necessary changes, our strategic aspiration and intent of the Group to be a leader intention is that BAE Systems will be recognised as a global in standards of business conduct among global companies.
leader in standards of business conduct.
This Working Group is also defining the role and performance management assessment including remuneration of Our progress in implementing each recommendation will be BAESystems senior executives, the development of an ethics monitored regularly by our Corporate Responsibility Committee.
and compliance training strategy, and the drive for openness Independent external auditors, Deloitte, have been appointed to and transparency.
com Visible leadership Ethics Our senior leaders must promote a collective and individual We are determined to be recognised as a leader in responsible sense of responsibility for ethical conduct, and are committed business conduct worldwide, and we continue to strive for ways to improve our business and its reputation.
Maintaining high to lead by example.
They are responsible for ensuring that our new Code becomes the core tenet for how business gets done standards of ethical conduct is essential to enhance our overall business performance, build trust and improve our reputation at BAE Systems.
Our licence to operate depends on this.
Continuous improvement in ethical business conduct is included We aim to build on our employees pride and integrity by equipping in the objectives for all Executive Committee members and linked them with the capability, accountability and confidence to ensure to their remuneration see page 79. high ethical standards are maintained.
To do this, we must make sure that all employees understand what we expect of them.
Our Safety Global Code of Conduct sets this out clearly.
We firmly believe that ensuring the safety of our employees and Global Code of Conduct those who work on our sites is a pre-condition of our operations.
The Code, which builds on working practices already in place We recognise the risks associated with both manufacturing in various parts of the business, was launched in January 2009. and daily office working, and seek to ensure that these risks are It improves awareness of our policies and aims to ensure a managed and mitigated as far as is reasonably possible.
In 2007, consistent approach is taken across all our operations.
The Code we declared our aspiration and commitment to achieving a level provides guidance on the principles and standards of behaviour of safety comparable with the best in class.
This section provides we expect of all employees, regardless of location or role.
It an update on our progress towards this goal.
encourages employees to ask for help and emphasises that Many of our employees are involved in manufacturing, often using they can raise concerns without fear of reprisal.
heavy equipment and sometimes handling explosive or nuclear The Code is being rolled out to all employees during the first materials.
In addition, a number of BAE Systems employees are half of 2009 through face-to-face briefings.
Every employee will based at customer sites providing maintenance and support be asked to confirm that they have understood, and will comply services.
These include military bases in combat zones, such with, the Code.
The roll-out of the Code will be supported by as Iraq and Afghanistan.
mandatory training to raise awareness, either online or face Our goal is to achieve leadership safety performance, compared with to face.
the best performing companies worldwide.
This requires a significant Ethics Helpline reduction in workplace accidents and injuries.
Our target, based on Our Ethics Helpline exists so that employees can report ethical the performance of leading companies, is to reach 2,000 days lost concerns arising from our business, confidentially, wherever they to work-related injuries per 100,000 employees.
Our performance operate and whatever their role.
In 2007, we launched a four-year plan with safety targets for every BAE Systems business.
We are focusing on sharing best practice and embedding a safety culture across the Group.
We Visible leadership in safety are also working closely with our customers in aiming to ensure the safety of employees based off-site where we do not have We recognise the critical role that leadership plays in ensuring high safety operational control.
During 2008,60 senior executives underwent safety training and conducted safety reviews across our sites.
For the safety reviews, the executives Fatalities were given a detailed briefing on a site or operation, then walked through the This year, we are saddened to report the deaths of five employees.
These include two fatalities at our sites one during a crane operation at our shipyards in San Diego, US and one during a maintenance procedure at our aircraft facility in Brough, UK.
We are reviewing the causes of these accidents and co-operating fully with regulatory investigations.
Our shipyards have made a number of management changes as a result and our Brough site is implementing a 15-point remedial action plan.
Three fatalities occurred among our employees deployed on active service with the US armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.
These are subject to ongoing military procedures and investigation.
We recognise the bravery of these individuals in being prepared to enter dangerous territories to support the work of our armed forces.
A clear safety strategy In 2007, we launched our four-year plan to achieve a leadership position in safety across BAE Systems.
Our goal is to ensure a consistent level of good safety management in the short term and drive safety performance to a level comparable with leading performers over a four-year period.
BAE BAE Systems Systems Annual Annual Repor Reportt 2008 2008 51 51 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility review continued We developed a five-level Safety Maturity Matrix SMM to help Education and skills us progress towards recognised best practice and continue to improve performance across our sites.
Our target is for all our businesses to achieve level 5 benchmark by the end of 2011.
Helping to inspire the next generation of engineers and inventors is central to BAE Systems commitment to education and training.
The Group is a major During 2008, each business provided a rating against the SMM.
supporter of the US-based FIRST programme For Inspiration and Recognition Initial ratings ranged from Levels 1 to 4 and plans were set in of Science & Technology, including the FIRST Robotics Competition in which place to achieve Level 3 across all BAE Systems businesses teams of young people design and build robots.
This was achieved across all BAE Systems major operational sites, other than those acquired during the year.
Further benefit was gained from our safety professionals supporting audits of other sites across our operations.
This delivered cross-site learning, improved networking and exchange of good practice.
We recognise that best in class is a continually improving target and will annually review the criteria we are aiming for.
This will be supplemented by ongoing benchmark visits with other companies to understand how we can keep raising our standards of safety.
Continuous improvement in safety performance is included in the objectives for all senior executives and linked to their remuneration see page 79.
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee has reviewed performance in 2008 and allocated the bonus accordingly.
Visible leadership In 2008, senior leaders demonstrated their commitment to safety by undertaking formal training and personally conducting site safety audits.
The initiative was designed to inspire employees and give senior managers an insight into safety issues affecting We must anticipate and respond to these trends.
Our approach employees on the shop floor.
includes: We plan to make senior manager-led safety audits a regular expanding our recruitment pool to include talented people from feature of our approach to safety management.
In 2009, we all genders and backgrounds: will involve the next two levels of management from across BAE Systems.
creating an inclusive work environment that supports the retention of skilled employees, and encourages collaboration Sharing best practice between employees in different markets: Leadership in safety performance requires a consistent approach across our different sites and businesses.
The exchange of ideas, providing training to help employees keep abreast of changing policies and best practices is essential.
customer requirements: and Safety experts from our UK and US businesses conducted good communication that keeps all employees involved and audits of our sites against our SMM during 2008.
These allowed motivated regardless of location.
the experts to share best practice with other BAE Systems Inclusion businesses, and to learn from examples of excellence in We aim to establish a diverse workforce.
The main challenges different regions and sites.
are increasing the percentage of women in our workforce and increasing ethnic diversity in the UK.
Diversity and inclusion Our senior leaders are responsible for creating an inclusive work Our workplace is changing.
A growing number of our employees environment.
This is included in the objectives for all Executive are based at customer sites, providing maintenance and support Committee members.
services on military bases and for troops on the front line.
This requires new skills and capabilities, and a different approach to Senior leaders received inclusion awareness training in 2008 to people management.
At the same time, our business is expanding help them understand their role in creating an inclusive culture.
internationally as we increase our presence in key markets.
We Gender need to create a mobile workforce, and use skills and capabilities Increasing gender diversity is very challenging.
Today, the percentage from across BAE Systems to service customers wherever they of female engineering and technology graduates remains low in are based.
many countries and at only 15% in the UK 2005-2007 Higher These changes are taking place against the backdrop of a skills Education Statistics Agency.
shortage, and increased competition for science and engineering graduates in many of our home markets.
com Our approach to increasing gender diversity includes: Other areas of Corporate Responsibility We continue to further our understanding of other aspects of education our schools programme challenges perceptions our Corporate Responsibility agenda and have initiated a number that engineering is a male career choice: of programmes to embed them throughout the Group.
recruitment we have reviewed our graduate recruitment Training and development brochures and websites to ensure they appeal to a diverse We must ensure that employees develop their skills and keep up audience and include case studies of female graduates: with changing technology and customer requirements.
In addition, leadership development we have identified female employees in we support apprenticeships and other initiatives that increase the each business who have the potential to become senior leaders.
number of qualified engineers, technicians and project managers.
They have been appointed a senior mentor to help identify We employed 347 new apprentices in the UK and 712 graduates development needs and provide guidance on career planning: joined our graduate recruitment programmes across the US and flexible working many of our businesses enable flexible UK.
We also employed 410 summer interns and 31 students in working, including part-time working: and industrial placements in the US and UK, respectively.
womens networks these provide female employees with a Employee communications wider network of contacts and support, and act as a source Good communication helps keep our workforce engaged and of expertise to help the business identify barriers and enablers motivated.
Our approach includes regular employee surveys, to the inclusion of women at all levels within the Group.
In 2008, global, regional and departmental newsletters, and a global we held two Womens Forums, uniting more than 70 employees intranet site.
We also engage with our people through employee at a number of sites globally, to raise awareness of womens representative bodies and trade unions.
These were led by senior executives.
We have also important in helping us resolve issues and improve our launched a Women at BAE Systems online forum and held employment policies.
awareness sessions on womens networks across the business.
This year, our biennial employee opinion survey was completed Ethnicity by more than 58,000 employees.
Our approach to ethnic diversity is tailored to local culture and Highlights from this years survey results include an increase heritage in each of our home markets subject to compliance with in the level of overall job satisfaction three percentage points local laws.
For example, in South Africa we are increasing the higher at 71%, satisfaction with career and training opportunities number of black Africans in the workforce, in line with the South four percentage points higher at 56%, and an increase in the African Governments Black Economic Empowerment Agenda.
proportion of employees believing that the Group demonstrates In Saudi Arabia, we are focusing on increasing the proportion clear ethical standards seven percentage points higher at 73%.
of Saudi nationals in the workforce.
The results also reflect strong awareness and understanding Age in the areas of safety, ethics and diversity.
We already have succession planning in place to prepare the Group for changes to the age profile of our workforce as a result Feedback from employees has also indicated areas for of employees retiring.
Business initiatives include identifying highimprovement.
Compared with 2006, satisfaction levels were potential employees and ensuring they work closely with those reduced for acting on customer feedback three percentage who are about to retire.
Retirees are encouraged to share their points lower at 70%, having clear and measurable personal knowledge using documentation and coaching sessions.
Where objectives three percentage points lower at 67%, and ensuring practicable, we offer flexible working for employees who would that employees receive regular updates on performance against like to reduce their hours without retiring completely.
the business plan and strategy three percentage points lower at 58%.
In response to the survey results, the Executive Committee has agreed four performance improvement priorities: personal performance objectives should be clear and measurable: properly recognise people for doing a good job: business changes that affect us should be communicated in a timely manner: and our working culture should enable everyone to demonstrate high standards of business conduct, and to speak up and challenge inappropriate behaviour.
Businesses have developed action plans to address their survey results.
All businesses will include measures to address these four priority areas as part of their improvement action plans and the Executive Committee will regularly review progress made.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 53 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility review continued Education and community Company giving We give time and money to support education and charities in our key markets.
Recruiting and retaining people with the necessary skills and BAE Systems is committed to working effectively with sponsorship and charitable partners to benefit our customers and the communities near our operations.
ability is extremely important to our business.
Our education The Group focuses on supporting the armed forces and their families as well programmes are designed to interest young people in science as education projects with a science, engineering and technology focus.
and engineering, and help combat the skills shortage affecting our industry.
Our businesses support local charities through corporate donations, and employee fundraising and volunteering.
This helps us develop good relationships with the communities near our sites, and motivate and engage our employees.
Environment We recognise that our day-to-day operations, our products, and their use and disposal have the potential to damage the environment.
To keep our impact to a minimum, we must manage our resources efficiently and minimise waste.
We also need to consider the lifecycle of our products including how they are maintained and disposed of.
Reducing these impacts helps us to cut costs, improve efficiency and comply with the growing volume of environmental regulation.
Concerns around climate change and rising energy costs mean that our environmental performance is of growing interest to all of our stakeholders.
Our environment policy We published our new environment policy in January 2009.
This states our commitment to reducing resource use, minimising the through-life impacts of our products and establishing environmental performance targets.
It is included in our Global Code of Conduct that is being distributed to all employees see page 51.
We work in partnership with customers and suppliers on environmental issues.
In 2008, we were the first signatory to the UK Ministry of Defences MoD Sustainable Procurement Charter.
Climate change Our primary environmental impacts and contribution to CO2 levels are through the use of energy for heating and lighting, and the travel footprint of our employees.
In 2008, we commissioned the Coefficient Company to provide an estimate of our total carbon footprint for 2007, including business travel, to give us a view of our global emissions.
Including the travel footprint of our employees, our CO2 levels were estimated at around 920,000 tonnes in 2007.
We reported in 2007 that 550,000 tonnes related to energy use.
Our businesses are looking into initiatives to help reduce our carbon footprint, including implementing energy saving measures and sharing best practice.
We are also identifying ways to reduce business travel.
To support our customers, BAE Systems has developed HybriDrive technology for buses which helps increase fuel economy, whilst reducing emissions see page 21.
This was developed from hybrid electric drive systems for vehicles in our military portfolio.
In 2009, we plan to extend our data collection to include CO2 emissions from product trials and key suppliers.
We are also working with the UK MoD to calculate the carbon footprint of the lifecycle of defence equipment.
com Corporate responsibility performance summary We collect data on ethics, safety, diversity and environment to help us monitor performance and identify areas for improvement.
The data is recorded by the businesses and collated centrally for review.
Days recorded lost to work-related injuries is a key performance indicator see page 27 for details.
Specific notes are recorded below.
2006 2007 2008 Ethics Ethics enquiries from employees 410 327 507 The increase in the number of enquiries reflects the Groups continued focus on awareness and training relating to business conduct.
Safety per 100,000 employees 1 Days recorded lost to work-related injuries 10,204 10,084 9,336 Total recorded injuries to all employees 4,788 4,454 4,089 The gap between Group performance and the external benchmark of 2,000 days lost per 100,000 employees was reduced by just over 9% during 2008.
Diversity Gender diversity: Male employees 80% 79% 80% Female employees 20% 21% 20% Ethnic diversity: White 87% 82% 85% Non-white 13% 18% 15% Age diversity: Under 25 7% 8% 10% 26 to 35 18% 17% 17% 36 to 49 42% 39% 38% 50 to 59 26% 27% 27% 60 7% 9% 8% The focus of our diversity agenda is creating an inclusive environment where our employees, regardless of gender, ethnicity or age, can realise their full potential.
Ethnic diversity figures are based on South Africa, UK and US data only.
Environment Energy use Gwh 1,742 1,706 1,655 CO emissions relating to energy use million tonnes 0.57 0.55 0.66 2 Volatile organic compound emissions tonnes 742 642 519 Our environmental data reflects the emphasis on the minimisation of the use of resources within the Groups businesses.
This reduction has been achieved even with an increase in throughput at a number of our sites.
