40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY for the year ended 31 December 2008 1 RESPONSIBILITY The Executive Board takes responsibility for Corporate Responsibility of the Group and ensures that the philosophy is broadcast to and encourages its support by all employees throughout the Group.
The Group ensures that it is compliant with all legislation including environmental legislation in those countries in which it operates.
2 ENVIRONMENT The Board is aware of the Companys environmental impact and therefore seeks to both minimise adverse effects and enhance positive effects.
The Company is committed to a responsible and forward-looking approach to environmental issues and encourages recycling, energy conservation and, where practical, the use of alternative energy supplies.
When conceiving, designing and developing new build projects we place high priority on achieving and bettering the guidelines for sustainability and renewable energy sources.
Throughout the portfolio, regular maintenance and any improvement projects seek to maximise efficiency of the Groups buildings and to reduce energy consumption, with consideration of the needs of our tenants and the age of our buildings.
When upgrading or refurbishing properties it is recognised that the principal issues that require management are minimising local environmental impact, particularly noise and dust: managing construction waste and sourcing materials responsibly.
Recycling opportunities are continually reviewed and implemented where possible.
Examples of this approach would include the installation of electricity check meters when carrying out refurbishments: sourcing only Green Tariff electricity supplies for our multi-let properties and using video-conferencing to reduce the need to travel between our European offices.
3 EMPLOYEES The Directors believe that the Groups employees are a source of competitive advantage.
The Directors recognise that continued and sustained improvement in the performance of the Group depends on its ability to attract, motivate and retain employees of the highest calibre.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment.
It seeks to ensure that no employee or applicant is treated less favourably on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, disability or sexual orientation or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements, including age limits, which cannot be objectively justified.
Entry into and progression within the Group are solely determined by the application of job criteria, personal aptitude and competence.
It is the Groups policy to apply best practice in the employment of disabled people.
Full and fair consideration is given to every application for employment from disabled persons whose aptitude and skills can be utilised in the business and to their training and career development.
This includes, wherever possible, the retraining and retention of staff who become disabled during their employment.
All staff are informed of matters concerning their interest as employees and the financial and economic factors affecting the business.
Established management communication channels have been supplemented by direct presentations to staff by Directors to explain developments of particular significance.
4 CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS During the year, 15 of the Companys London employees took part in a fun run for Land Aid Charitable Trust, the real-estate sector charity which assists the homeless.
In addition the contributions made by the Group during the year for charitable purposes were 2,717 2007: 11,345.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries made any donations of a political nature during the year.
5 HEALTH & SAFETY It is a primary concern of the Board that the Company manages its activities in such a manner as to ensure that the health and safety of its employees, tenants, advisors, contractors and the general public is not compromised.
6 BUSINESS ETHICS The Board recognises the importance of the Companys responsibilities as an ethical employer and views matters in which the Company interacts with the community both socially and economically as the responsibility of the whole Board.
