Corporate responsibility 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Reporting approach The economic downturn has had a significant impact on the property sector and it would be inaccurate to suggest that this is not having an effect on Graingers Corporate Responsibility For the first time this year, we CR strategy, and indeed on the approach to sustainable development of those across the are producing a comprehensive property sector.
report focused specifically on our CR activities over the past year in However, a strong commitment to CR is embedded in Graingers core business strategy addition to this summary of CR and our seven key objectives are still of central importance.
Maintaining our commitment to activity.
This can be downloaded CR whilst remaining focused on our responsibility to deliver profits to our shareholders will be from our website: a challenge in the years ahead.
As such, the focus of our strategy is being adapted to reflect www.
co. uk these changing conditions, with a greater focus on behavioural change of staff and tenants as opposed to substantial capital investment.
Within this context of economic change, I am particularly proud to be able to report on the success of Graingers CR strategy in the past year.
The fact that we have fully achieved 71% of our targets for 2007 08 is testament to the hard work and commitment of the Grainger team.
Rupert Dickinson Chief executive Opportunities and risks Real business opportunities are presented by our continued commitment to CR: we believe that investing in our portfolio to make it more energy and water efficient enhances its value: engaging with, and investing in, the community is an essential part of good property management.
It gives us the opportunity to enhance the communities in which we operate and is also central to the planning process: managing and reducing the waste from our development and refurbishment sites can save us money: providing opportunities for employee involvement in local communities contributes to employee satisfaction and retention: and working with a network of small, local contractors stimulates the economies in which we manage assets.
This also means that our tenants receive better customer care.
We are also faced with risks.
The recent requirement for us to provide energy performance certificates for all properties at point of rent or sale means that for the first time, customers have an accurate picture of the efficiency of our properties.
This combined with rises in energy prices means that the efficiency of our properties is of greater importance than ever before.
We hope to turn this risk into an opportunity by focusing on the cost efficient measures we can take to improve the efficiency of our portfolio, thus increasing our competitiveness.
We can also use this as an opportunity to further engage with customers about the actions they can take to reduce their impact on the environment and save money on fuel bills.
26 Grainger plc annual review 2008 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY KEY ISSUES OF FOCUS OBJECTIVE Environment Reduce our direct adverse environmental impacts, and help and encourage our employees, suppliers, tenants and customers to do the same Communities Seek to understand the needs of the communities within which we operate, and positively contribute to their well-being Tenants Customers Ensure that we treat our tenants and customers fairly, and that we are responsive to their needs Employees Encourage staff to contribute to, and share in, the success of the company through their own ideas and ongoing professional development, whilst supporting them to maintain a healthy balance between home and work commitments Suppliers Engage proactively with prioritised suppliers to ensure that they meet with our specified economic, social and environmental standards Health and safety Safeguard the health, safety and welfare of our employees, and where possible that of our tenants, contractors, visitors, clients and the general public Investors Maintain high standards of business conduct, and secure long-term sustainable returns for our investors Governance For the past three years, Grainger has had a CR committee which reports to the executive team.
Grainger will be restructuring its internal management of CR in the 2008 09 period, which we believe will facilitate greater communication of CR activities across the business.
The executive committee, led by CEO Rupert Dickinson will consider key CR issues on a halfyearly basis.
These discussions will be informed by a series of working groups that report directly to the executive committee, and which are structured around our key areas of focus.
We have various policies and procedures which inform our CR strategy, these are set out in full on our website: http: www.
asp Performance We have fully achieved 12 71% of our 17 applicable CR targets.
For a full breakdown of our performance against targets, and for a full set of key performance indicators, please see our downloadable CR report.
The proportion of CR targets that were fully achieved rose from 36% in 2006 07 to 71% in 2007 08.
We set targets across all of our main identified impacts.
It should be noted that: 100% of the environmental and all of the applicable customer targets were fully achieved, representing impressive performance: and only one of Graingers three community targets was 100% achieved and the other two were only 25% achieved.
We will therefore ensure a renewed focus on community engagement and investment in the year ahead.
% Corporate responsibility 0 3 5 % 5 2 2 0 % A 0 1 N 1 1 0 27 Particular successes for Grainger in the past year include the following: all Grainger offices have some form of recycling with 90% of staff able to recycle paper, cardboard and plastic: 99% of construction waste from our Newlands Common development was reused on site: 2007 08 all newly developed homes are fitted with real time display energy monitors, this will progress against be rolled out to cover newly refurbished properties in our managed portfolio in 2009: targets in 2008, Grainger worked with the charity Emmaus to recycle and reuse 8,000kg of furniture and electrical items: 225 members of staff saw our environmental road show presentation: and the first survey of customer satisfaction with regard to repair work was undertaken and 69% of customers rated contractors as very good or excellent.
Carbon Emissions 2008 09 Source 2007 08 carbon emissions tonnes Office electricity consumption small power 372 Office central plant heating and cooling Not available Energy use in common parts of residential portfolio Not available Air travel 62 Rail travel 13 Taxi travel Not available Car travel Not available Energy use at development sites electricity and diesel consumption 346 This is the first year that Grainger has been able to monitor its carbon emissions.
The information included in the above table is based on the following: meter readings taken at our eight offices for a 10-month period and extrapolated up to constitute 12 months: diesel and electricity consumption on our development sites that is reported via our contractors: and business journeys recorded through our corporate travel booking service.
We are, therefore, reliant on the accuracy of data provided by our contractors and we also recognise that additional business journeys may have taken place that werent booked through this system.
These figures should therefore be judged with these limitations in mind and taken as indication of our overall impact rather than a truly accurate measure of our emissions.
0 3 % 7 5 % 0 28 Grainger plc annual review 2008 CREATIVE and ambitious approach Our people are not only the best in their field, but are those who consistently apply their skills and experience to benefit the group as a whole Our ability to innovate enables us to compete where others cant.
We aim to be a high-performance team of like-minded experts who share a common vision for growth
