In seeking to deliver against BBA Aviations CSR Vision we are currently focusing on Directors Report four key areas: Business Review: Corporate Social Responsibility Health and Safety Environment Corporate Social Responsibility People Community Sustainability is core to BBA Aviations vision, mission, goals and behaviours and to the way Health and Safety It is our belief that as a company we should ensure that, regardless of where they we do business.
In order to provide additional work or what job they undertake, our employees operate in a safe, secure and impetus and focus for our efforts, we have a fulfilling work environment.
Protecting our employees health and safety is therefore our key priority.
separate and standalone vision for BBA Aviation The management of, and continuous improvement in, Health and Safety in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility: performance is the responsibility of our operating management.
Health and Safety risks are assessed through a dedicated team of health and safety professionals Our Corporate Social Responsibility Vision is to operating at various levels throughout our organisation.
This includes senior level manage our impact on, and contribute positively managers and numerous site-based managers who employ global web-based reporting, audit and training tools and who regularly evaluate site performance.
to, society and the environment through the Performance statistics such as near miss reporting, recordable incident data, incident operation of our companies and the conduct severity, lost work day case rates and workers compensation claims are compiled on a continuous basis, monitored closely through our management processes and of our personnel.
reported regularly to the Executive Management Committee and the Board.
Plans to drive further improvement in our Health and Safety performance are formulated and This is supported by the six key values that underpin the way that we do business targets are set and approved in all our business units on an annual basis.
in BBA Aviation: At 2008s year-end we recorded a Company-wide Recordable Incident Rate RIR of 4.89, which is lower than our RIR performance of 6.40 in 2007.
This represents the lowest rate for the current portfolio of our aviation businesses since we started to compile statistics some six years ago.
We realise that much work still lies ahead to achieve our goal of an industry leadership role in safety practices and performance and a proactive safety culture.
As the safety improvement programmes that are now Integrity Responsibility embedded in our aviation service businesses continue to mature, we anticipate further improvement in the months and years to come.
Environment Performance Safety It is the responsibility of operating management to manage, and continue to reduce, the impact we have on the environment in which we operate.
For a number of years we have focused on identifying and improving performance in key areas of environmental impact, which include waste creation, recycling programmes, energy and water consumption.
People Service Evaluating environmental risks associated with the operation of our businesses and managing those risks and our impact on the environment is, however, an area of increasing senior management focus within BBA Aviation.
The same global webbased reporting, audit and training tools employed to manage health and safety risk are utilised to identify issues of environmental compliance on a regular basis.
Through annual self-assessments and site audits, our personnel develop site improvement Integrity We earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders with honesty, fairness, openness plans, which are reviewed annually by senior management.
In addition, we engage external consultants to conduct routine review and validation of environmental and by honouring our commitments.
Responsibility metrics for all our operating business sites in order to gauge their impacts on the environment.
The last formal review was conducted during October 2008.
We are committed to managing our impact on, and contributing positively to, society and the environment.
We continue to encourage our businesses to become certificated to ISO 14001: Environmental Management Systems.
In December 2008 APPH Bolton became the Safety We are dedicated to safety and security, the elimination of hazards and protecting third site within APPH to achieve this certification.
The remaining four APPH businesses are progressively working towards certification and have set themselves a 2010 people, property and our environment.
Service deadline for achieving ISO 14001 approval, while APPH Runcorn Landing Gear is now working towards achieving OHSAS 18001 health and safety accreditation during 2009.
We strive continually to anticipate customer needs, exceeding their expectations.
People Supporting our local communities and improving our surrounding environment remains a priority for BBA Aviation companies.
We continue to We are committed to investing in and empowering our people through training and education and to providing them with opportunities for rewarding careers.
demonstrate our commitment to the environment through many activities and initiatives.
In keeping with Signatures commitment to environmental responsibility Performance We focus on delivery of long-term and sustainable value, continuous improvement Signatures facility at Bostons Logan International Airport BOS became Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED certified in 2008 and the first general and reliability.
aviation facility within the Signature network with this certification.
LEED is a rating system developed by the US Green Building Council.
Projects that achieve LEED certification in corporate sustainable, green architectural design, make use of environmentally friendly building products and energy efficient electrical and mechanical systems, and utilise environmentally sensitive construction practices to provide for high building performance and to minimise environmental impact.
A project is currently under way at Signatures operation at San Francisco International 48 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 Airport to renovate the executive terminal and two existing hangars, incorporating similar green building concepts to those used at Boston.
When complete this project will be submitted for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Commercial Interiors certification.
Although we have a relatively small environmental footprint, we are conscious that we service an industry that continues to attract adverse comment relating to its impact on the environment and its contribution to climate change.
The industry CSR Governance and Reporting continues to work to drive improvement in its environmental efficiency and we Responsibility to the Board for relationships with all our stakeholders lies with the continue to support the effort to improve the sustainability of aviation into the future, Group Chief Executive.
Mark Harper, a non-executive director, is BBA Aviations CSR through, for example, ASIGs participation in industry bodies conferences evaluating Responsible Director.
The Group Health, Safety and Environment Director, Kimberly the potential opportunities for alternative fuels in commercial aviation.
Tuyn, appointed in March 2008, reports directly to the Group Chief Executive and is responsible for delivering our Group Health, Safety and Environment strategy while the Group Secretary, Zillah Stone, has, since November 2008, had Group-level People We value the talent that each individual brings to BBA Aviation and believe that our oversight of wider CSR activities through chairing the CSR Steering Committee.
This Steering Committee includes representatives from each of the operating businesses people are a scarce resource and key business differentiator.
Supporting all our employees and helping them to develop their capabilities and realise their potential and has cross-functional representation also.
The Committee is in the process of reviewing and refreshing the Groups approach to CSR, looking in more detail at is a key area of increasing investment for BBA Aviation.
It is our belief that by so doing, we can continuously improve the calibre of our people, enhance the performance ways to ensure CSR is embedded within each operating business.
Questions on CSR matters are included in the annual Control Risk Assessment of our business and positively impact the world around us.
Satisfying the highest ethical standards, complying with the law and exercising appropriate sensitivity to the questionnaire completed by each operating business.
The responses are then reviewed and collated by Group Internal Audit and will be fed into the development needs of our employees, the communities in which we work and the environment must be integrated with our business goals in a complementary manner.
This balance of future CSR action plans.
BBA Aviations most recent annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report can cannot be achieved unless all of our employees are engaged in this effort.
Our people form the foundation of each BBA Aviation business.
To sustain a be found on the Companys website.
We continue to gauge our progress in CSR matters in a variety of ways.
We have been a member of the FTSE4Good index since committed, progressive workforce, it is critical that we treat our employees equitably.
A large part of this investment in our employees involves ensuring that we operate BBA Aviation plc was renamed after the demerger in 2006 and BBA Group plc had been a constituent of the index since 2001.
This index incorporates companies that fairly at all times and do not permit discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, religion or belief, colour, gender, disability, meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
The Observer Good Companies Guide published in national origin, age, military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital status.
This includes giving full and fair consideration to suitable applications from November 2008 ranked BBA Aviation plc 85 out of 311 FTSE companies.
We have set performance measures in each of our four key areas of focus disabled persons for employment and making appropriate accommodations so that if existing employees become disabled they can continue to be employed, Health and Safety, Environment, People and Community which will be monitored Group-wide in 2009 in the quarterly operating review meetings held by senior wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, making every effort to find suitable alternative employment and to provide relevant training.
management with each business and reported on regularly to the Executive Management Committee and to the Board.
This will build on our long-standing We believe in instilling this commitment to fairness in our entire staff and require that all our employees abide by the highest standards of ethical conduct.
programme of Group, business, company and location-based performance targets for Health and Safety and Environmental metrics.
Our Code of Business Ethics, along with other Group policies, was revised, reviewed by the Executive Management Committee and approved by the Board in April 2008.
Some of our businesses have begun the process of promoting our CSR principles through their supply chain in a more structured way and their experience Training on the Code of Business Ethics and other Group policies has been undertaken in the UK and the USA in 2008 and this training programme will will inform the development of similar projects in other parts of the Group.
As well as the Code of Business Ethics, the Group Policies Manual includes continue to be rolled out in 2009.
More details on Group policies and the procedures supporting them, including the 24-hour hotline available to all employees in policies on bribery and corruption, gifts and entertainments, disclosure of unethical conduct, equal opportunities and anti-harassment guidelines and competition law.
conjunction with the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy, are set out in item 11 on page 61 Systems of Internal Control.
Compliance with each of these policies is the subject of review as part of the ongoing BBA Aviation Internal Audit Programme and the effectiveness of these We provide our employees with various opportunities to obtain information on matters of concern to them and to improve their awareness of the financial and policies is considered as an integral part of the risk review process described in item 1 on page 60 Systems of Internal Control.
economic factors that affect the performance of the Company.
These include all hands briefings, staff forums and meetings with trade unions that take place A Board Priority throughout the year.
We remain committed to Corporate Social Responsibility and it is a priority for the Board to continue to make progress in this area during 2009.
Community Supporting the local communities in which we work and improving our surrounding environment are of paramount importance to BBA Aviation companies around the world.
We recognise that we form part of the broader global community.
It is our responsibility, as a good neighbour, to contribute to those locations where we are resident.
In addition to providing support to our surrounding communities through our practices of local employment, local training and, where appropriate, the purchase of local goods and services, we are proud to play an active role in a variety of local activities and charities.
We continue to demonstrate our commitment to our communities through many activities and initiatives.
A good example of this in action was in October 2008 when more than 40 BBA Aviation, ASIG and Signature volunteers from both corporate and field operations staff worked together in the days prior to the National Business Aviation Association Convention to build a playground in an underprivileged area of Orlando.
They helped source supplies of tools and equipment and other donations and used them, their own time and talents and the assistance of local businesses and members of the community to build this playground under the co-ordination of KaBOOM, a US non-profit organisation that has built over 225 playgrounds across North America in pursuit of its vision of every child in America having a great place to play within walking distance.
