Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 80 Key achievements Sustainability During the last year, we formalised some of the structures necessary to ensure we deliver our sustainability strategy.
Structurally, we have formed a new Board Committee, the Sustainability Committee, which is chaired by Chief Executive Adrian Wyatt.
The Committee has responsibility for the debate of major sustainability issues and the recommendation of sustainability Quintains corporate and social philosophy is inextricably strategies to the Board.
In order to capture best practice linked to inculcating sustainability into the built thinking, the Committee includes two external experts, environment.
We believe that building sustainable urban currently both senior figures from the energy sector, as communities is key to the survival of our species and are well as representatives from different disciplines within determined to play our role in finding solutions, backing Quintain.
A Sustainability Working Group has also been living experiments and pioneering and fostering joined up formed, which provides a forum for more detailed debate thinking between the various parties and groups involved of sustainability issues as they impact our business in the development of sustainable towns and cities.
We have additionally undertaken a review to ensure Sustainability strategy sustainability is considered at every stage of our decisionOur sustainability strategy is to continue to be at the making processes.
As a result of this a number of changes forefront of sustainable urban development, gaining have been made to our internal procedures, which have competitive advantage, market share and higher given us a clear focus on the management of our profitability from our reputation and actions.
We believe sustainability programme, in conjunction with our supply that Quintains position as the property sectors thought chain and Towns as Businesses initiatives.
leader in sustainability is a vital component of our overall In order to establish our baseline metrics, we have, corporate reputation and a necessary part of our business with the aid of independent consultants and using the model.
This position underpins the future viability of Carbon Trusts methodology, calculated our overall carbon the business, including for example our ability to win footprint.
This has informed our Carbon Management Plan and realise major regeneration schemes.
It also reflects and has helped in the setting of our ambitious carbon our commitment to the provision of a truly sustainable reduction goal.
At a very practical level we have also undertaken a review of our own sustainability housekeeping practices, Quintains sustainability mission statement which has resulted in a number of changes including energy and water-saving initiatives, such as the Across all of its business activities, Quintain elimination of the use of bottled water at our headquarters is committed to the creation of a sustainable building, and a detailed waste management programme.
During the course of the last year, Adrian Wyatt, In support of this goal we will introduce Quintains Chief Executive, founded the Sustainable environmentally friendly materials, processes and Environment Foundation, a charity which includes procedures, in accordance with best available practices amongst its objectives research into the role played by and on a progressive basis.
the built environment in the causes of climate change, We commit to the measurement of our progress resource depletion and the abuse of the natural world.
against this goal and will share our findings with all The Sustainable Environment Foundation hosted the our stakeholders.
April 2008 Living in a Low Carbon World conference, of which Quintain was a sponsor.
The Head of Sustainability Initiatives works with the Sustainable Environment Foundation on a pro bono basis.
Further information about the Sustainable Environment Foundation can be found at www.
com Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 81 The year ahead and key performance indicators During the past year we identified a series of non-financial key performance indicators KPIs, assessed our baseline position in relation to these and set targets for the coming year.
In many cases this has been done in dialogue with our primary suppliers, to ensure we will act together to set and achieve realistic targets for the reduction of our overall greenhouse gas emissions.
Our lead KPI is our overall carbon footprint.
We are targeting a cumulative saving of 50,000 tonnes of CO over 2 10 years, assuming current build-out rates.
This will be achieved in part through a 25% reduction per sq m in our CO2 emissions over Building Regulations for future new developments.
This is in line with English Partnerships and the Housing Corporations aspirations to achieve the Code for Sustainable Homes Level 4, and a cumulative 44% reduction from 2006 Building Standards for all new developments by 2010.
Total Quintain CO emissions 2 for the baseline year of 2008 were calculated to be 0.003 tonnes of CO per sq m. 2 In support of this lead KPI we have initiated a series of subsidiary performance indicators relating to areas such as energy and water consumption, waste generation, travel, health and safety, communications and healthy living.
You will find further information about our sustainability strategy, performance indicators, targets and the programmes we have put in place to achieve them in our Sustainability Report which will be published shortly.
You can obtain a copy of this report by either calling our switchboard on 020 7495 8968 or emailing sustainability@quintain-estates.
The full report will also be available on our website at www.
