Environmental Policy Statement The Bellway Group is one of the largest house builders in the UK.
The house building process affects the environment by the use of land and consumption of resources throughout the development process.
It is our objective to ensure that at the conclusion of a development an attractive and sustainable new environment has been created that will continue over time.
Cotton Gardens, Romford, Essex Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19 Recognising that we have responsibilities to both limit damage to and In addition to our key commitments, the Group has identified a enhance the environment, this statement sets out our policies for number of specific priority areas which we will endeavour to achieve: managing the environmental aspects across our business.
consideration of environmental aspects in the selection and Key objectives are to: procurement of land for development, including implications for biodiversity and sustainable development minimise any deleterious effects on the environment and where possible to seek environmental enhancements, concentrating on areas meeting and, where possible, exceeding government targets for the where there is most room for improvement redevelopment of brownfield land aim to meet and, where practicable, exceed all relevant influencing the design of sites, housing, and fittings to minimise effects environmental legislation and regulations on both the natural and built environment improve our environmental performance providing environmental benefits and minimising nuisance arising from construction activities and preventing pollution on development sites set specific environmental objectives and targets and periodically review progress against these consideration of environmental issues within our corporate functions and everyday business decision-making processes.
ensure that Bellway's environmental aims and their importance are communicated throughout the Group, including appropriate subThe above statement will be balanced against economic contractors and suppliers, and that a copy of this policy statement is considerations.
displayed at each Bellway office and site consider the role that Bellway can play in helping to contribute to the principles of sustainable development within the UK recognise and respond to the challenges and opportunities that are presented by climate change.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 20
