Corporate Responsibility Policy The Old Tannery, Canterbury, Kent The effect of climate change is one of the main challenges facing the housebuilding industry today.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13 Through Bellways commitment to corporate responsibility we will: engage and respond to stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, government and communities that we affect comply with all relevant legislation as a minimum standard work towards recognised good practice in sustainability and corporate responsibility treat all employees fairly and invest in training for the long-term to bring out the best in our people provide a healthy and safe environment in which to work through an effective health & safety management system demonstrate continual improvement in our approach to sustainable developments in both design and practice recognise and respond to the challenges and opportunities that are presented by climate change invest in the communities we develop in a way that contributes to local community needs manage our environmental footprint and aim to enhance our performance in areas where we operate, particularly in relation to energy and waste consider and respond to the social and environmental effects of the homes we develop and communities that we create improve internal and external awareness of our corporate responsibility programmes and initiatives report regularly to the Board and external stakeholders on performance using sustainability indicators.
The following structure has been put in place to achieve these commitments.
The Chief Executive is responsible for this policy and advising the Board on all corporate responsibility matters.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Sustainability Management Working Group which includes senior employees from across the Group who are responsible for the development and review of this policy.
The financial directors or managers of each regional division are responsible for implementation and reporting on performance.
Bellway believes that its reputation is critical to the creation of longBellway is committed to reporting annually on its approach to term value for its shareholders.
We recognise that financial success is corporate responsibility and has established key performance indicators reinforced by our behaviour beyond the balance sheet.
Protecting and to enable others to judge our performance.
This policy does not enhancing our reputation and social licence to operate is a significant replace existing policies on environment, health & safety and wood element of sustained financial success.
procurement, but has been developed to work in conjunction with Corporate responsibility is action taken by our Group which positively them.
All policies are available on the Bellway website affects our employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, the www.
co. uk and are reviewed annually.
communities where we work and the environment that we operate in, and goes beyond our legal or regulatory obligations.
This policy sets out how we will operate and drives the Groups corporate responsibility activity.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 14
