26 Corporate responsibility Roger Dye, Chief Executive Forward looking and sustainable approach We maintain a forward looking and sustainable approach to managing Our customers demand the highest standards of products and service: our business.
We invest for the long-term in our staff and in operational they need us to be timely when we collect and deliver, exible in the initiatives that both reduce the impact of our operations on the services that we offer, while at the same time adhering to appropriate environment and reduce our cost base.
We pride ourselves in understanding our customers and their needs.
We achieve this We recognise the areas that might have an impact on the longthrough activities ranging from day-to-day contact at customers term value of the group.
The way we engage with our employees, premises to established key account management processes.
customers, partners, investors and community inuences greatly how successful we are now and how successful we will be in the future.
Our customers depend upon us to adhere to certain standards and There are a number of corporate responsibility CR related key they demand that we manage the services that we provide in an performance indicators that are regularly monitored across the group.
These services give our customers the Further references to these key performance indicators are made opportunity to reduce the overall impact of their operations on the later in this report.
By focusing on re-usable products, washing in bulk and continually optimising our washing processes, we offer our customers In January 2009 we were accepted as a participant in the United an environmentally friendlier solution to their textile maintenance Nations Global Compact.
This will provide us with a recognised and requirements.
In most instances the industrialised process that we respected policy framework for our work and progress with regard provide is more environmentally friendly than if our customers had to corporate responsibility.
As expected by the Compact we aim to maintained their laundry requirements in-house.
provide our first Communication on Progress within two years of our joining in the 2010 Annual Report.
Our customers expect that we operate in an ethical way.
We believe it paramount that our partners and suppliers are treated with respect The importance of CR is recognised by the board and it acknowledges and that we promote collaborative working relationships.
It is its responsibility in setting and updating the CR policies that are important to us that our suppliers and their sub-contractors adhere distributed throughout the group.
These policies specically cover to the groups requirement for the provision of appropriate labour ethics, environmental matters, our employees and the community.
standards regarding employee age, working conditions and the The board has determined that responsibility for CR policy general treatment of workers.
We fully support relevant international implementation and compliance monitoring lies ultimately with standards in this eld, especially Convention No.
138 of the the Chief Executive.
In addition, the board regularly reviews the International Labour Organisation, which seeks to progressively raise management of corporate  issues.
the minimum age for workers.
We work with and are in constant We maintain a decentralised management structure requiring local dialogue with our largest direct suppliers, carrying out periodic checks management teams to be responsible for the implementation of the to assess compliance with the groups policies.
We are continually group CR policies within their jurisdictions.
This also ensures that we reviewing our procedures and the potential risks associated with using take into account local cultures and legislation.
Marketplace and customers Working with our employees We are a focused European textile maintenance business providing It is through the continued efforts of our staff, our principal asset, workwear, linen, facilities and direct sales services, allowing companies that we drive our success.
They are the individuals who interact with to focus increasingly on the management of their core business our customers, understand their needs and provide the standards of deliverables.
Our customer base is wide and diverse.
In the main we service that are expected.
We need to provide our staff with a safe operate with contracts of at least three years in length, although working environment that respects all people and cultures and Healthcare contracts are normally for periods in excess of five years.
27 Health and safety management Our employees come from a wide range of social and educational backgrounds, with varying age proles.
We believe that through Many of our employees work in a production environment recognising and valuing the differences in our staff, we are better incorporating potentially significant risk factors.
Some are working positioned to attract and retain those that we need.
The nature of our with industrial laundry machinery and equipment and are involved operations requires exible working arrangements and shift patterns, in the movement and transportation of textiles.
It is therefore of the through which we can often accommodate different individuals utmost importance to us that we maintain for our employees, as well lifestyle needs.
This can range from uctuating seasonal volumes in as for customers and others affected by our activities, a high standard our hotel operations, to a steadier trend in our garment divisions.
of systems for health and safety.
Given our many years of experience in this industry we are able to The Managing Director of each business unit is responsible to readily predict demand uctuations and so are well positioned to the Chief Executive for maintaining health and safety procedures provide opportunities for exible working arrangements that may appropriate for the environment of that unit.
These responsibilities better suit individual circumstances.
include providing safe systems of work: for example ensuring rotation We are geared towards the diverse nature of our workforce.
of laundry operatives responsibilities to avoid fatigue, training on For example, the group has a whistleblowing system by which staff machinery operation and manual handling to ensure correct lifting, may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in and training on procedures for using laundry cages and trolleys.
financial reporting or other matters including breaches of our Our employees are regularly provided with training appropriate CR policies.
This system operates throughout the group in a number to their roles and responsibilities.
In the UK for instance, this system is at present available We believe that health and safety concerns everyone working in our in 14 different languages.
operations: procedures and systems are documented in handbooks Training or manuals.
We carry out periodic risk assessments at business units and invest in improvements to our safety systems when and where In a challenging marketplace where dedicated staff are difficult to required.
We regularly review our health and safety procedures recruit and retain, it is important to our business success that we to ensure they reect legislative or business sector changes and continue to meet our employees needs and expectations, since they developments.
We have a robust reporting system for use in the are key in meeting and exceeding the expectations of our customers.
unfortunate occurrence of health and safety related incidents.
The responsibility for staff training and recruitment lies with our Any such incidents are promptly reported and investigated, and business unit line management.
We focus on induction training actions agreed to prevent such incidents reoccurring.
Group incident at all levels, individual development plans and, where appropriate, statistics are regularly collected and reviewed.
If an employee were cross-border transfers.
We provide a mixture of on-the-job training to become disabled during the course of employment, every effort for our operational, sales and service employees and leadership would be made to ensure that their employment with the group training for our more senior staff.
We are committed across the continued and that appropriate retraining is arranged.
group to in-house training and promotion of internal candidates.
Diversity We have established a series of long-term incentive schemes for senior management at our business units.
General training and We currently operate in 15 countries, encompassing a wide range development plans are designed to meet the expectations of and of languages and cultures.
We value diversity in our workforce and prospects for our dedicated and loyal employees.
have a group-wide human resources and employee policy prohibiting discrimination against employees or potential employees on any Employee dialogue grounds.
It is also our policy not to discriminate against disabled It is our policy to maintain an ongoing dialogue with our employees in persons, particularly regarding recruitment and selection, training, local operations, and to listen to their concerns and needs.
Our local career development and promotion.
management teams actively address with our employees any day-to-day issues, although dialogue is also maintained at country level via staff associations and trade unions where recognised.
United Nations Global Compact Collection of health and safety Diversity In February 2009 the Chief Executive has incident statistics In 2008 our plant in lsted, Denmark written to all business unit Managing In 2007 we began to collect health and safety was awarded the Integrationsprisen 2008 Directors outlining the commitments that we related incident statistics from our business by the Copenhagen Municipality.
This are making, and requesting that information units.
These incident statistics and details of recognised work done to integrate nine on the Global Compact be communicated the most serious incidents that have occurred different nationalities, including offering to their senior management teams.
are regularly reported to the board.
our employees Danish language training.
28 Corporate responsibility continued Reducing our environmental impact for instance by installing water and heat recovery recycling systems that reduce the volume of detergent solids disposed of in efuent.
We know that we operate in a business that needs extensive use These initiatives have typically resulted in a reduction in detergent of utilities and natural resources.
We recognise the environmental usage of approximately 10%.
impact of our operations and we understand the risks and opportunities associated with these challenges.
Shortening delivery distances We are continually looking at ways in which we can reduce our use We are mindful of any future national or local legislation in this of natural resources.
To help us with this, we follow the guidelines set area and are continually working towards meeting and exceeding out by the European Textile Services Association, an industry body requirements.
We regularly review our vehicle routes to ensure the representing the textile rental services sector in Europe.
We continue most efficient use of our eet resources and fuel while recognising to recognise the following four areas as being of particular importance customers individual requirements.
to us: In recognising the potential environmental impact of our operations, Water use: our business units monitor carefully the occurrence of any environmental spillages or incidents.
Any such incidents would Energy consumption: be promptly reported to the executive board and company board, Use and disposal in efuent of cleaning detergents: and as well as the relevant local or national agency.
In 2008 we established a working group, comprising representatives from all of our major business units: their role is to share and identify We use key performance indicators on water, electricity, chemicals ways in which our business units can reduce even further their use of and oil gas usage.
Our business units measure, monitor and report water, energy and chemicals.
Their work will also continue to promote these monthly, comparing the latest results against those budgeted.
improvement in the ways we measure and monitor the environmental Water recovery impacts of our operations.
We use water recovery systems in the majority of our operations, as they can reduce water consumption by between 20% and 25%, Dialogue with our local communities helping to preserve natural resources and at the same time Our operations recruit where they can from their local communities: controlling costs.
as a consequence we recognise the importance of maintaining a Reducing heat and energy loss strong local reputation and have a group-wide policy that requires our businesses to respect all local cultures and religions.
By providing Our strategy to reduce heat and energy loss is to install new more efficient employment opportunities to members of our local communities technology in key parts of our operations, where most energy is used, we reect the diversity of these communities within our workforce.
and where there will be a significant environmental benefit.
For our laundry operations this typically means boilers and driers.
New Many of our plants are in suburban areas, operating from early in technology has helped us control the use of energy by recycling hot the morning till late at night, and in some cases for 24 hours.
water, recovering energy from boiler exhaust gas, recovering heat from We therefore carefully monitor the impact our operations might drier exhaust, monitoring tumbler temperatures to optimise drying time have on local residents, particularly with regard to outdoor lighting, and recovering high pressure steam for use elsewhere in the laundry yard and vehicle noise, and pollution.
To ensure continuing close process.
New technologies have typically reduced energy consumption relationships, we maintain an ongoing dialogue with our neighbours, by between 10% and 30% according to the operation concerned.
local authorities and councils, to discuss any issues that may arise.
For example, through strong dialogue with our neighbours, and Reducing the amount and concentration of cleaning self-imposed actions we have resolved emerging issues relating to detergents used and disposed of in effluent vehicle noise in Birmingham and successfully relocated the site of We work closely with our detergent suppliers to nd ways to optimise our Kolding plant in Denmark away from a heavily populated area.
our usage of detergents and decrease the use of water in rinsing, as well as energy.
We have already progressed signicantly in this eld, Reduced employee absenteeism Benefits of re-usable products Rocialle, UK Green Dragon In 2008 our plant in Hard, Austria joined Protex in the UK provide sterile and reusable Environmental Standard a district scheme to improve the health of operating theatre textiles, gowns and drapes.
We are aware of our environmental industrial employees.
This included providing Using Protex can save an acute hospital, responsibilities to our customers and future dietary education, and has improved team doing about 20,000 procedures annually, generations.
We are actively engaged in spirit, reduced employee absenteeism and up to 100,000 kg of waste compared to energy conservation and waste recycling to earned us a local award.
help ensure a bright and sustainable world.
Governance 30 Corporate governance statement 31 Board of Directors 36 Report on directors remuneration 41 Directors report 46 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements
