eNVIrONMeNtAl ANd bUSINeSS reVIew SOcIAl reSPONSIbIlIty rePOrt 22 eNVIrONMeNtAl ANd SOcIAl reSPONSIbIlIty rePOrt At the heArt Of OUr bUSINeSS During the past few years sustainable and achieving the prestigious Queens Award sell our developments, and deliver customer development and sustainable communities for Sustainable Development, the equivalent satisfaction.
In line with best practice, we have become an integral part of the language of a knighthood for business.
undertook a five part materiality test which of policy makers and the general public alike.
resulted in us prioritising the impacts set out However, these concepts are not new to us GOVerNANce in the table opposite.
at Berkeley: sustainability is simply the way Leadership of our strategy comes from we do business.
Our focus on brownfield the Main Board, which is supported by the OUr StAkehOlderS development and long-term investment Sustainability Governance Committee, who Engagement with stakeholders is central in complex mixed-use projects reflect our ensure that our sustainability strategy and to the ongoing development of our passion and commitment to creating a legacy business objectives are clearly aligned.
In last years report, that we can be proud of.
We believe that The Sustainability Governance Committee we set out our key stakeholders which we this strategy has given Berkeley a definitive is chaired by Group Finance Director, Rob categorised as customers, investors, local competitive advantage over our peers.
Perrins, and includes Directors from across communities, employees, contractors and the business.
We also have a Sustainability suppliers, housing associations, industry This year we are publishing our seventh Working Group SWG, made up of senior bodies and trade associations, Government sustainability report alongside our report and management from across the Group which and non-governmental organisations.
In line with best practice, we have ensures that our strategic approach is year, we have sought to engage further with sought to apply the Global Reporting Initiative implemented at an operational level.
The these stakeholders, strategically through GRI Sustainability Reporting Principles, work of the SWG is supported by a number seeking their input into our assessment Level C, for defining report content to of forums established to examine specific of materiality and practically through present a balanced, transparent and relevant challenge and opportunity areas in more engagement on individual issues or projects.
account of our sustainability performance.
These committees have looked at a For example, we are active members of the range of key issues such as energy, water, Governments Zero Carbon Task Force and Over the past year we launched a number waste, procurement, and human resources.
have been working with the Waste Resources of groundbreaking initiatives including a These committees allow us to define the Action Programme WRAP to develop waste commitment to achieving the Governments challenges and then hone solutions which management rules for our contractors.
Code for Sustainable Homes Level 3 for can be used across the business.
Berkeley all dwellings affordable and private on Homes, St George and St James, meanwhile, We have Community Engagement Guidelines new planning applications, the first home each have their own internal Sustainability which are used on all new projects which builder to set such a target.
These strategic Working Groups which meet at least exceed statutory requirements.
The commitments have been matched by a quarterly.
All reporting to the Groups SWG, consultation process being undertaken quantifiable improvement in our performance these groups further embed the daily practice at Kidbrooke, a regeneration project in including a reduction in our operational of sustainability within the business.
They partnership with English Partnerships and carbon footprint of 18%.
Underlying this are supported at project level by meetings the London Borough of Greenwich which emerging environmental agenda, our convened to implement sustainability will result in approximately 4,000 new approach to sustainability has always priorities and procedures on individual sites.
homes, provides a best practice example encompassed socio-economic issues rooted of community engagement.
Workshops in our expertise in regeneration we have For more information on the terms of are being held with the local community built over 2,850 homes in 7 of the 10 most reference for these committees, please to discuss issues such as block layout, deprived Local Authorities in the past five see our website.
permeability, landscaping, road networks years and we will create over 7,500 jobs on and community facilities.
Residents our major mixed-use schemes.
OUr MAterIAl IMPActS are also invited to visit our permanent It is important for us to prioritise those exhibition centre on site to view a 3D model It is this track record that has enabled us environmental, social and economic impacts and animated fly through of the proposed to demonstrate that Berkeleys approach that can have significant implications for scheme as well as plans and computer to environmental, social and economic the business.
In line with best practice generated images.
In addition, a whole sustainability is much more than rhetoric.
standards, we undertook a review to assess range of other consultation activities have This has been recognised through independent which sustainability issues were material been undertaken including regular local assessment and awards: these include to our business or, in other words, likely to stakeholder meetings, a consultation website, securing first place in the NextGeneration affect our ability to buy land, gain planning presentations to local service providers benchmark of the UKs top 20 home builders permission, operate efficiently, market and and engagement with local schools.
23 OUr MAterIAl IMPActS eNVIrONMeNtAl SOcIAl fINANcIAl climate change health and safety Financial performance Land use community engagement customer satisfaction Energy Employees Local economy and job creation Water Supply chain management Waste Transport P erformance standards e. g. code for sustainable homes BREEAM OUr PerfOrMANce Each year, we have set ourselves challenging BROWNFIELD UTILISATION % AVERAGE CUSTOMER targets for continuous improvement SATISFACTION % Berkeleys Would you recommend Berkeley and we have made significant progress performance to your best friend?
this year fully achieving over 80% of our 100 targets.
Our sustainability report provides 100% 90% 90% 89% Berkeley 95% 86% a detailed assessment of our progress.
performance 80 We also use a series of Key Performance target Indicators to quantify and monitor our 60 Government 60% performance on a quarterly basis, some target of these are shown below and a more 40 detailed analysis can be found in the sustainability report and on our web site.
20 0 05 06 07 08 1 1 00% of sites commencing 48.4% of dwellings 3.8 rIddOr rate per construction with Site waste Management assessed using the ecohomes 1,000 employees 2007: 7.2 1,000 plans in line with the dtIs code of practice methodology 2007: 43.2% includes client and principle 2007: 96% ecohomes was the forerunner to contractor sites the code of sustainable homes 1 reporting of Injuries, diseases and dangerous Occurrences bUSINeSS reVIew eNVIrONMeNtAl ANd bUSINeSS reVIew SOcIAl reSPONSIbIlIty rePOrt 24 01 02 03 05 SUStAINAbIlIty IS At the heArt Of berkeley 04 AN INteGrAl PArt Of the bUSINeSS StrAteGy 01 Public consultation at Royal Arsenal, Woolwich 02 Construction in progress at Battersea Reach 03 See it, Sort it or Report it Berkeleys Good Order campaign prioritises Health & Safety on site 04 Berkeley ensures it considers every aspect of the environment in which it works 05 The Barnes Wetland Centre is a pioneering exemplar of environmental responsibility in development, creating a haven for wildlife in London 06 Talking Climate Change at one of Berkeleys Lets Talk conferences 25 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED In this years sustainability report we have more detailed analysis can be found in the Our average score in the Considerate provided feedback from a wide range of sustainability report and on our web site.
Constructors Scheme is 34.1 compared stakeholders on various aspects of our to the average for new housing private sustainability programme.
Other hIGhlIGhtS Of the yeAr INclUde: of 30.22.
Water 25% of projects have rainwater OUr PerfOrMANce harvesting, we achieved a 9% reduction in In this report, we have highlighted a number Each year, we have set ourselves challenging total water consumption across our offices of examples of our detailed programme targets for continuous improvement and sites and reduced by 15% the water of work in relation to some of the most 3 and we have made significant progress consumed m per unit built.
material issues for us over the past year.
this year fully achieving over 80% of our Transport 90% of current projects are Our full report and web site provides greater targets.
Our sustainability report provides within 500 metres of a public transport detail on these initiatives and information a detailed assessment of our progress.
node, we are providing over 8,000 new on our approach to a much wider range of We also use a series of Key Performance cycle spaces across our developments and sustainability impacts.
Indicators to quantify and monitor our 18 of our current projects include car clubs, performance on a quarterly basis, some including an electric car club at St George clIMAte chANGe of these are shown on page 23 and a Wharf and a hybrid car club at Parkwest, In 2007 we adopted a Climate Change Policy West Drayton.
which sought to address the impact of both our product and operations.
We have also 06 identified the key risks and opportunities posed to our business by climate change.
We have not yet fully quantified the financial implications of these risks and opportunities, but hope that we will be able to provide a quantified measure against some of these areas in the near future.
In February 2008 the Government announced a mandatory rating against the Code for Sustainable Homes CSH for new homes from 1 May 2008.
All homes funded under the 2008-11 Housing Corporation National Affordable Homes programme must be built to the Code for Sustainable Homes Level 3.
As part of our Climate Change Commitments launched in October 2007, we committed to ensuring all sites seeking planning permission after 1 January 2008 will commit to certifying all new homes excluding refurbishments to Level 3 of the Code for Sustainable Homes and all commercial space to BREEAM Very Good.
We continue to measure the percentage of completed dwellings certified using the EcoHomes methodology which was the precursor to the Code as a general benchmark of the environmental performance of the dwellings we build.
In 2007 08 48.4% of completed dwellings were EcoHomes certified compared to 43.2% in 2006 07, with 27.7% of all completed dwellings achieving Very Good.
bUSINeSS reVIew eNVIrONMeNtAl ANd bUSINeSS reVIew SOcIAl reSPONSIbIlIty rePOrt 26 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED In addition to improving the energy PrOcUreMeNt and deepen our work on sustainability based performance of individual dwellings, we We have rolled out our Sustainability on our most material impacts, these include: have been continuing to integrate low Procurement Policy across the divisions, and zero carbon energy solutions into which aims to provide a framework for Reviewing the content of the Land our projects 18 of our current schemes bringing environmental and social Purchase Risk Assessment checklist to feature a range of renewable energy criteria into procurement decisions and ensure that it reflects current and future solutions including wind, biomass CHP, seek assurance from our suppliers priorities.
solar thermal and PV, air source heat and contractors that the environmental The development and implementation pumps and ground source heat pumps.
and social impacts of the products and of a Sustainable Supply Chain Management services that we procure have been Strategy and Action Plan.
Over the past year we have put considerable minimised.
This work is being led by our Reducing the proportion of waste sent effort into reducing our direct carbon dioxide Sustainable Procurement Forum and to landfill by 30%, and by 50% by 2010. emissions, associated with the running involved assessing the environmental and Seeking to achieve a 5% year on year of our offices and construction sites and social impacts of products and services reduction in CO2 emissions associated emissions associated with our car fleet.
and analysing the top 25 trades by spend.
with our offices and sites from the 2007 08 We made a considerable 18% reduction in This led to detailed engagement with high baseline figure.
our total carbon emissions over the past year, risk suppliers.
Reducing our direct water consumption compared to our baseline of 2006 07.
The associated with our offices and sites savings have been achieved through a range heAlth ANd SAfety by 5% annually from the 2007 08 of initiatives including the implementation Berkeley recognises the vital importance baseline figure.
of our Green Office Management Policy of Health and Safety as part of its overall and Green Car Policy and a number of commitment to excellence in the business.
Looking forward, we believe that our practical campaigns to engage with our Over the past nine years, Berkeley has approach to sustainability will contribute staff.
During the last 12 months we have introduced seven strategic Occupational to our management of business risk also heavily invested in upgrading our IT Health & Safety programmes to reduce and we remain focused on achieving our network, moving from separate servers injuries and manage risks on issues such as sustainability targets ahead of Government in each office to a single data centre for working at height and fire precautions.
In the long-term, our business the whole business.
We have estimated part of this strategy, the latest programme, will remain one which is based upon that this new infrastructure will require rolled out across the Group over the delivering environmental, social and nearly two thirds less energy to run.
past year, has focused on Good Order.
economic benefits to communities in The Good Order Campaign focuses on need of regeneration.
We believe that this wASte MANAGeMeNt eleven key factors that can be the cause leadership approach to sustainability will All of our current sites have site waste of avoidable accidents on site, including provide us with a financial resilience and management plans SWMP which help cable management, lighting levels, waste enable us to create communities that will us to manage, reduce and recycle waste.
management, housekeeping, material be there for many future generations.
These SWMPs comply with the DTI voluntary storage, and communication.
code of practice, which we introduced as We provide more detail about our approach a requirement over three years prior to it The Good Order Campaign has been and performance in relation to a wide range being legally enforced from April 2008. a quantifiable success in 2007 08 the of sustainability impacts on our website at Over the past year we have been rolling accident incident rate is down to 3.8 per www.
out our waste data tool across projects, 1,000 employed including sub-contractors and it is now in operation on 47% of our sites compared to 7.2 in 2006 07.
This also representing 72% of construction output.
compares extremely favourably to the All This data has shown that when scaled Builder average of 9.7.
The Good Order across all operations we directly recycled Campaign also reduced accidents caused 17% of on-site waste, and a further 64% by slips and trips by 80%.
was recycled following segregation at a materials recovery facility.
This means fUtUre PrIOrItIeS that we diverted nearly 30,000 tonnes of Priorities for the coming year are set out waste from landfill, with estimated savings in full in our sustainability report, including on landfill tax of over 850,000. our 2008 09 targets which seek to expand 27 01 02 03 04 brINGING hIStOry tO lIfe 05 06 Berkeley uses it vision and expertise to restore historic buildings, breathing new life and creating vibrant communities 01 Queen Mary Hospital, Roehampton 02 Kingsway Square, Battersea 03 Sugar House, City Quarter, EC1 04 The Pump House, Hammersmith 05 Royal Arsenal, Woolwich 06 T he Pump House restaurant at New River Village, Hornsey bUSINeSS reVIew
