Corporate responsibility report Our approach to corporate responsibility is commercially based and driven by our vision to be the private equity firm of choice.
Kevin Dunn Group Company Secretary Achieving these objectives depends upon highOur approach Core values quality management teams and good values, as 3i has been helping to grow and to transform well as effective communication and alignment We believe that the highest standard of businesses for over 60 years.
We have also been of interests.
Statements of intent and policies are integrity is essential in business.
In all our building our own business, from a small Londonnecessary and important but they are by no based operation, to the international FTSE100 activities, we aim to: means sufficient.
As a corporate investor, the company that it is today, with assets under success of our approach depends upon the be commercial and fair: management of almost 10 billion.
actions of individuals and the judgments that they make on a daily basis.
Awareness and Our approach to corporate responsibility is respect the needs of our training are therefore critical so that corporate commercially based and driven by our vision to shareholders, our staff, our responsibility issues are properly considered and be the private equity firm of choice: operating suppliers, the local community and the right decisions are made and implemented, on a world-wide scale: producing consistent the businesses in which we invest: whether we are planning the launch of a new market-beating returns: acknowledged for our 3i business line or assessing an individual partnership style and winning through our maintain our integrity investment.
and professionalism: and The pace of change in business and in society, We view an active approach to corporate strive for continual improvement combined with the rising expectations placed responsibility as more than simply a means to on companies, means that the corporate and innovation.
retain our licence to operate, or to reduce risk.
responsibility agenda is developing rapidly.
We believe that it provides genuine competitive Our corporate responsibility committee, which advantage and that it helps us to maximise the Contact us is comprised of executives from across the returns for our shareholders, as well as for the For more information please contact business, is charged with ensuring that 3i is investors in the funds that we advise or manage.
com thinking ahead on these issues, as well as We think about corporate responsibility from operating to the standards that our Board two perspectives: as an investor and as a expects.
Our experience of As part of our drive for continuous working with management teams in growing improvement, the current information companies, in a broad range of sectors and contained on our investor relations website countries around the world, has led us to believe www.
com will soon be supplemented that the companies we back will grow more and by a new dedicated corporate responsibility be more attractive to potential purchasers if website www.
com which is being they are strong on corporate responsibility launched in June 2008. issues.
Our own staff and the people who work in our portfolio companies want to work for As an investor companies of which they feel proud.
Growth is As an investor we view corporate responsibility easier with enthusiastic customers, with strong from two perspectives: risk and opportunity.
supplier relationships and with a good reputation The most significant corporate  and within a sector.
related risks arising from our investment activity relate to environmental, ethical, governance and social issues.
If these risks are not identified and managed effectively, then the success of our portfolio companies can be compromised and 3is reputation could be affected.
So identifying and managing these risks well is an important part of managing risk for 3i.
The opportunity for 3i is that supporting the sustainable growth of our portfolio companies increases their value and attraction to others.
44 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders With 9.8 billion of assets under management, Throughout our history we have been actively A 3i perspective on some consisting of 6.0 billion of our own assets and involved in supporting the development of the industry issues 3.8 billion of third party funds, and a portfolio industry through the industry associations and of over 450 investments in a broad range of other activity.
Over the course of the past Do private equity firms add value to their sectors across Europe, Asia and the US, we are 12 months we have taken a leading role in a portfolio companies?
well diversified and have a broad base of number of sector-based initiatives, including in The private equity industry is highly competitive knowledge and experience on which to draw.
particular the Walker Review Group in the UK and is an industry in which competing firms The business line reviews on pages 12 to 27 on transparency.
Taking a lead on issues that differentiate themselves by their track records contain detailed case studies of our largest affect our sector as a whole is consistent with and style of investing.
investments and realisations in the year and our vision of 3i as a leading private equity firm.
This differentiation is key when raising funds or pages 108 to 109 contain details of our ten It is also in our interest to share our experience pitching to the management teams and owners largest investments and forty other large with our competitors in order to learn ourselves of businesses.
That the success of a business investments.
and to help improve the performance of the depends on both financial and non-financial sector as a whole.
performance is recognised within the industry As a company 3i is well represented on the various committees and 3i and other private equity firms have wellAs a private equity business with around 750 and councils of industry bodies, especially in developed approaches to helping their portfolio employees world-wide, 3i has a relatively small Europe where Jonathan Russell, Managing companies grow.
We do this through the boards footprint on many corporate responsibility issues.
Partner, Buyouts, is the Chairman elect of the of these companies and by bringing the benefit However, being a private equity business with a European Private Equity and Venture Capital of our experience, knowledge and networks.
sizeable portfolio and a business which operates Association.
com, has many examples internationally across Europe, in Asia and in the of businesses that we have backed and the value US, we recognise that our sustained success and Detailed information is provided on pages 50 to that we have brought in the process.
our reputation for being a good corporate citizen 53 about 3i as a company, but we also felt that mean taking our corporate responsibilities it would be helpful to provide a 3i perspective on How do private equity firms engage with seriously.
four key challenges put to the industry recently.
These issues relate to the value that private Our experience of investing, and working Being focused on the mid market, operating on a equity firms bring to their investments: their internationally has helped us to understand that world-wide scale and as one of the few publiclyapproach to the management teams of the we are stronger as a company when we work listed private equity firms, 3i is differentiated companies in which they invest and the degree with others to pursue mutual interests.
Strong within the private equity industry and has been to which they act in partnership: the relationships are based on trust, which is earned actively involved in the evolution of the accountability of private equity firms and over time.
Our focus with portfolio companies is corporate responsibility agenda for many years.
on working through the board and with Indeed, 3i was a founder member of Business in professional advisers.
We recognise that the the Community over 25 years ago.
quality of our track record locally and within a sector is a key element of the origination and conversion of future investment opportunities.
A good reputation, backed up by tangible evidence of past behaviour, is therefore key to becoming a preferred investor and making investments.
3i is proud to have been a founder member of Business in the Community over 25 years ago.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 45 Corporate responsibility report continued How accountable are private equity firms?
3i is also delighted to participate in the Carbon We understand that we are accountable to our Disclosure Project and to be a member of both investors, but also to others, for the decisions the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the that we make.
3i is a member of the FTSE100 Business in the Community Corporate and has over 26,000 shareholders, including Responsibility Index.
In the last two years we some of the worlds biggest financial institutions.
have also won awards for our Annual report and There are also over 70 Limited Partners invested our Corporate responsibility report.
in funds managed or advised by 3i.
This means The demand for transparency has been growing that we are subject to considerable scrutiny, as the private equity industry has grown.
Private not just by these investors, but also by rating equity has increasingly become a mainstream agencies, the press, governments and many asset class for investors.
The size of the other groups.
companies in which private equity firms invest We, like other private equity firms based in the has also grown, as have political and public UK, are regulated by the Financial Services interest.
Despite the scope of our own Authority FSA.
As a listed company we must disclosure and 3is reputation in this area, also adhere to stock exchange regulations, as it was clear in 2007 that the pressures being well as the prevailing regulation in each of the placed on the private equity sector risked countries and markets where we operate.
affecting 3i as well and that in the UK in An example of one aspect of FSA regulation is particular a sector-wide response was needed.
the requirement for regulated firms to treat their Through the British Private Equity and Venture regulatory customers fairly.
This is demonstrated Capital Association BVCA 3i supported the by the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly initiative.
creation of an independent working group led by Whilst the focus of this FSA initiative is on retail Sir David Walker.
The groups mandate was to financial services businesses, the concept is investigate how to improve disclosure within the relevant to other financial service businesses sector.
3i was supportive of the groups work such as 3i.
3i has policies and procedures in place and our Chairman, Baroness Hogg, was a to seek to ensure that all those that it interacts member.
In November 2007 the Walker with and not just its regulatory customers are Guidelines were published and 3i was one of treated fairly.
the first to commit to comply with them.
The 3i and Transparency section on pages 122 How transparent are private equity firms?
to 123 provides details of these guidelines and 3is objective has been to take an open and how 3i measures up against them.
straightforward approach to doing business and in describing what we do and the way in which Our commitment to greater transparency we do it to those who have an interest.
This has also prompted a reconsideration of our Corporate responsibility report, together with Corporate responsibility report.
We recognised 3i and Transparency on pages 122 to 123, the that people are generally most interested in our Private equity lexicon on pages 116 to 117, as activities as an investor and so this year we have well as the guides to Returns and IRRs and added more content on our investment process Carried interest on pages 118 to 121, are in this report, as well as on the new Corporate practical examples of this.
com which is due to be launched in June.
For further information on 3i and Transparency and how 3i meets the Walker guidelines, please go to pages 122 and 123 46 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders It is very important to Robeco that we invest in private equity firms that take corporate responsibility seriously and 3i does.
Erik Breen Robeco Corporate responsibility in Stages of investment process 182 47 682 our investment activity Our investment process involves four key stages.
Corporate responsibility considerations are important in each of those stages to sustain Work in progress Partner review successful outcomes.
Fund raising Investment assessment Creating value once we are invested Realisation Entry to work Partner review Completion Fundraising in progress of investment Investments are made by 3i using cash from our own balance sheet, as well as from funds that 3i manages or advises for third-parties.
Investment assessment The opportunity is then subsequently reviewed At 31 March 2008 3i had 9.8 billion of assets Our reputation is one of our most important in detail by a group of senior and experienced under management, comprising 6.0 billion of assets.
Accordingly, an effective review process investment executives in the relevant business our own assets and 3.8 billion of third party to identify risks and opportunities in potential line and sector known as the Partner Review.
3is own capital has been built from the new investments is crucial to our sustained If it is agreed through the Partner Review success of earlier investments.
This can be a particular challenge in process that a particular investment opportunity company was formed in 1945, with 10 million emerging markets, where publicly available should continue to be progressed, the Partner of share capital, it has only received another information is sometimes thin.
One of the Review process will also agree what further in- 10 million from shareholders and, ignoring benefits 3i has, in both developed and emerging depth analysis and due diligence should be ordinary dividends, has given over 2 billion markets, is that our reputation as a values-based undertaken.
company with high standards might deter those A list of the funds managed for third parties is Overall, our approval process might involve up who are reluctant to go through our diligence set out on page 36.
These funds are raised to to 30 different people with sector and regional process.
In a competitive industry this may mean invest in specific business lines and have clear expertise, but there will be a core group of that from time to time we lose otherwise investment mandates.
For example, Eurofund V people responsible for progressing the attractive business.
is a mid-market buy out fund which is focused investment.
This investment team is given on Europe, but has the flexibility to invest up to Whilst each investment is considered on its own access to the funds it needs to undertake 10% of the size of the fund in Asia.
merits, there is a standard review process for all comprehensive due diligence.
The time taken types of investments, which aims to identify all for this will vary considerably, depending on the Interest in the degree to which 3i and other of the issues that might affect our decision to nature of the investment, whether we are public companies and private equity firms invest.
Consideration of corporate responsibility already invested in the company and the consider environmental, ethical, governance and issues is embedded as a mandatory part of complexity of the issues involved.
It is also not social issues in our own business has been this process.
uncommon, given the depth and breadth of our growing amongst a number of large institutional relationships, for 3i to have known a company or All new investment opportunities are the subject shareholders and Limited Partners in private management team for a considerable time of a process of filtering and review.
In the year to equity funds.
3i is a member of the Dow Jones before an investment opportunity emerges.
31 March 2008, 682 companies entered our Sustainability index and the Business in the formal work in progress but we made only 47 Community Corporate responsibility index.
Following a preliminary appraisal of also been reporting to the Carbon Disclosure the potential investment opportunity, a decision Project for the past two years.
Investors is taken whether to commit further resource to representing $56 trillion of assets under progress the investment opportunity and place it management have signed up to the Carbon in formal work in progress.
Disclosure Project, which calls on major companies from around the world to provide specific details on climate change risk.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 47 Corporate responsibility report continued The corporate responsibility agenda is developing rapidly and it is critical that 3i is not only operating to the standards that our Board expects but also thinking ahead.
Baroness Hogg Chairman An explicit review of environmental, ethical, Identifying an environmental, ethical or social risk Summary of Corporate responsibility governance and social issues is required for each in our due diligence process does not necessarily Investment policy company under review.
We have access to an mean that we will withdraw.
This is because we As a socially responsible investor, 3i aims to invest in international network of specialist consultancies, recognise three levels of compliance with our companies that act responsibly in terms of who undertake the due diligence on our behalf.
policies: full: partial: and serious non-compliance.
environmental, ethical, governance and social issues.
As a result of the nature of the relationship This objective reflects our values and culture, as well The front sheet, which summarises the between a private equity investor and a portfolio as the wishes of our investors and employees, and investment proposition, includes a mandatory company, we can often have a strong influence helps protect and enhance our reputation.
section on environmental, ethical and social risks.
We will therefore Before we make an investment, we review all The entrepreneurial culture is important to our work with the company and its management potential investee companies from a corporate business model, so we do not impose a boxto change practices towards full compliance.
responsibility perspective as part of our investment ticking approach to compliance: we expect our Helping to resolve an issue may be an procedures.
Further details of our review process are investment teams to take responsibility for important element of our ability to enhance set out on pages 47 and 48. results and help ensure that they have the our investment.
A simple example might be We aim to avoid investing in companies that do not: capacity and resources to identify and address 3is support in identifying and recruiting a respect human rights: relevant issues.
We reinforce this by including in different director with specialist skills in the comply with current environmental, ethical and the approval process senior partners from our area concerned.
social legislation: sector teams and from our country offices have proposals to address defined future together with relevant support from our We operate internationally and so it is important legislation: or professional services teams or external that we consider issues in the context of local seek to comply with their industry standards and professional advisers.
This ensures that the expectations and 3is values, including best practice.
proposals are screened by people with an inconsidering whether a problem exists because of We consider that an awareness of corporate depth understanding of the sector, the country a lack of expertise or capacity, rather than responsibility risks and how to deal with them is and region and the issue, whatever it might be.
Depending on the fundamental to our due diligence and portfolio nature of the risk identified and its seriousness, management.
Our policies provide guidance to our There are many reasons why an investment may a condition precedent or post completion staff on a wide range of potential ethical, not be approved and often it is a combination of undertaking, requiring that the situation be governance, social and environmental challenges, different concerns that leads us to reject an remedied, may be required from the investee which include consideration of: investment proposal.
company or its management before we will susceptibility to human rights abuses, such as child or slave labour or bans on trade unions: proceed.
Confidence in the management teams corruption issues arising as a result of industry or capacity and will to address issues satisfactorily geographic business practices: will be a key determinant of whether we ethically sensitive sectors, including arms proceed or not.
manufacture, animal testing, gambling, The assessment of the material risks and pornography and tobacco: impacts on the environment and sensitive natural opportunities facing a business is not the only resources: and rationale for assessing corporate responsibility compliance with social legislation, such as laws issues in our investment process.
Our experience governing discrimination, employment terms and suggests that one of the fundamental factors for health and safety.
investment success is the quality of the portfolio 3i operates internationally: our policy provides that a company management team.
The approach we particular practice considered lawful in one country take to assessing potential investments places may nevertheless be considered unacceptable by 3i.
considerable emphasis on understanding and being comfortable with the management team.
Post investment, we seek to ensure that the Their approach to dealing with due diligence on companies in which we invest maintain a responsible corporate responsibility policy.
Further details of our corporate responsibility issues can be a useful approach to actively engaging with our portfolio indicator of quality.
For example, a chief companies to manage and, where necessary, executive with a poor approach to health and remediate corporate responsibility issues, are set out safety is likely to be weak in other aspects of his on pages 48 and 49. or her role.
48 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders Growing the company These provide an opportunity to learn from, and Sources of expertise Before we invest in a company we agree a clear share experiences with peers in other companies We are sometimes asked about the sources of value creation plan with the board and with the either in or outside the same sector and country.
our expertise on corporate responsibility issues.
management team who will be responsible for Within 3i it is the combination of our professional Our Business Leaders Network which operates on delivering the plan.
This will also involve an service and investments teams who draw on the a world-wide basis, also provides opportunities expectation that 3i will deliver on the actions it is knowledge and experience that we have built up for our portfolio companies to access responsible for in the plan.
These may relate to over many years.
Our sector and local teams experienced chairmen and board directors and, strategic input, a specific functional expertise or also have in-depth knowledge of specific issues for those involved, to network and learn from providing access to relevant relationships around relating to particular sectors or regions.
Many of those in our Business the world.
This added value may be why we Our Corporate Responsibility, Health & Safety, Leaders Network have run successful 3i-backed have been chosen as the preferred investor and Risk and other committees provide the companies and so have a good understanding so delivering on our commitments is important.
necessary processes and additional expertise.
and empathy with the issues managers face.
The initial post investment phase will involve Externally, we work with the leading validation and refinement of the plan based Realisations consultancies on environmental, ethical and around a classic first 100-days approach.
When we have helped the company implement social due diligence on issues including Such a plan would also include any its plans, there are three basic approaches to compliance, liability and reputational risk.
environmental, ethical, governance or social risks realising the value of our investment: a sale to a Our portfolio companies are also a rich source or opportunities that were identified either in trade buyer eg, a company in the same sector : of experience and their management teams due diligence or in the post investment analysis.
a sale to another financial buyer eg, another can also provide interesting insights for 3i and We undertake portfolio reviews every six months, private equity firm with a new growth strategy : for their peers in other portfolio companies.
where the investment team presents the progress or a listing on a stock exchange through an IPO.
The chairman of the Corporate Responsibility and future plans to a review committee.
Any Corporate responsibility plays an important role in Committee, Kevin Dunn, is also a member of material corporate responsibility issues that were the valuation process for each of these exits.
Business in the Communitys leadership group.
part of the 100-day plan would be included in this Trade buyers tend to be bigger companies in the until they are resolved: in addition, at least once a same sector.
These companies, especially if they year, other corporate responsibility issues will be are listed, tend to have well-developed corporate considered on the agenda.
responsibility policies and expect high standards.
We bring a collaborative approach to the Increasingly, therefore, their audit and valuation companies in which we invest.
Despite having processes look at the portfolio companys extensive sector expertise and often taking a corporate responsibility strategy, systems and role on the board, we recognise that we cannot performance.
know a company as well as its management.
If a trade buyer or another financial buyer were It is the management who, being closest to the to identify a material risk or opportunity that situation, must make most decisions.
we had missed, then this could be used to An early priority, then, is to help ensure that the disadvantage 3i in negotiations.
As a result, governance of the company is as robust as we often undertake another detailed due possible and to help support the management diligence process prior to sale, which includes team and board.
Where necessary, we will put a environmental, ethical and social issues.
pre-selected chairman in place, one of whose Any company that we take to IPO must meet tasks is to be responsible for corporate the listing requirements of the relevant markets responsibility.
and pass the scrutiny of, for instance, the SEC We have dedicated programmes and activities or FSA reviewers, as well as the environmental, to help build board capacity and capability.
ethical, governance and social standards These include our CEO forums and sector expected.
events, which are opportunities for the CEOs of our portfolio companies to come together.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 49 Corporate responsibility report continued Our people and the level of their engagement are critical to our continued success.
Philip Yea Chief Executive The Committee, on behalf of the Board, The Corporate Responsibility Committee Corporate responsibility identifies and assesses the significant risks and in our company Kevin Dunn Company Secretary and opportunities for 3i arising from social, ethical Chairman of the Committee and environmental issues.
A risk matrix 3i is a people business with an entrepreneurial methodology is used to identify and assess culture that depends on our employees depth of Deepak Bagla a Director in 3is India potential risks and their impact, monitor knowledge and their networks of strong internal Infrastructure investment developing trends and best practice and and external relationships.
Our success is directly business consider changes in 3is business and culture.
related to our ability to recruit, train, engage and Whitney Bower a Partner in US Growth Capital A Group-wide risk log is used to record identified retain highly skilled people.
risks and to monitor their management and Denise Collis Group Human Resources 3is staff are fundamental to the success of our Director mitigation.
This log of identified risks is reviewed business.
An environment of mutual respect, and updated at meetings of the Committee and Douwe Cosijn Head of Investor Relations where staff are highly motivated by their work, significant risks are reported to 3is Operational where they have a strong commitment to Patrick Dunne Group Communications Director Risk Committee.
There is a detailed description deliver and where retention is good, are the of risk management at 3i on pages 38 to 43.
David Holligon a Partner in UK Buyouts standards we strive to achieve and maintain.
As Chairman of the Committee, Kevin Dunn Hans Middelthon an Investment Director in Employees are organised in small teams and a has specific responsibility for 3is corporate 3is Oil and Gas team spirit of co-operation is encouraged to support responsibility policies, leading the development the highest standards of integrity and Barbara Sterlina a Communications Executive of new initiatives and targets and reporting to professionalism.
In accordance with 3is core the Board.
The Committees membership reflects Tony Wang an Associate Director in 3is Asia values, individual consultation with employees investment business the balance of 3is business with representation on matters affecting them and fair and open from Europe, Asia and the US and from a range Phil White a Director in UK Infrastructure communication, are a high priority.
of business line and Group activities.
The Committees membership reects the balance An objective of our Chief Executive is to meet All employees have a responsibility to be aware of 3is business with representation from Europe, separately with each team every year to listen to of and to abide by, 3is policies and procedures, Asia and the US and from a range of business line their views and insights and to share his vision which have been developed to guide staff and and Group activities.
and strategy for the business.
In addition, regulate the conduct of the day-to-day his policy is to have a one-to-one meeting operations of the business.
These policies and with each new joiner, regardless of procedures include 3is environmental, ethical organisational level.
and social policies and are available to all employees through 3is portal, a web-based Roles and responsibilities knowledge system.
Employees are encouraged The Board as a whole is responsible for corporate to make suggestions to improve these policies responsibility.
The Executive Directors are and procedures.
responsible for ensuring compliance with 3is corporate values and standards.
3is Corporate Performance benchmarking and verification Responsibility Committee the Committee The Committee has overseen the formulation considers and reviews environmental, ethical and and implementation of corporate responsibility social issues relevant to 3is business and reports investment procedures, implemented regularly to the Board.
It promotes awareness of appropriate risk management procedures and these issues across the business through training recommended strategic targets and objectives and communication.
It promotes the for corporate responsibility.
development of corporate responsibility policies, procedures and initiatives, and monitors and reviews their operation.
50 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders 3is performance is measured against two As part of this survey of its own employees, Results of the 2008 Employee survey indices.
These are the Dow Jones Sustainability 3i also undertook a survey of a sample of All 3i staff world-wide were given the opportunity World Index DJSI, a global index which tracks contract and outsourced staff.
Engagement to take part in a confidential telephone survey, the financial performance of leading companies levels for this group of people were positive and conducted by Ipsos MORI in January and February in terms of corporate sustainability and the consistent with those for our own staff.
2008. Business in the Community BitC Corporate Highlights Responsibility Index, which aims to benchmark Training and development A response rate of 92%.
environmental, ethical and social performance We are committed to encouraging the and encourage sustainable development.
continuous development of our staff, with the 3i score ahead of the Ipsos MORI Top Ten norm objective of maximising both their career on 19 of the 20 norm questions.
3i has again been selected as a constituent of potential and the overall performance of the An employee engagement score of 84%.
the DJSI during the year and was leader of its business.
Emphasis is placed on work-based industry group on a global basis.
DJSI also High employee advocacy, with 90% saying that learning, with the provision of development recognised 3i as one of the best companies on a they would speak highly of 3i.
opportunities supported by appropriate coaching global basis in respect of our codes of conduct, and mentoring.
This is supplemented by more High commitment to 3is objectives 95%.
We aim to formal training programmes, such as workshops, continue to be included within this Index.
3is culture judged as open and inclusive, to enhance the board management skills of our approachable and friendly and one where there In 2007 we again participated in the annual BitC investment staff.
Corporate Responsibility Index and were included In addition, investment staff are required to Areas for improvement in BitCs Top 100 Companies that Count.
complete an investment training programme As with any survey of this nature, there were a In particular, the integration into the business of on joining 3i and professional services staff number of detailed or specific issues relating to our corporate responsibility principles and risk are supported in developing their functional particular parts of the business.
management processes relating to corporate specialisms through external courses, networks Although six points ahead of the MORI Top Ten responsibility issues was recognised.
During the year, 527 employees norm, only 72% of staff felt that 3i made the continue to be included within this Index.
attended a broad range of internal training and best use of their skills and ability.
We also provide information on our carbon development courses.
Action and greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon It is a legal and regulatory requirement that all The results were communicated to all staff Disclosure Project.
executives involved in making or managing in March.
investment transactions receive anti-money All issues relating to specific parts of the Engagement and culture laundering training and periodic refresher business have been communicated and are being Our latest comprehensive confidential telephone training.
A programme of training is in place to followed up.
survey of staff was conducted by Ipsos MORI in discharge these obligations.
January and February 2008 and communicated Our increased training and development agenda to staff in March.
The survey had a 92% In addition to the fundamental training required and 3is continued growth and development will address the first area for improvement.
response rate, up from 78% in last years webfor people to fulfil their roles in a responsible based survey.
It included a number of questions manner, 3i has established a number of The Ipsos MORI Top Ten norm is the average of the that have a proven correlation to employee programmes to maximise the development of most positive 10 responses to each question in the Ipsos MORI normative database.
These are regarded as engagement.
The overall employee engagement our people and to reinforce the 3i culture.
score of 84% 2007: 87%, remains very Examples of these include our Global Welcome positive, with 95% of those taking part saying Days for all new joiners, our Value Management that they were committed to helping 3i achieve through the Board Courses to enhance board its objectives and 90% saying they would speak skills, our intensive G10 international programme highly of 3i.
88% also thought that internal for 40 high potential senior leaders and the communications were relevant to them.
INSEAD leadership course for the leaders of our professional services teams.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 51 Corporate responsibility report continued Health and Safety Our objective is not to have any reportable Climate change impact assessment We recognise that the promotion of health and accidents or incidents.
During the year to Year to 31 March 2008 safety at work is an essential responsibility of 31 March 2008, no reportable accidents 9,309 CO tonnes per year 2 staff and management at all levels.
Simon Ball, occurred under UK Health and Safety regulations equivalent emissions as Finance Director, has overall responsibility for or under similar regulations outside the UK.
Premises 1 the implementation of 3is health and safety 62 Business travel policies and procedures.
A Health and Safety Environment Other Committee, chaired by the Company Secretary, As a financial services business employing Kevin Dunn, has been established to oversee approximately 750 employees world-wide, 3is the application of these policies and procedures direct environmental impact is relatively low.
and to consider health and safety risks across Our environmental priorities are carbon the business.
In 2007 the Board set an The purpose of 3is health and safety policy is objective to be carbon neutral by 2010.
We are to enable all members of 3is staff to go about currently in a three-year programme of action to their everyday business at 3is offices in the deliver this, which involves improving the ECCM is now an internationally renowned expectation that they can do so safely and measurement and modelling of our carbon analytical facility for carbon and related ecowithout risk to their health.
High standards emissions: reducing the energy intensity of our metrics with close links with the University of of health and safety are applied to staff and operations: and investing in carbon offsets.
Edinburghs School of GeoSciences and sub-contractors and we endeavour to Imperial College, London.
ECCM uses the most In 2007 we worked with a specialist adviser, ensure that the health, safety and welfare of up-to-date, country-specific emission factors the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management our employees, visitors, customers, subthroughout their assessments, including those ECCM to expand our emissions monitoring to contractors staff and the general public are developed by the UK Department for the include all three scopes of the World Business not compromised.
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
Council for Sustainable Development WBCSD In an endeavour to achieve high standards, greenhouse gas protocol.
We also refined our we have recently revised our Occupational modelling to include updated UK government Procurement Health and Safety policy OH&S.
The CO equivalent CO e factor multipliers.
2 2 We have developed environmentally conscious minimum benchmark set for our global OH&S This information has improved our understanding policies and procedures relating to the policies is UK legislation, unless country-specific and control of emissions and enabled us to purchasing of goods and services.
As far as legislation or practice exceeds this level.
This produce our first published Carbon Disclosure possible, we will work only with suppliers who year, we will also begin the process of Project report.
support our aim to source products responsibly implementing and seeking certification to BS and we exclude suppliers who use child or forced In 2007, our reported emissions were 9,309 OHSAS 18001:2007, an internationally labour, disregard social legislation and basic CO e t yr, up roughly 14% from the 2006 2 recognised occupational health and safety health and safety provisions, or wilfully and estimate.
This increase is largely explained by management system.
We aim to the implementation of a much more rigorous have a collaborative relationship with our The key objectives of the revised OH&S policy and broad monitoring process and should be suppliers and, wherever possible, when problems are to identify, evaluate and control risks: to viewed in the context of a business which has arise with a suppliers performance or behaviour, maintain an OH&S management system: to grown substantially in the year.
The Climate we will work with the suppliers concerned to ensure all incidents are reported and investigated change impact assessment table outlines this help them meet our requirements.
in a timely manner: to set annual objectives and amount as a percentage of each emission type.
targets: and to ensure that 3i employees are In the next year we will continue to reduce our informed of and engaged in the process of energy use and begin to work with a carbon improving OH&S.
Additional details of these credit provider to identify projects to offset our policies and procedures can be found on 3is emissions.
We will approach offsetting with a website at www.
private equity mindset and expect to identify investment opportunities through what we learn in the process.
52 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders 3i was one of our original sponsors, and has been key to our success.
While their financial support was useful, their network and the credibility they gave to our effort has been immensely helpful in our rapid expansion.
Doug Miller Founder and Chairman of the European Venture Philanthropy Association Community and social enterprise We focus our charitable activities on the 3i has been active for many years in a range disadvantaged, young people and education of charitable and social enterprise activities.
in the communities in which we have offices.
The concept of social enterprise is a natural fit Charities are supported on the basis of their with 3is approach to supporting businesses.
effectiveness and impact as well as their Indeed, over thirty years ago it was a 3i resonance with our staff.
employee who had the idea of forming what is Two examples of this approach are 3is support today the Enterprise Education Trust EET.
for a series of programmes with The Old Vic With 3is financial and other support EET has theatre in London, one of which, The Skys the grown and about 100,000 children each year Limit, is featured on this page.
The other is 3is benefit from its programmes to increase support for The Passage, a charity focused on awareness of business and to inspire them to The Skys the Limit at The Old Vic the homeless, which is based close to 3is become involved in business.
3i has supported This 2007 project, aimed at raising the London office.
EET every year since formation.
aspirations of UK primary school students, An important aspect of our charitable giving, was a result of a long-standing partnership 3i was also a founder member of the European which totalled 454,130 in the year to between 3i and The Old Vic Theatre in London.
Venture Philanthropy Association EVPA which 21 March 2008 2007: 429,409, is A new play was created from a series of is a charity formed to promote the concept of matching what our staff raise.
3i has actively workshops in schools to build confidence and Venture philanthropy and to develop best promoted the UKs Give As You Earn scheme, team-work skills.
The workshops were practice in this growing area of social enterprise.
which is administered by the Charities Aid facilitated by professional drama educators 3i was also proud to be a founding investor in Foundation.
In the year to 31 March 2008, this from The Old Vic and supported by 3i staff.
Bridges Ventures, a privately owned UK venture resulted in donations of 129,733, from the The play, which drew directly on the capital company with a social mission.
Bridges scheme, accounting for 29% of 3is charitable suggestions and experiences of the young was founded in 2002 and has since made equity donations up from 25% in 2007. people involved, was then performed to an investments in 24 businesses employing 700 audience of over 1,000 primary school We are also supportive of staff who wish to people, almost 200 of whom came out of students at The Old Vic.
For many of the volunteer or become trustees or governors of unemployment.
3is total commitment to young people this was their first visit to a charities and are happy for them to use the 3i Bridges has been over 2 million.
network for the benefit of these charities in a In addition to working directly with schools relevant and appropriate way.
in London and the South East of the UK, a resources pack was created and distributed to over 1,000 schools.
The formal evaluation of the project demonstrated that the project was very successful from the perspectives of students, teachers and the schools.
The 3i staff taking part also found it a highly-motivational experience.
This evaluation has also been helpful in planning the next programme for 2008, which is focused on multicultural understanding.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 53
