22 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate responsibility report The Board views an active approach to corporate Summary of corporate responsibility investment policy responsibility as a genuine competitive advantage As a socially responsible investor, 3i Infrastructure aims and as a key tool to maximise shareholders returns.
to invest in companies that act responsibly in terms of The Board believes infrastructure businesses with strong environmental, ethical, governance and social issues.
This aim reflects not only 3i Infrastructures values and culture, corporate responsibility standards will be in a position to but also the wishes of its investors and helps protect and perform better and therefore have the potential to deliver enhance the Companys reputation.
As such, the Board better returns.
considers that an awareness of corporate responsibility risks and how to deal with them is fundamental to due diligence Achieving these objectives depends upon the quality of and portfolio management.
the management teams of portfolio companies and their values, as well as effective communication and alignment 3i Infrastructure aims to invest in companies that: of interest between 3i Infrastructure and its investee respect human rights: companies.
Statements of intent and policies are comply with current environmental, ethical and necessary and important, but they are by no means social legislation: sufficient.
The success of 3i Infrastructure as an investor have proposals to address defined future legislation: and in infrastructure assets depends upon the actions and judgment of its Board and on the investment and seek to comply with their industry standards and best practice.
portfolio management advice provided by the Investment Adviser.
Awareness and training are therefore critical, The Companys policies and those of the Investment Adviser so that corporate responsibility issues are properly provide guidance to the Board and to the investment advisory considered and the right decisions are made and team on a wide range of potential ethical, governance, social and environmental challenges, which include consideration of: implemented each time the Company is assessing an investment.
susceptibility to human rights abuses, such as child or slave labour or bans on trade unions: As an investor in infrastructure assets, 3i Infrastructure corruption issues arising as a result of industry or geographic views corporate responsibility as both a risk and an business practices: opportunity.
The most significant corporate responsibility related risks arising from the Companys investment impacts on the environment and sensitive natural resources: and activity relate to environmental, ethical, governance and social issues.
If these risks are not identified and managed compliance with social legislation, such as laws governing successfully, then the success of 3i Infrastructures discrimination, employment terms and health and safety.
portfolio companies can be compromised and the 3i Infrastructure operates internationally and its policy provides Companys reputation as an investor could be impacted.
that a particular practice considered lawful in one country may The opportunity for 3i Infrastructure is that supporting nevertheless be considered unacceptable for the Company.
the sustainable growth of its portfolio companies can Following completion of an investment, 3i Infrastructure and increase their value and attraction to potential purchasers its Investment Adviser seek to ensure that investee companies or investors.
maintain an appropriate corporate responsibility policy.
In assessing corporate responsibility related risks and opportunities, the Company relies heavily on the Approach to corporate responsibility rigorous policies and procedures followed by its The Companys approach to corporate responsibility is Investment Adviser.
commercially based and driven by 3i Infrastructures aim to be a partner of choice for current and potential Transparency investee companies.
3i Infrastructure wishes to comply with best market In carrying out its mandate the Company will: practice in terms of disclosure and transparency.
This report is fully compliant with the recommendations be commercial and fair: of the Walker Review.
respect the needs of its shareholders, suppliers, the local community and the businesses in which it invests: maintain high integrity and professionalism: and strive for continual improvement and innovation.
3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 23 Corporate responsibility in 3i Infrastructures compliance.
Helping to resolve a corporate responsibility investment activity related issue may indeed be an important element of the The Companys investment process involves three value creation plan for an investment.
Corporate responsibility considerations Growing the company are important in each of these stages in sustaining The Board and Investment Adviser agree a clear plan with successful outcomes.
the board and management team of potential investee investment assessment: companies before completing each investment, with commitments from both parties to deliver on the agreed creating value following the completion of an plan.
3i Infrastructures input in the implementation of investment: and the plan is delivered by the Investment Adviser and may in the event of an asset sale, realisation.
include strategic input, a specific functional expertise or providing access to relevant relationships.
This added Investment assessment value may be the reason why 3i Infrastructure has been A strong reputation is among the Companys and chosen as a preferred investor and therefore delivery on its Investment Advisers most important assets.
commitments is of crucial importance.
Accordingly, an effective review process to identify risks and opportunities in potential new investments Such plans would include any environmental, ethical, is crucial to the Companys sustained success.
governance or social risks and opportunities that were identified during the due diligence process or following While each investment is considered on its own merits, the completion of the investment.
the Board and the Investment Adviser have a standard review process for all types of investments, which Detailed portfolio reviews are undertaken by the aims to identify all the issues which may impact on Investment Adviser and presented to the Board annually.
the Companys decision to invest.
Consideration of These reviews will include commentary on any corporate corporate responsibility issues is embedded as a responsibility related risks where appropriate.
mandatory part of this process.
Realisations All new investment opportunities are the subject of a 3i Infrastructure is at a very early stage in its process of filtering and review.
Following a preliminary development and has not yet sold any investments.
appraisal of the potential investment opportunity, The Companys intention is to hold investments in its the Investment Adviser makes a decision on whether portfolio.
The Board will decide on a case-by-case basis to progress the investment opportunity and place it in whether it is in the interest of the Company to realise an formal work in progress.
The opportunity is subsequently investment.
In such cases, the Board believes, however, reviewed in detail by the Board and by the Partners of that corporate responsibility will play an important role the Investment Adviser.
If the Board, following advice in the process of realising investments, as the audit from the Investment Adviser decides that a particular and valuation processes of all potential buyers, be they investment opportunity should continue to be corporate buyers, other private equity investors or other progressed, they will both determine what further institutions, will evaluate each investments corporate in-depth analysis and due diligence should be undertaken.
responsibility strategy, systems and performance.
The investment advisory team will then be assigned the funds necessary to undertake extensive due diligence.
Environment As an investment company with no employees, governed An explicit review of environmental, ethical, governance by a non-executive Board of Directors, 3i Infrastructure and social issues is required for each investment under has no material impact on the environment.
3i Infrastructures Investment Adviser has access to an international network of specialist consultancies Procurement which undertake due diligence on its behalf.
3i Infrastructure has developed policies and procedures Identifying an environmental, ethical or social risk does relating to the purchasing of services from third-party not mean that an investment opportunity will be rejected.
As far as possible, the Company will work As a result of the nature of the relationship between only with suppliers who support its aim to source an investor and a portfolio company, 3i Infrastructure, products responsibly.
3i Infrastructure aims to have through its Investment Adviser, can have a strong a collaborative relationship with its service providers influence on an investee companys priorities and would, and, wherever possible, will work with its service in case of partial non-compliance with the Companys providers when problems or issues arise to help them policies, aim to work with the management team of meet its requirements.
the investee company to change practices towards full
