0 D I R E c t O R s R E P O R t Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and whilst Directors interests in the share the audited financial statements for the year capital of the Company are set out in the ended 31 December 2008.
Business review Charitable and political The Company is the holding Company for the donations Admiral Group of Companies.
The Groups During the year the Group donated 106,000 principal activity continues to be the selling 2007: 87,000 to various local and national and administration of private motor insurance charities.
The Group has never made political and related products.
Refer to the Business review for further detail.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business review, as required by Section Employee policies 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and which Detailed information on the Groups should be treated as forming part of this employment practices is set out in the report by reference are included in the Business review.
following sections of the Annual Report: Chairmans statement The Group purchases appropriate liability Chief Executives statement insurance for all staff and Directors.
Business review Creditor payment policy Group results and dividends It is the policy of the Group to pay all The profit for the year, after tax but before purchase invoices by their due date, and dividends, amounted to 144.9m 2007: appropriate quality measures are in place to 127.4m.
At the end of the year outstanding invoices represented 20 days The Directors declared and paid dividends of purchases 2007: 15.
128.5m during 2008 2007: 116.0m refer to note 14 for further details.
Additional information for The Directors are proposing a final dividend shareholders of 70.0m 26.5p per share, payable on 27 Where not provided previously in this May 2009.
Directors' Report, the following provides the additional information required for Share capital shareholders as a result of the implementation Refer to the Business review for the disclosure of the Takeovers Directive into UK law.
of substantial shareholdings in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and At 31 December 2008, the company's issued Transparency rules.
share capital comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the Financial Instruments share capital and shares issued during the year can be found in note 25.
The objectives and policies for managing risks in relation to financial instruments held by the On a show of hands at a general meeting of Group are set out in note 18 to the financial the company every holder of shares present statements.
in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in Directors and their interests person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall The present Directors of the Company are have one vote for every ordinary share held.
shown on pages 48 and 49 of this report, The notice of the general meeting specifies
