3 2 B U s I n E s s R E V I E W The table below contains some of the key measures from the TCF report: June December Average JuneTCF Measure 2008 2008 December 2008 Complaints per 1000 vehicles 1.14 0.95 1.14 % FOS complaints rejected 50% 63% 78% Customer service call answer rate 93% 96% 95% Claims call answer rate 97% 90% 92% Comment form score 9.28 9.28 9.25 % Customer who would renew following a claim 90% 93% 93% There are over 150 individual TCF measures, each of which is benchmarked to allow the RMC to take an overall view as to whether customers are being treated fairly.
This has been in place since July 2008 and the average red grades amounted to 0.51%.
91% of the measures throughout the period achieved a green grade.
Each quarter the Central Complaints Department produce a report analysing the complaints received and causes.
The report provides a summary of the root causes of the complaints and actions taken to reduce the risk of complaints due to specific procedures or staff behaviour.
Community Admiral has adopted a charitable giving policy, which supports the local communities in which its employees live and work.
During 2008, 211 local organisations were helped with a total donation of 42,791.
Financial support is an important part of our commitment to our local communities and our customers.
We contribute both as a Company and as individuals through a variety of schemes including a matching scheme whereby the Company matches funds raised for charity in the workplace.
Environment The Groups impact on the environment stems from its use of resources to run its offices in Cardiff, Swansea and Newport and its overseas branches in Spain, Germany, Italy and Canada.
The Group does not own the properties that it occupies and is, therefore, reliant upon the cooperation of the managing agents of the properties to make changes that could reduce the consumption of energy and water.
The figures quoted include all of the Groups offices.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for the Groups approach to its impact upon the environment.
The Group is committed to: Raising and maintaining staff awareness of, and ensuring that employees are actively engaged in, activities to reduce the impact of the Groups operations on the environment.
Measuring, monitoring and reporting on the key aspects of the Groups environmental performance and regularly reviewing progress to reduce the amount of resources consumed per employee.
Reporting key environmental performance indicators, taking into account the ABIs Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure and guidance provided by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra.
