42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 34 34 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Corporate responsibility is embedded in our approach and has been an integral part of the Alliance Trust for many years.
In this Business review section of the report we highlight a number of initiatives undertaken over the year and report on other activities in this area.
Corporate Employees responsibility We are committed to ensuring that all sectors of the community can be employed by the Group and we abide by all legislation designed to prevent discrimination.
We recruit and promote talent regardless of sex, race, religion, age, disability or sexual orientation.
In the course of the year we have had to make a number of employees redundant due to the changing nature of the business and the decision to relocate certain work streams from London to Dundee.
We have sought to reduce the impact of these changes by providing assistance to individuals to help them to find suitable employment elsewhere.
We continue to invest in training through the Alliance Trust Academy, and this year, in addition to our ongoing technical training, we have run a number of courses all designed to improve the effectiveness of our teams.
In 2007 we entered a relationship with Abertay University in Dundee whereby all of our staff irrespective of location may enrol for development courses via the Universitys web-hosted technology platform.
We believe that this is an excellent example of how a company can work with a local further education provider to the benefit of both.
This year the Company requested nominations for a Member Nominated Trustee for its Final Salary Pension Scheme.
Two candidates of high quality were nominated by members one a pensioner, the other an employee.
The Company reconsidered the composition of the Trustees.
Believing that the Scheme should be administered so far as possible clear of potential conflicts of interest and in the interests of all of its members, the Company agreed that the Trustees should now comprise two Lynn Smith, Human Resources.
member nominated trustees, the independent Chairman The Law Debenture Pension Trust Corporation PLC and a Company nominated trustee.
Environmental Matters Corporate responsibility is embedded Due to the nature of our business the scope for reduction in the in our approach and has been an use of resources is limited.
We have, however, undertaken integral part of the Alliance Trust for initiatives this year to reduce our impact on the environment many years.
which include: adoption of the eTreeplan where for each main register shareholder who opts to receive their Report and Accounts electronically the Company will make a donation which will cover the cost of planting a tree.
video conferencing enabling employees at our London and Dundee offices to take part in meetings without travelling.
reorganising work carried out in different offices to reduce travel required between offices by staff.
designing and planning the new office building in Dundee to be energy efficient.
Alliance Trust Savings has expanded its telephone and online facilities reducing the quantity of paper correspondence.
using paper made from sustainable sources.
Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 35 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 35 In the past we have reported on Greenhouse Emissions calculated under Guidelines issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and, this year these emmissions are equivalent to 37.6 three bar electric fires operating for a year 2007:25.6.
We believe that our usage of fuel is such that it is not meaningful to continue to report it in this fashion and in future years we will focus our reporting on activities taken to reduce or limit emissions.
Social Responsibility and Environmental Issues Our investment policy does not explicitly require us to consider social responsibility or environmental issues as a separate factor in our investment decisions.
This is because the Company wishes its managers to have the flexibility to invest where they believe that they can make the best return for our shareholders.
However our investment horizon is long term and a poor record of social responsibility or negative environmental history may impact on a companys long term performance and so in turn this will influence an investment in that company.
Voting Two company teams successfully completed the Edinburgh Marathon The Company believes that it is incumbent upon us to exercise Relay raising money for the Scottish Community foundation.
The Company, where practical, will vote all of our holdings.
Where we elect to vote this will normally be in line with the recommendations of the management.
In the course of the year our voting statistics have been: In favour of management recommendations 244 Against management recommendations 14 Abstentions 11 Votes against management have been in Asia against large increases in share capital, in the USA on corporate governance matters to vote for splitting the role of Chairman and Chief Executive, majority voting for director appointments and to have advisory voting on remuneration, and in the UK we voted against a merger proposal which we believed was not in the best interests of the shareholders.
Abstentions have, in the main, been where insufficient information has been available to allow an informed decision to be taken.
Charitable Donations nil as the foundation had not been set up as at the year end The policy of the Company has been to make no charitable but is expected to be up to 15,000 in the year 2008-9. donations, believing that this should be a decision for shareholders to take individually.
However, the Board recognises In addition to the establishment of the charitable foundation a the value of encouraging its employees to take an active part in Give As You Earn scheme has been set up to facilitate employees bettering the communities in which they live and work so this donating to charities in a tax efficient manner.
year we have taken a decision to open a charitable foundation designed to match the charitable donations or fund raising Political Donations activities of staff.
In addition to the funds raised by staff the We believe it is an inappropriate use of shareholder funds to Scottish Community Foundation who will be assisting in the make political donations and none were made this year.
administration of the foundation will match funds raised by staff to a maximum of 5,000.
The funding for the Companys contribution to the charitable foundation will come from dividends that were payable to shareholders but which have not been paid, due to the shareholder becoming untraceable after reasonable enquiry for a period in excess of 12 years after which time the payment reverts to the Company.
The amount donated to the foundation from such payments in the current year was
