Aviva plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review People and responsibility What we do Our People and Corporate Responsibility strategies promote the delivery of the Aviva purpose and vision.
We work on getting great people to join Aviva and stay and engaging all 54,000 Aviva employees on corporate responsibility.
We help our businesses embed best practice in CR and take a leading role in our industry to share our successes and challenges.
Our aim is to make good business a part of everyones thinking so that together we can make sure Aviva is responsible in everything we do.
Actions, not just words Case study:: 67,000 hours employee volunteering takes off Our people are voting with their feet on the benefits of helping local communities.
In just two years the number of paid employee volunteering hours has nearly doubled 34,000 hours in 2006.
Employees can now take up to three paid days per year to support the causes they care deeply about.
With individual and team-based opportunities, its a great way to engage with charities and bring new skills back to Aviva.
com csr Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 71 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Whats happened?
Economic uncertainty The credit crunch has undermined consumer confidence in financial services.
Building trust and improving the publics understanding in money matters is a societal imperative Environmental concern Climate change remains one of the biggest risks to our planet.
Global businesses are intensifying their efforts to reduce their own impacts and influencing partners and suppliers to take up the challenge Employment market changing Increasing competition to attract and retain talented employees is joined by the need to equip future leaders with the right skills to excel in tough market conditions What action have we taken?
Published five year, industry-leading research into consumer attitudes to saving Continued to reduce our own emissions through innovative initiatives and encouraging other companies as well Funded off-setting projects to maintain our carbon neutral status and introduced three new initiatives in our Sustainable and Responsible Investment SRI portfolio Strengthened our community investment activities to tackle global issues in financial literacy, education and life trauma Launched Summits for 1,700 senior managers, designed to align, equip and mobilise the group to deliver the one Aviva, twice the value vision Extended our Talking Talent programme to identify, manage and develop talent across the company What have we achieved?
72% of our employees say that Aviva is a great place to work Global Survey Retained our membership of the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability World indexes Won Building Public Trust award for clear and transparent reporting of our executive remuneration policy Ranked 9th out of all UK companies in the Good Companies Guide for our work to shape policy and promote consistency in climate change issues Increased participation by our employees in our Corporate Responsibility CR activities Whats next?
Our shortand medium-term targets are to: Meet or exceed tough global targets to reduce our emissions Support and inspire all our employees to be the best they can be Continue to embed CR programmes across all our businesses around the world Build more innovative ways of engaging employees and customers in our community involvement activities Report against our progress and build our programme of engagement with stakeholders on key issues Aviva plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review People and responsibility continued Governance and strategy The Aviva corporate responsibility CR programme encompasses our business ethics and values, our customers, our people and suppliers, our community relations and the environment.
When conditions are adverse, as in the current economic downturn being experienced by businesses and customers globally, its more important than ever to maintain our reputation as an employer of choice and a responsible corporate citizen.
This means responding appropriately to immediate events.
It also means staying focused on important goals that will contribute towards long-term prosperity and peace of mind for our customers.
Combating climate change is just such an issue and therefore an important part of our CR strategy.
The actions weve taken over several years have resulted in our carbon emissions falling by a further 6.63% this year.
Sustainable commercial growth is equally The key elements of our people and responsibility strategy are: vital for the future of Aviva, our shareholders, customers and employees.
However, operating in new markets, particularly Getting great people to join Aviva and stay emerging economies, brings with it not only opportunities for Matching the right people to the right roles and taking action Aviva and the prospect of better financial security for our customers where there are gaps but also responsibilities and challenges for the group.
Specifically, Getting the best out of people while they are here as an employer and also as a buyer of goods and services, we must apply consistently high standards wherever we operate For the next three years we are focused on: internationally.
We also look to the companies in which we invest to demonstrate their own socially responsible strategies, and this Improving how we identify, develop and use our employees talents year we announced three new initiatives that further strengthen Cultivating and inspiring excellent leadership our sustainable and responsible investment SRI portfolio.
Among these is the Aviva Investors European Renewable Energy Fund which Engaging our people and customers with exceptional CR initiatives specialises in developing and financing renewable energy projects Using rewards to focus senior leaders on our shared goals in the EU.
Recognising each of our people the difference each of us makes Our governance structure is designed for responsiveness to risk as well as opportunity.
This enables us to identify issues, We will achieve this through: mitigate adverse impacts and maximise positive ones.
Our CSR committee, chaired by non-executive directors Wim Dik in 2008 Empowering regional HR teams and building strong centres and Carole Piwnica from 1 January 2009, approves our CR strategy, of expertise policies and plans, and reports to the board at regular intervals More regional shared services, common processes and benchmarks during the year.
The committees report can be found on page 99.
Our CR advisory group, reporting to the executive committee, is a Pursuing the cultural change we started with the forum for dialogue between our regions and our CR specialists at Summits programme group level.
It gathers and analyses perspectives from all around Delivering on our CR agenda Aviva, helping to ensure that CR strategies are fully informed by insights from the broad spectrum of our business.
In everything we do, we aim to meet the highest standards Our People of conduct and these principles are set out in our business ethics Employee Promise code.
This year we implemented a revised code which reinforces To become one Aviva and deliver twice the valuewe are the standards expected of all our employees and businesses.
reinforcing our external brand of recognising our customers Every single employee at Aviva has a part to play in upholding as individuals.
To ensure that this is how all our customers our standards and our success comes from their commitment experience Aviva we have embarked on a global programme to translate principles into action, whatever their role or level to create a culture where this lives and breathes internally so of seniority.
Thats why our people strategy is at the heart of our our employees are truly recognised as individuals and for their business and why we invest in comprehensive programmes to contribution to Avivas success.
nurture talent, develop future leaders and enable people to fulfil This is the overarching aim and promise to our employees their potential in line with our values of integrity, performance, which our HR and People practices support.
The programme progressiveness and teamwork.
consists of: A global intranet Aviva World for communicating across Aviva which encourages collaboration and an opportunity to get to know other employees as individuals right across the globe Management and leadership programmes which create the environment for employees to be the best they can be, ie Leading People, Talking Talent & Talking Performance A global climate survey to ensure we are listening to what is important to our employees and a new online employee promise poll A day when we will celebrate our global status, joining together and sharing in activities which support our strategy Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 73 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Mobilising our leaders in adverse conditions Supporting good causes Our Leadership Academy work focused on Summit events designed to align, equip and mobilise Avivas leaders to deliver one Aviva, twice the value.
1,700 of our senior leaders participated in one of 16 major events around the world.
This programme has been the biggest, most concentrated investment in our leadership capability.
Each leader was equipped to measure and improve their ability to respond at their best in adverse conditions.
Within the 1,700 leaders, 120 were identified as climbing coaches change agents who are equipped with the skills to embed the Summit knowledge across the business.
There has been a demonstrable improvement in clarity, engagement and personal commitment to bring one Aviva, twice the value Case study: to life.
Women Empowerment award Talent management Our Talking Talent programme, initiated in 2007, is a globally Aviva sponsored the first ever Global consistent approach to identify, manage and develop talent right Empowerment Award at the Women of across the group.
Initially introduced to the top 400 leaders in the the Future Summit.
This was presented organisation, we are delighted with the enthusiasm with which to Indra Nooyi, CEO of PepsiCo, by HRH it has been received around the world.
The programme has been Princess Michael of Kent and Louella rapidly extended to other levels of the organisation, including all Eastman, group CR director at Aviva plc.
employees in the UK life business.
Visit Aviva CSR at Leading people www.
com csr We believe that developing leadership capability is an investment in our future.
This is confirmed by our employees who told us in our 2008 annual global climate survey that the way their immediate managers behave impacts on their own engagement and performance.
Our leadership development programme focuses our people Great reporting managers on six outcomes which cause sustainable high performance by creating a team environment where people can give of their best.
Now in its second year, activity has been focused on managers building relationships based on open and honest two-way feedback.
An online feedback tool was introduced and will be freely available to all people managers from January 2009.
Our objectives for 2008 were to create the tools and awareness required to bring about a substantial change in the way we maximise the skills of our people.
To this end, an extensive toolkit for HR, guidelines, training plans, handbook and performance management process have been delivered.
We are already seeing change, with 87% of our employees agreeing that they are clear whats expected of them in their day to day job 2008 global climate survey.
Case study: We are continuing to embed this approach as a priority Conducting our in 2009 with a focus on training and continued measurement.
business openly Financial crime Clear and transparent communication The CR policy ensures that all employees are aware of our about how we conduct our business is commitment to integrity through ethical and honest business a fundamental principle.
This is underpinned by our financial crime policy which remuneration report in the annual report ensures that the risks of fraud, money laundering and market and accounts was recognised as such, abuse are adequately controlled and reinforces our zero tolerance by winning the 2008 Building Public approach to financial crime.
These prestigious awards We rely on our employees to raise concerns about ethical celebrate the best of corporate reporting behaviour and financial crime and have recently implemented by the UKs leading quoted companies Right Call an Aviva-wide malpractice reporting service.
The judges This enables all employees to report any suspicions or concerns found Avivas approach to be great in a confidential manner for independent investigation.
reporting and innovative, describing the report as a very clear summary of remuneration policy.
The judges believe winners are helping to set the standards of excellence in reporting that all organisations can aim for.
com csr Aviva plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review People and responsibility continued Corporate Responsibility Engaging with our stakeholders Dialogue with a wide range of internal and external stakeholders, using a variety of feedback mechanisms from surveys to one-to-one meetings, is an essential part of our business strategy.
We also participate in industry-wide forums and work with professional institutions to develop our research and understanding in key subject areas.
Raising funds for charity Diversity, equality and human rights The Aviva principles and policies embody the key tenets of respect, valuing differences and inclusion and are aligned with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights UNUDHR.
In fact, our programmes have been recognised as going above and beyond the level of activity of many companies to ensure respect, fairness and equality among our employees.
Representation of female colleagues within the senior management group increased from 22% in 2007 to 28% in 2008.
We have appointed the first female member to our executive committee this year, and we now have three women on the board.
Amanda Mackenzie joined the executive committee in March 2008 as chief marketing officer.
Rita Dhut and Siobhan Boylan from Aviva Investors were named in Financial News 100 Most Influential Women.
Employee networks such as the Global Senior Womens Network and Pride Aviva strengthen our diversity agenda and continue to thrive.
This year, Pride Aviva, an employee network for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender professionals, launched its first national e-magazine.
We also improved our position in Stonewalls Case study: Top 100 employers for gay people in Britain to 78th place.
The Eve Appeal and Aviva Employee survey Womens Network We carried out our global climate survey for the fourth consecutive year, providing our employees with a channel to express their The London group of the Aviva Womens Network hosted a feedback.
Our overall participation rate increased to 74% 2007: range of events this year, including a unique tea party to raise 70% with four business units achieving 100% participation.
funds for The Eve Appeal, a UK charity which seeks to cut Our senior management pay is linked to the climate survey the number of deaths from gynaecological cancer by 50%.
results through clear targets on leadership and engagement.
While the event had a very serious purpose, it also gave women We pay special attention to action planning using the results and from different areas of the business the opportunity to meet for the first time held action planning workshops in each region.
We also draw up a global action plan to address employee issues Visit Aviva CSR at worldwide.
Progress on these plans is then shared with employees before the next survey cycle.
com csr Community As a responsible business, we are committed to helping address challenges facing people and society.
Globally, Aviva invested 9.6 million in community and charitable programmes in 2008.
Our community investment is focused on financial literacy, education and life trauma subjects which are closely aligned with our business and where we can maximise our expertise and resources to make a difference.
In addition to this core programme, we also respond to humanitarian crises, as and when they arise, through our partnership with Oxfam.
How we invest takes different forms: from directly funding carefully selected initiatives in partnership with charitable organisations, to creating a workplace where employee volunteering and giving is enabled and supported.
With this in mind, our colleagues can now apply for up to three paid volunteering days.
As a result, our businesses around the world have seen a significant increase in community volunteering among their people.
Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 75 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Here are just a few examples of how we have played our part this year: Responding to global crises As a member of the Oxfam 365 Alliance, our funding enables the charity to respond immediately when an emergency occurs, delivering vital services and supplies around the world.
Last year our employees in China also gave their time and donated generously to help the earthquake victims in Sichuan please see page 67 Motivating the next generation The Climate Change Champions project in the UK is harnessing the energy of Norwich Union volunteers to help schoolchildren to save energy.
Twenty nine schools took part in 2007 08, reducing their carbon footprint, securing environmental pledges from the public and celebrating their success at a House of Commons reception Increasing access to education Eagle Insurance in Sri Lanka provided its eighth batch of scholarships to support students through their university degrees, bringing the total of student awards made since 1994 to 336 Building awareness among our employees Aviva SA, our business in Turkey, has designed an online training programme to educate staff about CR, and this is the first of its kind in Turkey.
Aviva SA also launched their first volunteering programme, to produce audio books for people in need We like it here Environment Our environment strategy focuses on working within our spheres of control, influence and concern.
Within our sphere of control we manage our own impact and use of resources including electricity, gas, water and waste.
We are also committed to using our influence as an investor to encourage other organisations to adopt responsible strategies.
Finally, we aim to promote environmentally aware choices among individuals, including our employees and customers.
Work on reducing our impact on the environment continued at pace this year.
We again reduced our carbon emissions by more efficient use of energy and by implementing alternatives to business travel such as our high definition video-conferencing facility.
To help us manage our impact we set global targets in 2008 to Case study: achieve reductions by 5% in carbon emissions and 2% in water.
Global participation increased When we compare our global operations performance to 2007 to 74% on a like-for-like basis, our total emissions fell by 6.6%.
Overall, we achieved a group-wide reduction in carbon emissions of 3.3%.
72% of employees consider Aviva This figure includes data from our operations in China for the a great place to work.
Our water consumption fell by 1.2%.
We review these Since we introduced our global climate targets annually and provide new ones based on our performance survey four years ago, employee to date.
For 2009 we have set the following targets: participation levels have risen and weve gathered valuable feedback on all areas Reduce CO emissions by 5% 2 of our business.
In 2008, we saw an Reduce water use by 4% increase in positive attitudes in every Reduce waste by 4% area of the survey compared to 2007, including Avivas leadership, understanding Increase percentage of recycled waste by 2% until 80% recycled of company values and levels of rate is achieved.
More employees said they felt more customer focused and empowered in the workplace.
Awareness of Avivas diversity policies and practices was also higher than 2007 and more employees felt that their talents were being managed effectively by their managers.
com csr Aviva plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review People and responsibility continued Customers Satisfied customers are a key measure of success and our purpose, to provide prosperity and peace of mind, guides every interaction, from customer service to responsible selling and marketing.
Product innovation, to meet peoples changing life needs, is an essential element in all our markets.
In France, we are increasingly integrating CR principles into our products, and offer lower home and car insurance premiums to customers who act more safely, and who make environmentally Our senior managers view our carbon target to be so significant that it is included in each regional chief executives personal and socially responsible choices.
There are also incentives for our French policyholders to stop smoking and so reduce the risks to objectives.
To help improve the quality of our data we introduced an online CR data collection and reporting tool.
In the Netherlands, Delta Lloyd and ING have launched the As the first insurer to be carbon neutral on a global basis we continue to be committed to offsetting activities.
This year we first insurance for automatic external defibrillators AEDs and this is at cost price.
This is in response to the Dutch Heart Foundations have continued to support renewable energy projects in developing countries where Aviva has a presence.
Our signature project was campaign on the importance of immediate resuscitation and the use of an AED in the event of a cardiac arrest.
in the Sichuan province of China, providing clean and renewable energy by way of a small-scale run of river hydro project.
As well As a global insurer, we take pride in understanding the specific needs of our customers, wherever they are in the world.
In India, as reducing pollution in the area, this project has provided much needed skilled employment for the local region.
we have developed a range of financial products and services to help the underprivileged and combat poverty.
The micro-insurance plan, Weve also been concentrating on water this year as it is a major issue relating to climate change.
Our customers are seriously Grameen Suraksha, reduces the burden on its rural policyholders who now number more than 1.1 million who pay premiums for affected when flooding occurs so it is important to us to help people be prepared.
To this end we have pioneered a flood planning just two years and then realise the term benefit for five or ten years.
And Indias first comprehensive child care plan, Aviva Little Master, process to highlight to a whole community ways to deal with a flood and how damage can be limited.
is designed to take care of the current and future needs of children should they be orphaned.
Part of our strategy is to share knowledge with our employees so that they can reduce their environmental impact at home.
We have developed an interactive game to show our employees where they can make savings at home, at work and at play and put together an employee engagement action pack to help our businesses.
This provides them with the technical information they need to support employees to make a difference, including a list of top tips for reducing carbon emissions.
Putting something back Our Australian business offers a financial incentive to employees to purchase renewable energy or water saving devices for their home.
They will match fund the governments rebate of up to A$300, which makes these purchases more affordable.
We believe it is important to raise awareness of climate change and influence others.
An example of this is the solar powered boat, sponsored by Delta Lloyd, which won the Frisian Solar Challenge race in the Netherlands this year.
We also think its important to research ways to reduce the impact of climate change and this year we have committed to a five year research partnership with Earthwatch.
This includes funding a project to research the potential of mangrove trees to provide an economic model for avoiding deforestation and ensure the sustainability of these natural flood Case study: defences in Kenya.
Offsetting our carbon emissions As part of our climate change strategy, we retrospectively offset our outstanding carbon.
In rural areas of East Africa we have joined forces with co2balance to replace the use of open fires for cooking with energy efficient stoves.
As well as providing 70% more energy efficiency, there are social and economic benefits.
More efficient stoves means less wood is burnt, so helping to prevent deforestation.
And as the stoves are built within the villages employment is created in local areas.
com csr Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 77 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information This year also saw the launch of three new SRI initiatives by Aviva Investors: The inclusion of the UN Principles for Responsible Investment UN PRI in our contracts.
This enables clients to see the PRI assessment of our performance and hold us to account for delivery on our responsible investment commitments The introduction of a broader AGM voting remit on corporate responsibility for all global holdings on the MSCI global index The creation of a new sustainable fund specialising in renewable energy projects including solar photovoltaic, geothermal, biomass, biogas and wind assets Suppliers We understand the importance of responsible business practices within the supply chain and recognise the influence that our organisation can have.
This year we have developed our position Case study: by chairing the Financial Services Purchasing Forum CSR sub-group Mangrove trees and carbon sequestration which aims to promote a coordinated and standardised approach to managing CR issues in the supply chain.
Ethical, social and environmental considerations are already part of our procurement The capture and storage of carbon or sequestration is an processes: we give each new supplier in the UK a minimum important area of research in climate change mitigation.
We are 10% CR weighting when reviewing new tender submissions.
providing five-year funding for an investigation led by Earthwatch, the international environment charity, into the sequestration External benchmarking potential of mangrove swamps in Kenya.
The project will also Our achievements in 2008 were recognised by our continued inform an economic model for avoiding deforestation and ensure inclusion in some of the leading external benchmarks: the sustainability of these natural flood defences.
The research supports our commitment to provide carbon finance in Africa Dow Jones Sustainability World Index where we believe there is an urgent need.
It will demonstrate 2008 SAM Sustainable Asset Management Bronze Class exactly how much carbon can be stored in mangroves over time, 2009 inclusion in SAM yearbook and will lead to the development of carbon credit verification.
FTSE4Good Index Series Visit Aviva CSR at ECPI Ethical Index Euro and Ethical Index Global indices, www.
com csr received second highest EE rating Accountability rating ranked 45th out of the worlds Helping for the future 100 largest companies The Guardian Observer Good Companies Guide ranked 9th out of FTSE 350 companies Carbon Disclosure Project Leadership Index score of 83 out of 100 Affiliations and engagements We engage externally with leading organisations to share good practice, improve our performance and ensure the effectiveness of our CR strategies.
Among much other collaboration in 2008, we contributed to and signed our support to the following: CBI Climate Change Board Prince of Wales Accounting for Sustainability ClimateWise Aviva was one of the leading companies to be recognised in the Forum for the Future ClimateWise programme review UNEP Finance Initiative UN Global Compact Caring for Climate Aviva plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review People and responsibility continued Accounting for sustainability: climate, waste and resource impact Key indicators Direct company impacts Cash flow performance Non-financial indicators Greenhouse CO emissions Avivas CO emissions 2 2 gas emissions Total cost of offsetting 105% of our global CO emissions 2 140,000 2.5 128,931 tonnes in 2008 was in the region of CO emissions 2 120,000 750,000.
We incur up to a 2% premium for zero 2.0 Other significant emissions 100,000 emission renewable electricity compared to fossil fuels.
1.5 Following the publication of the 2008 UK DEFRA carbon 80,000 reporting guidelines, at the end of our current electricity 60,000 1.0 contract we will no longer pay a premium for zero 40,000 emission electricity in the UK.
0.5 20,000 2008 has been a benign year for weather related claims, although we do see a trend in the increased incidents of 0 0 such events and believe the occurrence of these will rise 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2007 2008 with climate change.
CO tonnes 2 CO offset 2 CO tonnes per employee 2 New businesses Other significant emissions The 2007 CO emmissions has been restated.
Each year the conversion factor 2 Our operations do not generate material quantities of for electricity generation varies.
We therefore need to restate these figures every any other significant greenhouse gases.
We are restating the 2007 figures accordingly.
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste Avivas waste Waste Total disposal cost for hazardous and non hazardous waste 25,000 400 in the UK was 629,000 2007: 464,000, which includes 350 20,000 UK landfill tax.
300 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste Conservation investment 250 15,000 Total capital expenditure for storage and recycling in the Conservation investment 200 UK was minimal 2007: 200,000.
10,000 150 100 5,000 50 0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Total waste tonnes Recycled tonnes Total waste per employee kgs New businesses Water Avivas water consumption The operating cost of water usage was 944,000 in Resource usage 800,000 14 2008 2007: 938,000 12 600,000 Energy intensity 10 Total cost of building-related energy in 2008 was 8 Water 400,000 18.2 million 2007: 20.4 million.
6 Energy intensity 4 200,000 Paper usage Paper usage 2 We currently do not track the cost of paper usage.
0 0 Environmental incidents Environmental incidents 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 During 2008 there were no environmental incidents 3 Water consumption m 3 as a result of our operations, resulting in fines of nil Water consumption m per employee New businesses 2007: nil.
Avivas paper consumption 14,000 250 12,000 200 10,000 150 8,000 6,000 100 4,000 50 2,000 0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Paper consumption tonnes kgs per employee New businesses 3 m tonnes tonnes tonnes 3 m per employee kgs per employee tonnes per employee kgs per employee Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 79 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Indirect impacts Industry Commentary on our performance, Products Suppliers Investments Benchmark information strategy and targets In 2008, our total CO2 emissions decreased with all We anticipate having a complete UK carbon footprint of Carbon Disclosure Project Leadership Index businesses reporting consistently on their footprint and the properties we own through our Property Fund Score 83 out of 100 applying practices to reduce their emissions.
They have managed by Aviva Investors.
Under the new UK BREEAM minimum ranking Good for new build achieved this by using technologies, changing behaviours, Government Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme, and refurbishment and by purchasing zero emission and renewable electricity gas and oil used in the properties will be subject electricity.
We anticipate our carbon footprint reducing to an additional cost of 12 per tonne.
to 108,000 tonnes in 2009 through our divestment of We regularly review the viability of new products and AutoWindscreens and AGS 10,000 tonnes and by services which can encourage customers to reduce their reducing business travel.
There will be an increase from own CO emissions.
Our Prestige Property Owners Policy 2 our new data centre reaching full capacity but expect that includes a free energy assessment, advice and guidance on this will reduce over time through a programme of energy saving technologies and reassessment to virtualisation and consolidation of data.
Our RAC business has fitted speed limiters on its This year the UK general insurance business worked with breakdown vehicles providing an anticipated saving on public bodies to create a best practice template in flood fuel and associated carbon emissions of 7.4% over the planning, involving local authorities, emergency services and year to October 2009.
We are trialling retrofitted hybrid utilities companies.
The planning should help improve drive systems on two of the breakdown vehicles which response times, raise awareness and reduce damage.
See could save up to another 25% in associated emissions www.
This development complements the in 2008 09.
We will continue to purchase zero emission work completed earlier in the year.
com renewable electricity where it is practical to do so.
Aviva Investors new European Renewable Energy Fund Currently 65% 2007: 61% of our electricity worldwide specialises in developing and financing renewable energy is purchased from zero emission sources.
Our remaining infrastructure projects in the European Union.
The emissions will continue to be offset on a retrospective basis Environmental Technology Fund and New Energy Fund compensating for the carbon output of our consumption managed by Delta Lloyd asset management business and of non-renewable sourced electricity, gas and oil from the Renewable Energy and Clean Technologies fund in buildings and business travel.
Aviva Spain focuses on climate change mitigation.
In 2008, the total volume of waste generated has We are working with our upstream partners to 200 kgs of waste per employee per year increased globally by 2% and the proportion of waste eliminate waste from the business through take back Recycling rate of 6070% BRE Office toolkit recycled has decreased by 4% on 2007 data to 84%.
of packaging and switching to biodegradable wrapping Our waste figures will reduce by some 6,000 tonnes etc.
Environmental clauses are included in contracts with due to the divestment of AutoWindscreens.
Each new supplier has to sign up to Avivas CR Supplier Code of Conduct focusing on environmental The learning from our bin-less office system is being impact as well as human rights and social issues.
applied to the Canadian business in 2009 and complements their efforts in 2008 around the composting We adhere to all building regulations insulation, proper of organic waste.
disposal of waste material including building waste and white goods and we are members of a responsible motor The rebranding of our businesses in the UK, Ireland and repair network which disposes of waste and spare parts Poland to Aviva in 2009 and 2010 will inevitably generate in accordance with sustainable environmental practices.
This however, is being closely monitored to ensure this waste is kept to a minimum.
3 Our focus on water reduction increased in 2008: the Work is continuing with our marketing departments and 7.7m per employee per year.
National Water Demand Avivas businesses in the UK set a target of 10% reduction.
suppliers to provide marketing materials with recycled Management Centre Trials of flow straighteners for taps, reduced water content and remanufactured stationery products.
consumption urinals, and water saving devices on toilets Shareholders have been asked to make the switch to cisterns have been successful, resulting in a combined receive company information electronically including the 3 reduction to 5.5m per employee per year at the test electronic transfer of dividends.
A group target of 4% has been set for 2009, through the sharing of these good practices around the world.
Our energy strategy is to invest in new energy saving technology and to reduce our energy dependency on fossil fuels.
We are prepared to pay up to 2% premium for purchasing electricity from renewable zero emission sources.
We have trialled the use of boiler optimisation valves fitted to all our boilers.
The trial suggested a reduction in gas use of 15% and our investment of 154,000 should see a positive return in just 38 weeks.
Capital expenditure work on energy conservation is proceeding with a payback period of less than 3 years.
Our strategy is to increase the use of recycled content paper, while reducing overall paper use.
Cost and quality of recycled papers are now comparable with virgin content paper.
We have introduced self selection options, which enable policyholders to receive and save policy documentation online, thus reducing paper usage, printing and postage cost.
