Aviva plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors remuneration report Highlights In 2008 the Committee agreed and implemented, with shareholder approval, the One Aviva Twice the Value Bonus Plan.
It also decided to maintain the 2008 financial targets set in December 2007 despite the unprecedented shocks to the macro-economic system and volatility in markets.
The Committee approved the Executive Directors request to freeze their basic salaries for 2009.
It is not proposing any major adjustments to Avivas executive remuneration structure in the coming year.
It has further approved stretching financial targets for 2009 and agreed to review in mid 2009 their continued appropriateness The demanding financial and non-financial targets set for the 2008 annual bonus were met in-part during the year.
The combination of financial outcomes, along with those targets relating to employees, customers, and personal objectives mean the Chief Executive received a 2008 bonus of 54.2% of his maximum opportunity 2007: 65%.
The Committee entered the 2009 reward review conscious of the economic background and widespread comment on over-generous executive remuneration.
The Committee believes Avivas 2008 business results are strong and that Avivas remuneration practices already closely link pay to performance.
The Committee has, however, looked to ensure prudent and proportionate reward outcomes.
The Committee has decided to defer for one year Avivas five-yearly comprehensive compensation review.
The existing authorities and approvals, granted by shareholders in 2005, will allow the current schemes to continue to operate up until the Annual General Meeting in 2010.
Mark Hodges, Chief Executive, Norwich Union Life, was appointed an Executive Director of Aviva plc in June 2008.
Information on his remuneration therefore appears in this report for the first time.
Introduction This report sets out the remuneration policy for the Companys directors, describes its implementation and discloses the amounts paid in 2008.
In addition to meeting statutory requirements, particularly the Companies Act 1985, Schedule 7A, the Remuneration Committee the Committee has aimed to comply with best practice guidelines, including guidance produced by the Association of British Insurers ABI and the National Association of Pension Funds, in producing this report.
Relevant sections of this report have been audited in accordance with Corporate Governance best practice and legislation This report covers the following: The Committees objectives, membership and main activities in 2008: A review of Avivas remuneration policy and practice: Commentary on the alignment between remuneration and Avivas business strategy and objectives: Details of the terms of executive directors EDs service contracts: Avivas share ownership policy with respect to EDs: Avivas policy on external board appointments: Avivas UK all employee share plans and Share Incentive plans: Avivas position against dilution limits: Non-executive directors NEDs, and: Tables summarising the 2008 position on: Directors remuneration EDs pension arrangements Share incentive plans Directors interests in shares The Committees objectives The Committee is a committee of the Board.
Its terms of reference are available from the Group Company Secretary and can be found on the Companys website www.
The Committees key objectives are to: Establish a competitive remuneration package to attract, retain and motivate scarce, high quality leaders: Promote the achievement of both the Companys annual plans and its strategic objectives by providing a remuneration package that contains appropriately motivating targets: and Align senior executives remuneration with the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders, including customers and employees.
