C14170 Barclays B 039-068. qxp:B File 04 6 3 09 01:26 Page 66 Corporate sustainability Sustainability and Barclays Barclays participates in a number of external indices, forums and initiatives At Barclays, we recognise that our sustainability values have an increased which help to measure our progress including the Dow Jones Sustainability importance in the current financial climate.
We are focused on: Index and FTSE4Good.
In 2008, Barclays ranked joint first in the Carbon supporting our existing customers: being a bank that welcomes Disclosure Projects Leadership Index.
all potential customers: being an equal opportunity employer: our Customers and clients commitment to climate change: and ensuring we behave at all times In 2008, amid widespread uncertainty in financial markets and the wider as a responsible global citizen.
global economy, it was vital to stay close to our clients and customers, Doing this effectively helps us to reduce our risk and positions us well who we recognise have a choice where they bank.
to capture commercial opportunities arising from the global transition During the year, we worked to help our customers and clients cope towards a more sustainable future.
with the challenging economic circumstances.
Our record of lending Developing our strategic framework responsibly has allowed us to continue mortgage lending in the UK, To measure our success in integrating sustainability into our business we increasing our share of net new lending from 8% in 2007 to 36% in 2008. have addressed the broad sustainability agenda through five key themes: We increased lending to UK SMEs by 6% to a total of 15bn.
We also provided support to small businesses in the UK and South Africa and also Customers and Clients made significant investment in the Barclays Business Support team which Inclusive Banking is dedicated to helping business customers in financial difficulty in the UK.
In addition, we have committed to lend an additional 10% Diversity and Our People 1.5bn to SMEs in the UK by the end of 2009.
We continue to act Environment on customer and client feedback to develop appropriate products and services to meet different needs.
Responsible Global Citizenship Inclusive banking These themes resonate in our businesses, provide a platform for For Barclays, inclusive banking means helping those who are excluded action, and give us a clear purpose and direction.
Implementation is driven from the financial system to join and benefit from it.
by actionable goals and robust performance measurement.
We have dedicated accounts for people on low incomes across several We manage and report our progress on the sustainability topics of countries in Africa.
In 2008, these basic accounts made up 27% of our most significance to our business and our stakeholders.
We have total current and savings accounts in Africa.
determined this in part through: Absa, which has 10 million customers, is now the market leader for our research initiatives and partnerships low income customers in South Africa those earning less than R3,000 200 a month with a market share of 33%.
dialogue with our stakeholders including customers, investors We continued to support better access to financial products and governments, non-governmental organisations, consumer groups, services in the UK through our basic-level Cash Card Account, which is and journalists across our markets globally now held by more than 730,000 customers, and through partnerships with community finance organisations and charities which help excluded internal and external focus groups including hosting consumer roundtables in the UK.
and vulnerable people in society.
In March 2008, Barclays launched the Hello Money service in India Stakeholder insight and feedback on our sustainability agenda is vital, which allows customers to carry out banking transactions easily and and encourages us to be open and transparent about the issues our securely over their mobile phones.
Hello Money is already making a stakeholders are concerned about.
significant impact in giving access to financial services for people in Indias rural areas.
Measuring progress We aim to measure and monitor our sustainability progress both internally Diversity and Our People and externally.
In 2008, we developed a framework for regular progress Barclays aims to provide a safe working environment in which employees reports to the Group Executive Committee and the Board.
It provides are treated fairly and with respect, encouraged to develop, and rewarded consistent tracking of our progress by sustainability theme and Business Unit.
on the basis of individual performance.
"Barclays Capital has traded more than 1billion tonnes Over 57,000 employees of carbon credits with a received direct support for notional value of over 52.2m invested in fundraising, volunteering 20bn our communities globally and giving in 31countries 1bn 52.2m 57,000 51 30' 21"" N 19 01' 04""N 1 16' 28"" S London, UK 12pm GMT Mumbai 5.30pm IST Nairobi 3pm EAT | 66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www."
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 039-068. qxp:B File 04 6 3 09 01:26 Page 67 1 In 2008, Antony Jenkins, CEO Barclaycard was appointed Diversity and Responsible global citizenship Inclusion Executive Champion to drive our diversity agenda across Global We acknowledge and accept that we have an obligation to be a Retail and Commercial Banking.
Initiatives in 2008 included establishing the responsible global citizen, and our sustainability efforts help us to achieve requirement that every senior executive has a diversity objective linked to this.
This means managing our business and supply chain to improve our their performance goals.
social, economic and environmental impact, and doing business ethically.
In 2009, we intend to extend our Womens Leadership Programme, Community Investment aimed at developing talented women employees, across all 15 countries Investing in the communities in which we operate is an integral part of in our GRCB Emerging Markets business with secondments of between Barclays sustainability strategy.
During 2008, we maintained our levels 3 and 12 months.
of investment in communities despite the challenging conditions.
We Environment invested 52.2m and more than 57,000 colleagues in 31 countries were We seek to minimise our environmental impact through reducing Barclays involved in volunteering, fundraising and regular giving.
In addition, energy, water and waste footprints and managing the risks and Barclays launched a three-year global community investment partnership opportunities associated with climate change.
with UNICEF, the leading childrens organisation, in which we committed Businesses have a vital role to play in managing and mitigating climate to invest 5m.
At Barclays, we recognise that we have an impact on the Human Rights and Barclays environment both directly through our own operations, and indirectly In June 2008, we refined our statement on human rights first introduced through our supply chain and corporate lending.
We monitor and manage in 2004 which outlines the approach we take to human rights through both sets of impacts.
our three main areas of impact as an employer, as a provider of financial In 2008, Barclays set environmental targets that apply to global services to customers and clients, and as a purchaser of goods and operations.
We will measure our performance over three years from 2009 services from suppliers.
We aim to operate in accordance with the: to 2011 against a 2008 baseline.
The targets are to reduce: Universal Declaration of Human Rights CO2 emissions by 6% per employee, achieving an average 2% reduction OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises per year International Labour Organisations Core Conventions.
energy use from buildings excluding data centres by 6% per Barclays is active in developing the global business and human rights employee, achieving an average 2% reduction per year agenda through our membership of two organisations the Business water use by 6% per employee, achieving an average 2% reduction per year.
Leaders Initiative on Human Rights, launched in 2003 of which we are a founder member, and United Nations Environment Programme Finance We made our UK and European operations carbon neutral by Initiative UNEP FI, for which we co-chair the Human Rights Workstream.
offsetting emissions from energy use and travel.
We are on track to make We extended the guidance provided to our employees on human our global banking operations carbon neutral by the end of 2009. rights in 2008 to include access to an online tool for front-line lending Environmental and social risk managers, which assists in identifying and mitigating human rights risks.
The majority of the environmental and social risks associated with our Supply chain business are indirect.
These impacts arise through business relationships, We work closely with our suppliers to help them manage their own impacts including those with our supply chain and those with our clients through and ensure they share our commitment to sustainability.
sourcing process includes criteria for measuring and assessing our We apply our Environmental and Social Impact Assessment policy ESIA suppliers sustainability.
Tenders for supplies deemed to have a potentially to projects that we are considering financing.
In 2008, a total of 31 project high sustainability impact or risk, such as print or corporate wear, require finance deals were assessed against the Equator Principles, a set of social and suppliers to complete our sustainable supply chain questionnaire on their environmental criteria adopted by many banks.
In addition, the Environmental sustainability impact, policies and management processes.
Risk Management team assessed 229 non-project finance transactions.
During 2008, we continued to engage directly with our suppliers on We continue to assess our environmental and social impact sustainability, both as part of our ongoing supplier relationships and to beyond the project finance remit of the Equator Principles and are address specific issues such as reducing their carbon emissions.
working to include climate change and human rights considerations in these assessments.
"31 project finance deals More than 730,000 were assessed against the basic Cash Card Equator Principles Accounts held in the UK 31 730,000 40 25' 00"" N 53 47' 59"" N Madrid 1pm CET Leeds, UK 12pm GMT Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 67"
