Corporate and social responsibility In continuing to build Beazley as a premier risktaking business, we take our corporate, social and environmental responsibility seriously.
We constantly consider the ethical implications of how induction, training and supervision in aspects of health we operate in our day-to-day business and put policies and safety and additional training in ergonomics and re and procedures in place that reect our commitment.
safety awareness is provided to all employees.
All health We also recognise the regulatory and reputational risks and safety matters are communicated via notice boards, associated with ethical practice and adhere closely to email memos, the intranet and via safety representatives.
the Association of British Insurers ABI guidelines Overall responsibility for health and safety at Beazley published in October 2001 on the disclosure of listed rests with the chief operations officer of the group, companies social responsibility policies and endeavours.
Intrinsic to our culture is an ethical approach to business We believe that the knowledge and skills of our conducted by and towards all our stakeholders, including employees are a key element of organisational success management, staff, clients, suppliers and shareholders.
and therefore invest in training and development.
We The values that form the essence of our brand and ensure that this is accessible by everyone and our working culture are professionalism, integrity, recognised as a shared responsibility between individual effectiveness and dynamism.
We have appointed employees and the organisation.
Responsibility for the Nicholas Furlonge as the group sponsor of our provision of training and development at Beazley sits corporate and social responsibility programme.
with the head of talent management, Penny Malik.
During 2008 we enhanced our documentation in relation Employees are kept informed of developments in to our code of ethics.
This code comprises the staff business through our internal communications, including handbook, the handling of personal data, whistle formal company-wide briengs that occur twice a month, blowing, anti fraud and anti money laundering policies.
team meetings and an information-rich intranet.
We have a conicts of interest policy which provides We are proud of our working culture that ensures that clear guidance to staff on areas such as inducements we achieve our aim to attract, reward and retain talented and handling sensitive data.
staff in competitive markets, and support and develop Corporate responsibility them as they strive to perform to an excellent standard.
We are an equal opportunities employer and make it Social responsibility our policy to offer equal treatment to employees and We encourage employee involvement in a range of prospective employees, ensuring that all are treated fairly community programmes.
Nicholas Furlonge is the and with dignity and respect.
We do not permit unlawful chairman of the Lloyds Community Programme discrimination of any kind against any person on the Management Board in London, and encourages staff grounds of gender, race, nationality or ethnic origin, age, to involve themselves in helping pupils in schools in the disability, religious beliefs, sexuality, marital status, Tower Hamlets area, one of the most deprived areas in working patterns or pregnancy.
Beazley is involved in two schemes on a We are committed to taking positive action to ensure weekly basis Reading and Maths partners.
Currently that all employees, whether full-time or part-time, we have 13 volunteers participating in total in what is receive equality of opportunity in recruitment, training, proving to be a very successful scheme.
In 2008 two development, promotion and remuneration.
individuals were involved in mentoring teenagers from Tower Hamlets and Hackney on a one to one basis to We strive to ensure the health, safety and welfare of our offer them help and advice as they near the end of employees and anyone else who may be affected by our school and need to prepare for the next step whether operations.
Employees are expected to take reasonable that is going to university or entering the work place.
care for their own health and safety at work as well as those of others, and to co-operate with management to In 2008, we sent volunteers to a school in Hackney to create a safe and healthy working environment.
help students understand the process of getting paid All employees, contractors and visitors are subject to what it means to write a CV, a covering letter and the dos and donts of interviews.
com In 2008 we also participated in cricket and football t 3FDZDMJOH GBDJMJUJFT GPS QMBTUJDT HMBTT QBQFS coaching and are looking at some of our business cardboard and used toner cartridges are located teams participating in Lloyds community programme throughout the building: days in 2009. t MBTTFT BSF VTFE XJUIJO UIF PGmDFT BOE SFmMMBCMF HMBTT bottles are used for the meeting rooms in lieu of The group made charitable donations during the disposable ones: year ended 31 December 2008 of 67,112 2007: t 3FDZDMJOH CJOT GPS PME NPCJMF UFMFQIPOFT GPS DIBSJUZ 59,232.
The groups charity budget is managed by t. VMUJ GVODUJPOBM TDBOOFS QSJOUJOH DPQZJOH BOE GBYJOH a charity committee chaired by Jonathan Gray and facilities exist and double-sided printing is set as a consideration is given to a wide range of activities, default on all copiers and printers: particularly where members of staff are engaged in t O UIFPOEPO PGmDF NPUJPO EFUFDUPST BSF mUUFE UP fundraising activities.
For example, our staff raised lighting systems to ensure electricity usage is kept over 2,000 competing in the Great River Boat Race, to a minimum and lighting levels have been reduced over 2,000 in a white-water rafting competition by 25%: and over 3,000 in the annual JP Morgan Chase t 5IF MBOEMPSE GPS UIFPOEPO PGmDF QSPDVSFT UIF Challenge.
Also, our annual Christmas card is distributed electricity from a green supplier: electronically to over 20,000 key clients and contacts, t 5IFPOEPO PGmDFT IBWF DIBOHFE UIF QBQFS TVQQMJFT giving them the opportunity to indicate the charity that to 100% recycled: they wish us to support.
t 8F BMTP BDUJWFMZ FODPVSBHF UIF VTF PG QVCMJD USBOTQPSU As previously reported we run a payroll-giving scheme in and provide ample cycle racks, shower facilities and the UK in association with the Charities Aid Foundation.
locker storage for those employees who cycle into By the end of December 2008, 10% of staff had joined work and we provide a cycle to work scheme.
the scheme, donating 23,570 annually to 33 different In 2007 we signed up to the ClimateWise principles charities.
and we continue to monitor our progress against these.
No political donations were made by the group in either The principles are: lead in risk analysis: inform public the current or prior reporting period.
policy making: support climate awareness amongst our customers: incorporate climate change into our Environmental responsibility investment strategies: reduce the environmental We are committed to achieving best practice in all the impact of our business: report and be accountable.
areas of the business where there may be an impact Where more appropriate for example informing public on the environment and where possible we will policy and incorporating climate change into our endeavour to reduce the environmental impact of investment strategies we will be placing reliance on physical assets under our control.
We have engaged the activities of Lloyds ClimateWise team.
This team is our employees through a series of company wide also working with us to enhance the measurement and presentations and we will continue to actively seek reporting of our activities during 2009.
We have engaged their input into our activities.
Overall responsibility for with a third party to conduct an environmental impact environmental issues rests with Nicholas Furlonge.
assessment of all our UK operations, including an From our head ofce in Plantation Place in London we assessment of carbon emissions.
This will enable us to encourage environmentally aware behaviour including: set a benchmark level against which we can set targets and measure progress.
"Compliance with the ClimateWise t "" QPMJDZ GPS NJOJNJTJOH XBTUF CZ TDBOOJOH SJTLT BOE principles is subject to annual independent review, which claims which enables employees worldwide to view in 2008 was conducted by Forum for the Future."
documents electronically rather than on paper: t &YUFOTJWF WJEFP DPOGFSFODJOH JT BWBJMBCMF BU UIF London ofces and some US ofces to reduce requirements for business travel and air travel: Beazley Annual Report 2008 47
