BlueBay Asset Management plc Corporate Responsibility 52 Annual Report 2008 Report The Board and management of BlueBay integral component of employee development We recognise our health & safety obligations recognise that through its actions, the is encouraging constructive feedback coupled to everyone who either works in or visits Company has an impact on its people, with a requirement that all employees have our premises.
Hugh Willis, Chief Executive is its marketplace, the community and the agreed objectives.
To achieve this we have responsible for health & safety, assisted by the environment.
In pursuing our business always operated an annual appraisal system Head of our Human Resources department activities, we have a responsibility to and for several years we have also undertaken and a fully qualified professional advisor.
minimise the impact of these activities on mid year reviews.
We consider that these the environment and to treat our employees, tools enable employees to identify their Marketplace clients, business associates and the strengths and the behaviours they need to BlueBays funds and products are communities in which we work as long-term address in order to attain their potential.
predominantly distributed to institutional partners.
The way in which we discharge this investors globally see breakdown in Business responsibility will impact on our reputation.
It is important for all of us to participate Review as well as via a number of third party We are keenly aware that once lost, a good in the success of BlueBay and this is global and regional distributors.
These reputation is hard to regain.
demonstrated by the fact that almost all relationships are important to us and we permanent employees have direct or indirect consider that establishing a reputation for Employees stakes in the equity of the Company.
For reliability, integrity and transparency are key In order to be successful in our business, the compensation year ending in December ingredients to our success.
we need to recruit the very best professionals 2007, we initiated our post-Listing equity in the marketplace to fill each and every incentivisation programme by making a The paragraphs below outline how we one of the positions we have at BlueBay.
number of equity awards to existing meet the requirements of the regulatory We aim to continue to recruit and retain employees and new joiners which will vest environments in which we operate, address the most accomplished professionals in the over a five-year period.
We also believe it the needs of our client and distributor marketplace.
We recruit our employees is important for our interests to be aligned relationships and ensure that we develop new based solely on professional ability, objective with those of our fund investors, therefore, and innovative products which cater to future criteria and without regard to any possible primarily for investment professionals, we investment requirements.
We have a diverse continued our practice of offering part of workforce and as at 30 June 2008, we the annual discretionary bonus awards in the Compliance culture and processes employed 235 people from more than 20 form of deferred fund share awards which We believe that the compliance culture 2 nationalities in a ratio of approximately 3 vest over several years.
should be embedded within the 1 male: female.
We operate user friendly organisation from how we communicate and 3 employment policies aimed at promoting We are committed to providing our promote our products through to managing equal opportunities and tackling and employees with a congenial workplace.
We feel it is crucial for us to maintain a These policies are available on our intranet collegiate working atmosphere based on Our dedicated compliance team is involved to all employees, temporary workers and mutual respect for all, regardless of the at all stages of marketing, including providing contractors.
position a person has within the Company.
input into our promotional and sales We believe that our corporate culture is an literature, ongoing training to promote better Our clients place a high level of trust in us important aspect of our success and that it is understanding of the regulatory framework, and we recognise both the responsibility this best maintained by staying together.
During ensuring that anti-money laundering and brings and the resulting demands on our the course of the year, we moved the whole sanction regulations are adhered to and people.
Having grown the business rapidly of our London office to new premises on investment mandates are managed in we acknowledge that to continue to be 77 Grosvenor Street.
Similarly, in anticipation accordance with applicable restrictions effective we must provide the necessary of the growth of our New York office which and mandate guidelines.
support and development for our employees.
engages in sales and client service activities, Consequently, appropriate training is made we have secured the lease of additional office available to employees to ensure they are space directly adjacent to the current office.
maintaining and developing their professional abilities.
In addition, we believe that an Corporate Responsibility Report 53 Client and Distributor relationships Product Development Environment and communication Our strategy to maintain our position as one We have become increasingly aware of the We have established a dedicated team of of the leading fixed income credit specialists negative impact economic activity may have client relations managers based across in Europe is supported by innovative product on the environment.
We are committed to London, Tokyo and New York whose development.
New products are launched limiting and ultimately reducing the impact principal objective is to be the first point of following extensive internal due diligence and of our business on the environment.
contact for all investor enquiries including consultation with our clients to ensure that the provision of clear and concise investment their risk return objectives are adequately The contractor we selected for the fit-out reporting, completing regular client review captured.
Above all, we remain focused on of our new premises is widely recognised meetings and ensuring investors are kept our core principle of capital preservation and for its environmental practice.
On completion up to date on developments at BlueBay.
delivering consistent performance within a of the refit, the building was evaluated Furthermore, we invite both existing and disciplined, risk controlled environment.
Each using the Building Research Establishment prospective clients to conduct due diligence year we invite Standard & Poors S&P to Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM visits with us to review our investment teams review and rate our long-only funds and now and achieved the second highest BREEAM and operational infrastructure.
have four of our flagship funds with S&P rating in Category A. ratings, three of which are AA rated and one We maintain strict policies and procedures of which is AAA rated.
The performance of The fit-out was carbon neutral.
Data was regarding fair treatment of investors in our long-only funds has also been recognised collected over the period of the redevelopment line with the FSAs principle of Treating in Lippers 2008 awards across the categories in order to calculate the carbon emissions.
Our client reporting is of Best Bond Small Group, Best Bond Offsetting carbon credits were purchased provided on a monthly basis and provides a Euro Corporates Fund and Best Bond in two particular projects: the first, a methane straightforward and transparent assessment Europe High Yield.
capturing project in the Netherlands and the of clients investments.
Reports are subject to second, a hydro-electric power project in the rigorous checks and sign-off procedures to Community Sichuan Province of China.
ensure accuracy prior to release.
Controls to As we grow in size, we have become monitor responsibilities to clients, as well as increasingly aware of our impact on the wider Considerable time and care was taken in all other internal controls within BlueBay, community.
We continued our theme of evaluating the design of the building which are captured in BlueBays annual Assurance making charitable contributions to charities incorporates features such as control modules Report on Internal Controls AAF 01 06. which focus on children.
In 2007-08, we in the lighting system so that unoccupied The report which describes the control made a combined contribution of 52,000 to space is not illuminated and solenoid valves environment, control objectives and the Great Ormond Street Childrens Hospital, which shut down the water supplies in the procedures required to meet these objectives, the Royal Free Hampstead Hospital and CLIC event a leak is detected.
allows clients to understand the controls in Sargent Charity which cares for children and place to mitigate any risks within our business.
We try to minimise the volume of waste we produce by operating a procurement We sponsor those employees that wish to strategy aimed at reducing the generation participate in the annual Chase Corporate of waste and recycling where it is practicable Challenge where monies are raised for the to do so.
For the disposal of electrical goods, Sports Aid charity.
we work in partnership with a provider who holds ISO 14001 accreditation and can During the course of 2008-09, we will ensure environmentally friendly disposal of continue to look into opportunities to enable obsolete equipment.
the Group and its employees to contribute to the wider community.
Reducing the environmental impact of our business is an ongoing responsibility and we will be exploring further ways of fulfilling this during the coming year.
