Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 42 42 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is firmly embedded in the Chaucer business.
It influences on the way we encourage our people to develop professionally and personally.
It is evidenced by the time we dedicate to charitable work and it is measured by our adherence to the ClimateWise principles.
The primary aim of our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR 12 employees participated in the Reading Partners Scheme, programme is to consider the effect that our work has on our managed by Tower Hamlets Business Partnership, employees, society and our environment and as such, dedicating over 150 hours to help 40 children at Cayley implement activities that have a positive impact on our School in Limehouse develop their literary and community.
communication skills Our corporate responsibility We donated an engine to AHOY Adventure, Help and Our people are the driving force behind the success of our Opportunities for Youth, based in Deptford, south east business and as such, we place a high value on investment in London, for their new safety boat, which they named The people.
Chaucer Our role as a responsible employer is to operate first class Other organisations supported throughout the year included employment practices and promote equal opportunities.
the Royal National Lifeboat Institution, City Gateway, which Through providing support to our staff, we have built a culture provide education, skills and training to young people and of trust, loyalty and mutual respect.
This has allowed us to Movers and Shakers, which supports the Cure Parkinsons attract highly qualified and knowledgeable individuals and to Trust create and retain what we believe to be one of the best teams We also supported individual employees in their personal in our industry.
charitable achievements, which included an 875-mile cycle We are proud of our culture.
We believe that in order to ride, marathons and a sky dive succeed, our people must have common goals and objectives.
Our Whitstable projects The Chaucer Values of enthusiasm, expertise, integrity, In our Whitstable office, the home of our Motor Division teamwork, aspiration and inclusiveness, show the way for how Chaucer Insurance, staff dedicated over 480 hours to we work together as Chaucer and how we conduct business voluntary projects and made donations to 33 charitable with our clients, our investors and suppliers.
organisations Our values also provide a framework for the schemes that we Six members of staff took a group of 20 young carers for a operate to develop, both the professional and personal skills of day out at Port Lympne to give them a much-needed break our employees, including a mentoring scheme and numerous from the responsibility for caring for a family member volunteering schemes in which we participate.
In July, ten employees took part in a 7 km wheelchair push Our social responsibility along the seafront on behalf of the Strode Park Foundation, We encourage employees to participate in community Kent's premier charity for people with disabilities programmes by providing each individual with two days a year, We provided funding for staff blood tests to identify suitable which they can dedicate to volunteering activity.
bone marrow donors for the Anthony Nolan Trust Our London projects Through the Make-A-Wish foundation, we provided funds for Lloyds launched its Charity Challenge, a month long four-year-old kidney patient, Lauren from Hampshire, to programme of challenges created in the style of the BBCs received the royal treatment when she was given a princess Apprentice.
The goal was to raise as much money as bedroom makeover possible for Lloyds Charities Trusts three partner charities: Coram, FARM-Africa and Samaritans.
Our team, along with We supported the elderly residents in Whitstable at ten other companies from the Lloyds market, raised a Christmas by delivering hampers and hosting Christmas combined total of 250,000 lunch on behalf of Age Concern Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 43 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Our environmental responsibility Although the very nature of our business only produces a small Chaucer Values in action impact on our carbon footprint, we are nevertheless very conscious of our responsibility and the positive impact it Enthusiasm: We are passionate about building our delivers on both our working and personal environment.
business and in 2008, we recruited 20 underwriters to take advantage of the hardening market.
We have recycling projects in place across the Group Aspiration: We have increased our capacity of Syndicate including paper, cardboard, plastic cups, printer and toner 1084 to 545m for 2009 to support our aim to become cartridges and mobile phones a leading Lloyds insurer.
We purchase environmentally friendly stationery materials, Expertise: We are proud of our high level of underwriting where appropriate expertise.
Our underwriters represent us on over 35 In our Whitstable office, we run a scheme to conserve water committees in the Lloyds and London Market.
and save 8,000 litres of water a month Integrity: We aim to be open and honest in our 18 employees took half a day each to help preserve the communication.
In our annual employee survey, 88% fence posts surrounding the 40-acre ancient Wildwood Trust believed that a climate of trust exists within the in Herne Bay, Kent organisation.
We adopted a 100m stretch of beach close to the harbour in Teamwork: We work to support community-based Whitstable and took part in four beach cleaning sessions in projects.
In 2008, we helped raise over 250,000 in the 2008 Lloyds Charity Challenge.
We continue to work with other Lloyds market agencies Inclusiveness: We listen to our employees and respect to mitigate climate change, supporting the ClimateWise their opinions.
In our annual employee survey, over 90% principles, a framework for insurance companies worldwide to enjoyed their work and are positive about working for set out how they will build climate change into their business Chaucer.
Our progress against the six key ClimateWise principles and details of our other CSR related activity is shown in the CSR section of our website at www.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
