Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 40 40 Our People For the third consecutive year, we conducted an employee survey.
The results show that 98% of Chaucer staff are willing to go the extra mile, 93% enjoy the work they do and 96% get personal satisfaction from doing their job well.
Professional study is also a key component of Integration and expansion of the London Human Resource the programme.
We place graduates permanently within a team and Learning and Development function to Human business area on completion of the programme, based on Capital requirements of both the individual and the business.
Positive results gained in the 2008 Employee Survey.
An Learning, development and continued improvement external provider conducted the survey, which received a 68% Our London and Whitstable offices have dedicated in-house response rate across the Group.
Significant improvements learning and development teams so all employees have access have been made in areas including teamwork and in to high quality initiatives.
Our teams have responsibility for the management co-ordination of training company-wide and seek to deliver the majority of courses in-house.
Benefits review and subsequent revision, including enhancement and introduction of new policies in relation to maternity and sabbaticals 85% of Chaucer staff agree that they are encouraged to learn new skills Successfully moved the Performance Reviews on line Introduction of ability testing to enhance the selection process Both our Learning and Development Teams have a wealth of Working at Chaucer technical and management experience and our technical We place great value on employing the right people and seek to trainers and programmes are accredited by the Chartered ensure that Chaucer attracts and retains the highest calibre of Insurance Institute and the Financial Services Skills Council.
We operate first class employment practices and All employees receive semi-annual performance reviews linked have an employment policy in place to encourage, develop and to personal performance to competency frameworks.
operate in support of individual development programmes, For the third consecutive year, we conducted an employee which we deliver as part of our group-wide training plans.
survey to assess the integration of our corporate values within Professional studies and qualifications our culture and working environment.
We expanded the scope We strongly support professional studies.
We provide financial of the survey to allow us to benchmark our performance as an employer, identify and share good practice, and focus our assistance, study leave, and offer financial rewards as a means efforts on issues that mean the most to our employees.
Management development 98% of Chaucer staff are willing to go the extra mile During the last two years, managers and supervisors have 93% of Chaucer staff enjoy the work they do undertaken a skills development programme to help them apply 96% of Chaucer Staff get personal satisfaction for management tools and techniques to their roles in the business.
doing a job well 83% of Chaucer staff have confidence in the leadership Our current turnover rate is below the Market average and we of Senior Management benefit from exceptional levels of expertise and commitment from our underwriters.
This programme enabled participants to share their knowledge and experiences and to build support-networks around them to Graduate Scheme improve their performance and move our business forwards.
We offer a structured twenty-four month rotational programme, which exposes individuals to all areas of the business, We are in the process of gaining formal accreditation with the developing technical skills and personal development Institute of Leadership and Management.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 41 41 Our People Coaching and mentoring This includes: A number of our people benefit from an internal or external Development and implementation of a Chaucer specific mentor.
The Group has supported these relationships to leadership programme enhance career and personal development.
Comprehensive talent management and succession planning Our mentoring charter and guidelines underpin our internal Integration and harmonisation of people practices across the scheme.
Group Further utilisation of Human Capital systems to enhance and Looking forward to the year ahead automate processes Our priority is to integrate and enhance the initiatives currently underway to support our robust people strategy, which will Increased transparency and integration with relation to grading, provide us with the resources to deliver a superior competency frameworks and performance management performance.
systems Jonathan Powell - Graduate Trainee Oliver Howard - Graduate Trainee I am currently in my second year of Chaucers Graduate Scheme.
I joined Chaucers graduate scheme in September 2007.
The Scheme provides graduates with good experience of all the The highlight to date was my seven months spent with the Hull main areas of the business, helping me to understand how and Liability Underwriting Team, learning about the marine underwriting works and where my skills are best suited.
My business, supporting both the Class and Assistant Underwriters experience to date has focused on the essential business and making invaluable contacts within the Lloyds market.
The management and processing areas including Management role has given me a good insight into the marine market, in Information, Actuarial, Finance, Operations and Risk particular, how we model and underwrite risks.
The graduate scheme provides great scope for personal Chaucer organises regular sports and social events, including development, and Chaucer has helped me work towards my annual football, rugby and cricket tournaments.
These events Chartered Insurance Institute qualification, offering both time have helped me to get to know my colleagues outside of work.
out of the office for study and training sessions to support coursework material.
Chaucer is an excellent company to work at.
It has a friendly culture in which people are willing to share knowledge and I have been at Chaucer for 18 months now and am sure that the support each other: combine this with an excellent remuneration skills I have gained will be a big help to me in my professional package and you have a great place to work.
While Im still finding my feet, Chaucer provides a good mix of experience, career progression support and personal development and in an enthusiastic environment to work in.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
