Close Brothers Annual Report 2008 29 Social Responsibility Introduction staff as part of holiday entitlement, access to medical Close Brothers places the highest importance on integrity service during working hours, and health screening, in all its activities, considers its impact on society and including on-site cholesterol and blood pressure the environment, and seeks to maintain high ethical screening.
Some group companies offer enhanced standards.
The board views appropriately addressing those maternity and paternity benefits as well as nursery impacts and standards as the groups Social Responsibility voucher schemes and flexible working arrangements.
The board communicates its SR policy to all group Other activities offered to employees by subsidiaries companies and encourages the adoption of key SR include subsidised gym membership, free yoga classes and principles, whilst recognising the devolved and acupressure and head massages.
With respect to stressindependent nature of our businesses.
In taking collective related illness, where data is available, it appears responsibility for SR, the board obtains and reviews considerably less than half a day per employee per year relevant SR data to assess the groups success or otherwise was suffered.
Nearly one third of all staff look to participate directly in The board believes that its main SR focus should be on the the success of the group through membership of its groups staff and customers, the local communities where savings related share options and other share-based it operates and the environment generally.
Staff One measure of whether the group is succeeding in Close Brothers SR goals with respect to its staff are satisfying its employees needs is staff retention.
The intended to: average length of employee service is well over four years attract high calibre employees: and nearly 35% of staff have been with the group for more encourage all staff to maximise their talent: than five years.
recognise and reward staff for strong performance and initiative: and Customers provide a healthy workplace.
Close Brothers continued success and strong reputation depends on treating all its customers fairly by offering All group companies give appropriate consideration to appropriate products and then delivering them effectively applications for employment from all sources.
As an throughout their life.
example, for the purposes of training, career development and promotion, disabled staff, including any who become The group considers that Treating Customers Fairly TCF disabled in the course of their employment, are treated on has always been part of its business culture.
It ensures its equal terms with other staff.
regulated businesses comply with the Financial Services Authority FSA principle that a firm must pay due During 2007 the group commissioned a third party to regard to the interests of its customers and treat them carry out, for the first time, a group wide employee survey.
fairly and supports the FSAs initiative to embed TCF in a Benchmark comparisons with other companies were made business culture.
The group aims to deliver to all and a number of initiatives are now being developed as a customers, for all products and services, fair outcomes result.
A follow-up survey is planned in 2009. based on high standards of conduct and considers that every business has implemented TCF thoroughly.
Operating divisions are encouraged to develop their own consultation policies.
For example, many businesses hold During the year, all businesses completed a TCF gap regular meetings between local management and analysis to identify any areas for review and developed employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas and adopted a TCF policy statement.
Compliance with the and to discuss decisions likely to affect their interests.
FSAs TCF objectives is monitored through management information provided periodically at board meetings.
All Each business has established procedures appropriate to new products and services are reviewed at inception to their particular activities to monitor and improve health ensure those objectives have been addressed.
TCF is a and safety standards and the working environment continuous process and the group will continue to develop generally.
its policies and procedures taking into account best practice guidance which the FSA issues from time to time.
To address stress in the workplace employees may need support in maintaining their suitable work-life balance.
Measures to deliver this include ill health protection, four times salary life insurance cover, time away from work including a minimum two week single leave period for all 30 Governance Social Responsibility Local Community and Environment all of its confidential paper waste was recycled.
Wherever Close Brothers looks to encourage employees charitable possible old IT equipment is donated to local schools, activities and donations and to support them performing passed to organisations who can recommission for other volunteer work in their work communities.
This enhances countries or reused at our disaster recovery sites.
The Close Brothers reputation and profile in the community group continues to be a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure and also inspires its staff.
Project, which encourages all businesses to disclose their climate change risks, opportunities and impacts.
Charitable donations made during the year amounted to 168,000 2007: 186,000, group contributions being Other initiatives introduced around the group to reduce made in two ways.
Firstly, staff may have their own the groups consumption of raw materials and energy charitable fundraising endeavours matched by the group: include scanners to reduce the need for printing we continue to look to improve staff awareness of this to documents, double-sided printing, automatic shut encourage participation.
Also, group companies down of personal computers at night, enhanced video contribute to recognised charities where significant conferencing equipment and communication lines to humanitarian or environmental incidents have occurred.
reduce the need for travel and motion sensor light switches.
Further, the group seeks to encourage staff themselves to make charitable donations by offering, and paying the Where data has been available, the following data administration costs of, a Give As You Earn scheme.
suggests that the groups activities are working but also that in every case there is still room for considerable The group has implemented processes to manage improvement: environmental risks so as to lower its greenhouse 2008 2007 gas emissions and reduce and recycle waste materials but CO emissions tonnes thousand square feet 14 17 also continues to seek improvements.
For example, last 2 Paper usage tonnes hundred employees 6.3 6.6 year the group obtained a guarantee from its electricity Waste recycled tonnes hundred employees 17 15 provider that all of the electricity supplied to the groups Water usage cubic metres thousand largest office in London, which accommodated over 15% square feet 44 52 of the workforce, was from renewable sources: and almost
