People and their capabilities are fundamental to our sustainability as a In 2008, a global diversity and inclusion D&I council was established.
To build an enduring business in an increasingly complex and This council, chaired by Tony Hayward, is supported by a North American competitive industry, we need people with world-class capabilities, regional council and segment councils.
The aim is to harmonize ranging from deepwater drilling and operating refineries to negotiating processes and tools for managing D&I across all Segments and with governments and planning wind farms.
Responsibility for delivering D&I plans sits at the Our 2008 focus has been on reducing complexity and embedding business SPU level.
the performance culture throughout the company.
We have implemented The group people committee, formed in 2007, continues to take structured transformational programmes in a number of strategic overall responsibility for policy decisions relating to employees.
In 2008, performance units SPUs and the major functions.
We have stopped these ranged from senior level talent review and succession planning, activity that was being repeated at multiple layers, removed layers embedding of diversity and inclusion plans in the businesses and the of management and have established the SPUs as the principal structure of long-term incentive plans.
We continue to increase the number of local leaders and There is a greater focus on individual performance management.
employees in our operations so that they reflect the communities in We have simplified the performance management process and can which we operate.
For example, in Colombia, national employees now clearly identify and reward top performing businesses and individuals.
make up 98% of BPs team, while in Azerbaijan, the equivalent proportion Our incentive plans provide a direct link between SPU performance, the is 83%.
By 2020, more than half our operations are expected to be in individuals contribution, and the bonus outcome.
non-OECD countries and we see this as an opportunity to develop a new We had approximately 92,000 employees at 31 December 2008, generation of experts and skilled employees.
compared with approximately 98,100 at 31 December 2007.
At the end of 2008, 14% of our top 583 leaders were female and In managing our people, we seek to attract, develop and retain 19% came from countries other than the UK and the US.
When we highly talented individuals in order to maintain BPs capability to deliver started tracking the composition of our group leadership in 2000, these our strategy and plans.
Our three-year graduate development programme percentages were 9% and 14% respectively.
We continue to raise our currently has 1,200 participants from all over the world.
senior level leaders awareness of D&I, and further training is planned We are focusing on the need for deep specialist skills.
Accordingly, we have increased external hiring in infrastructure and We aim to develop our leaders internally, although we recruit technical areas.
The energy industry faces a shortage of professionals outside the group when we do not have specialist skills in-house or when such as petroleum engineers.
The number of experienced workers exceptional people are available.
In 2008, we appointed 73 people retiring is expected to exceed that of new graduate hires.
To help address to positions in the group leadership population.
Of these, 39 were this issue we are developing more robust resourcing plans supported by internal candidates.
initiatives aimed at increasing the numbers of recruits and diversifying the We provide development opportunities for our employees, sources from which we recruit.
The external hiring initiatives are including training courses, international assignments, mentoring, team supported by plans for accelerated discipline development, prioritized development days, workshops, seminars and online learning.
We deployment and retention schemes.
encourage all employees to take five training days per year.
The continuous improvement we are making to performance A leadership, development and learning steering group was set up management and reward will help ensure that BP meets the expectations in 2008.
This body of senior executives has responsibility for guiding and of these new recruits who are highly mobile and are more conscious that advising on leadership and management development.
As part of this, they have a choice about where to work.
the steering group oversees the Managing Essentials programme, which Our policy is to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, was successfully rolled out in 2007. career development, promotion, training and reward for all employees, Through our award-winning ShareMatch plan, run in more than including those with disabilities.
Where existing employees become 70 countries, we match BP shares purchased by employees.
disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment and training wherever practicable.
