BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Performance indicators Environment We have well-developed systems, processes and metrics for reporting personal safety and environmental metrics that support internal Regulation and claims performance management as well as public reporting.
We are subject to extensive international, national, state and local We introduced several new metrics in 2008 that aim to enhance environmental regulations concerning our products, operations and our monitoring of process safety performance within BPs operating activities.
Current and proposed fuel and product specifications, entities.
These include, for example, a process safety incident index, as emission controls and climate change programmes under a number of recommended by the panel, which uses weighted severity scores to environmental laws will have a significant effect on the production, sale record and assess process safety events, and a measure to record any and profitability of many of our products.
Environmental laws also require loss of hydrocarbon from primary containment.
us to remediate the environmental impacts of prior disposal or releases Our indicators include industry-aligned lagging process safety of chemicals or petroleum substances by the group or other parties.
Such metrics that register events that have already occurred, and leading contingencies may exist for various locations where products are, or have indicators that focus on the strength of our controls to prevent undesired been, produced, processed, stored, distributed, sold or disposed of, such events in future.
A suite of indicators is regularly reported to the GORC as refineries, chemical plants, natural gas processing plants, oil and within the quarterly HSE and Operations Integrity Report and several natural gas fields, service stations, terminals and waste disposal sites.
new metrics have also been piloted.
To further enhance the management Some of these obligations relate to prior asset sales or closed facilities.
of health risks across the group, we began the systematic reporting of Provisions for environmental restoration and remediation are made when recordable illness rates within the HSE and Operations Integrity Report.
a clean-up is probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably We continue to work with industry bodies such as the Centre for estimated.
Generally this coincides with commitment to a formal plan of Chemical Process Safety and the American Petroleum Institute on the action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The development of process safety metrics, definitions and guidance.
provisions made are considered by management to be sufficient to meet known requirements.
Continuing to focus on health The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, In addition to our efforts to improve process safety performance, we remediation and abatement programmes are often inherently difficult strive to protect the personal health and safety of our workforce, to estimate.
They often depend on the extent of contamination, and recognizing that healthy performance is delivered through healthy people, the associated impact and timing of the corrective actions required, healthy processes and healthy plant.
technological feasibility and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of In the course of 2008, we defined health group essentials, which future programmes could be significant and may be material to the specify requirements designed to prevent harm to the health of results of operations in the period in which they are recognized, it is not employees, contractors, visitors and local communities.
These were expected that such costs will be material to the groups overall results of incorporated within the OMS framework.
Our health strategy and plan operations or financial position or liquidity.
See Financial statements was also refreshed in 2008.
Priorities include reducing significant Note 37 on page 158 for the amounts provided in respect of occupational exposure and infectious disease risks, maintaining robust environmental remediation and decommissioning.
regulatory compliance in product health and safety and addressing the We are also subject to environmental and common law claims for issue of fatigue management raised by the panel by providing training personal injury and property damage alleging the release or exposure to and awareness-raising.
A number of proceedings involving governmental authorities are pending or known to be contemplated against BP and certain of its subsidiaries under federal, state or local environmental laws, each of which could result in monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more.
No individual proceeding is, nor are the proceedings in aggregate, expected to be material to the groups results of operations or financial position.
We cannot accurately predict the effect of future developments, such as stricter environmental laws or enforcement policies on the groups operations, products or profitability.
A risk of increased environmental costs and operational impacts is inherent in grouping our businesses and there can be no assurance that material liabilities and costs will not be incurred in the future.
We believe that the groups activities are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, or that the group has disclosed such non-compliance and is working with the relevant regulatory authorities to ensure compliance.
For a discussion of the groups environmental expenditure see page 57.
BP operates in more than 90 countries worldwide.
In each of these areas, BP has, or is developing, processes designed to ensure compliance with applicable regulations.
In addition, each employee is required to comply with BP health, safety and environmental policies as embedded in the BP code of conduct.
Our partners, suppliers and contractors are also encouraged to adopt them.
This Environment section focuses primarily on the US and the EU, where around 61% of our fixed assets are located, and on issues of a global nature such as our operations and the environment, climate change programmes and maritime oil spills regulations.
Our operations and the environment During 2008, we continued to use environmental management systems to seek improvements on a wide range of environmental issues.
Except at two locations, the operations at our major operating sites are covered 43 Performance review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review by certification to the ISO 14001 international environmental reciprocal agreement.
After inclusion of our Norwegian assets, around management system standard.
The Texas City refinery, after completing one-fifth of our reported 2008 global CO2 emissions are now covered by planned work to strengthen its environmental management systems, is this scheme.
planning to seek recertification in 2009.
Our Angola business is working At the March 2007 European Council, the European Heads of towards an expansion of its existing ISO 14001 certificate to include Government decided to adopt their Climate Action and Renewable its offshore production facilities by the end of 2009.
This legislation was voted through by the European implementation of the Operating Management System OMS, including Parliament in December 2008.
The package includes a commitment to ISO 14001, will also help us strengthen our management of reduce greenhouse gas GHG emissions by 20% by 2020 the target environmental performance.
being 30% if an international agreement is reached, as well as an In support of ongoing risk management, one element of the OMS improved energy efficiency within the EU Member States of 20% by applies, at least annually, a formal systematic process to identify and 2020 and a 20% renewable energy target by 2020. assess risks: this process provides to identify emerging issues including The Australian government has set a target to reduce GHG those with an environmental impact.
To assist us in measuring the emissions by 60% below 2000 levels by 2050.
In December 2008, the effectiveness of our risk mitigation actions we have established Australian government released its Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme environmental metrics, which are available within BP Sustainability White Paper, outlining the design of an emissions trading scheme that Report 2008, at www.
The 2008 information is will go into effect in mid-2010: draft legislation is expected in early 2009. planned to be available in conjunction with the publication of our 2008 The Australian government proposes to cover 70% of emissions sources Sustainability Report.
and sectors via a combination of direct obligations on facilities with large After two years of implementation, our Environmental emissions, and obligations on upstream fuel suppliers for the emissions Requirements for New Projects ERNP practice has been updated in line resulting from the combustion of fuel.
In December the government also with the OMS.
We have simplified applicability, clarified the governance announced 2020 GHG emission targets that range from a 5 to 15% process and updated the text to reflect organizational changes.
The scheme builds on the existing National practice, now called the Environmental Group Defined Practice GDP is a Greenhouse and Energy Reporting System, the Australian mandatory full life cycle environmental assessment process.
It requires all new reporting system for corporate greenhouse gas emissions and energy major projects and projects in sensitive areas, to undertake screening to production and consumption.
The first reporting period commenced on determine the potential environmental sensitivities associated with the 1 July 2008. proposed projects.
Requirements and project recommendations now The US congress continues to propose new climate change extend to include appropriate considerations for decommissioning of legislation and regulation.
A new bill became law in December 2007, that assets.
A new project with the highest level of environmental sensitivity includes stricter corporate average fuel emissions standards for requires more rigorous and specific environmental management automobiles sold in the US and biofuel mandates.
The board-appointed Safety, Environment and Ethics Assurance under consideration propose stricter emissions limits on large GHG Committee reviewed the progress of ERNP during summer 2008.
This sources and or the introduction of a cap-and-trade programme on CO2 review included the 12 projects that have been classified as requiring and other GHG emissions.
management at the highest level of sensitivity.
We are currently An April 2007 US Supreme Court decision will require the US integrating social considerations into the Environmental GDP and plan to Environmental Protection Agency EPA to reconsider its determination issue this in 2009 as an integrated set of requirements addressing social that it is not required to regulate GHGs from motor vehicles under the and environmental issues.
The Supreme Courts ruling is expected to result in In 2008, BP used the ERNP to review risks and establish the EPA regulating motor vehicle GHG emissions.
It is also expected to mitigation measures prior to entry in connection with the decision to increase pressure on the EPA to regulate stationary sources of GHGs develop adjacent to a Protected Area at Hamble Oil Terminal in the UK.
e. g. refineries and chemical plants under other provisions of the CAA.
We intend to make a summary of the risk assessment publicly available In response to the US Supreme Courts decision, the EPA issued at the end of April 2009. an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking ANPR.
The ANPR Our focus on asset decommissioning is demonstrated by the addresses complexities involved in controlling greenhouse gases under North West Hutton offshore platform project in the North Sea.
2008 saw the CAA including potential overlap between future legislation and the topsides of the North West Hutton platform safely brought onshore regulation under the existing CAA.
This decommissioning is expected to result in In its Fiscal Year 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act, US 20,000 tonnes of recycled steel, in line with our aim to have 97% of the Congress directed the EPA to publish a mandatory GHG reporting rule, decommissioned materials recycled and or reused.
issuing a proposed rule within nine months by September 2008, and a We seek to limit the environmental impact of our operations by final rule within 18 months by June 2009.
The EPA has developed draft using resources responsibly and reducing waste and emissions.
language and the proposed rule could be released early in the new US administration.
Climate change programmes Congress will likely develop new legislation for GHG regulation, In response to rising concerns about climate change, governments and new regulation under the CAA will likely proceed as well.
Additional continue to identify fiscal and regulatory measures at local, national and GHG regulation may also be issued under other laws, such as the international levels.
National Environmental Protection Act NEPA and Endangered Species In December 1997, at the Third Conference of the Parties to the Act ESA.
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC in In December 2008, the California Air Resources Board CARB Kyoto, Japan, the participants agreed on a system of differentiated approved the final Proposed Scoping Plan for implementing Assembly Bill international legally-binding targets for the first commitment period of 32, Californias law to reduce GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020.
In 2005, the Kyoto protocol came into force, committing the Implementation measures are due to be developed by 2012.
In advance 176 participating countries to emissions targets.
However, Kyoto was of the Scoping Plan, CARB has taken early actions with the development only designed as a first step and policymakers continue to discuss what of mandatory GHG reporting and a Low Carbon Fuel Standard LCFS.
new agreement might follow it after 2012, most recently at the UNFCCC The LCFS will require all refiners, producers, blenders and importers to conference in Poznan, Poland in December 2008. reduce the carbon intensity of transport fuel sold in California by 10% by Many of our larger EU stationary assets are subject to the EU 2020.
CARB released draft LCFS regulations in October 2008, with final Emissions Trading Scheme EU ETS, which was extended to Norway by regulations expected to be taken up in March 2009.
44 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review In March 2008, the Canadian federal government updated its April 2007 financed by a tax on imported and domestic oil.
In 2006, the Coast Guard Framework Report with an Action Plan to address climate change and and Maritime Transportation Act 2006, increased the size of the fund from reduce emissions 20% below 2006 levels by 2020 and by greater than the original amount of $1 billion to $2.7 billion.
In late 2008, as part of the 60% by 2050, through both a sector approach and domestic Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, further amendments were made development and deployment of new technologies and projects.
For the to increase the per-barrel contribution rate of tax and to remove the conventional oil and gas industry, the intensity based targets as included provision for cessation of the tax when the fund reached $2.7 billion.
in the plan of the April 2007 Framework Report remain likely.
For the oil There is now no limit on the size of the fund.
The same 2008 legislation sands industry, more stringent requirements are likely to emerge for amended the termination date of this tax from 31 December 2014 to upcoming projects that may include requirements for significant 31 December 2017.
The 2006 legislation also increased the OPA limitation reductions, including the implementation of large scale carbon capture amount relating to the liability of double-hulled tankers from $1,200 per and sequestration.
Since the conclusion of the recent Canadian and US gross tonne to $1,900 per gross tonne.
In addition to the spill liabilities Federal elections there has been increased discussion on the possibility imposed by OPA 90 on the owners and operators of carrying vessels, of aligning regulations, including possible inclusion of a North America some states, including Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California, impose wide cap-and-trade system.
additional liability on the shippers or owners of oil spilled from such Since 1997, BP has been actively involved in the policy debate.
The exposure of BP to such liability is mitigated by the vessels We also ran a global programme that reduced our operational GHG marine liability insurance, which has a maximum limit of $1 billion for each emissions by 10% between 1998 and 2001.
We continue to look at two accident or occurrence.
OPA 90 also provides that all new tank vessels principal kinds of GHG emissions: operational emissions, which are operating in US waters must have double hulls and existing tank vessels generated from our operations such as refineries, chemicals plants and without double hulls must be phased out by 2015.
At the end of 2008, BP production facilities: and product emissions, generated by our customers owned four double-hulled tankers built between 2004 and 2006, demisewhen they use the fuels and products that we sell.
Since 2001, we have chartered to and operated by Alaska Tanker Company, L. L. C. ATC, which been focusing on measuring and improving the carbon intensity of our transports BP Alaskan crude oil from Valdez.
operations as well as developing sustainable low-carbon technologies Outside of US territorial waters, the BP-operated fleet of tankers and businesses.
is subject to international spill response and preparedness regulations After seven years, we estimate that our operations have delivered that are typically promulgated through the International Maritime some 7.5 million tonnes Mte of GHG reductions.
Our 2008 operational Organization IMO and implemented by the relevant flag state GHG emissions were 61.4Mte of CO2 equivalent on a direct equity authorities.
The International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution basis, nearly 2.1Mte lower than the reported figure of 63.5Mte in 2007. from Ships Marpol 73 78 requires vessels to have detailed shipboard The primary reason for the lower reported emissions is a reporting emergency and spill prevention plans.
The International Convention on Oil protocol change for BP Shipping 1.9Mte to align us more closely with Pollution, Preparedness, Response and Co-operation requires vessels to industry practice.
have adequate spill response plans and resources for response anywhere In 2007, as part of our technology development, two major the vessel travels.
These conventions and separate Marine Environmental BP-backed research institutes came into full operation: the Energy Protection Circulars also stipulate the relevant state authorities around Biosciences Institute EBI in the US, and the Energy Technologies the globe that require engagement in the event of a spill.
All these Institute ETI in the UK.
The EBI is a strategic partnership between BP, requirements together are addressed by the vessel owners in Shipboard the University of California, Berkeley, the Lawrence Berkeley National Oil Pollution Emergency Plans.
BP Shippings liabilities for oil pollution Laboratory and the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign to conduct damage under the OPA 90 and outside the US under the 1969 1992 research into the production of new and cleaner energy, initially focusing International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage CLC on advanced biofuels for road transport.
The EBI will also pursue are covered by marine liability insurance, having a maximum limit of bioscience-based research into the conversion of heavy hydrocarbons to $1 billion for each accident or occurrence.
This insurance cover is clean fuels, improved recovery from existing oil and gas reservoirs and provided by three mutual insurance associations P&I Clubs : The United carbon sequestration.
In the UK, the ETI has been established as a 50:50 Kingdom Steam Ship Assurance Association Bermuda Limited: The public private partnership, funded equally by member companies, Britannia Steam Ship Insurance Association Limited: and The Standard including BP, and the government.
The ETI aims to accelerate the Steamship Owners Protection and Indemnity Association Bermuda development, demonstration and eventual commercial deployment of a Limited.
With effect from 20 February 2006, two new complementary focused portfolio of energy technologies, which will increase energy voluntary oil pollution compensation schemes were introduced by tanker efficiency, reduce GHG emissions and help achieve energy security owners, supported by their P&I Clubs, with the agreement of the and climate change goals.
The ETI has issued its first invitation for International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund at the IMO.
Pursuant to expressions of interest to participate in programmes to develop new both these schemes, tanker owners will voluntarily assume a greater technologies for offshore wind and for marine, tidal and wave energy.
liability for oil pollution compensation in the event of a spill of persistent BP established the Carbon Mitigation Initiative in 2000 at Princeton oil than is provided for in CLC.
The first scheme, the Small Tanker University in the US to research the fundamental scientific, Owners Pollution Indemnification Agreement STOPIA, provides for a environmental, and technological issues that will determine how carbon minimum liability of 20 million Special Drawing Rights around $30 is managed in the future and examine the policy impact of different million for a ship at or below 29,548 gross tonnes, while the second options.
BPs original 10-year commitment initially funded the programme scheme, the Tanker Owners Pollution Indemnification Agreement at $1.5 million per year and later increased it to more than $2 million per TOPIA, provides for the tanker owner to take a 50% stake in the 2003 year.
In October 2008, BP committed to a five-year renewal of the Supplementary Fund, that is, an additional liability of up to 273.5 million partnership and to support Princeton to at least its current level of Special Drawing Rights around $405 million.
Both STOPIA and TOPIA funding for the years 2011 to 2015. will only apply to tankers whose owners are party to these agreements and who have entered their ships with P&I Clubs in the International Maritime oil spill regulations Group of P&I Clubs, so benefiting from those clubs pooling and Within the US, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 imposes oil spill reinsurance arrangements.
All BP Shippings managed and timeprevention and planning requirements liability for tankers and barges chartered vessels participate in STOPIA and TOPIA.
transporting oil and for offshore facilities such as platforms and onshore For information regarding maritime security issues, see Shipping terminals.
To ensure adequate funding for oil spill response and on page 39. compensation, OPA 90 created the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund that is 45 Performance review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review US disposed and certain other parties are strictly liable for the cost of The following is a summary of significant US environmental issues and responding to related hazardous substance contamination.
EPA environment and health and safety legislation or regulations affecting BP.
Additionally, states have separate laws similar The CAA and its regulations, administered by the United States to CERCLA.
Environmental Protection Agency EPA require, among other things: BP has been identified as a Potentially Responsible Party PRP stringent air emission limits and operating permits for chemicals plants, under CERCLA or otherwise named under similar state statutes at refineries, marine and distribution terminals and exploration and approximately 809 sites.
A PRP or named party can incur joint and production facilities, strict fuel specifications and sulphur reductions: several liability for site remediation costs under some of these statutes enhanced monitoring of major sources of specified pollutants: and risk and so BP may be required to assume, among other costs, the share management plans for storage of hazardous substances.
This law affects attributed to insolvent, unidentified or other parties.
BP has the most BP facilities producing, storing, refining, manufacturing and distributing oil significant exposure for remediation costs at 50 of these sites.
For the and products as well as the fuels themselves.
Federal and state controls remaining sites, BP is one of many potentially responsible parties, and on ozone, particulate matter, carbon monoxide, benzene, sulphur, MTBE, BP expects its share of remediation costs at these sites to be small in nitrogen dioxide, oxygenates, lead and Reid Vapor Pressure affect BPs comparison with the major sites.
BP has estimated its potential exposure activities and products.
Under the CAA all gasoline produced by BP is at all sites where it has been identified as a PRP or is otherwise named subject to the EPAs stringent low-sulphur standards.
By June 2006, at at a site is approximately $1.7 billion.
least 80% of the highway diesel fuel produced each year by BP was BP is also subject to claims for natural resource damages NRD required to meet a sulphur cap of 15 parts per million ppm.
By June under CERCLA, the OPA 90 and other federal and state laws.
NRD claims 2007, all non-road locomotive and marine diesel fuel produced each year have been asserted by government trustees against a number of BP by BP was required to meet a sulphur cap of 500ppm.
Many environmental clean-ups are driven by state and federal have separate laws similar to the CAA.
Contamination or the threat of The Energy Policy Act of 2005 affects the US fuels market by: contamination of current or potential potable and occasionally noneliminating the Federal Reformulated Gasoline RFG oxygen requirement potable water resources can result in stringent clean-up requirements.
in May 2006: establishing a renewable fuels mandate 4 billion gallons in BP has encouraged risk-based approaches to these issues and seeks 2006, increasing to 7.5 billion in 2012 : consolidating the summertime to tailor remedies at its facilities to match the level of risk presented RFG volatile organic compound VOC standards for EPA Regions 1 and 2: by the contamination.
allowing the Ozone Transport Commission states on the east coast to Other legislation that significantly affect BP operations includes: opt any area into RFG: and allowing states to repeal the 1psi Reid Vapor the Toxic Substances Control Act, administered by EPA, which regulates Pressure waiver for 10% ethanol blends.
the development, testing, import, export and introduction of new The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 increased the chemical products into commerce: the Occupational Safety and Health renewable fuel mandate to 9 billion gallons in 2008 and further each year Act, administered by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, to a maximum of 36 billion gallons in 2022. which imposes workplace safety and health, training and process safety In 2001, BP entered into a consent decree with the EPA and requirements to reduce the risks of physical and chemical hazards and several states that settled alleged violations of various CAA requirements injury to employees: the CAA, which created the US Chemical Safety and related largely to emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides at BPs Hazard Investigation Board which investigates the causes of chemical US refineries.
Implementation of the decrees requirements continues.
accidents and makes non-binding recommendations to industry, In 2001, BPs US refineries entered into a civil consent decree with government and non-governmental organizations: and the Emergency the EPA to resolve alleged violations of the CAA.
The decree applies to all Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, administered by the EPA, the US refineries of BP Products North America Inc. BP Products.
On which requires emergency planning and hazardous substance release 19 February 2009, the EPA and US Department of Justice DOJ lodged an notification as well as public disclosure of chemical usage and emissions.
The amendment applies only to the Texas In addition, the US Department of Transportation DOT regulates the City refinery and resolves alleged violations of both the 2001 decree and transportation of the BPs petroleum products such as crude oil, gasoline the CAA.
The decree requires that BP Products pays a $12 million civil fine, and chemicals.
funds a $6 million supplemental environmental project and takes steps at BP is subject to the Marine Transportation Security Act MTSA the Texas City refinery to enhance compliance with CAA rules.
and regulations and the DOT Hazardous Materials HAZMAT security The estimated cost of these compliance measures is approximately compliance regulations.
These regulations require many of BPs $150 million.
The decree amendment is subject to court approval.
businesses to conduct security vulnerability assessments and prepare The Clean Water Act CWA and its regulations, administered by security mitigation plans that require upgrades to security measures, the EPA and the US Coast Guard, regulate the discharge of wastewater, appointment and training of security personnel and the submission stormwater and toxic discharges from BPs onshore and offshore of plans for approval and inspection by government agencies.
Facilities are required to obtain discharge The US government through the Department of Homeland Security, in an permits, install control equipment and implement operational controls effort to further mitigate the threat of terrorism to critical US and preventative measures.
Additionally, states have separate laws infrastructure, has implemented two new security legislation initiatives, similar to the CWA.
that began in 2007 and has continued through 2008: The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act RCRA and itsChemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standard CFATS.
regulations, administered by the EPA, regulate the storage, handling, Transportation Workers Identification Credential TWIC.
treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous CFATS is intended to provide an enhanced security posture for US wastes and require the investigation and remediation of locations at a facilities that manufacture or store Chemicals of Interest, including facility where such wastes have been managed.
Additionally, in the future, it will cover facilities that have national generate and manage wastes regulated by RCRA and several include economic impact to the US, should these facilities be a target for locations that are subject to investigation and corrective action.
A number of BP facilities may be required to conduct a detailed Additionally, states have separate laws similar to RCRA.
security vulnerability assessment and a detailed security plan for each Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, facility impacted.
Compensation and Liability Act CERCLA or Superfund, persons who TWIC requires all designated personnel with unescorted access to arranged to dispose of hazardous substances at a site, persons who restricted areas of MTSA designated facilities to submit to a background currently own or operate a site where such substances have been screening programme and to obtain a biometric identification card.
All of 46 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review BPs MTSA-regulated facilities will be impacted and will be required to contributing to the achievement of the targets set in the ECs Thematic comply by the end of 2008 or beginning of 2009 in a phased approach.
Strategies on Air, Soil and Waste.
The proposal merges and revises The BP Americas Response Team consists of approximately several separate directives related to industrial emissions including the 210 trained emergency responders at BP locations throughout North Large Combustion Plant Directive into one Directive.
In addition, there are five Regional Response Incident minimum standards for emissions from large combustion plant Management Teams, a number of HAZMAT Teams and emergency 50MW, and introduces a mandatory requirement to achieve emission response teams at BPs major facilities.
Collectively, these teams are limit values indicated by use of Best Available Techniques with ready to assist in a response to a major incident.
derogations from this requirement allowed where justified.
In 2008, BP Products obtained and renewed environmental The proposal would also extend the scope of IPPC to specifically permits that enabled it to commence construction on the project to cover organic chemical manufacture by biological treatment biofuels and upgrade the Whiting refinery.
Various environmental groups have may open the way for NOx and SOx trading by member states.
challenged these permits in state and federal proceedings.
The EC proposal has triggered considerable debate and the In November 2007, the EPA began issuing a series of notices of timetable for the completion of the legislative process and the likely violations, alleging clean air act violations, to the Whiting, Toledo, Carson outcome are not clear.
However, the revision has already triggered a and Cherry Point refineries.
Settlement negotiations continue between greater focus on the information sharing process that is used to determine BP Products, the EPA and the DOJ in an effort to resolve these matters.
and document the BAT for each industry sector, and will raise the profile of In October 2008, the EPA issued an amended notice of violation alleging the outputs from this process the BAT Reference Documents BREFs.
that BP Products began construction on the Whiting upgrade in 2005 prior In 2005, the EC published its Thematic Strategy on Air Pollution, to receiving the necessary permits.
This allegation has been incorporated which outlines EU-wide targets for health and environmental benefits into the permit challenges filed by the environmental groups.
The subject from improved air quality to be achieved through further controls on matter of the notices of violation could be resolved as an amendment to emissions of fine particulates PM 2.5 particulate matter less than the 2001 EPA consent decree or as a separate matter.
2.5 microns diameter, sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, volatile organic See also Legal proceedings on page 92. compounds and ammonia.
Associated with this is the revision to the National Emissions Ceiling Directive NECD, which would introduce new European Union emissions ceilings for each member state for fine particles and tighten The following is a summary of significant EU level environmental existing ceilings for sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, volatile organic legislation and UK health and safety legislation affecting BP.
There is currently uncertainty regarding the At the March 2007 European Council, the European Heads of costs to industry of implementing possible outcomes from the NECD Government decided to adopt: and IPPC revisions.
a commitment to reduce GHG emissions by at least 20% by 2020 as The proposed revision of the current EU Fuel Quality Directive is compared with 1990 levels and the objective of a 30% reduction by referred to in the Climate Change Programmes section above.
In addition 2020, subject to the conclusion of a comprehensive international to its provisions regarding life cycle GHG emission reductions, it would climate change agreement: and also facilitate the introduction of biofuels into gasoline and diesel.
a mandatory EU target of 20% renewable energy by 2020 including a Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals REACH 10% biofuels target.
legislation became effective 1 June 2007 across all member states of the In December 2008, the European Parliament approved the EU.
All chemical substances manufactured within, or imported into, the Climate Action and Renewable Energy Package, which: EU in quantities above 1 tonne per annum must be registered fully by revises the EUs Emissions Trading System to establish auctioning of each manufacturer importer with the new European Chemical Agency emission allowances from 2013: ECHA.
Failure to comply with REACH in respect of such a substance sets binding national targets for each EU member state: will immediately remove a companys legal right to manufacture or import equips power plants to capture and store CO 2 underground: that substance.
Initially all existing manufactured and imported sets mandatory national targets for each EU member state with the substances had to be pre-registered by 1 December 2008, to qualify for a goal of delivering 20% renewable energy target by 2020: and timed phase-in for full registration during the period 2010-2018, with the provides for a revised Fuel Quality Directive requiring fuel suppliers to exact timing being determined by the volumes of chemicals reduce the life cycle emission of the fuels they provide by up to 10% manufactured imported, and by the health, safety and environmental by 2020. hazards the chemical may possess.
Failure to pre-register an existing BP was involved at the highest levels in the preparation of the Climate chemical will result in an immediate requirement to register fully the Action and Renewable Energy Package, as part of our efforts to actively chemical with the ECHA prior to continued manufacture within, or import contribute to the formulation of energy security and climate change into, the EU.
Time-limited authorizations may be granted for substances policy in the EU.
of high concern and in some cases restrictions in use may apply.
Crude An EC directive for a system of integrated pollution prevention oil and natural gas are exempt from registration requirements, while fuels and control IPPC was adopted in 1996.
This system requires certain are exempt from authorization but not registration.
In BP, REACH affects listed industrial installations, including most activities and processes our refining, petrochemicals and other chemical manufacturing undertaken by the oil and petrochemicals industry within the EU, to operations, with many other businesses, such as lubricants, also being obtain an IPPC permit, which is designed to address an installations impacted in their roles as major importers and downstream users of environmental impacts, air emissions, water discharges and waste in a chemicals.
In 2008, BP submitted around 700 pre-registrations, covering comprehensive and integrated fashion.
The permit requires, among other approximately 250 individual chemical substances.
For almost 60% of things, the application of Best Available Techniques BAT, taking into these, full registration dossiers must be submitted to ECHA by account the costs and benefits, unless an applicable environmental 1 December 2010, the balance being required in the period 2013-2018. quality standard requires more stringent restrictions, and an assessment Total REACH registration fees to be incurred by BPs businesses are of existing environmental impacts and future site closure obligations.
All estimated to be in the region of $15 million and these contribute to an such plants had to obtain such a permit by 30 October 2007 and permits estimated overall cost of $60 million during the period 2008-2018 for preincluded an environmental improvement programme where necessary.
registration, registration and provision of additional testing requirements.
In December 2007, the EC issued a proposal for the revision to In the UK, significant health and safety legislation affecting BP the IPPC Directive with the aims of streamlining legislation on industrial includes the Health and Safety at Work Act and regulations made emissions, improving the implementation of BATs across Europe, and thereunder and the Control of Major Accident Hazards Regulations.
