BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Communications with employees include magazines, intranet sites, are diverse and wide-ranging.
We help fund a range of educational DVDs, targeted emails and face-to-face communication.
Team meetings programmes, from early years learning to advanced university research, are the core of our employee consultation, complemented by formal building skills and capability in communities as well advancing knowledge processes through works councils in parts of Europe.
These on issues such as climate change and effective economic management communications, along with training programmes, are designed to of natural resource rich countries.
In further and higher education, a major contribute to employee development and motivation by raising driver for our involvement is the need to encourage more people to awareness of financial, economic, social and environmental factors develop the particular skills needed for the energy industry.
In supporting affecting our performance.
school education, BP looks to develop childrens awareness of links The group seeks to maintain constructive relationships with between energy and the environment as well as stimulating interest in labour unions.
In addition to its investment in the formal Pulse surveys conducted in 2008 among samples of employees learning system, BP supports public education on specific pressing social indicated that BPs safety culture is growing but that overall satisfaction issues when there is a particular need within a local community.
The surveys also revealed that more work needs to be Through training and financing programmes, BP seeks to support done to ensure all employees fully understand what they need to do to the development of local suppliers by building their skills, sharing internal deliver sustainable high performance.
standards and practice and stimulating business development.
This We continue to make significant efforts to communicate the enables greater participation in the supply chain by local business and intent and progress of the forward agenda to reduce the potential greater competitiveness overall.
negative impacts of this change on the business.
We have moved quickly, We support several initiatives designed to promote the but our management of change practices keep the focus on safety and effectiveness of natural resource led national development.
Through ensure that the changes are sustainable.
These improvements are the support of the Oxford Centre for the Analysis of Resource Rich expected to continue in 2009, but we have already delivered material Economies, we seek to improve the understanding of the development reductions in activity, cost and headcount.
challenges and policy options available to emerging economies that are rich in natural resources such as oil and gas.
We remain a member of the The code of conduct Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, which supports the We have a code of conduct designed to ensure that all employees creation of a standardized process for transparent reporting of company comply with legal requirements and our own standards.
The code defines payments and government revenues from oil, gas and mining.
what BP expects of its people in key areas such as safety, workplace In the US, amongst various other initiatives in 2008, we behaviour, bribery and corruption and financial integrity.
Our employee provided more than $17 million to assist with relief and recovery concerns programme, OpenTalk, enables employees to seek guidance efforts for the wider community following Hurricanes Ike and Gustav on the code of conduct as well as to report suspected breaches of in the Gulf of Mexico.
The number of cases raised through We make direct contributions to communities through community OpenTalk in 2008 was 925, compared with 973 in 2007. programmes.
Our total contribution in 2008 was $125.6 million.
This In the US, former US district court judge Stanley Sporkin acts included $0.2 million contributed by BP to UK charities.
The growing as an ombudsperson.
Employees and contractors can contact him focus of this is on education, the development of local enterprise and confidentially to report any suspected breach of compliance, ethics providing access to energy in remote locations.
or the code of conduct, including safety concerns.
In 2008, we spent $59.5 million promoting education, with We take steps to identify and correct areas of non-compliance investment in three broad areas: energy and the environment: business and take disciplinary action where appropriate.
In 2008, 765 dismissals leadership skills: and basic education in developing countries where we were reported by BPs businesses for non-compliance or unethical operate large projects.
This number excludes dismissals of staff employed at our retail service station sites, for incidents such as thefts of small amounts Essential contracts of money.
BP continues to apply a policy that the group will not participate BP has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties directly in party political activity or make any political contributions, in support of its business activities.
This report does not contain whether in cash or in kind.
BP specifically made no donations to UK or information about any of these third parties as none of our arrangements other EU political parties or organizations in 2008. with them are considered to be essential to the business of BP.
Social and community issues Property, plants and equipment Contributing to communities BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in numerous We aim to make a difference in the communities where we operate in a countries, but no individual property is significant to the group as a manner that brings benefits to BP as well as the local society.
See Exploration and Production on page 17 for a description of in education, for example, promotes sustainable development as well as the groups significant reserves and sources of crude oil and natural gas.
providing skilled workers for BP and other companies.
Support for local Significant plans to construct, expand or improve specific facilities are enterprise drives economic growth as well as helping local companies described under each of the business headings within this section.
BP operates in a diverse range of locations with varying levels Organizational structure of economic and national development.
We contribute to communities in ways that are relevant to local circumstances, and which offer The significant subsidiaries of the group at 31 December 2008 and to the opportunities for mutual benefit to our business.
Given the scale of our group percentage of ordinary share capital to the nearest whole number business, our impact often reaches beyond the local community to the are set out in Financial statements Note 46 on page 175.
See Financial national and, in some cases, the international level.
statements Notes 26 and 27 on pages 140 and 141 respectively for We support education because it creates opportunities for information on significant jointly controlled entities and associates of communities, while at the same time providing skills that are critical the group.
to BP business and the wider industry.
Our interventions in education 49 Performance review
