Directors Report and Business Review continued long association, having originally established and sub-management agreement with Loomis Sayles.
developed it for the purpose of managing its assets The Manager has no current intention of making a as far back as 1953.
It is now owned by F&C Asset replacement advisory appointment.
Management plc FCAM, a large pan-European investment group.
Friends Provident plc FP, Responsible ownership which owns 52% of FCAM, has stated that it intends The Managers stated belief is that good governance to distribute its entire shareholding in FCAM to FP creates value and therefore it takes a particular shareholders by the middle of 2009.
The FCAM interest in corporate governance and sustainable board is continuing to explore opportunities which business practices.
This includes the integration of might or might not lead to an offer for FCAM.
environmental, social and governance issues into its The Companys relationship with F&C is fully investment decisions.
It votes all of its shares across arms-length with no cross-directorships or common all global markets whenever possible, and engages share interests.
Part of the legacy is that the names with companies on corporate governance matters to Foreign & Colonial and F&C are often used encourage good practice.
This includes engagement synonymously in the public arena, although the on significant social and environmental issues, where companies each own their respective names and these may impact shareholder value.
are two distinct and completely independent entities.
The Managers current policy, which is available Jeremy Tigue acts as Fund Manager to the on its website, has been reviewed and endorsed Company the Fund Manager, on behalf of F&C, by the Board, which encourages and supports the and is responsible and accountable for the entire Manager on its voting policy and its stance towards portfolio including private equity, and other key environmental, social and governance issues.
areas such as marketing and investor relations.
His All contested takeovers affecting the Companys responsibilities extend to asset allocation, gearing, investments are referred to the Board.
risk management within limits set and regularly monitored by the Board and the private equity The Managers fees fund of funds investments managed by Pantheon The Manager was paid a fixed fee of 6.7 million Ventures Limited Pantheon and HarbourVest 2007: 6.4 million for its services in 2008, less Partners LLC HarbourVest.
Recommendations amounts equal to the fees already received for further private equity and unlisted investments in respect of holdings in the portfolio that it also remain subject to approval by the Board.
The fixed fee is subject to annual review of the regional equity portfolios, the Fund Manager and for 2009 remains at 6.7 million.
has the flexibility to recommend to the Board The Manager is also entitled to two separate their delegation to external third party investment performance-related fees: managers when this seems likely to result in better 5% of any net asset value total return per share investment performance.
Throughout the period outperformance of the benchmark of 40% FTSE under review there were three such managers All-Share and 60% FTSE WI World ex UK indices for the North America large and mid-cap equity the composite benchmark plus 0.5%: and portfolios, namely Loomis Sayles, Barrow Hanley 5% of any net asset value total return per share and T Rowe Price, and one manager for the Japan outperformance of the weighted average of those of portfolio, Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
An the Companys five closest peers within the Global independent specialist multi-manager, FundQuest Growth Investment Trust sector Alliance Trust, formerly known as Investment Management The Bankers Investment Trust, Scottish Investment Selection Limited, advised the Manager in relation Trust, Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust and to the appointment of third party investment Witan Investment Trust the close peer group.
managers for the North America portfolio.
In The performance-related fees are calculated February 2009 the Manager ceased the advisory on a cumulative basis, carrying forward any relationship with FundQuest and terminated the underperformance, or any outperformance beyond a 22 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
