29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:56 Page 18 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY I MISSION AND VISION I CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW I LEADERSHIP TEAM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WETAKE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES SERIOUSLY Such difficult times highlight the importance of reputation, TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY and remind us how hard it is to earn and how easy it is Treating Customers Fairly is an initiative driven by the Financial to lose.
Evidence of its impact on the bottom line is Services Authority to create a fairer and more effective financial unequivocal.
And as we work through this period of change services industry.
This programme helps us to keep the needs and uncertainty, expectations of business are changing and of our customers central to all we do and has led to a number of so, therefore, are the drivers of reputation.
More than at improvement initiatives during 2008 see opposite.
any time before, the quality of the relationships we have FINANCIAL CAPABILITY with shareholders, customers, distributors, employees, Companies are responsible for providing well-designed, journalists, politicians and regulators defines our reputation.
personalised and flexible products, sold with effective and We must work harder to engage and maintain relations understandable advice.
Customers need to be capable of making with these stakeholders, seeking ways to align their often informed purchasing decisions.
To support those of competing interests.
our customers least likely to receive financial advice, we have We are proud of our reputation, based on our Quaker developed our work with the Life Academy, offering heritage and built over many years of responsible behaviour pre-retirement courses and launching an online tool, E-tutor, in all our relationships.
Fundamental to maintaining our to deliver a range of financial capability materials.
This online reputation is our corporate responsibility programme, course can be delivered to customers anywhere in the world, which is actively led by our Chief Executive on behalf of in a way that best suits their busy lives.
We have also supplied the Board, and which continues the Quaker legacy and volunteers to support the Financial Services Authority's 'Making the forms an integral and differentiating element of the Friends Most of Your Money' initiative, which provides financial education Provident brand.
and information direct to employees in their place of work.
Despite wide-ranging changes within Friends Provident and SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT exceptional market conditions, we have continued to make We are committed to providing socially responsible investment progress with corporate responsibility, linking our activities solutions for customers so that they can invest in line with their to the Groups wider strategic goals and focusing in conscience, and we have added new funds to supplement our particular on customers and employees.
The 2008 highlights range of market-leading Stewardship products.
These include follow, and more details are available on our website at AEGON Ethical Corporate Bond, Credit Suisse Multi Manager www.
com responsibility Although what is happening in the world is affecting our business, we are firmly resolved to continue doing all we can as a responsible corporate citizen to make a positive contribution to society, and to adapt our approach to business to stay in tune with the changing values and priorities of our stakeholders.
Nick Boakes Director, Corporate Communications 18 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:56 Page 19 STRATEGY I KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS I PEOPLE AND PROCESSES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY BUSINESS REVIEW I KEY RISKS I FINANCIAL REVIEW Ethical and Jupiter Ecology.
We also use our influence as a COMMUNITY INVESTMENT major shareholder to engage with companies on a range of Although our overall level of community investment has corporate responsibility matters, that have the potential to reduced, we maintained our commitment to the employee-led improve business performance.
element of our investment programme, Friends in the Community.
In 2008, 642 employees participated in the scheme CARBON MANAGEMENT donating 406,000 and almost 3,000 hours.
We again achieved As part of our three-year carbon management programme, we a Gold Payroll Giving Quality Mark Award from the Government have continued to drive energy efficiency through our Switch it in recognition of the number of employees donating through our off campaign, enabling employees to switch off PCs without Give As You Earn scheme.
We estimate this will save 55,000 per annum and 300 tons of carbon.
Overall, we have reduced CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INDICES our carbon footprint from 12,300 tons to 12,000 in 2008.
We have We retained our membership of FTSE4Good and the Dow also remained at the forefront of ClimateWise, the insurance Jones World Sustainability indices, again achieved Gold in the industrys initiative to address the issue of climate change, and Top 100 Companies that Count list and, for the third year produced our first bespoke ClimateWise report in June.
running, have been ranked best in sector when compared to our peers in syndicated research undertaken by Ipsos MORI.
SUPPLY CHAIN These achievements indicate the amount of work underway Our Procurement team has been working with a number of on every aspect of our corporate responsibility programme.
other financial institutions through the Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply.
This group has produced some tools, CUSTOMERS including a corporate responsibility procurement questionnaire The quality of our corporate responsibility communications has that will be used by us and other financial institutions in their been recognised by awards from the International Visual tendering procedures, and is also working towards a joint Communications Association and the British Association of database of supplier information to capture data collected.
A range of Sustainable Sourcing Guides has also been The latest results from the annual Customer Impact Scheme produced to accompany these tools, and these are being used survey are available at www.
com reports across the business.
TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY Through our work on Treating Customers Fairly our customers have benefited from: a review of literature for individual products, and the the adoption of a best-practice complaints handling development of an annual review process informed by process to ensure fairness customer feedback a review of our retirement process and literature to a review of customer letters to ensure they are clear provide relevant, simple and unambiguous information and fair to our members the introduction of product suitability and responsibility extensive staff training and education to ensure that statements for customers with supporting literature that the fair treatment of customers remains central to the is clear, fair and not misleading waywework.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19
