29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:56 Page 16 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY I MISSION AND VISION I CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW I LEADERSHIP TEAM OUR PEOPLE ARE OUR DRIVING FORCE During 2008 our revised strategic focus resulted in our Landmark IBM deal A key milestone in the UK was the making changes behind the scenes to the size, shape and signing of a landmark deal with IBM to outsource parts of our IT cost of running our business.
In addition to operational service operations.
The contract with IBM will run for 10 years changes we also began a transformation programme to and will help us remove fixed costs from our operations by shift our company culture to one that supports our people around 6 million initially.
These annual savings will increase as to perform well consistently.
the contract runs its course.
The contract results in the transfer of approximately 200 staff to IBM and its partners.
GETTING OUR IT AND OPERATIONS IN SHAPE Extension of Wipro offshoring contract The Company Good service continues to be a priority at Friends Provident also extended the proportion of IT solutions provided through and our IT systems play a crucial part in helping our people its long-standing partnership with Wipro, enabling costdeliver excellent service to customers.
We have made progress containment and increasing development flexibility.
to improve our logistics and the management of our IT infrastructure.
These changes will play an important role in Supporting our people through change In all circumstances increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations, where we undertake major structural or operational change we and further reduce our running costs.
seek to minimise the number of compulsory redundancies through voluntary turnover and redeployment.
We have provided Premises consolidation We have reduced our physical support to affected employees through outplacement services infrastructure by closing a number of office premises throughout and job search assistance.
We also fully consult with our the UK, most significantly announcing that we will vacate recognised trade union, Unite.
our Manchester office Express Building by the end of 2009.
With the potential for further service improvements through offshoring outsourcing arrangements, we continue to operate a charter with Unite.
The charter creates a framework for Friends Provident and Unite to use when dealing with strategies of this nature.
OUR VALUES GUIDE THE WAY WE WORK Ensure every customer counts Act with integrity in all we do Collaborate to win Think commercially, be accountable Value people, treat them fairly 16 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:56 Page 17 STRATEGY I KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PEOPLE AND PROCESSES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY I BUSINESS REVIEW I KEY RISKS I FINANCIAL REVIEW Shift in culture and values Earlier this year, we began GETTING OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE IN SHAPE conducting extensive research through a new culture effectiveness At the same time as making operational improvements, survey into our employees views and experiences of working for we have strengthened our leadership team and, throughout Friends Provident and what we need to change to deliver our 2009, a key priority will be greater emphasis on creating a future ambitions.
The findings from this exercise will provide us performance culture at Friends Provident.
with the tools to plan for process and culture change to get us Accountability Going forward there will be greater rigour in shape to face the demands in our market.
to performance assessment and people management at all levels of the business.
We have established clear accountability The culture survey will help us build on the work we began in for business profitability and introduced a shared services 2008 with modernising our company values.
Our renewed values model that will provide clarity all the way through to product will help our people rethink how they approach their work in a profitability.
This is a critical step in ensuring those in our much more commercial and customer-focused fashion.
leadership team work together to deliver on our plans.
A MORE EFFICIENT FUTURE We are now better placed to focus on our core activities and Clear link between reward and performance These same we are confident that the changes we are making will give us principles of clear accountability are being cascaded at all levels greater control over the performance of our business.
We are throughout the organisation.
To help us deliver this we have also ensuring our people have the tools, ability and confidence redesigned the staff bonus incentive scheme and performance to execute our strategic plans and be the driving force behind management processes.
This is about simplifying our processes the long-term future success for Friends Provident.
All of so that managers can spend more time on helping their people which puts us in a good position to meet the difficult market perform well.
The way we prepare ourselves to be alert and alive to the rapid changes happening around us is crucial to our future success.
Tony Brown Managing Director, People and Change Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 17
