HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans context of business performance, market following limits on the number of HSBC Holdings practice and internal relativities.
Allowances and ordinary shares that may be subscribed for.
In any benefits are largely determined by local market 10-year period not more than 10 per cent of the practice: HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue from time to time approximately 1,214 million HSBC employees participate in various variable pay Holdings ordinary shares at 2 March 2009 may in arrangements.
Discretionary variable pay is aggregate become issuable pursuant to the grant of dependent on the achievement of objectives options or be issued other than pursuant to options which derive from those determined at the under all-employee share plans.
Since 2008, these objectives period not more than 5 per cent of the HSBC typically cover four categories Financial, Holdings ordinary shares in issue from time to time Customer, Process and People.
Targets which approximately 607 million HSBC Holdings measure these objectives generally include ordinary shares on 2 March 2009 may in aggregate profitability, expense control, customer be put under option under the HSBC Share Plan or recommendation, employee engagement, be issuable pursuant to the HSBC Holdings Group adherence to HSBCs ethical standards, lending Share Option Plan, the HSBC Executive Share guidelines, internal controls and procedures, Option Scheme, the HSBC Holdings Restricted with an emphasis on risk management to Share Plan 2000 or the HSBC Share Plan.
The maintain a strong and secure operating platform.
number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares that may Actual levels of pay will depend on the be issued on exercise of all options granted on or performance of the Group, that of constituent after 27 May 2005 under the HSBC Share Plan and businesses, and of the individual, taking into any other plans must not exceed 1,119,000,000 account competitive market practice.
Under the HSBC to ensure that the interests of HSBC and its Holdings savings-related share option plans, the employees are aligned with those of its HSBC Share Plan, HSBC Holdings Group Share shareholders, and that HSBCs approach to risk Option Plan and the HSBC Holdings Executive management supports the interests of all Share Option Scheme there were options outstanding stakeholders, a proportion of variable pay over 231,257,004 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares at awards above certain thresholds is required to 31 December 2008.
Particulars of options over be deferred into HSBC Restricted Shares.
In HSBC Holdings shares held by Directors of HSBC addition, employees are encouraged to Holdings are set out on page 326 of the Directors participate in HSBC Holdings savings-related Remuneration Report.
share option plans and local share ownership The effect on earnings per share of granting arrangements.
share options and share awards is shown in diluted earnings per share on the face of the consolidated Employee share plans income statement, with further details disclosed in To help align the interests of employees with those the Earnings per share Note 13 on the Financial of shareholders, share options are granted under allStatements.
The effect on basic earnings per share of employee share plans and discretionary awards of dilutive share options and share awards would be to Performance Shares and Restricted Shares are made dilute it by 1.2 per cent.
under the HSBC Share Plan.
There have been no awards of discretionary share options since All-employee share option plans 30 September 2005.
The HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Set out on pages 304 to 311 are particulars of Plan and the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share outstanding employee share options, including those Option Plan: International are all-employee share held by employees working under employment plans under which eligible HSBC employees those contracts that are regarded as continuous contracts employed within the Group on the first working day for the purposes of the Hong Kong Employment of the year of grant may be granted options to Ordinance.
The options were granted at nil acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
No options have been granted to may make contributions of up to 250 or substantial shareholders, suppliers of goods or equivalent each month over a period of one, three or services, or in excess of the individual limit for each five years which may be used on the first, third or share plan.
No options were cancelled by HSBC fifth anniversary of the commencement of the during the year.
relevant savings contract, at the employees election, to exercise the options.
Alternatively, the employee Employee share plans are subject to the 304 may elect to have the savings, plus where for example on retirement, and may be extended in applicable any interest or bonus, repaid in cash.
certain circumstances, for example on the death of a Options granted over a one-year period will be participant, the executors may exercise the option up exercisable within three months following the first to six months beyond the normal exercise period.
anniversary of the commencement of the savings The closing price per HSBC Holdings ordinary share contract.
Options granted over three or five-year on 29 April 2008, the day before options were periods will be exercisable within six months awarded in 2008 under the HSBC Holdings following the third or fifth anniversary of the Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the HSBC commencement of the relevant savings contract.
In Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan: the case of redundancy, retirement on grounds of International, was 8.71.
The all-employee share injury or ill health, retirement at or after normal option plans will terminate on 27 May 2015 unless retirement age, the transfer of the employing the Directors resolve to terminate the plans at an business to another party, or a change of control of earlier date.
the employing company, options may be exercised To encourage greater participation in the HSBC before completion of the relevant savings contract.
Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan: Under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related International, two amendments were approved at the Share Option Plan and the HSBC Holdings Savings- 2005 Annual General Meeting.
The first was the Related Share Option Plan: International the option introduction of the facility to save and have option exercise price is determined by reference to the prices expressed in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars average market value of the ordinary shares on the and euros as well as in pounds sterling.
Where five business days immediately preceding the applicable, the US dollars, Hong Kong dollars and invitation date, then applying a discount of euro exercise prices are converted from the sterling 20 per cent except for the one-year options awarded exercise price at the applicable exchange rate on the under the US sub-plan where a 15 per cent discount working day preceding the relevant invitation date.
The exercise period of the options The second amendment was to provide the choice of awarded under all-employee share plans may be options over one year in addition to three and five advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, year terms.
2 Exercisable at a 15 per cent discount to the average market value of the ordinary shares on the five business days immediately preceding the invitation date.
306 Discretionary Share Plans under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 was 150 per cent or in exceptional Note 10 on the Financial Statements gives detail on circumstances 225 per cent of the employees share-based payments, including awards of annual salary at the date of grant plus any bonus paid Performance Shares and Restricted Shares made in in the previous year.
Under the HSBC Holdings Executive Share The HSBC Share Plan was approved at the 2005 Option Scheme the maximum value of options Annual General Meeting.
Awards of Performance which could be granted to an employee in any one Shares are made under this Plan to executive year was four times the employees relevant Directors and other senior executives.
performance conditions for awards of Performance Shares are described under Long-term incentive Subject to the attainment of the relative TSR plan on page 318. performance condition where applicable, options are generally exercisable between the third and the tenth Awards of Performance Shares are directed to anniversary of the date of grant.
Employees of a those senior executives who can influence corporate subsidiary that is sold or transferred out of HSBC performance such as members of the Group may exercise options awarded under the HSBC Management Board.
Holdings Group Share Option Plan or the HSBC Awards of Restricted Shares are typically made Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme within six to other employees based on individual performance, or twelve months respectively of the sale or transfer, business performance and competitive market regardless of whether the performance condition is practice.
Restricted Share awards define the number of The maximum value of options that may be shares to which the employee will become entitled, granted to an employee in any one year under generally between one and three years from the date the HSBC Plan when taken together with any of the award, and normally subject to the individual Performance Share award made under the HSBC remaining in employment.
To date, all awards of Share Plan is 700 per cent of the employees annual Performance Shares and Restricted Shares have salary at the date of grant.
been satisfied by the transfer of existing shares.
The exercise price of options granted under the Since September 2005, no awards of share HSBC Share Plan, and previously under the HSBC options under the HSBC Share Plan have been Holdings Group Share Option Plan, is the higher of granted.
There may be particular circumstances in the average market value of the ordinary shares on the future where option grants could be appropriate.
the five business days prior to the grant of the option No options were awarded under the HSBC Share or the market value of the ordinary shares on the date Plan in 2008. of grant of the option.
The exercise price of options granted under the HSBC Holdings Executive Share Prior to 2005, discretionary awards of share Option Scheme was the market value of the ordinary options, with vesting subject to the attainment of a shares on the business day prior to the grant of the predetermined TSR performance condition, were option.
The HSBC Share Plan will terminate on made to employees at all levels of HSBC.
27 May 2015 unless the Directors resolve to The vesting of these options was subject to the terminate the Plan at an earlier date.
attainment of pre-determined relative TSR The exercise period of the options awarded performance criteria, except in HSBC France which under discretionary share incentive plans may be was acquired in 2000 where performance criteria advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, were phased in.
Under the HSBC Holdings Group for example on the sale of a business, or may be Share Option Plan, the maximum grant of options extended in certain circumstances, for example on which could be granted to an employee in any one the death of a participant the executors may exercise year together with the Performance Share awards the option beyond the normal exercise period.
