operational and strategic issues, and ways of Employees improving performance with their line manager.
At 31 December 2008, HSBC employed 325,000 full Open communication throughout the organisation is and part-time employees worldwide, compared with encouraged and opportunities to share individual 330,000 at 31 December 2007 and 312,000 at 31 perspectives are created through networking events, December 2006.
The main centres of employment management blogs, international assignments and are the UK with approximately 58,000 employees: learning and development programmes.
Information the US 38,000, India 37,000, Hong Kong 30,000, is regularly given to employees about employment Brazil 25,000, Mexico 20,000, mainland China matters and the financial and economic factors 15,000 and France 11,000.
HSBC negotiates with affecting HSBCs performance.
The five highest concentrations communicated via management channels, internal of union membership are in Argentina, Brazil, seminars, training programmes, in-house magazines mainland China, Malta and Mexico.
It is HSBCs and an intranet site accessible to the majority of policy to maintain well-developed communications HSBCs employees worldwide.
The Groups Global and consultation programmes with unions and there People Survey in turn annually assesses employee have been no material disruptions to its operations engagement with HSBC.
from labour disputes during the past five years.
Employment of disabled persons The first Group People Strategy was in place for 2008.
This prioritised leadership and people HSBC believes in providing equal opportunities to capability in general, robust performance all employees.
The employment of disabled persons management complementing a market competitive is included in this commitment and the recruitment, reward strategy, and improving employee training, career development and promotion of engagement.
Particular emphasis was given in 2008 disabled persons is based on the aptitudes and to increasing international mobility to broaden the abilities of the individual.
Should employees become internationalism and diversity of employee disabled during employment, every effort is made to experience, and training was focused on risk continue their employment and, if necessary, awareness, change management, customer appropriate training is provided.
There was significant improvement in employee engagement see nonRemuneration policy financial KPIs in page 19 and a key component of As the quality and commitment of its human capital performance management was aligned objectives is deemed fundamental to HSBCs success, the which were cascaded down from the Group Boards stated strategy is to attract, retain and Management Board level for the first time.
motivate the very best people: this strategy is HSBC continues to be committed to creating a referenced to the overall business strategy and the diverse and inclusive work environment reflective of commercial environment.
its customer base, international workforce, and In a business that is based on trust and communities in which it operates.
It has a Grouprelationships, HSBCs broad policy is to recruit wide strategy, with Group oversight, that aims to those who are committed to making a long-term improve gender, ethnicity and age diversity to ensure career with the organisation since trust and the long-term sustainability of the organisation, relationships are built over time.
taking into account strategic global demographic changes.
There is a particular focus on increasing Remuneration is an important component in gender and ethnic diversity at senior management peoples decisions on which company to join and to levels.
Diversity initiatives are implemented at a stay with, but it is not the overriding one.
It is country level taking local and national laws into HSBCs experience that people are attracted to an account.
Employee network groups and mentoring organisation with strong and sound values, one programmes are promoted and established, where which is meritocratic and competitive, and which possible, to facilitate open discussion of workplace offers challenging career development: it is also this issues for employees belonging to minority groups, type of people that HSBC seeks to attract.
and to foster an environment that celebrates In line with the overall principles applied to diversity.
executive Directors by the Remuneration Committee as described on page 315 in the Directors Employee involvement Remuneration Report: HSBC continues to value open communication with employees salaries are reviewed annually in the its employees.
Employees are encouraged to discuss 303
