HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Corporate sustainability Dividends, shareholders and meetings Corporate sustainability social or reputational issues and investing in education and entrepreneurship to allow Sustainability at HSBC is about the Groups longcommunities to build capacity and individuals to term approach to managing economic, social and thrive.
environmental issues that are within its influence.
HSBC focuses its environmental initiatives First and foremost, this is about achieving primarily on addressing and responding to issues sustainable profit growth so that HSBC can continue associated with climate change including energy, to reward shareholders and employees, build longwater management and biodiversity.
Social lasting relationships with customers and suppliers, initiatives are centred on helping to support and invest in the business and in the communities education and on enabling access to financial where the Group operates, for future growth.
services to the worlds poor.
This is central to the Groups strategy and Climate change has the potential to have a acknowledges that HSBCs continuing financial material impact on HSBCs customers and therefore success depends, in part, on its ability to identify and on HSBCs long-term success.
In 2008, HSBC built address non-financial considerations which are on its understanding and expertise on responding to material to the business, and to mitigate the risks and climate change and Lord Stern continued to advise maximise the opportunities arising from them.
the Group Chairman on economic development and climate change.
HSBC was one of the first financial Corporate Sustainability Committee institutions to adopt the Climate Principles, a Sustainability at HSBC is embedded into the voluntary framework for action on climate change business and is overseen by the Corporate that covers all areas of financial services.
Sustainability Committee of the HSBC Holdings HSBC also participates in the Prince of Wales Board.
Accounting for Sustainability project which seeks to The Corporate Sustainability Committee is develop systems to help public and private sector responsible for advising the HSBC board, organisations account more accurately for the wider committees of the board and executive management social and environmental costs of their activities.
on corporate sustainability policies, including environmental, social and ethical issues.
At an Sustainability Risk operational level, these issues are managed on a dayHSBCs approach to managing sustainability risk is to-day basis primarily by Group Human Resources, detailed on page 254.
Group Risk and Group Corporate Sustainability.
The terms of reference of the Committee are Social and Community Investment available at www.
The HSBC focuses its community investment activity on members of the Committee throughout 2008 were education and the environment because HSBC W K L Fung appointed Chairman on 30 May 2008 believes these are fundamental to building and and Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, each of whom is a nondeveloping communities and are prerequisites for executive Director, G V I Davis and Lord May, who economic growth.
In 2008, HSBC made charitable are non-director members of the Committee.
Lord donations totalling US$102 million 2007: US$101 Butler retired as a Director of HSBC Holdings and million.
Around half of the annual donation is ceased to be a member of the Committee on 30 May channelled to education programmes and 25 per cent 2008.
N R N Murthy was appointed a member of the to environmental projects.
The remainder is spent on Committee on 21 November 2008. country specific projects, disaster relief and There were four meetings of the Corporate matching staff contributions.
No political donations Sustainability Committee during 2008.
Following were made during the year.
each meeting, the Committee reports to the Board on HSBCs global education programme focuses its activities.
on three major themes financial literacy, disadvantaged children and environmental Sustainability at HSBC education.
The global environmental programme is HSBC understands the business imperative of the HSBC Climate Partnership, a five year US$100 investing in its employees, the communities it serves million commitment to working with The Climate and the environment it relies on.
The Groups Group, Earthwatch, Smithsonian Tropical Research priorities are the long-term development and Institute and WWF on tackling climate change.
engagement of its employees, increasing its understanding of risk arising from environmental, 312
