Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Corporate Social Responsibility Our nuclear power stations play a very important role in reducing the UKs carbon footprint.
In the financial year 2007 08 our nuclear stations avoided the emission of 34.8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide.
Overview To evaluate our performance in broader During the year, British Energy has taken As an operator of nuclear facilities aspects of corporate social responsibility a high pro le role in raising awareness of British Energy is acutely aware of its we participated for the first time in the the carbon impact of electricity consumption responsibilities to its staff, the Business in the Community Corporate in the UK.
This year our 11th annual communities in which it operates, and to Responsibility Index this year.
As a customer conference Talk Power was the environment.
Our corporate culture newcomer, we were pleased to receive our largest to date, attracting more than is founded on personal responsibility a a Bronze medal.
260 customers and energy specialists, commitment to being open, ethical, and including senior representatives from above all, operating to the highest levels We publish a full annual Corporate Social some of the UKs largest energy users.
Within British Energy Responsibility Report which includes The debates during the day encouraged it is referred to as nuclear safety culture.
details of our carbon footprint and how the consideration of carbon emissions we calculate the carbon emissions avoided.
not just a part of energy decision making, We are proud of the contribution that The report for 2007 08 will be available but as a more fundamental driver of we make to the environment.
Our nuclear on our website over the summer.
power stations play a very important role in reducing the UKs carbon footprint.
Marketplace Customer service is critical and, for the In the financial year 2007 08 our nuclear British Energy is the UKs largest generator fourth year running, we ranked in the stations avoided the emission of of electricity, yet has by far the lowest top two of the UKs major suppliers in 34.8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide carbon dioxide emissions of any of the the annual Datamonitor customer MtCO compared with 33.7MtCO in UKs large electricity generators.
By extending the lives of our electricity through the wholesale market existing stations and planning for the and directly to industrial and commercial As part of our commitment to investors advent of nuclear new build, we intend customers.
We are committed to supplying we held an investor day at Sizewell B in to continue this valuable contribution our customers with low carbon electricity May 2007.
In addition, we held a visit for to tackling climate change.
and ensuring security of the countrys Socially Responsible Investors, also at electricity supply.
Through these A measure of our commitment to and other initiatives the Companys senior responsible operation is our inclusion management participated in meetings of Environmental Events and Lost Time with over 300 investors and analysts Accidents in our seven Key Performance during the year.
In addition, three critical aspects of corporate responsibility are an integral part of the Chief Executives Business Review and are reported on quarterly.
These are safety performance, environmental performance, and investment in people.
Further details are discussed below.
28 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE front.
indd 28 10 10 6 08 11:53:02 6 08 11:53:02 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Workplace We are committed to developing the The Company continues to champion Within the workplace, our primary focus considerable talents of our staff in each equality of opportunity, and maintains must always be on operational safety and part of the business.
This year we have policies and procedures to support best the health of our employees.
This year both built a new skills centre at Heysham Power practice, rather than being satis ed with our nuclear and industrial safety records Station and a Nuclear Power Academy legislative compliance.
The roll out of are the best in the recorded history of the at the Companys technical centre, at Dignity at Work, is a joint project between Company see Key Performance Indicators Barnwood.
The Academy will provide the trade union Unite, the Department for on page 03.
Commentary on our safety state-of-the-art centralised training Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform performance and our investment in courses in nuclear operation for new BERR, and a number of companies continuous improvement in this area graduates and apprentices, as well as including British Energy, BT and Royal Mail.
is covered on pages 09 and 10. refresher courses for existing staff.
On average, each employee across the eet The fourth annual British Energy The Royal Society for the Prevention devoted 8.8 days to training up on last Excellence Awards were held in of Accidents RoSPA presents awards years gure of 8.4 days.
We are also testing February 2008.
This years awards were for excellence in managing health and the effectiveness of our training by presented in recognition of individual safety at work.
We received outstanding measuring our courses against the high contributions to safety, operational accolades at the RoSPA awards this year, standard benchmark of the Training excellence and business performance by with all our nuclear power stations Standards and Accreditation Board.
The awards receiving an award for outstanding safety are an opportunity to celebrate the performance.
The highest honour, an Order We have also recruited around 430 achievements of committed employees of Distinction, was awarded to Hunterston B, individuals, increasing our employee and contractors from across the business.
Torness, Heysham 1 and Heysham 2. number to an average of over 6,100 people Second highest honours, the Presidents in 2007 08.
This year, we invested in Environment award, was given to Dungeness B, recruitment to critical operational areas.
Our nuclear power stations play a very Hartlepool and Sizewell B, and Hinkley A campaign commenced in September 2007 important role in reducing the UKs carbon Point B received a Gold medal.
to ensure an adequate supply of suitably footprint.
In the financial year 2007 08 quali ed and experienced people for they avoiding the emission of 34.8MtCO 2 the future.
2 Eggborough, our coalred power station which provides exible generation to meet peak demands, emitted 7.8MtCO 2 in 2007 08 compared with 6.9MtCO 2 in 2006 07.
British Energy Group plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE front.
indd 29 10 10 6 08 11:53:02 6 08 11:53:02 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Corporate Social Responsibility Even though we are already making a Over the year our nuclear eet has The Large Combustion Plant Directive, a major contribution towards the UKs succeeded in reducing its accumulated mandatory government initiative, aims climate change objectives with our Low Level Waste LLW by over 15%.
We to reduce acidi cation, ground level ozone, nuclear generation, we aim to go further.
will explore further opportunities to reduce and particles throughout Europe.
This is One example is that our largest of ce, our accumulated LLW over the coming year.
being achieved by controlling emissions of Barnwood, has set a target to reduce Intermediate Level Waste ILW is stored sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and dust electricity usage by 10% in the coming year.
on site at the relevant station.
The level particulate matter from large combustion of production of ILW is fairly constant and plants.
Eggborough, our coal power In 2007 08 British Energy reported its each station produces typically a few tens station, has Opted-In to this Directive and lowest ever number of Environmental of cubic metres each year.
Spent nuclear is included in the UKs National Emissions Events, a Key Performance Indicator.
fuel from our AGR stations is transported Reduction Plan.
Commentary on this area is covered on in specially designed steel asks to page 10.
Sella eld, Cumbria, where it is managed In 2007 the Groups Biodiversity Action Plan through a well established process.
Spent was updated and integrated into British During the year, we have continued to work nuclear fuel from our PWR Sizewell B Energys environmental management with the Environment Agency EA on the power station remains in safe storage on system, helping to ensure that we minimise Nuclear Sector Plan, a collaborative project site.
2006 07 was a year of particularly the impact on biodiversity from our between the EA and the nuclear industry good progress in reducing site inventories business operations.
Throughout 2008 in England and Wales.
The plan aims to of uranium.
In 2007 08 we sent 134 tonnes we are sponsoring the BTO Business Bird reduce the impact of the nuclear sector.
of uranium to Sella eld, compared with Challenge, a bi-annual competition to nd Last year we agreed with the EA to focus 224 tonnes of uranium in the previous year, the countrys best industrial and commercial on the minimisation and management of re ecting both improved ef ciency and sites for diversity of bird species.
the solid waste we produce.
across the eet last year we recovered for Community re-use, or recycled, approximately 30% of During the year a number of our stations Maintaining good relationships with the our general waste.
were audited and have retained their communities around our power stations ISO 14001 certi cation for a further three is essential for our operations.
All our power stations are certi ed British Energy added community to to the relevant internationally recognised its company values to demonstrate its environmental management standard commitment to the people who live and and have been since such standards first work around all our sites.
We have also came into being some 13 years ago.
In line appointed site-based community liaison with the requirements of ISO 14001 all of cers to progress community relations of our stations have, over the past year, plans tailored to the needs of the implemented environmental improvements different sites.
such as recycling lubricating oil and improving oil storage and solid waste management facilities.
30 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE front.
indd 30 10 10 6 08 11:53:03 6 08 11:53:03 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW In addition to the formal stakeholder British Energy extended its partnership engagement we carry out through with Help the Hospices to December 2007, established meetings held regularly at our following its success as our charity of the stations, we also run broader community year.
This year our employees raised meetings on subjects of special interest.
268,000 bringing the total for the two This year, we held two additional years to over 530,000 for the hospice programmes of community meetings.
movement, including 200,000 in matched The first followed the Governments funding from British Energy.
announcement in May 2007 that it was going to carry out a consultation on the future of nuclear power.
This programme was run in conjunction with BERR at all our sites during the summer.
The second programme was held at potential sites for new nuclear build to explain the Governments policy on new nuclear power stations, the role that British Energy intends to play and the potential opportunities and impacts for communities.
Ensuring there are enough people with specialist skills in the marketplace in the future is a challenge British Energy and many other employers are increasingly facing.
By working in partnership with local schools, such as Leiston High in Suffolk, and by sponsoring high pro le events such as the Cheltenham and Edinburgh Science Festivals we are helping to stimulate interest in science, technology, engineering and maths subjects.
Our ambition is to increase the supply of high quality new applicants with the necessary skills.
British Energy also offers a service providing presenters to schools and other local events.
British Energy Group plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE front.
