Believe in better B y making m agic happen 2.2m 2.2 million people watched the premiere of the first episode of The Colour of Magic 800 Sky Movies shows over 800 movies a month From our own home-grown drama and documentaries Entertaining our customers to the latest US hits, youll find it on Sky One.
The breathtaking adaptation of Terry Pratchetts Colour of Magic Millions of customers choose Sky because attracted more than two million viewers on its premiere, while the hard-hitting documentary series Ross Kemp they love the quality entertainment we in Afghanistan brought life on the front-line into millions of homes.
Our unrivalled line-up of the best US shows provide.
We understand the importance got even better as Prison Break joined Lost, Bones, Battlestar Galactica and the Simpsons.
No wonder Sky of great TV and we invested over 1.7 billion One was named Entertainment Channel of the Year at the 2008 Broadcast Digital Channel Awards, receiving last year to make sure our customers get acclaim for its noisy, cut-through programming.
The same dedication to choice and quality can be seen on Sky Sports which screened an unparalleled range of sports from around the world throughout the year.
Football fans were treated to a thrilling FA Premier B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 10 10 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8 The Colour of Magic League title race, exciting Football League action and showing more arts-related programmes each week Channel of the Year for the sixth time in seven years.
the first ever all-English UEFA Champions League final.
than the five terrestrial channels show in a month.
And it was underlined when our Asia correspondent, Our international and county cricket schedules included Alex Crawford, walked away with the accolade of TV Since November 2007, the newly launched Sky Real Lives all of Englands home and overseas contests plus the Journalist of the Year.
channel has been dedicated to telling moving, real-life inaugural ICC World Twenty20, while golf fans enjoyed stories.
From the emotional journeys of conjoined twins With dedicated channels for every type of movie, Sky Movies two Majors live, all World Golf Championship events and Ladan and Laleh Bijani to the Extraordinary Weight makes it easy for customers to find what they want to the PGA European tour.
Theres international, European Series, it offers poignant, emotive and fascinating watch from a choice of more than 800 different titles and domestic rugby union, Super League, ATP and US programmes connecting viewers with remarkable every month.
Every week brings five new premieres, Open tennis, plus much more including round the clock everyday people.
including most of the biggest movies before any other news and views on Sky Sports News.
TV channel, and three HD channels bring customers Sky News continued its record of innovative, On Sky Arts, theres no distinction between the classical closer to the action.
But its not just Hollywood comprehensive, accurate and up-to-the-minute news and the contemporary.
We showcase the very best blockbusters we offer: we show timeless classics and coverage, whether it was the drama of the US Presidential performances and programmes, including opera, dance, the best independent films from around the world.
primaries or the debate over knife crime on our streets.
music, literature, theatre, architecture and the visual And through Sky, Sky Anytime TV and Sky Player, Our commitment to quality was recognised when the arts.
We can offer this range and quality because we are customers choose when and how to watch them.
Royal Television Society named Sky News as the News the only UK channel dedicated to all areas of the arts, B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 11 11 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8
