Believe in better B y making t alent shine 1 5,000 Sky employees 500 Our Sky Choices scheme has helped more than 500 Sky people to purchase bikes We believe that the capability that exists within our Sky people organisation is critical to our success.
More than ever before, the key to performance is having the people Meeting our ambitions for our customers who can make things happen.
And thats the culture we foster at Sky.
and for our business rests on the people at We put huge effort into attracting the most talented and Sky.
So we employ the best and make sure determined people to work with us so they can help us to continue growing and improving.
We employ the best they can give their best.
and create the culture where they can give their best, encouraging them to innovate and collaborate for the benefit of Sky customers and our business.
B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 18 18 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8 Alex Crawford, Asia Correspondent Royal Television Society Journalist of the Year 2008 Sky now has a workforce of over 15,000.
We are one training programme, for example, has attracted national Having attracted the best, we make sure we look after of the biggest private sector employers in Scotland attention.
There are tailor-made training opportunities them.
Hard work and talent is properly rewarded along with 6,000 people in our three contact centres which across the board to keep knowledge and skills up to date with a pension plan, life cover and free Sky, Sky Talk operate around the clock every day of the year.
and to help our staff reach their full potential.
We work hard as well to keep our staff fit and safe with free health assessments and Our award-winning modern apprenticeship scheme has We are constantly looking for future leaders among our incentives to cycle to work helping to keep our people offered first-class training both on and off the job to over people and we make sure we give them the right support and our planet healthy.
And hundreds of our staff take 100 young people since 2005.
And competition is equally and training to develop.
We try to involve everyone in advantage of our Make A Difference initiative to take intense for our graduate training scheme with over 50 improving what we do, encouraging and rewarding paid leave to do valuable work in the community.
of the countrys brightest students joining us every year.
No one knows our business and our customers better than our own staff so we make But it is not just new recruits who benefit from high sure we listen.
We invest in nearly 80,000 training days each year.
Our HDTV technical B Br riit tiis sh S h Sk ky B y Br ro oa ad dc ca as st tiin ng G g Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 19 19 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ev viie ew 2 w 20 00 08 8
