The business, its objectives and its strategy Customers Offering the best choice in entertainment and communication to our customers continued entertainment and communication that is great quality, great value, exible and simple to use is central to the Groups customer offering.
The Group provides customers The Broadcasting Act 1990 as amended by the Broadcasting Act 1996 and the with parental control features and other mechanisms by which they can control access Communications Act lays down a number of restrictions on the parties who are to content.
The Group has also implemented its Code of Practice for Interactive permitted to hold Ofcom broadcasting licences.
Among those restricted from holding Gambling, developed with GamCare, an organisation that promotes responsible Ofcom broadcasting licences or from controlling a licensed company are a local gambling.
Accessibility to programming is provided through on-screen subtitling, authorities, b political bodies, c religious bodies, d any company controlled by any signing and audio description and a dedicated accessibility services team provides of the previous categories or by their ofcers or associates, e advertising agencies or dedicated customer care.
any company controlled by such an agency or in which it holds more than a 5% interest.
Environment The group has maintained its status achieved in 2006 as a Carbon Neutral media Licensees are obliged to comply with these ownership restrictions.
Failure by a company the first in the world, and one of the first FTSE 100 companies to achieve licensee to do so either by the licensee becoming a disqualified person or any this goal.
The Group continues to set targets for reducing its energy consumption, change affecting the nature, characteristics or control of the licensee which would have carbon dioxide CO emissions and waste.
Progress against these targets is precluded the original grant of the licence may constitute a breach of the licence and, 2 documented in the Groups annual Corporate Responsibility Review now called The if not rectied, could result in revocation of the licence.
2008 bond issue In March 2007, the company launched a new feature for Sky and Sky HD set-top In February 2008 the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$750 million boxes which switches them into a power saving standby mode when not in use.
By 6.10% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
June 2008 over 4 million set-top boxes had received this download, saving an estimated 52,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide each year.
In line with legislation in place Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the securities, a holder of the securities has since 1 July 2007, Sky has the collection processes and other requirements in place to the option to require the Company to redeem or purchase its securities at a price facilitate the recycling and or reuse of all Sky electronic equipment including set-top equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to the boxes.
date of repurchase, if there is a change of control of the Company i which, if the securities carry an investment grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a noninvestment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or ii which, if the securities Arts and Sports carry a non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more notches Our position as the provider of the UKs leading Arts and Sports channels provides us or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii where if the securities do with an opportunity to make a positive impact on the life of families across the UK.
not carry a credit rating, the Company does not seek such a rating or is unable to The Group aligns its contributions to these areas by focusing on making the arts achieve such a rating.
accessible and maximising participation in sports.
Material agreements People The following agreement has been entered into outside the ordinary course of Organisation business during the two years immediately preceding the date of this ling: At Sky we aim to be an employer of choice and our environment supports people to do their best work and rewards people in line with their talents and contribution to Bond issue the business and its values.
We continue to develop a workforce and organisational In February 2008 the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$750 million structure that is ready to deliver todays business plan and is ready to innovate and 6.10% senior unsecured notes due 2018 see significant agreements above.
change with the organisation as it develops.
We are dedicated to ensuring that no one is subjected to less favourable treatment.
Corporate responsibility We value the same diversity within our business as we do in our content and services, At a board and executive level, the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group CRSG and provide a culture of enterprise and opportunity for all.
All applicants are asked if provides leadership and drives corporate responsibility practices.
The CRSG comprises Senior Executives and two non-executive Board Directors and meets twice a year and they require adjustments to their working environment during the selection processes.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing updates the Board.
in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
The management of environmental issues is overseen by a number of working groups The average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group during the responsible for energy and waste management, which report to the CRSG.
Other year was 14,145 an increase of 1,058 from the previous year.
groups are in place to oversee health and safety and human resources policy, and Skys employees can communicate their views on corporate responsibility via the Sky Forum of elected Sky employees.
Talent management To ensure we keep delivering for our customers we need to attract and retain the very The Group runs an annual risk workshop on corporate responsibility issues and best talent, and help them to deliver to their full potential in an environment which is maintains a corporate responsibility risk register.
The Group also undertakes challenging, innovative and fun.
We aim to recruit the highest calibre individuals, to consultation with stakeholders that assists in corporate responsibility risk identication.
address business targets and shape our future.
We aim to provide great career The Group is a member of the FTSE4Good Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability opportunities for our people within the Group and development which is aligned to Index and is the only broadcaster included in the Global 100 Most Sustainable business performance.
We constantly review our skills and capability requirements and Companies index.
align this with our talent and succession planning.
The Group publishes an annual Corporate Responsibility Review which provides full We are now in our second cycle of the Sky Leadership Development Programme for details of corporate responsibility activities.
This information can also be found on the senior managers.
In early 2009 we will launch a third cycle and will expand the web at www.
number of places, increasing leadership skills and capability.
