Overview Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility We are committed to ensuring that we meet our corporate social responsibility and transact business in a sustainable way.
Personal and corporate integrity are at by the Audit Committee, provides such internally.
With the appointment of a the heart of ICGs activities, in the way we a mechanism and ensures employees new IT Director we are working to work as a team and how we interact with will not be detrimentally affected by address these concerns.
clients and the wider community.
We are disclosures which are in the public committed to ensuring that we meet our interest.
ICG believes that well trained employees corporate social responsibility and are integral to our success, not only to transact business in a sustainable way.
During the last year the total number of arm them with the necessary skills, but staff increased by approximately one also to involve them in the Companys The Board is responsible for ensuring that third over the previous year to 34. future.
Our commitment to development we meet high standards of corporate All of these employees, who are of the is set out in our Employee Handbook social responsibility.
The approach we highest calibre in their chosen field, and ensured through our annual take is simple.
We focus on: have been attracted by the sense of staff appraisal process, with staff cultural belonging and purpose at encouraged to participate in a wide our people: work which ICG offers.
We enjoy high range of courses.
Our employees our investors and financial partners: levels of employee retention and receive training from our Compliance and achieve this by providing a positive department so that they and the our environment and local working environment, and competitive Company can meet legal and community.
We help all our regulatory obligations, including the employees participate in our success completion of annual anti money by the operation of a Save as You laundering training.
Our people Earn Share Scheme.
The benefits ICG recognises that the continued offered to employees are reviewed Although all our employees operate attraction and retention of exceptional regularly.
In the last year we in an office environment, the Directors staff is essential to the continued commissioned an independent are committed to developing and success of the business.
ICG strives to consultant to undertake a review of our maintaining a management culture that provide and engender a positive and existing compensation schemes and ensures the health, safety and welfare uplifting working environment so that structures to ensure that they remain of employees and others while on our employees maintain high levels of market competitive and continue to Company premises.
During the year engagement and motivation.
We also appropriately align the interests of both no reportable accidents or incidents ensure they are treated with fairness and employees and shareholders.
occurred either under UK Health and respect.
We aim to ensure that the Safety regulations or similar regulations talents of all our employees are fully We value and listen to our employees outside the UK.
developed and utilised and that no one views.
Our employee survey undertaken receives less favourable treatment on in November 2007 had a response rate the grounds of their gender, race, sexual of 9 per cent, highlighting their level of orientation, religion, ethnic or national engagement with the business.
We were origin, disability, age or marital status.
pleased to note that the vast majority We also understand that our employees of our employees are proud to work for must be allowed to raise concerns ICG and would recommend it as a about wrongdoing in the workplace in a good place to work.
Most concerns safe and constructive way.
Our were raised over access to information whistleblowing policy, reviewed annually 2 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview We therefore actively promote high industry leaders will be invited to debate Our investors and ethical standards in all our business the issues and consider how best to take financial partners relationships, and undertake to action to halt the relentless advance of We are committed to ensuring we are be open, honest and consistent in climate change.
as transparent as possible with all our every transaction.
This includes financial and Further on the theme of climate change, governance transparency.
To further we are pleased to be sponsing the ERM Our environment and local enhance our transparency we have Foundations Low Carbon Enterprise community established an investor relations team Fund, a registered charity which Climate change is an enormously whose main aim is to develop a more supports low carbon enterprises across important subject that will affect us proactive dialogue with investors.
In this the developing world.
individually and in the way we run our way we believe we will be able to cultivate businesses.
ICG is seeking to address mutual understanding and appreciation, As a multi cultural organisation with the impact of climate change on the in turn reinforcing our positive reputation strong ties in the local communities Company and to influence others in our and brand sustainability.
in which we operate, we are keen to industry to consider the issues in their support the charitable interests of our business decisions.
Our commitment to our investors staff and the communities in which extends to our actions as an investor we live.
While many of our charitable As a financial services company with ourselves.
We seek to invest in initiatives centre on addressing climate 34 employees, our direct impact on the companies who act responsibly change issues, such as our recent environment is relatively small.
However, and who comply with environmental, support for the charity Trees for Cities, we have relationships and sometimes regulatory and social legislation.
As we are equally supportive of a number influence over a number of other minority investors in virtually all our of other charities in which our staff have companies, including suppliers, portfolio companies we do not have direct involvement.
financial partners and portfolio direct operational control over the companies.
We are seeking to drive companies in which we invest.
Our employees are encouraged to debate and responsible investing Nevertheless we seek to influence their identify, promote and be actively through a number of educational behaviour and ensure that their ethos, involved in local charities.
ICG operates initiatives for our financial partners corporate structures and policies are a corporate Give as You Earn scheme, and portfolio companies.
sustainable and in line with good and also manages a separate scheme corporate governance practice.
The Company believes it In May 2008 we initiated the ICG Climate is important for staff to not only give Change Project by inviting Vice ICG works closely with a number of financial support but also their time President Al Gore, Nobel prize winner financial partners, including private and allows each employee to take and author of An Inconvenient Truth, equity firms, commercial banks and two paid days a year for direct to address over 250 people including other financial institutions.
employees, investors, financial partners these relationships, we seek partners and suppliers.
This event is the first of a who operate in a responsible and number, whose objectives are to reach sustainable way.
We also recognise that the goal of understanding and action.
we must offer a supportive, solutions At the Al Gore lecture we launched the based approach which allows us to ICG symposium at Oxford, where serve our partners specific needs better.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3
