20 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 An attractive proposition for customers Our customers Customers use home Currently we have 2.03 million customers, over half of whom are women and credit to manage the ups who typically manage the household budget.
Customers use home credit to and downs of their weekly manage the ups and downs of their weekly finances.
Demand is highest at finances.
Demand is highest periods like Christmas for buying presents, Easter for family celebrations, summer for holidays and autumn for back-to-school expenditure.
at periods like Christmas for buying presents, Easter Most of our customers earn average or below average incomes.
Nearly all are in employment.
We do not lend to customers whose sole income is for family celebrations, unemployment benefit or anyone who has been a customer and who did not summer for holidays and repay a previous loan.
autumn for back-to-school Many of our customers will have little or no credit history and may be taking expenditure.
a loan from a financial organisation for the first time.
Those who have used credit before may have used a store credit card to purchase household items or would have borrowed from friends and family.
Total number of customers The proportion of our customers having a bank account varies market by market.
For example, in the Czech Republic around 82% of customers have 2.03m a bank account, compared with 61% in Poland.
Meeting our customers needs Percentage of customers who Our products are carefully designed with our customers needs in mind and are female we carry out market research and conduct focus groups to ensure these requirements are continually met.
52% The home credit service has proven to be highly popular with our customers.
In the 11 years since we first began operating we have provided credit to more than 5 million people.
The home credit service is popular because it is quick, Our target for delivery of a convenient and provides a manageable way for our customers to spread their loan in cash, from first contact family budgets to buy the things they want.
The relatively small, short-term with customer loans we provide enable customers to budget for repayments.
Most customers also have the added assurance that they will not face extra charges if they have 48hrs difficulty making payments on time.
With busy home and work lives, our customers like the fact that we can usually provide a loan in cash within 48 hours from initial contact.
This can be much quicker than mainstream lenders who in these emerging markets do not have the usual sources of information on which to make credit decisions, such as well established credit bureaux or bank account data.
Customers also like the convenience of being able to arrange loans and make repayments in their own home, at a time that suits them.
The agent calls at the same time every week and saves them having to travel to a bank to make payments.
An attractive proposition for customers www.
co. uk Directors report and business review 21 We make every effort to keep our customer documentation clear and simple.
We make all of our charges Our customer information sheets and agreements set out the necessary clear at the outset.
There information in plain, appropriate language.
Our commitment to providing are no hidden surprises.
clear, straightforward information is closely linked to our approach to financial The fact that we do not literacy which is the main focus of our community investment work.
In recent externally commissioned research it was found that 86% of customers feel our charge default penalties loan agreements are easy to understand.
on the majority of our Pricing loans also means we can For a typical one-year loan, a customer would be expected to pay around help customers through 170 for a loan of 100.
This includes the interest cost of the loan as well as difficult times.
the cost of an agent visiting the customer every week and, importantly, the guarantee that there will be no additional penalty charges.
We believe that home credit offers good value to our customers compared with other credit Customers who say our loan products when you take into account the home service provided by the agent, agreements are easy to understand the speed at which a loan is typically delivered, and the peace of mind most customers have that they can miss weekly repayments, when they are short of cash, without penalty.
86% We make all of our charges clear at the outset.
There are no hidden surprises.
The fact that we do not charge default penalties on the majority of our loans Customers who say they are also means we can help customers through difficult times.
They know from satisfied with our service the outset that our charges are fixed and will not increase even if they miss a payment or are late repaying their loan.
68% Above all, the service we provide is professional, friendly and personal.
Our research also found that 68% of customers are satisfied with our service.
New flexible products As a part of our drive to deliver improved customer focus we have decided to roll-out what we call our flexible products.
This is an evolution of our traditional product which provides our customers with additional choice and greater transparency by breaking down the price structure into individual elements for example interest, administration and collection fees and offering the choice of using our unique home service for repayments or using the traditional banking system.
We have already successfully introduced this into Poland and Slovakia and following pilots in all our other markets we have decided to roll it out across all of them in 2009.
This new product will replace the existing offering.
Our experiences in Poland and Slovakia clearly demonstrate that the majority of customers prefer the agent to collect their weekly instalments.
We believe, however, that the new product offer will be appreciated by our customers and will greatly help others better understand home credit and the constructive role it plays in many peoples lives.
22 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 A resilient business model In 2008, of those customers Our business success is built on eligible to take out another loan, around 70% did so.
high levels of customer satisfaction and enduring customer relationships.
Key to this are agents who are central to our credit management processes and who visit our customers each week to make collections in 2008 we made around 100 million customer visits.
