co. uk Financial statements 65 Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have Key assumptions and estimates been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date In applying the accounting policies set out above, the Group and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is makes significant estimates and assumptions that affect the realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities as follows: Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on Amounts receivable from customers differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities The Group reviews its portfolio of customer loans and receivables in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used for impairment every week.
The Group makes judgments to in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the determine whether there is objective evidence which indicates balance sheet liability method.
there has been an adverse effect on expected future cash flows.
For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears stages investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of as this is considered to be the most reliable predictor of future the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable payment performance.
The level of impairment is calculated using that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
actuarial models which use historical payment performance to Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary from each arrears stage of each product.
The impairment models differences can be utilised.
are regularly reviewed to take account of the current economic environment and recent customer payment performance.
However, Employee benefits on the basis that the payment performance of customers could Defined benefit pension plan be different from the assumptions used in estimating future cash The charge credit in the income statement in respect of the defined flows, a material adjustment to the carrying value of amounts benefit pension plan comprises the actuarially assessed current receivable from customers may be required.
To the extent that service cost of working employees together with the interest charge the net present value of estimated cash flows differs by 5%, on pension liabilities offset by the expected return on pension scheme it is estimated that amounts receivable from customers would assets.
All charges credits are allocated to administrative expenses.
The asset obligation recognised in the balance sheet in respect Retirement benefit asset obligation of the defined benefit pension plan is the fair value of the plans A number of judgments and estimates are made in assessing the assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at amount of the retirement benefit asset obligation at each balance the balance sheet date.
These judgments and estimates are derived after The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent taking into account the requirements of IAS 19 Retirement Benefit actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value Obligations and after taking the advice of the Groups actuaries.
of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the Further details on the key assumptions used are set out in note 23. estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality Tax corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the The Group is subject to tax in a number of international terms of the related pension liability.
jurisdictions as well as the UK.
In some cases, due to the unusual Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience features of home credit, the tax treatment of certain items cannot adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised be determined with certainty until the operation has been subject immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
In some instances, this can be some years after the item has first been reflected in the financial statements.
The Group Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit and enquiry issues statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional based on an assessment of whether such liabilities are likely to on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of fall due.
If the outcome of such audits is that the final liability is time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are different to the amount originally estimated, such differences amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
will be recognised in the period in which the audit or enquiry is The Parent Company share of the defined benefit retirement determined.
Any differences may necessitate a material adjustment asset obligation is based on the proportion of total Group to the level of tax balances held in the balance sheet.
contributions made by the Parent Company.
Defined contribution plans Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
