20 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 An attractive proposition for customers Our customers Customers use home Currently we have 2.03 million customers, over half of whom are women and credit to manage the ups who typically manage the household budget.
Customers use home credit to and downs of their weekly manage the ups and downs of their weekly finances.
Demand is highest at finances.
Demand is highest periods like Christmas for buying presents, Easter for family celebrations, summer for holidays and autumn for back-to-school expenditure.
at periods like Christmas for buying presents, Easter Most of our customers earn average or below average incomes.
Nearly all are in employment.
We do not lend to customers whose sole income is for family celebrations, unemployment benefit or anyone who has been a customer and who did not summer for holidays and repay a previous loan.
autumn for back-to-school Many of our customers will have little or no credit history and may be taking expenditure.
a loan from a financial organisation for the first time.
Those who have used credit before may have used a store credit card to purchase household items or would have borrowed from friends and family.
Total number of customers The proportion of our customers having a bank account varies market by market.
For example, in the Czech Republic around 82% of customers have 2.03m a bank account, compared with 61% in Poland.
Meeting our customers needs Percentage of customers who Our products are carefully designed with our customers needs in mind and are female we carry out market research and conduct focus groups to ensure these requirements are continually met.
52% The home credit service has proven to be highly popular with our customers.
In the 11 years since we first began operating we have provided credit to more than 5 million people.
The home credit service is popular because it is quick, Our target for delivery of a convenient and provides a manageable way for our customers to spread their loan in cash, from first contact family budgets to buy the things they want.
The relatively small, short-term with customer loans we provide enable customers to budget for repayments.
Most customers also have the added assurance that they will not face extra charges if they have 48hrs difficulty making payments on time.
With busy home and work lives, our customers like the fact that we can usually provide a loan in cash within 48 hours from initial contact.
This can be much quicker than mainstream lenders who in these emerging markets do not have the usual sources of information on which to make credit decisions, such as well established credit bureaux or bank account data.
Customers also like the convenience of being able to arrange loans and make repayments in their own home, at a time that suits them.
The agent calls at the same time every week and saves them having to travel to a bank to make payments.
