24 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 A resilient business model A typical commission structure for an agent would see them receive a small Total number of agents amount for taking on a new customer plus 5% of the value of loan instalments they collect.
An established agent will typically receive around 80% to 90% of 28,900 their income from collections and service around 70 to 100 customers.
Agents play an important role in deciding whether to make a loan and determining Percentage of agents the appropriate levels of credit to issue to customers.
They are required to who are female document the income and expenditure of the customer before issuing a loan to determine whether the customer has sufficient disposable income to repay the loan.
They are supported in this process by our credit management systems, 79% which use statistical models to determine the credit risk of applicants.
When we enter a new market we initially select agents through advertising in the local press or through leaflet distribution.
However, in our established Agents are primarily businesses, many agents were previously customers who know us and our incentivised for the products well.
amounts they collect not New agents complete a structured induction programme, which lasts around for the money that they three months, and are supervised by one of our field managers.
A typical commission benefit from regular support and guidance, and meet their manager at least structure for an agent once every week.
A manager will typically supervise between 10 and 15 agents depending on the number of customers they have.
would see them receive a small amount for taking As part of our Treating Customers Fairly TCF initiative we are developing an Agent Charter which clearly sets out what support they will receive from on a new customer plus us and our expectations of them.
It also stipulates that they must meet a 5% of the value of loan range of commitments, including health and safety, customer service and instalments they collect.
Because agents are collecting and supplying cash to customers, procedures for personal safety are in place.
Credit management systems Agents are supported in their day-to-day activities by a powerful suite of sophisticated credit management systems.
We also have well established processes to enable us to identify customer and agent fraud.
These systems mean that we can manage our credit risks carefully and respond quickly to changes in the marketplace.
Corporate responsibility CR Our values underpin every aspect of our approach to doing business and define the sort of group we want to be.
We strive to be an ethical business, known for treating our customers fairly, for bringing tangible benefits to the communities in which we work and for supporting and developing our employees.
We do everything we can to minimise our environmental impacts.
Our Code of Ethics commits us to conducting our business with honesty and integrity and in accordance with the law.
We are also committed to respecting human rights and avoiding fraud and corruption.
We have a whistle-blowing policy and operate an externally managed hotline wherever we are legally able to do so.
We pay suppliers promptly and encourage other people we work with to meet the ethical, social and environmental standards we set ourselves.
co. uk Directors report and business review 25 Community investment Integrating CR by contribution type Our efforts in CR are led from the top.
Our Chief Executive Officer, John Cash 433,422 Harnett, chairs our CR steering committee which formally met twice in 2008.
Employee 64,450 Our international CR working group, the international environment working time In kind 3,475 groups and our Treating Customers Fairly TCF group all report to the Management 138,525 costs steering committee.
Treating Customers Fairly One core element is aligning our business to the UK Financial Services Authoritys TCF principles.
We have interpreted what this means for our business and developed our own Customer Principles which were signed off by the board in 2008.
These emphasise the customer focus of our business and help us to consider the impacts of our business decisions on our customers.
These Our Customer Principles commit us, amongst other things, to provide customers with simple products designed to meet their needs, keep customers informed, provide clear and emphasise the customer well-balanced information, understand their ability to repay loans and help focus of our business and them through difficulties.
help us to consider the Our people impacts of our business We have HR policies covering non-discrimination, equal opportunities and decisions on our customers.
We provide employees with safe and comfortable working conditions, learning and development and offer comprehensive terms and conditions both in terms of basic salary and benefits.
In 2008, our employees undertook over Carbon footprint per employee 175,000 formal training hours 28.9 hours per employee.
Community investment 3.04 We focus our community programmes on issues that relate directly to our business.
That is why we have chosen to make financial literacy central to our tonnes CO 2 community investment activities.
We want to help ensure that customers in our markets have the right knowledge to make informed financial decisions and believe this will be increasingly important in the emerging economies where Percentage reduction in paper use we want to operate.
We invested 0.6 million in our community activities in 2008, representing 0.9% of pre-tax profit.
We also have an active volunteering 9.5% programme which saw nearly 2,000 employees volunteer over 5,800 hours.
Environmental footprint Our environmental management system is based on the international standard ISO14001 and we carry out audits against this standard in every business, every year.
We build on the enthusiasm of our employees through a range of environmental volunteering activities and run communications campaigns to support this.
As a result of our efforts, our carbon footprint remains steady at 3.04 tonnes CO per employee, we reduced paper use by 9.5% and increased 2 recycled paper as a percentage of paper purchased from 12% to 15%.
Stakeholder engagement We believe we can learn a great deal through effective stakeholder engagement.
During the year we continued to organise employee and agent forums and to carry out annual engagement surveys.
We regularly commission external research into customer opinions in each of our markets.
We also ran a stakeholder round table in 2008 to obtain external insight into our TCF strategy and CR reporting.
We work in partnership with a wide range of organisations in all our markets and in 2008 we decided to participate in the UN Global Compact.
This is the largest corporate voluntary organisation for CR.
