Corporate Responsibility It has been a busy year and our Corporate by 2015, while others will be confirmed John Gibney Responsibility programme has moved as the programme unfolds into 2009.
The Finance Director on considerably.
programme ensures a robust response to the environmental and social challenges Our Corporate Responsibility CR strategy of today and tomorrow.
was launched in 2006 shortly after our flotation.
It was designed to create internal Achievements since May 2008 management structures, identify gaps in our It has been a busy six months and our activities and bring together existing work in programme has continued to progress well.
Here are some of the highlights: The strategy has achieved its purpose, Reducing packaging waste: our establishing firm foundations for our work commitment to reducing the and setting off activity relevant to our environmental impacts from our packaging business and our stakeholders.
This year we redesigned proud of our achievements to date, many of our Robinsons 1 litre bottle, reducing the which are set out in our first comprehensive weight by 2gms.
This alone saved 330 CR report, published in May 2008. tonnes of PET per year and built on a previous redesign in 2007 that also saved Moving forward another 250 tonnes annually.
We have now evolved our strategic thinking and our approach.
We have worked with Cutting roadmiles: our logistics team stakeholders inside and outside our have been hard at work maximising the business to establish our vision for corporate efficiency of our fleet.
This year we have responsibility at Britvic.
Progressive brands saved 500,000 road miles through better responsible business dedicated people planning and we have also started using reflects our values now and going forward, the rail network for some shipments to and focuses on our three key audiences: Scotland.
We have just committed to consumers, customers and employees.
upgrading our primary haulage fleet to the latest Euro [5] standard, which will Our vision is underpinned by four strategic be fully implemented in due course.
goals, each one indicating an area of material relevance to Britvic.
These goals are to: Reducing emissions: our factory teams have worked for many years to reduce Optimise the environmental performance our energy consumption.
They have had of our packaging.
many successes, and despite our business growing by 45% over the past 11 years, Increase the efficiency of our operations.
our energy consumption is almost back Support our local and global communities.
This is a considerable achievement, particularly considering that Support healthy lifestyles and employee in that time we acquired two additional well-being.
factories and brought all of our bottleEach of these strategic goals is supported blowing in-house.
by short and longer term targets.
Some of these have already been announced, such as our zero waste to landfill commitment 26 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Responsibility Management Financial Statements Despite our business growing by 45% over the past 11 years, our energy consumption is almost back to 1997 levels.
We have been looking at ways to reclaim water and convert it back into the production processes at our factory in Widford.
By using these new methods we have saved around 1,000kg of steam per hour, reduced our water usage by 62%, and cut our CO 2 emissions by 19 tonnes per annum.
We have similar water saving initiatives at our other production sites.
For example, a team at our Leeds factory managed to save 25m litres of water each year on just one production line.
They identified two ways of adapting the existing machinery with some simple devices, at a cost of just 750.
Not all opportunities are so straightforward but our teams continue to investigate improvements wherever they can be found.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 27 Target 2008 Target 2008 Result 2007 Result Corporate Responsibility Energy continued kWh per tonne produced 2% 1.5% 9.4% Effluent 3 M per tonne produced 2% 15.8% 7.2% Water 3 M per tonne produced 2% 3.6% 6.0% Landfill solid waste Kg per tonne produced 7% 19.5% 15.7% Accidents frequency rate Per 100,000 hours worked 10% 23.2% 27.9% Flexible tools for employees: anyone On a commercial level, we have started at Britvic can now connect their laptop working with some of our suppliers to from home or on the move via wireless better use our fleets.
We have found several broadband, and use IT systems just as if instances where suppliers making deliveries they were working at one of our sites.
to our sites return home via a location where we too wish to make a delivery.
By making Increased giving: our commitment to use of empty lorries on return journeys we employee supported causes remains are both maximising our fleets and reducing strong.
We have increased donations emissions.
in cash and product, plus actively encouraged employee volunteering Strong performance during working hours.
You will see from the table above our performance against our key environmental Enhancing safety: our Accident Frequency targets.
I am pleased that we are delivering Rate, already well below the industry well against these, and have done so benchmark, has continued to improve with for many years.
Our supply chain teams further reductions in 2007 8. work relentlessly to drive improvements, evaluating and investing in new systems and Working with suppliers: we continue to technologies as appropriate.
implement our Ethical Trading Policy with suppliers of ingredients and packaging, At our Interim Results in 2008 we published including priority areas within our fruit our first Corporate Responsibility report as supply chain.
The document is a transparent explanation of our achievements Commitment to partnership and our ongoing work.
An update to this Central to our strategy is a commitment to report will be published at the time of our partnership with likeminded organisations Interim Results in 2009. be they suppliers, charities, regulators or customers.
We recognise that we can often In the meantime please check our website be more effective when working together periodically for news or to view our CR with skilled partners.
polices, and do not hesitate to get in touch.
We have already committed to various industry initiatives via our sector trade associations BSDA and FDF and nongovernmental organisations such as WRAP and Envirowise.
We have set up a small community fund with the Essex Community Foundation and have recently joined forces with the food and drink redistribution charity, Fareshare, who take short-dated food and drink products and give them to those in need.
28 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Responsibility Management Financial Statements In 2007 we kicked-off a project to improve the environmental performance of our packaging.
We have already made our packaging fully recyclable and now we also aim to: Increase the use of recycled materials in our packaging.
Remove a total of 5,000 tonnes of packaging primary and secondary by December 2010 based on 2007 8 volumes.
Investigate relevant alternative bioplastics for quality and suitability of packaged soft drinks by December 2009.
Develop relationships with key customers and identify brand opportunities to work together on packaging waste reduction.
Standardise our on-pack consumer communication for the recyclability and recycled content of our packaging by December 2009.
Provide WRAP with an annual report in line with our Courtauld Commitment obligations.
