Corporate Responsibility Report The Board is committed to Corporate Responsibility and the need to take proper account of our impact on the environment, the morale and welfare of our employees and the satisfaction of our customers.
We have a duty to our shareholders to consider all social and environmental issues that could affect our business.
We have developed a formal Business Conduct The department has four full time members statement which articulates our values and of staff, who provide advice and support to approach to our stakeholders and this is operational management and staff at all levels available on our website www.
and who monitor the implementation of the Operational responsibility lies with the Health and Safety Policy and Procedures.
Groups Executive Committee and day to day The Policy document and branch manual has responsibility for Business Conduct lies with recently been reviewed and rolled out to all the Group Chief Executive.
branches to ensure that it accurately reflects our business.
Health and Safety Health and safety is a key issue for the Group.
Over the past year we have: We are committed to ensuring the health and Reduced our rolling 12 months lost time safety of our employees, customers and visitors accidents by 13.5% to our sites.
Our in house Health and Safety Maintained an ongoing training programme department is led by the Central Services for all levels of employees in line with H & S Director, who is a member of the Executive Policy requirements Committee.
The Group Chief Executive is the Provided 3,017 training days during the year Board member responsible for health and Continued to undertake regular and safety matters including keeping the Board extensive H & S audits of our management informed at each meeting.
systems and inspections of our branch, warehouse and office based activities Reviewed all audit, inspection and accident report findings and produced action plans to ensure continual improvement in our management of H & S Investigated all reportable RIDDOR accidents notified to us and implemented changes to procedures where appropriate Responded positively to any findings observations by the HSE following inspections Continually assessed, maintained, monitored and improved safety performance The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19 Corporate Responsibility Report cont Employee Involvement and Working BSS and the Community Environment We conduct all our business with honesty The importance of good relations and and integrity and are a responsible member communications with employees is of the community.
fundamental to the continued success of our business.
The Group Chief Executive is In February 2006 our Domestic Division, PTS, the Board member responsible for human announced a two year partnership with Age resources matters and updates the Board Concern with the aim of our employees on a regular basis.
raising 150,000 to provide vital support for older people.
In March 2008 the total sum of We employ some 5,100 people across the money raised was 177,304.
This would not business and recognise the key contribution have been possible without the staff, suppliers they make to our ongoing growth and and customers of PTS.
Our employees wellbeing and ranging from Back to the Floor for senior professional development is central to management to work alongside branch recruiting and retaining high performing warehouse staff and drivers, sponsored raft individuals.
During the last financial year race, 350 mile cycle ride challenge, donating product knowledge systems have been 1% of the proceeds from certain product introduced across PTS and BSS, with a sales to participating in the Great North Run Following the success of PTSs merchant number of employees participating in have helped to raise this significant amount.
Carbon Monoxide Awareness Week in Apprenticeships, Builders Merchant Federation January, the Group has provided all its Modules and scheduled for implementation Our Industrial Division, BSS has completed employees with CO detectors.
By ensuring in the next financial year is a trial trainee a year long partnership with childrens charity its staff make their own homes a carbon scheme.
The organisation has a robust The Rainbow Trust.
Employees across the monoxide free zone, the Group is continuing Talent Management strategy in place which business successfully achieved the 50,000 to communicate the need for improved gas incorporates annual performance reviews, target and the monies have been used to safety to the industry.
From this it is hoped development plans and succession planning.
ensure more families can use the respite awareness can be passed on to the installer house facilities of the charity.
Following this and to homeowners who may not have Divisional newsletters are published regularly success, the partnership has recently been previously considered this hidden danger.
to employees to ensure they are kept well extended through 2008 with a similar target, informed.
Annual employee attitude surveys and staff at all levels have been encouraged There have been no HSE prosecutions or are conducted to measure employee to continue the good work started last year.
enforcement actions in 2007. motivation and provide an additional feedback facility for employees to communicate with We actively support the Princes Trust with the Company.
The Company makes various management time and financial contributions.
benefit schemes available to all employees Founded in 1976 by The Prince of Wales to subject to eligibility including a SAYE save improve the lives of disadvantaged young as you earn scheme.
A benefits website is people in the UK, it has become the UKs in operation with benefits ranging from the leading youth charity, giving practical and Companys defined contribution pension financial support to the young people who scheme to concessions on gym membership.
We aim to maintain a progressive equal The organisations employees also held fund opportunities policy to ensure equal treatment raising events for Great Ormond Street for all irrespective of race, creed, colour, Hospitals Jeans for Genes Appeal and nationality, ethnic origin, age, language, Breast Cancer awareness which the religion, sexual orientation, gender or disability.
Individuals are trained, developed, promoted and treated on the basis of their relevant aptitudes, abilities and skills.
We recognise that everyone is different and by valuing diversity we appreciate that people with different experiences, views, opinions and approaches can bring important skills to the business.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 20 We recognise that waste and emission output are our most significant Renewable energy solutions are considered environmental impact and are able to report that: and installed at new branches subject to landlords consent and favourable physical conditions of the building.
In addition, we are CO2 Direct Emissions Tonnes 2007 08 now monitoring intelligent lighting systems in branches.
Intelligent lighting turns warehouse 2 Business operations Fossil fuel use on site 3,578 lights off automatically in areas which are not Owned transport Fuel used by vehicles 18,844 used for a period of time.
CO Indirect Emissions Tonnes 2007 08 2 In March 2008 FTSE Group confirmed that The BSS Group plc had been independently Electricity Yearly consumption of directly assessed according to the FTSE4Good purchased electricity in KWh 6,125 criteria, and had satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Employee travel Recorded miles of third party Index Series.
Created by the global index provided transport air and rail as company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an well as self-recorded miles road 2,904 equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet Total 31,451 globally recognised corporate responsibility 2 standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good The Carbon Trust, carbon footprint calculator was used to convert usage into CO emissions, which in turn uses emission factors published by Defra in April 2008.
Electricity and fossil fuel emissions disclosed cover about 60% of the sites of the Group.
Index Series have met stringent social, ethical 2 to convert gas figures an average calorifc value of 39.4 was used and environmental criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible The Environment Currently a project is underway to recycle all business practice.
We recognise the importance of responsible cardboard and plastic waste generated within environmental management and the obligation each branch.
All 115 branches serviced by to protect the environment, and our target is our Witton Distribution Centre already take to reduce energy usage by 5% during 2008 part and this will be rolled out to all Divisions and also lay the foundations which will enable and branches by January 2009.
During the us to recycle 1,000 tons of waste per annum.
past six months, we have recycled circa 30 tonnes of cardboard and plastic and In particular we focus on: substantially reduced bin collections.
Not only Property: reducing the use of energy and will this project minimise the amount of our water consumption waste going to landfill but it will significantly Transport: minimising emissions from our reduce the number of vehicles on the road transport fleet to collect our waste.
Waste: seeking opportunities to minimise waste produced in all sections of the We had no prosecutions relating to business environmental matters during the year.
Complying with all relevant environmental This reflects in part the fact that as a distributor legislation, regulations, standards and other our activities generally have a lower impact relevant codes on the environment but also our proactive Providing, where possible, the most efficient approach when planning and developing solutions for heating and pipeline process new branches.
Working with our suppliers towards ensuring effective environmental supply PTS our Domestic Division exhibits renewable chain management energy products at a Green Energy Room in Where able to do so, specifying commercial Nottingham and two further locations are vehicles that meet Euro V emission planned in the North and South.
The Green standards, a standard that does not come Energy Room offers advice to make an into force until 2009. informed choice about being socially Evaluating route optimisation software responsible and cutting household bills when designed to reduce the mileage driven considering heating and plumbing options.
Remote monitoring of electricity, gas and Currently PTS offers a range of energy water consumption at all sites above a efficient products and emergent renewable certain size to focus on usage reductions technologies.
AdBlue 4you This is added to all the Diesel This year, following the development of our fuel used in the BSS NTDC distribution Environmental Management system, we have fleet and has cut Carbon started the process of attaining ISO14001 emissions by over 30%.
accreditation for our main sites.
Green energyroom The Green Energy Room in Nottingham provides visitors with a chance to see Selective Catalytic Reduction involves optimising the fuel injection timing so fuel burns more efficiently and particulate emissions examples of the latest renewable are radically reduced.
But at the resultant higher combustion temperatures, the levels of NOx are increased so a catalytic converter technology.
is employed to reduce NOx.
Before the exhaust gases actually reach the catalytic converter, AdBlue is injected in minute measured quantities into the exhaust system.
In the heat of the exhaust stream, the AdBlue hydrolyses and ammonia molecules are released.
The ammonia molecules and NOx react in the catalyst, producing harmless nitrogen and water in the form of steam.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 21
