Corporate social responsibility The workplace Charity and the community Corporate Social JLT's goal is to create a stimulating, Our charity initiative JLT Making a Responsibility CSR is innovative and dynamic working Difference aims to do exactly that - important to Jardine Lloyd environment where talented individuals both in terms of donations and are rewarded and recognised for their supporting charitable activities.
Increasingly, contribution to the success of the The initiative focuses JLTs efforts in our employees, clients business, both professionally and three ways: and shareholders are all personally.
Firstly, all UK staff are able to take taking a keen interest in Employee involvement is encouraged advantage of a Charity Day, this gives them one day every year through wide share ownership and understanding what the when they can spend company participation in share option schemes.
company is doing to time helping a charity or working in Employees are kept informed of the the local community.
As a Lloyd's minimise its impact on performance of the Group and all Community Programme partner, matters affecting them as employees the environment as well employees from our London by means of regular briefings and offices are also encouraged to give as the positive actions consultation.
Wherever possible, the up their lunch hours twice a week Group regularly communicates with its JLT is taking to put to visit a school to help with IT employees via the JLT intranet both in training and support.
In 2008, JLT something back into the the UK and overseas.
project helping with cricket Our continuing aim is to attract and coaching for a school in east retain the best professionals, welcome London.
The team subsequently new talent and encourage employees participated in a tournament with to look at career development other schools at the Oval cricket opportunities within JLT.
We promote ground in London.
flexibility and encourage diversity amongst the workforce, both in Secondly, JLT will match pound for recruitment and across all areas of pound any amount raised by our UK staff in fundraising activities employment, recognising the benefits that this brings to the Group.
they undertake for charity up to a maximum of 5,000.
Each year JLT continues to respond to the the Group Charity Committee constant changes within the Group seeks to ensure that a large and the external economic proportion of its annual budget environment.
Training and supports these employee development at all levels is fundraising activities.
In 2008 the fundamental to this and is embedded Group provided matching funds in the culture of JLT.
We continue to totalling more than 68,000.
In the commit resources equally to technical UK, the Give-As-You-Earn scheme training and personal development in enables employees to make the firm belief that our employees are regular charitable donations in a key to our future success.
Donations under this scheme raised in excess We are committed to maintaining of 28,000 for charity in 2008. standards of excellence across the Group and will continue to invest in Thirdly, the Group Charity our employees.
Committee will consider the many requests received for donations from a wide variety of local and national charities.
All requests are considered carefully on their merits, however, we do take a particular interest in charities connected to communities local to our offices.
22 JLT Annual Report 2008 Corporate Social Responsibility Our total charitable donations for Our ten key commitments to the environment 2008 in the UK amounted to 102,735.
1 Reduce the amount of paper 7 Purchase, where practical, Many of JLT's overseas offices are we waste by default printing, more products locally to reduce involved in local charity initiatives and where possible, to doublethe environmental impact active fundraising.
Australia, for the sixth year running, money has been raised through a UK consumption was 8 Encourage employees to charity golf day for Cystic Fibrosis.
reduced by 8.75% in 2008 recycle rubbish.
In 2008 the sum raised through this and a new target has been By way of example, in the event was AUD140,000.
Groups London offices, Australia also took part in the annual 2 Positively encourage employees employees recycled over 100 United Way Christmas Tree Appeal to think twice before printing tonnes of rubbish in 2008 providing Christmas presents for over emails.
compared to just 20 tonnes a hundred children in the Sydney in 2007.
3 Print all future marketing area.
materials and publications on 9 Identify and measure our Our total charitable donations for recycled paper wherever greenhouse gas emissions and 2008 amounted to 281,402. possible.
look to introduce a targeting and monitoring scheme.
Environmental policy 4 Encourage the use of JLT remains committed to minimising teleconferencing as the An energy management any adverse impact its businesses preferred alternative to business company has been have on the environment.
appointed in the UK so we can analysis and monitor In support of this commitment the 5 Limit our energy consumption.
2 Group introduced a new our CO emissions.
In 2008 in the UK we reduced environmental policy in 2007.
10 Seek to raise awareness, gas energy consumption by Now that the policy has been in place encourage and enable our staff for more than a year it has been 11% per person and electric to make an effective possible to monitor the successes energy consumption by 6% contribution to environmental made to date.
The recycling campaign per person.
In 2009 we hope in our head office has been improvement, both at work and to achieve a further reduction particularly successful improving within the community.
in energy consumption per recycling by over 400% in 2008, person in the UK.
In the UK this includes a substantially exceeding our target.
separate staff environmental We now hope to replicate this 6 Develop environmentally sound intranet site which sets out success across the UK.
procurement practices these commitments and incorporating environmental To encourage employee participation progress against set targets.
we have deliberately avoided criteria for supplier selection.
producing lengthy policy documents and have instead agreed ten key The environmental performance targets that have been commitments, set out opposite.
introduced within the Group are to help ensure that These are also available on the JLT meaningful progress is made in reducing our impact on Groups intranet site where they have been endorsed by the Group's CEO.
In addition to these Group commitments, local business management is responsible for enforcing standards in line with legal responsibilities and obligations and managing risks associated with environmental matters.
