Corporate social responsibility -20% 60% Accident incidence rate Proportion of waste being recycled in UK & Ireland The Company takes the area of social Environment including climate change and The major environmental impacts of the Group responsibility seriously and has for many years Health & Safety EHS are associated with the management of waste, had policies with respect to business standards, The Group has a long standing commitment which is predominantly the packaging that health, safety and the environment.
The Board to achieving continual improvement in suppliers use for delivering their products to believes that positive actions with respect environment, health and safety performance.
Bunzl, and the consumption of fuel to transport to social responsibility are not only desirable The Group Environment, Health and Safety products to our customers.
These two areas in their own right but are also of potential Committee comprises representatives from are Bunzls key performance indicators relating economic and commercial benefit to the each business area and is responsible to to environmental impact and during the year Group and considers environmental, social and the Board for reviewing the Groups policy the Group has continued to focus on its governance matters for identifying, evaluating and agreeing standards and objectives for environmental performance in these areas and managing risks to the Group.
Bunzl is a the Group worldwide as well as auditing as shown in the bar charts on page 23. member of the FTSE4Good index.
During the year it was agreed to change the name of The UK & Ireland business area maintained Bunzls corporate social responsibility the EHS integrated web-based tool, which is a good performance in 2008 relating to waste policy provides a reference point to guide universally applicable and adds value to the to landfill and waste to recycling.
The proportion stakeholders, including all employees, on the environmental and the health and safety of waste per month being taken to landfill in the elements that drive the conduct of the business management programmes both at subsidiary UK & Ireland has fallen each year from 2005, and relationships with the world in which and Group level, to the Bunzl Risk Management while the proportion of waste being recycled the Group operates.
The overall policy is System BRMS to reflect work on risk has increased over the same period.
During made up of the following underlying elements: management being carried out with insurers.
2008 waste data was collected for Australasia, Standards of business conduct Code of ethics, The following objectives were set for 2008 to Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands and Environment including climate change, Health improve further the Groups performance: will be included in key performance indicators and Safety, Employees, Customers, Suppliers in future years.
A number of initiatives in each and Community.
Further details are available achieve an overall reduction in accident of the business areas are continuing which have on the Companys website, www.
incidence and severity rates, amount of fuel a positive environmental benefit.
Balers, used to used and waste to landfill: compress waste paper, cardboard and plastic Standards of business conduct shrink wrap for disposal, and waste segregation Code of ethics increase recycling of waste material: programmes have been introduced at more The Group has standards of business conduct sites.
Discussions have been held with suppliers which were updated most recently in 2007. identify common themes to improve EHS to eliminate unnecessary transit packaging and The standards set out the behaviour expected performance across the Group and secure wherever possible reusable packaging is used.
of each Bunzl employee and cover the areas greater ownership from line management to In the UK the Group is a member of Valpak of conflicts of interest, compliance with laws, understand and address the relevant issues: who discharge the relevant obligations under rules and regulations, dealing in Bunzl shares, the Producer Responsibility Packaging Waste protection of confidential information and maintain and develop awareness of EHS and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment company assets and relationships with matters with particular focus on employee regulations.
In Germany the Group is a member stakeholders.
The Code sets out requirements involvement: and of Duales System Deutschland who operate the for reporting unethical behaviour, including Green Dot recycling system.
any issues relating to accounting, internal obtain external verification of the controls and auditing matters.
To raise measurement of Bunzls carbon footprint.
The Group continued to improve the fuel employee awareness further, notices have efficiency of the commercial fleet compared to been posted across the Group encouraging Environment 2007, measured as the consumption of diesel employees to Speak Out regarding any Through a diverse range of initiatives, from against revenue, for the businesses based in business related concerns.
The notices include improving our paper and plastic recycling to the US, the UK & Ireland and France.
There details of confidential contacts should they fitting energy saving lights in our warehouses continues to be a focus on the efficient use feel unable to discuss such issues with their and reducing our fuel consumption, we are of fuel by better transport management.
Business area heads are committed to reducing the environmental responsible for implementation of the standards impact of our operations.
We are also and compliance is monitored annually.
During continually developing further ideas on green 2008 no incidents of non-compliance have products as well as providing staff education been recorded.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Corporate social responsibility 21 08 06 06 Corporate social responsibility continued INCIDENCE RATE SEVERITY RATE 265 8,963 268 Average number of Average number of 212 incidents per month per days lost per month per 7,595 219 300 300 100,000 employees 100,000 employees 6,415 250 250 200 200 150 150 100 100 50 50 07 07 0 0 05 05 In 2008 there has been a strong desire to In addition we have focused on those parts of Manual handling and slipping and tripping increase environmental awareness of Bunzls Scope 3 that can be controlled by Bunzl such remain the highest cause of incidents but customers and staff.
Green Teams have as CO2 emissions of third party carriers used in the level of severity is variable.
The Group been set up in all business areas and have connection with the transportation of Bunzls remains focused on reducing these risks as implemented a number of initiatives.
These goods and business travel such as air, rail and far as reasonably practicable by ensuring good include the development of customer information road.
Other indirect emissions have not been housekeeping, reviewing weights of products sheets and catalogues describing green factored in at this stage.
We have calculated supplied, providing appropriate equipment products, reviewing the possibility of closed loop Bunzls carbon footprint on the above basis and and raising personal awareness of safe working recycling whereby Bunzls plastic waste and that are in the process of validating the calculation practices.
A key theme for 2008 was the safe of our customers can be recycled to produce prior to any external publication.
In 2008 Bunzl driving of Bunzls commercial fleets which has some of the products required by the customer was able for the first time to provide quantitative included a defensive driving training course for base and conferences for sales representatives data to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
professional truck drivers in North America and customers.
and Drive with Pride training for UK & Ireland Health & safety based drivers which covered safe driving as well Central to Bunzls environmental programme The Company continuously seeks to improve as customer service and driving economically.
has been a drive across the business to the quality and the reliability of data collection In addition a programme relating to claims gain ISO 14001 accreditation.
During 2008, to support the key metrics used to measure the defensibility has been run in the UK & Ireland accreditation has been attained by Coffee Groups EHS performance.
Group health and to assist managers in understanding the costs Point, Irish Merchants and Allcare.
To date, safety performance is assessed by two indices: and causes of safety failure and how these all UK & Ireland businesses have gained incidence rate, reflecting the total number of can be avoided by implementing robust safety accreditation, with the exception of the newest accidents incidents which involve lost time, management procedures.
There have been acquisitions in Healthcare, Keenpac and and severity rate, reflecting the number of days a number of initiatives aimed at encouraging A&E Russell.
Within Continental Europe, lost as the result of accidents or work related employees to take greater ownership of their ill-health.
Trends against these two measures own health and well-being including in North Bunzl Netherlands, Denmark and Germany are accredited.
France takes part in the are tracked using monthly averages.
Data America a programme to encourage employees covering the central European businesses to get healthy by walking 10,000 steps per day.
In Australasia it is expected that the Catering have been included for 2008 only.
Employees Supplies businesses will gain accreditation in 2009.
North America has a programme Due to accidents which took place towards the Bunzl remains committed to the recruitment end of 2007 which resulted in additional days of high quality staff and developing them for recycling plastic and installing energy efficient lighting systems as well as continuing lost following the publication of last years report, within the businesses to maximise personal the severity rate for 2007 has unfortunately performance and progression.
This is achieved to provide information on truck fleet fuel usage.
increased and been restated accordingly.
Since by a combination of structured Group the severity of accidents which occur at the development programmes, specific skills During 2008 Bunzl has continued to refine its approach to measuring its CO2 emissions end of a particular year is often not known for training within respective businesses, to help identify its carbon footprint and thereby several months afterwards, the Company has for performance management processes and the enable the Group to reduce its environmental this year reported, and will in the future report, provision of challenging and responsible roles.
The Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocols the severity rate one year in arrears.
Regretfully During 2008 the Bunzl VIP value, integrity classification of emissions has been adopted during the year there has been one fatality, an and performance sales training and and we continue to use the GHG conversion employee, involved in a road accident in development initiative developed in North factors developed by the UK Department for Hungary.
A variety of actions have been taken America continued to be successfully rolled Food and Rural Affairs.
We have endeavoured to raise awareness of health and safety issues out to all sales professionals in Australasia.
to capture and collate data for the whole Group and provide managers with information to A new development programme, Supply Chain in Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the GHG Protocol enable them to identify areas of poor Management Workshop, has been piloted and have data for some 90% of the Group.
performance and to improve accident rates which is aimed at improving the effectiveness including publication of business area statistics of the operations of the business.
In the on a quarterly basis and, within some business UK & Ireland after the success of the WoW!
areas, the publication of accident statistic customer care programme, WoW2!
launched to continue to build outstanding customer care across the business.
The Group 22 Corporate social responsibility Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 40 40 60 60 7.
7.4 4 08 08 08 08 08 08 07 WASTE TO LANDFILL RECYCLED WASTE DIESEL FUEL USAGE % % Litres per 000 revenue 42 7.6 Proportion of waste materials Proportion of waste materials Quarterly average volume 58 from the UK & Ireland from the UK & Ireland of diesel used in the US, businesses sent to landfill.
the UK & Ireland and France for transporting the Companys products.
07 07 aims to provide development opportunities to responsiveness, the Seattle branch won the Macmillan Cancer Support.
Bunzl continued employees and strives to promote from within Food Services of America Seattles Supplier to support Queen Elizabeths Training College whenever appropriate.
Graduates continue Excellence award due to having exhibited the in the UK to fund the National Vocational to be recruited into the businesses in the best all round performance and, for the second Qualification accreditation of the Customer US and the UK and have structured training year running, the Processor business was Service training course developed last year with programmes to enhance their development.
awarded the Spirit of Excellence Award by funding from Bunzl.
Support was once again Hormel Foods Corporation.
given to Leonard Cheshire, this year to develop Appropriate and well-timed communication to a new training initiative Enterprise Ability which and from employees is essential to ensure the In the UK, Greenham was awarded the DEFRA aims to develop the business skills of disabled continued effectiveness of the business.
The Sustainability Award as it had contributed people to enable them to become self-employed European Information and Consultation Forum significantly to the DEFRA performance targets media professionals or internet traders.
This continues to meet to provide information to, and by reducing CO2 emissions, waste generation initiative was inspired by the Ability TV studio to consult with, elected employee representatives and water consumption and increased energy which Bunzl partly funded.
Further funding on Group and business area policies, strategy efficiency and recycling opportunities in the was provided to the British Occupational and performance.
Some UK businesses provision of goods and services and a Bunzl Health Research Forum to support research have formalised information and consultation Lockhart National Accounts Manager was on Line management competencies and arrangements to ensure better employee named Sales Professional of the Year by the supporting colleagues back to work.
For involvement and feedback locally.
A magazine, Catering Equipment Suppliers Association the first time, a donation was given to the The Source, continues to be produced which is the fourth year in a row that a Bunzl Equipment Loan Pool run by the Royal and distributed around the Group, notifying Lockhart sales person has won this award.
London School for the Blind which helps employees of major business successes, In Continental Europe, Varia-Pack in Belgium clients take up employment by lending their acquisitions and appointments.
A variety of was for the third year in a row named as the potential employers access technology to locally produced newsletters, briefings and Best Supplier in the non-food category by enable them to start work immediately.
intranet communications give more specific Gate Gourmet.
In Australasia, Bunzl Food information related to the business or site Processors was named Gold Supplier by We continued to provide support to where employees are based.
environmental projects which included funding the London Remade Local Authority Network Customers Suppliers Meetings which discuss recycling activities as The Groups business and livelihood depends Bunzl regards suppliers as partners and well as providing funding for an educational upon its customers.
Every employee is works with them to help achieve policy centre to purchase equipment to support the responsible for ensuring that any contact aspirations in the delivery of products and Work Horse Programme.
with customers and the public at large reflects services.
Specifically the Group is committed professionalism, efficiency and honesty.
During to working with its suppliers to ensure that the Donations were also made to two UK welfare of workers and labour conditions within 2008, as has been the practice for some years, benevolent associations, Hospitality Action a number of businesses undertook formal the supply chain meet or exceed recognised and The Lighthouse Club, who support workers standards.
Management regularly meets with customer surveys to measure their customer from two of the key industry sectors that service performance and rectify any issues suppliers to ensure mutual understanding Bunzl serves.
In addition, Group companies and to give and receive feedback on services identified.
In addition, senior management and individual employees worldwide continue meets key customers on an ad hoc basis to and goods received.
to support local charitable initiatives.
North ensure an understanding of their service America has sponsored a variety of organisations requirements and gain their perceptions on Community and events such as the Variety Childrens Bunzl at Group level has continued to support how these requirements are being met.
The Charity of St Louis Parade, the MS Gateway quality of the operations and service is key a cross section of projects with registered Area Walk and the Queen of Peace Center.
charities in the fields of healthcare, disability and many sites have attained ISO 9001:2000 In the UK, fund raising activities took place accreditation.
A number of customers have and the environment.
In 2008 Bunzl and its for Springboard, the Cedar Foundation and employees across the world made significant recognised the quality of service provided by the Point Foundation.
Bunzl Netherlands Bunzl businesses during 2008 and a variety donations to various cancer research and raised funds for child cancer charity Kika.
cancer care charities including sponsorship of awards have been received.
These include Australasia raised funds for a number of in North America, Vendor of the Year in the of projects relating to leukaemia research charities including Cure Kids, the Deaf Cricket undertaken by the Leukaemia Research Furniture and Supplies category awarded by Tour and the Worlds Greatest Shave.
Office Depot for maintaining high fill rates and Fund and donations and local fund raising for Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Corporate social responsibility 23
