CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The quality of Burberry products is implicit.
This does not Burberry engages in many industry initiatives and has simply refer to the rigorous nature of the design, sourcing recently joined Business for Social Responsibility BSR.
When buying a Burberry Since 2006, Burberry has been an active participant in the product, customers associate themselves with the heritage apparel industry Corporate Responsibility Brand Collaboration and craftsmanship of the brand.
Through this network the Group works with other Burberry started making outdoor garments for explorers brands to conduct factory audits more effectively and to and military officers, Burberry has strived to exceed the ensure a clear message is given on what improvements are expectations of its customers.
It is therefore important that needed.
Brand collaboration allows factories to spend more the Groups relationships with suppliers and other time on making improvements and less on dealing with stakeholders are fair, responsible, and of high integrity.
The Groups Corporate Responsibility Committee the Highlights of the year: Committee is responsible for ensuring that the overall Conducted over 300 factory visits to assess compliance management of social, ethical and environmental matters with the Burberry Ethical Trading Policy.
The Committee is chaired by the General Counsel and Secretary who takes overall Further increased the Groups internal specialist team of accountability for Corporate Responsibility matters on behalf compliance officers, responding to some concerns from of the Board.
The Committee held four formal meetings in stakeholders regarding third-party monitoring.
the financial year to 31 March 2008.
In addition, the Increased the number of audits with non-governmental Environmental Committee, comprising of operational staff organisations auditing bodies.
from our UK, Spanish and US divisions, met four times.
The 17 suppliers have invested in long-term Corporate Risk Committee, which also considers Corporate Responsibility Responsibility training programmes, which focus on matters, met three times, and a Worldwide Health and Safety solutions to labour and environmental issues.
Committee was established during the year.
Burberry held seminars for many of its suppliers updating Burberry is included in the FTSE4Good Indices and is a them on the global Corporate Responsibility programme signatory of the UN Global Compact.
Burberry embraces, and providing training on the Burberry Ethical Trading Policy.
supports and enacts the ten UN Global Compact principles These seminars were held in the suppliers local language.
of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption.
The human rights and labour standards Burberry launched a confidential worker hotline in a principles are embedded in the management of the Groups number of factories.
The hotline has the dual benefit of supply chain, the environment principles in the environmental being both a whistle-blowing line as well as providing management systems and anti-corruption in the code of counselling to workers.
Operational responsibility for ethical supply chain Supply chain management resides with Burberrys Corporate Responsibility Manager who is supported by an internal team and external Our approach experts.
Performance is reported to the Risk Committee Pursuing operational excellence is one of the Groups key comprising the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial strategic themes and Burberrys goal is to be recognised as Officer and the General Counsel and Secretary as well as to much for operational expertise as for luxury products.
This the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
strategy is applied to the Groups relationships with suppliers and to the expectations placed upon them.
Regardless of In 2007 08 the Groups objectives were to: where the Groups factories are based they are governed by Continue to assess suppliers adherence to the Groups its ethical trading policy, which includes managing labour ethical standards.
standards and environmental conditions in the factories that Increase the number of random spot check visits by Burberry produce Burberrys luxury goods.
This policy is based on Corporate Responsibility personnel to ensure high standards.
internationally accepted codes and published in full on our Increase the levels of on the ground resource to better website at www.
com under the Corporate enable suppliers to achieve high standards.
Increase levels of stakeholder engagement so that, where As a global luxury goods group, Burberry manufactures the applicable, the Group can align its activities with the majority of its products in Europe, primarily in Italy and the expectations of its stakeholders.
The Group supports its standards with a programme of factory assessments conducted either by its own specialist Continue and increase involvement in leading industry teams or by third-party experts, during which assessments of Corporate Responsibility initiatives, cooperating in the working environment and worker interviews take place.
innovation and best practice to raise industry standards.
69 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Commence the roll-out of confidential worker hotlines, To encourage open dialogue about personal development, both to act as a counselling line for workers and to provide the performance of all employees is reviewed in a structured a tool for whistle-blowing on poor practice.
format on an annual basis.
Informal conversations also take place throughout the year to review progress and discuss The Group has met all of the above objectives.
The performance rating In 2008 09 the Group intends to: awarded on an annual basis is used as one of the factors Continue to assess suppliers adherence to the Groups which determine pay, supporting our aim of paying ethical standards, further increasing the number of random for performance.
spot check visits by Burberry Corporate Responsibility As the business continues to grow and we evolve our personnel and adding further on the ground resource organisational design, the requirements for new roles and for auditing and training.
Where appropriate, our preference is to Participate in a number of Business for Social promote internally.
To support our succession planning we Responsibility BSR working groups such as the Mills are committed to supporting all employees with their personal working group and Beyond Monitoring working group.
This takes a variety of formats such as specific projects, attending bespoke workshops or relevant work Launch the confidential hotline in two more countries.
Those identified with high potential will receive Fur more robust development support, tailored to address As an international luxury brand producing apparel and individual needs.
If it becomes necessary to recruit externally accessories with a strong outerwear heritage, there has we follow a fair and thorough selection process.
In all cases, been and will continue to be occasions where consumer people are selected on the basis of skills and experience tastes demand the use of natural hides.
The Group believes and without regard to sex, race, ethnic origin, nationality, that any materials derived from animals should be produced marital status, age, religion, disability or sexual orientation.
without inflicting cruelty or threatening the environment and People management will not use natural hides if there is any concern that they The integrated global Human Resources HR function is have been produced by the unacceptable treatment of the structured to support the three regions and the Global Head animals.
For this reason the Group does not source such Office.
The team consists of a generalists who demonstrate materials from China.
a broad skill set and b experts in the dedicated centres of The Group sources natural hides very carefully, safeguarding excellence: resourcing, learning and development, and the correct ethical standards and traceability.
Fur is principally compensation and benefits.
sourced from SAGA furs in Finland who are known for Employee communications upholding high standards of ethical treatment of animals A dedicated communications function is responsible for and share the Groups concerns about animal welfare.
The ensuring that effective mechanisms are in place to provide farms which supply fur are open to third-party inspections all employees with sufficient information and updates about at any time.
The Chief Executive Officer and senior People management host a quarterly webcast which has a global Employment reach and discusses the Groups financial performance, The Group employs over 5,500 people worldwide and is progress against the strategic themes and current organised into three regions Europe, Asia and the Americas developments initiatives taking place within the Group.
In with the Global Head Office based in London.
The workforce addition, the Chief Executive Officer regularly hosts round has increased and strengthened considerably over the past table meetings with each function.
These meetings provide 12 months to drive delivery of the five strategic themes and the opportunity for employees to share progress in their support and sustain continued growth.
functions and the challenges they face across the business.
The Group is committed to attracting, retaining and The Group is proud to announce the success of the first developing world class talent.
As the business grows series of award ceremonies which are taking place across and the demand for expertise and capability across the the three regions and Head Office.
Employees across the organisation increases, Burberry is ensuring that it globe have the opportunity to nominate their colleagues for develops a robust 'pipeline' of talent throughout the Group.
a Burberry Icon Award, which is awarded to employees Succession planning is a critical activity whereby we evaluate who have made an exceptional contribution to the business, who we have within the business that can develop over time measured against the five strategic themes.
This has to move into more senior critical roles throughout the Group.
70 70 Health and safety Burberry, accompanied by Razorlight, participated in Fashion Rocks 2007, an event which celebrated the relationship In 2003, the Group began a partnership with a third-party between music and fashion.
Proceeds from the event went health and safety auditor in the UK to review its existing to the Princes Trust.
Since then, the Group has continued with the audit programme and ensures that all UK manufacturing Employees at Burberrys offices in Korea established a sites and distribution centres are audited at least annually charitable programme of events in support of the Zion Home with our major offices and retail locations being audited at Orphanage in Seoul, which included the donation of personal least once every three years.
We are pleased to report that computers, a television and books.
our overall UK audit scores continue to steadily improve Following a review of its supply chain in 2006, the Group as a result of the thorough implementation of audit closed its factory in Treorchy.
Prior to the closure on recommendations prioritised on the basis of risk and 30 March 2007, the Group made every possible effort improved overall housekeeping.
to mitigate the consequences for those employees who As with many global businesses, the challenge the Group were affected, by offering a programme of retraining and outplacements.
To help address the wider longer-term faces is to find a consistent approach to the management issues the Group committed to donating 150,000 a year and reporting of health and safety worldwide that is easy over the next ten years to projects to benefit the community.
to administer yet meets regional legislative expectations.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2008, the Group The Group has already extended the auditing programme to made its first donation of 150,000 to the Rhondda Trust, include some of the major European retail stores and have an independent trust, which will determine how to use also had audits undertaken in the US operation.
In addition, Burberrys donations for the benefit of the local community.
the Group is in the process of reviewing its accident reporting and assurance framework for its major operations.
During the financial year, the Group committed 1.0m for the benefit of charitable causes of which 0.4m was donated Further information regarding the Groups health and safety during the year.
policy is provided in the Directors Report on page 77.
The Burberry Foundation Burberry and the community The Burberry Foundation the Foundation was established Community involvement as a charitable trust during 2007 08.
The mission of the The Groups community involvement is focused on working Foundation is to help young people realise their dreams in the spheres of fashion and textiles education, humanitarian and potential through the power of their creativity.
By working in close partnership with a Foundation is committed to dedicating its global resources number of organisations we aim to raise awareness and to help young people build confidence, make connections promote understanding of issues we believe are important in in their communities, and grasp opportunities to succeed.
our industry and in the communities in which we operate.
The Foundation is in the process of establishing partnerships with a view to making long-term commitment to multi-year Examples of the Groups involvement during 2007 08 include: investments with selected charitable organisations in the UK, Burberry contributed a specially designed coat to Earth US and in Hong Kong, representing one location in each of Pledges FutureFashion Show at New York Fashion Week, an the regions in which Burberry operates.
eco-friendly runway show aimed at raising awareness about A global employee committee, made up of regional and the need to use sustainable materials in the fashion industry.
corporate employee representatives, has been established Christopher Bailey, Creative Director, designed a T-shirt for to consider the Foundations potential partnerships and the Fashion for Relief initiative.
The T-shirts were sold at make recommendations to its board of trustees.
The global Burberrys UK stores and through the ecommerce website, employee committee will also seek to promote and harness with 100% of the proceeds going to the Rotary Flood Appeal.
employee involvement with the Foundations partners.
In addition, the Group donated merchandise for the Fashion Burberry and the environment for Relief catwalk show at London Fashion Week: the The Group has a wide-ranging dependence and impact on merchandise was later sold as part of a special auction with the planets resources.
These range from the growing and all proceeds also benefiting the Rotary Flood Appeal.
processing of raw materials to produce yarns and fabrics, Christopher Bailey acted as mentor to the finalists in the to the shipping of goods to Burberry stores and customers, Fashion Fringe competition, which supports young up and to the running of retail operations, offices and factories and coming designers.
The winner of the competition received finally to the plastic and paper packaging the consumer a 10,000 bursary donated by Burberry.
71 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Burberry is committed to reducing these dependencies and In 2007 08 the Groups objectives were: impacts as far as possible throughout its business, meeting To have over 90% of our directly owned business all environmental legislation and reducing all major sources of operations covered by the Environmental Management pollution.
The Environmental Committee met four times in the System.
last year to track performance against targets and included To develop an off-the-shelf environmental training pack for input from our European, US and Asian retail and wholesale managers, based on Group best practice, carried forward operations.
This committee then reports into the Corporate to 2008 following a review of our policy and strategy.
To examine the opportunities for extending ISO 14001 Highlights of the year: certification, following its application at our major Spanish Burberrys Spanish wholesale operation achieved wholesale site.
A management briefing has been circulated ISO14001 accreditation in June 2007. to assess feasibility and implementation.
Conducted an environmental review and training In 2008 09 the Group intends to: programme of our operations in Taiwan and Hong Kong.
Introduce a new web-based system for tracking These are now included in the Groups Environmental environmental KPIs.
Hold our first global staff environment day.
Worked with the Carbon Trust in the UK to assess Establish a network of environmental champions around the energy saving opportunities in our internal UK the business.
Develop an off-the-shelf environment training pack for Continued to install 20 watt metal halide bulbs in our managers based on Group best practice.
European stores replacing the 50 watt versions.
Installed smart meters to track electricity use in our UK retail stores that do not already have continuous monitoring in place.
Burberry Spain ran two internal environment campaigns, one on water use and one on waste.
Continued to share environmental best practice between our operating sites.
We hope to extend this during the next year.
Re-engineered some of our packaging in order to be more environmentally efficient and reduce the amount of empty space we store and ship around.
For example, we reduced the thickness of our polo shirt bags by 31%, saving an estimated 40 tonnes of plastic.
72 Burberry Corporate Responsibility data Year to March 2008 2007 2006 SUPPLIERS Number of Corporate Responsibility visits audits 314 100 73 HEALTH AND SAFETY Riddors per 100,000 hours worked in the UK 0.39 0.30 0.26 3rd party H&S audits reviews in the UK and Europe 13 12 11 ENVIRONMENT ENERGY Energy use Mil kWh 53.3 48.2 44.4 UK energy use Mil kWh 20.0 24.0 26.0 Spain Wholesale Mil kWh 7.7 8.0 8.5 US Mil kWh 10.7 9.4 8.2 Asia and Korea Mil kWh 2.2 2.2 1.7 European retail Mil kWh 4.4 4.3 Spanish ECI concessions newly owned 8.0 Energy use kWh per 1000 of turnover 53.5 56.7 59.8 WASTE Packaging used tonnes 1,979 1,431 1,357 UK total tonnes 1,280 902 822 of which is purchased transit packaging tonnes 518 361 385 Spain total tonnes 699 529 535 Packaging used Kg per 1000 turnover 2.0 1.7 1.8 Solid waste tonnes 2,029 1,589 632 UK total tonnes 1,143 1,056 of which % recycled 38% 23% Spain total tonnes 550 533 632 of which % recycled 41% 40% 35% US wholesale total tonnes 336 of which % recycled 54% Solid waste Kg per 1000 of turnover 2.0 1.9 CLIMATE CHANGE Tonnes CO2 from building energy use 22,500 19,300 17,700 from electricity 17,000 16,000 14,000 from ECI concessions electricity 3,100 from gas 1,800 2,800 3,100 from fuel oil 600 500 600 Building energy CO2 kg per 1000 of turnover 22.6 22.7 23.8 Tonnes CO2 from air travel 2,731 2,066 1,395 UK based employees 1,761 1,447 1,395 Spain based employees 707 619 Korea based employees 263 Air travel CO2 kg per 1000 of turnover 2.7 2.4 1.9 COMMUNITY Indirect donations GBP m 0.20 0.01 0.20 Direct donations GBP m 0.40 0.20 0.30 Key figures Full time equivalents 5,660 5,218 4,651 Turnover GBP m 995.4 850.3 742.9 The data in the table above comes from a combination of automated and manual internal processes.
The majority is based on actual data, supplemented where necessary by some approximations.
Most figures are subject to internal review on a quarterly basis.
