Our performance Corporate Social Responsibility 2008 was a year in which we succeeded in incorporating Corporate Social Responsibility even more closely into our mainstream business activity.
Tim Breedon Group Chief Executive At Legal & General, we have for many years seen our us to meet our customer-facing and environmental commitment to a broad range of stakeholders as an objectives, and which support both our businesses and the important part of operating a sustainable and successful wider community.
This enables us to leverage our existing business.
In 2008, we built further on our successful track skills better in pursuit of broader social goals.
More record of delivering Corporate Social Responsibility CSR information on the progress we have made can be found through a combination of new initiatives embedding CSR in the table below.
into our day-to-day business and improving alignment of our CSR work with our business.
environment Although Legal & General is not an extractive or In consequence, Legal & General has been able to utilise manufacturing company and can have only limited direct its business expertise and the very considerable goodwill impact on the environment, we are committed to reducing of its employees to work towards goals which matter to our environmental footprint.
During 2008, Legal & General our customers, to the communities in which we are a major made significant progress in this area.
By altering employee employer and to our staff.
travel reimbursement policies to eliminate unnecessary car mileage, we reduced claims by almost 1.5 million miles CSR: The link with Our Businesses in 2008.
Work is in hand to improve the environmental During 2008, we further embedded our CSR work in our footprint of the buildings we occupy, while we maintain day-to-day business.
We have selected initiatives which help our strict targets in respect of waste and recycling.
Segment Key CSR issues initiatives Risk Healthcare developments We engaged with non-governmental agencies and projects such as the and environmental risks International Longevity Centre and the ABIs ClimateWise initiative.
Crime Our partnership with Help the Aged helps to improve security for older people.
Savings Debt management We have worked closely with A4e, an organisation involved in delivering generic financial advice on behalf of the government.
This has involved our Financial Adviser Academy working with A4e to help deal with, and advise on, debt management issues.
Investment Socially responsible investment LGIM has worked in partnership with Business in the Community as it develops management the business case for CSR in the Investment management business.
During 2008, LGIM held over 133 meetings with investee companies to discuss issues relating to quality of corporate governance, social, environmental or ethical issues.
Legal & General Property and the Royal College of Estate Management developed a training programme in environmental property management, first for our in-house property fund managers, then for broader roll-out across the commercial property industry.
International Adopting key global standards We are signatories of the UN Declarations for Human Rights and against Corruption and Bribery.
Group Our impact on the environment Our employees reduced our direct CO Emissions by driving almost 1.5 million fewer 2 business miles in 2008 compared with 2007.
Relationships with employees, We facilitated over 500 volunteering days for our employees in 2008. suppliers and the communities in which we work 40 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance To view our full CSR Report please visit www.
com csr Customers, Suppliers and employees external Recognition Applying new Standards We participate in the ABIs Customer Impact programme We continue to value our membership of and strongly support the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly indices such as the Dow Jones Sustainability initiative engendering a positive customer experience is index, FTSe4Good index and the Business one of our five strategic imperatives.
This is at the heart of in the Community CR index.
These recognise the work done by our Business Ethics Working Group.
As our achievements and challenge us on our our business becomes more international, we have adopted commitment to being a responsible company.
new standards more appropriate to a global market, notably signing up to the UN Declarations on Human Rights and against Corruption & Bribery.
Our suppliers are an important part of the Legal & General value chain.
We continue to engage with them so as to better understand our collective impact on the environment, to help them make improvements and to challenge them to deliver ever higher standards.
Carbon master classes held in November provided expertise and set expectations for their disclosure of carbon footprints in 2009.
We see this as an important area: we have asked our suppliers to make or do something on our behalf and we are keen to understand and mitigate the impact their work has upon the environment.
We have reported on the success of our partnership with Stakeholders Unite, our trade union, in prior years.
This relationship Shareholders, customers and employees increasingly continues to play a significant role in the way we run our evaluate companies using non-financial measures to business and we continue to involve them through complement the more traditional performance valuation membership of our CSR Committee.
During 2008, we were pleased that our CSR work was again recognised by inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index Supporting employee initiatives and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
In the Business Legal & General supports employees community and in the Community BITC CR Index our overall award charitable initiatives.
We facilitate and encourage tax-efficient increased from Bronze in the previous year to Silver, and payroll giving through the Give As You Earn GAYE scheme we maintained our Platinum award for the Environment.
and this year increased matching levels from 20 to 25 We also maintained our Gold Mark from the Communities per month.
Fundraising and sponsorship efforts are also Aid Foundation for our GAYE scheme.
supported up to 750 per employee each year.
Each of our major locations is able to allocate a part of the CSR budget united Kingdom Donations to local initiatives which reflect employee preferences, while During 2008, charitable donations totalling 3.2m the Companys Charity Committee supports a limited 2007: 2.4m were made by the company and by staff number of selected causes at a national level.
As in 2007, no political donations were made during the year.
Governance Legal & Generals CSR Committee is a committee of the Outlook Board of Directors and is chaired by Tim Breedon, Group It is our view that events in financial markets during 2008 Chief Executive.
The CSR Committee is supported by the have underscored the importance of doing business in a Environment Committee, Charity Committee, Health & sustainable, responsible way, and of taking a long-term view Safety Committee and the Business Ethics Working Group.
which reflects the interests of a wide range of interested For further information see the table overleaf outlining stakeholders.
We believe this is entirely compatible with, and our CSR Governance structure.
In 2008 we introduced indeed supportive of, the generation of shareholder value.
CSR criteria as part of the calculation of the Group Chief Executives remuneration for 2009 and beyond.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 Our performance Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Guiding principles Our Customers Providing good value, fit for purpose products which meet or exceed customers expectations Communicating in a clear, appropriate and accessible way Delivering a positive experience throughout a customers relationship with us Risk Management Managing appropriate market, social economic and environmental risks and opportunities in our business Integrating these risks into the core decision making process of our businesses Integrating appropriate standards of Environmental, Human Rights and Corruption and Bribery policy into overseas subsidiaries Socially Responsible investment Promoting responsible business practices in the companies in which we invest to create longer term value Promoting sustainable business practices in our Commercial Property Portfolio to create better shareholder returns Our people Working in close partnership with our recognised trades union, Unite, on key decision making Providing a flexible, supportive, healthy and safe working environment Adopting policies and practices which encourage an appropriate work life balance Applying open and fair processes for recruitment, promotions, outsourcing and downsizing Being clear about what the right ethical behaviour is to our employees Promoting our Values: customer focus, teamwork, open and fair, and results driven Our Suppliers Acting at all times in compliance with our Sustainable Procurement Policy Supporting any suppliers of our goods and services who do not comply with our CSR standards for key suppliers to secure improvements Our environment Reducing rather than offsetting the impact on the environment arising from our business activities Our Communities Supporting the community as a whole, but especially grass roots issues where we can make a difference in those communities in which our main offices are based Investing in charitable causes and social enterprises which are closely aligned to our business activities to aid our understanding of future markets and opportunities Supporting and encouraging employee involvement in charitable giving and volunteering 42 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance Governed by public policy progress Customer Experience Steering Committee http: snurl.
com landg cer2008 Group Risk and Control Committee Refer to pages 14 -15 Business Ethics Working Group http: snurl.
com landg bewg Sustainable Property Board http: snurl.
com lgim ethical Group Health and Safety Committee http: snurl.
com landg hands Business Ethics Working Group http: snurl.
com landg bewg Group Environment Committee http: snurl.
com landg spp Group Environment Committee http: snurl.
com landg envmt Group Charity Committee http: snurl.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 43
