Our performance People and Operational Resources We aim to have the right resources to run our business well, and our people are our most important resource.
Sir Rob Margetts Chairman Legal & Generals business model requires us to have the communication, that our employees are fully appraised right infrastructure to execute our strategy.
By matching of the Companys strategic goals and performance.
resources to business needs and strategy, we can deliver a Employee feedback is important to us as it defines the positive customer experience by meeting the administrative quality and strength of the relationship between an and investment needs of our existing customers, attracting employee and their organisation.
In the latest employee new business, and managing the various risks and processes survey we received our highest level of feedback with a involved in running a complex business to high standards.
Alongside the increased focus on matching resources to business requirements, we began The demands on our employees and systems are especially a series of initiatives in 2008 to increase and diversify high during a period of market volatility and rapid economic the skills of our workforce including lunchtime training change.
During 2008 we put a number of initiatives in place sessions for managers and access to a number of internal to improve the management of our cost base, to introduce and external training programmes through our online greater flexibility to our business infrastructure and to give development resource, the Learning Network.
employees the best opportunity to respond to a period of rapidly changing market pressures.
At the same time, we made a number of changes which will help our infrastructure to adjust quickly to changing Our policy is to treat employees without discrimination new business volumes as the UK undergoes a period and to operate equal opportunity employment practices of economic turbulence.
These included outsourcing IT designed to achieve this end.
The Groups policy on diversity application development, where we now have a more includes giving full and fair consideration to applications flexible resource which can be drawn upon as necessary, for employment made by disabled persons: to continue, rather than a fixed cost.
Further rigour has been applied wherever possible, the employment of staff who become to the procurement area so as to best manage our supply disabled and to provide equal opportunities for the training chain, and we continue to address the issues of functional and career development of disabled employees.
We continue to move the business towards products which require less capital, Strategy in Action and towards a distribution model which relies less on The strategic imperative of creating a high-performing the payment of upfront sales commissions to our culture informs and drives all our work in this area.
This entails creating the right environment in which our employees can work to maximum effect in pursuit of Managing an efficient and mutually beneficial supply our corporate vision.
chain is an important aspect of executing our business in a sustainable way.
Legal & General regularly assesses its We actively encourage employee initiative through suppliers, ensuring that they comply with our environmental, successful schemes such as Ideas in Action which enables social and ethical policies.
The Group agrees terms and employees to contribute to the continuous improvement conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
We also aim to work in a collaborative, Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided collegiate fashion with our employees: we try to ensure that the supplier meets its obligations.
The Company has command chains are short and we aim increasingly to no trade creditors.
As at 31 December 2008, the average encourage empowerment and accountability through our number of days of payments outstanding for the Legal performance management process and we have made & General Group of companies was 38 2007: 32. increasing efforts to ensure, via better internal 38 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance 9,777 Total employees worldwide 2007: 10,067 Achievements in 2008 There was an improved focus on cost control during 2008.
This resulted in a reduction in ongoing overhead costs in OuR peOple in ACTiOn our UK businesses of 8%.
We made these changes without compromising necessary investments for the future, for example assigning some 88m to IT development We strive to create an environment that attracts during 2008. and retains the right people those who are committed and able to deliver top performance Our employees remain our most important resource, for our customers and shareholders.
employee and they have risen to the challenges presented by a more involvement in our CSR programme forms an difficult economic environment and the need to continue important part of this engagement.
Overall headcount fell 290 to 9,777 during the year.
This reflected the outsourcing of We recognise that many of our employees IT application development, as well as a number of changes make a significant contribution to charities both as a result of projects to eliminate overlap and duplication through monetary donations and as volunteers which were offset by the addition of new employees as in their own free time.
Our Making a Difference a result of acquisitions during the year.
Awards were set up to recognise this considerable involvement.
Full details of 2008s winners and We reviewed our UK defined benefit pension schemes information on the contribution they made during the year, considering all options to ensure that the can be found on our CSR site at plans remain fundable in the long term and of benefit to www.
both members and to Legal & General.
Increases to pensionable salary have been capped, balancing the in 2008, over 500 volunteering days were increasing plan risk against future funding of the plans.
undertaken by our employees projects across our major locations, a contribution of over 3,500 We continued to benefit from our strong relationship with hours to local charities.
This gave employees the Unite, the trade union, with whom we continued to consult opportunity to become involved with a local on a wide range of employment issues.
The mutual trust charitable project and was often linked to team and communication between the two organisations brings building objectives or the development of benefit to both the staff and the Group.
Outlook We also support our employees in their personal In the light of further expected economic contraction fundraising efforts by matching up to 750 a year during 2009, we will continue to work to align our business per employee raised through sponsorship and infrastructure to changing business demands.
We intend through the tax-efficient Give As You earn to reduce costs where appropriate, for example, in support scheme where employees can make a donation functions, but to retain sufficient flexibility to respond to from their pre-tax salary which is matched by and invest in new customer-facing opportunities as they the Company by up to 25 a month.
Our remuneration and bonus policy for 2009 reflects the harsher economic climate.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39
