36 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Managing corporate responsibility The board reviews overall corporate responsibility performance annually and the chairman receives a quarterly progress report.
Individual issues Supporting are subject to board consideration throughout the year.
The chairman has board-level responsibility for corporate responsibility.
Our corporate buSineSS Strategy responsibility steering group is chaired by the Group human resources director and comprises senior executives from all business divisions Lloyds Banking Groups strategy focuses on building deep, and relevant Group functions.
The steering group meets quarterly to long-lasting relationships with our customers in order to deliver high recommend strategy and provide direction.
quality, sustainable results over time.
We believe that corporate Overall, the board is satisfied that the systems in place to manage responsibility, built around the creation of colleague motivation, corporate responsibility risks are effective and that the relevant risks have customer satisfaction and brand loyalty, has a major part to play in been assessed during 2008 and managed in compliance with relevant supporting our business strategy.
Against the backdrop of unprecedented market turbulence, our For several years, we have adopted the European Foundation for reputation for effective risk management is widely recognised.
In 2008, Quality Managements Corporate Responsibility Framework to help Lloyds TSB was rated the sixth safest bank in the world by Global us align corporate responsibility with business strategy and also with Finance and awarded the Readers Digest readers most trusted UK individual balanced scorecard priorities.
As part of the process we have bank or building society for the eighth year running.
Our commitment a network of senior managers across all business divisions, through to corporate responsibility helps promote trust in the brand and whom we conduct an annual self-assessment of our performance reinforces customer loyalty and advocacy.
with independent oversight and assurance.
This allows us to identify Lloyds Banking Group is rooted in local communities throughout strengths and areas for improvement and to prioritise objectives and the UK and we take our responsibilities to those communities very actions.
It also provides a benchmark against which we can compare seriously.
By investing in the communities where we operate we our performance both internally and externally.
not only create economic value but we also make a positive social During 2008, Lloyds Banking Group has led a European .
Through the Lloyds TSB Foundations, over 37 million sponsored working group along with a number of other major European was distributed to local charities in 2008. businesses, business schools, consultancies and non-governmental Our corporate vision is to be recognised as the best financial services organisations, in developing a framework for improved communication organisation by customers, colleagues and shareholders.
Our of non-financial performance between business and investors.
corporate responsibility strategy is to support that vision by creating The framework mirrors the priorities developed in Lloyds Banking value for all our stakeholders through: Group in recent years with an emphasis on colleagues, customers and increased colleague engagement: innovation, community and suppliers, the environment and corporate increased customer satisfaction: governance.
It is subject to consultation and final proposals will be more effective risk management.
published in the first half of 2009 but we intend using the framework as the basis of our 2008 corporate responsibility report.
Our approach to embedding corporate responsibilty management over recent years has, we believe, helped us achieve competitive advantage.
All colleagues have a balanced scorecard of objectives that takes account of a range of business drivers rather than just pure financial measures.
2012 local Heroes Local Heroes is Lloyds TSBs first initiative to deliver its London 2012 vision of inspiring and supporting young people, businesses and communities across Britain.
The programme recognises young sporting talent and provides funding support as they start out on their journey in performance sport with optimism and determination.
Identifying 250 emerging young sportspeople each year in the run up to 2012 and beyond, Lloyds TSB Local Heroes is being delivered in partnership with SportsAid, a registered charity.
overview business review governance Financial stateMents sHareHolder inForMation Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 37 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 We also work to ensure our customers are aware of how to protect our custoMers themselves including dedicating a section of our website to information We want to build a great organisation, which is recognised for operating on common internet fraud types, an annual fraud awareness campaign, to high standards and is built on strong customer relationships.
We want support of industry education initiatives and through our sponsorship of to be the bank recommended most by customers and staff.
We have the charity Crimestoppers.
put in place the essential building blocks: providing excellent customer service from well-trained staff: appropriate products that meet real proMoting Financial inclusion needs: treating customers appropriately at all times: and following Our share of customers belonging to the lowest income groups is higher ethical business practices to build a sustainable, profitable business.
than our normal market share, reflecting our commitment to greater financial inclusion.
By the end of 2008, nearly 540,000 Cash Accounts custoMer satisFaction have been opened for those customers who prefer a basic bank account For seven years, we have measured our customers satisfaction with the or who do not meet our standard account opening criteria but are not service they receive using our CARE Index.
After extensive research and undischarged bankrupts.
We now also offer an added value account with consideration we have decided to move from CARE to a new advocacy enhanced customer features for customers prepared to pay a modest programme to help us achieve our vision.
We will monitor our progress fee while retaining the simplicity of a basic bank account.
using a Net Promoter Score, which measures the customers likelihood We have also been at the forefront of developing alternative forms of of recommending Lloyds Banking Group to a friend or colleague.
financial provision and support for those communities where mainstream During 2008, we have introduced a number of initiatives aimed at financial services have traditionally been considered inappropriate or increasing customer advocacy.
These include: better and more direct inaccessible.
We have one of the largest UK high street networks and, information to branch managers on their teams performance: net through our partnership with the Post Office, our personal customers promoter scores built in to reward and recognition criteria: the mapping can access their banking through more than 12,500 local post offices.
of customer experience across a wide range of our activities: quality We support community finance initiatives and loan and venture capital assurance programmes in telephone banking: and identification of the funds which offer funding to individuals and businesses in some of the most critical impacts on customer perception.
most deprived areas in the UK.
Lloyds Banking Group has currently Around 2,000 customers are contacted monthly and their view of the committed 12 million to the community finance sector.
The percentage of those with the highest scores are and Community Sector team within Corporate Banking is one of the set against those with the lowest to give the net promoter score.
largest funders of the UK social housing sector with 8 billion committed Over 2008, the average score increased by 10 points.
In a poll of finance directors across the UK, Lloyds TSB Corporate Lloyds Banking Group welcomes and fully supports the FSAs initiatives to Banking was voted Bank of the Year for the fourth year running at increase financial capability in the UK.
We have seconded a senior executive the Real Finance Confederation of British Industry FDs Excellence to develop, launch and manage the financial capability in the workplace Awards, in recognition of our quality of service and understanding project, to deliver the parents guide to money initiative and help develop of our customers businesses.
the operational delivery capability within the FSA programmes.
These two initiatives have provided educational material and training to over responsible lending three million adults throughout the UK.
Feedback from all parties has been We are committed to being a responsible lender.
It is in our interest to very encouraging and these initiatives are helping to improve financial help customers borrow only those amounts they can afford to repay.
We have a responsible lending programme with internal management reporting and accountability.
This approach is reflected in our mortgage sMall business lending where we have maintained a significant share of net new Lloyds TSB Bank has nearly 600,000 small business customers.
They are mortgage lending, whilst continuing to focus on the prime mortgage an important part of our business and we are committed in supporting market with a prudent average loan to value.
them in current economic conditions while seeking opportunities to grow our position in the market.
Total lending to small businesses Our colleagues are trained to offer the necessary advice and support to increased by 20 per cent over 2008. help customers manage their borrowing.
Over 1,500 customer advisers have been specifically trained over the last year to counsel customers In November 2008, we issued a six-point charter of commitments to with concerns about their financial circumstances.
We actively look at our small business customers which promises that: future reductions in base customers account behaviour and proactively contact those that show rates over 2009 will be passed on in full: there will be no change in price signs of pressure on their finances.
We can then help them to find an or availability of overdrafts for customers operating within agreed terms: appropriate solution through more effective budgeting or rescheduling reasonable requests for short term finance will be agreed: overdraft their borrowing.
We have a customer support unit that can deliver more limits or prices will only change if there is a material change in the intensive help and we also support independent money advice networks customers risk profile: lending rates will continue to be linked to base including the Money Advice Trust and Consumer Credit Counselling rate: and we will provide expert guidance and support for small firms.
Payments totalling more than 3.4 million were made in 2008.
A series of 120 advice seminars with Lloyds Banking Group specialists and independent experts, providing practical advice and support coMbating Financial criMe will take place around the UK in 2009.
These will help forge closer We take protecting our customers and their assets extremely seriously relationships between our business customers and accountants and and continue to invest in activities to deter, detect and prevent fraud.
The Group also extended the opportunity These include transaction monitoring tools to identify suspicious for customers without adequate capital to borrow under the account activity and procedures to verify customer transactions.
Governments Small Firms Loans Guarantee Scheme.
38 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Our new Charity of the Year is the British Heart Foundation, the partnersHips overwhelming choice among the thousands of staff who voted to Continuing to grow a successful business is the best way for choose their charity of the year.
Recognising the value of longer-term Lloyds Banking Group to create value for all its stakeholders.
As a major relationships, we have extended our partnership with the British Heart employer, finance provider and purchaser of goods and services we are Foundation to two years.
We aim to raise at least 2 million to fund an important contributor to both national and local economies.
the appointment of 15 specialist heart nurses across the UK.
tHe coMMunity our london 2012 partnersHip in tHe coMMunity In addition to our financial contribution, we recognise that it is in our As the first Partner of the London 2012 Olympic Games and Paralympic long-term interest to help improve the social and commercial fabric of Games, we are delighted at the record breaking successes of Team GB local communities where we operate.
That is why we have one of the and Paralympics GB in Beijing.
Our Partnership however, is not just largest community investment programmes in the UK.
about focusing on elite sport, and the action that will take place for 17 days in 2012. lloyds tsb Foundations Research amongst staff and customers showed a real interest in The majority of Lloyds Banking Groups charitable giving is channelled supporting young athletes in their local community and helping them through the four Lloyds TSB Foundations, which cover England and share in the excitement of Britains journey to 2012.
Thus, the vision Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland and the Channel Islands.
Their mission for our Partnership was created, to inspire and support young people, is to improve the lives of disadvantaged people in local communities.
communities and businesses all over Britain on their journey to London Through their shareholding in Lloyds Banking Group, the Lloyds TSB 2012 and beyond.
Foundations together received 37.1 million to support their work in 2008, For every Olympic or Paralympic medallist, there are thousands of bringing the total contributions since 1997 to over 360 million, making genuine hopefuls without recognition or funding.
Lloyds TSB Local Lloyds Banking Group one of the largest charitable donors in the UK.
Heroes has been set up to help more of those young hopefuls when The Foundations recognise that their success as community and local they need it most.
funders depends on maintaining a presence in and actively engaging There are currently 250 Local Heroes, representing aspiring Olympians with communities.
The England and Wales Foundation, for example, and Paralympians from all walks of life, from all sporting disciplines, remains one of the few grant-makers with a significant regional presence from all over Great Britain.
The funding we provide helps them on their and its regional structure enables the Foundation to respond directly journey in a variety of ways, from travel costs and new equipment, to and effectively to local needs.
competition entry fees and nutritional support.
The England and Wales Foundation has a particular focus on supporting charities that improve social and community involvement, improve life our suppliers choices and chances and help disadvantaged people to be heard.
In 2008, funding focused on areas of geographical deprivation and the Our suppliers are important to us and we want to ensure that we needs of both individuals and multiple communities.
Where possible, treat them fairly and pay them on time.
Our supplier relationships are the Foundation used its size and presence to facilitate the voice of governed by a strict Code of Purchasing Ethics that defines the way we smaller groups within their local, regional and national networks.
We have been working throughout 2008 to update our long-established supplier review process that allows us to consider our The main grants programmes are designed to address essential suppliers social, ethical and environmental performance as part of the community needs and in particular, to support small under-funded tendering process.
35 per cent of the charities supported by the England and Wales Foundation in 2008 had a total income of 100,000 or less and We have also been working with a number of other financial services over 90 per cent had an income of 500,000 or less.
companies to develop an industry wide corporate responsibility questionnaire which is available on-line and benefits suppliers who only colleague volunteering and Fundraising have to complete one questionnaire for all participating financial services companies, as well as benefiting Lloyds Banking Group by providing In addition to the Foundations support for local community causes, comparable information across different suppliers.
thousands of our colleagues volunteer to help in their communities, raise funds for the Groups Charity of the Year or make direct donations to payMent oF suppliers charity using the UKs Give As You Earn system.
In 2008, the Foundations provided matched funding for nearly 41,000 hours of time volunteered 2008 2007 2006 2005 by Lloyds Banking Group colleagues in the community and also Number of payments 335,713 320,579 344,422 379,613 matched over 937,000 funds raised by colleagues for charities.
Value bn 2.67 2.20 2.29 2.16 Our Charity of the Year relationship with Barnardos was extended to Average time to pay 18 months and ended on 30 June 2008.
Over 1.8 million was raised days 26.03 28.78 29.72 27.01 for the Lloyds TSB and Barnardos Securing Futures partnership far exceeding the 1 million target.
The money raised will provide Number amount thousands of vocational training and education places for some of the of compensation most vulnerable and disadvantaged young people across the UK to help payments for late no No No No them have a better start in life and a brighter future.
settlement payments payments payments payments overview business review governance Financial stateMents sHareHolder inForMation Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 39 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Examples of initiatives we have taken include: tHe environMent leading the development of the smallbusinessjourney.
com website Lloyds Banking Group has a long-standing commitment to managing to provide advice and guidance to small businesses on how they can its environmental impacts.
We first introduced an environmental policy reduce their environmental impact: in 1996 and followed this with an environmental management system that follows the ISO 14001 standard.
We were also one of the first UK provided guidance to vehicle fleet operators through Lloyds TSB banks to develop an environmental risk assessment system for all our Autolease to help them structure their fleet selection policies to business lending.
In 2007, we adopted the Equator Principles for project promote more fuel-efficient vehicles: and, finance, a financial sector initiative aimed at improving the social and created an on-line guide to help customers taking out a car loan environmental impacts of major projects such as road building and to select a model with lower CO emissions.
2 greenHouse gas eMissions cliMate cHange Climate change has been described by the UK Government as the 2002 Tonnes CO 2008 2007 2006 Baseline greatest long-term challenge facing the world today.
We recognise 2 that businesses have a role to play in helping to address the risks of Property 177,033 180,526 181,086 198,950 climate change.
Measures to tackle climate change will have potential Property renewable 19,037 18,164 18,944 n a implications for regulation, taxation and public policy.
As well as physical, Travel 26,479 30,474 29,705 26,333 financial and market risks posed by climate change, there are also significant potential opportunities.
Total 184,475 192,836 191,847 225,283 Combined heat and power 28,823 31,635 30,945 n a While our direct carbon intensity is relatively low compared to other industry sectors, we still need to fully understand the potential financial Net total 155,652 161,201 160,902 225,283 impact of climate change on others that we may lend to or invest in, so In 2008 DEFRA introduced changes to the conversion factors to be used for calculating CO 2 that we can manage the risks and identify business opportunities.
emissions from energy consumption and travel.
In addition, they introduced new guidelines for the treatment of renewable energy in calculating total CO emissions.
The total CO 2 2 In 2007, we set a stretching target to reduce our CO emissions by 2 emissions reported above have been calculated using the old conversion factors to provide a 30 per cent by 2012 based on 2002 levels.
We are very pleased to report more accurate like-for-like comparison against the baseline.
Using the new guidelines, our total that by the end of 2008 we have achieved a 31 per cent reduction in emissions for 2008 would increase to 245,385 tonnes.
In 2009, a priority for Lloyds Banking Group will be to baseline our environmental impacts across the combined Group.
CO, meeting our target four years ahead of schedule.
We identified 2 specific projects and prioritised investment to deliver significant CO 2 reductions.
We have also purchased renewable electricity and electricity from combined heat and power CHP sources, which have a lower carbon footprint than standard grid electricity.
During 2008, we have improved our systems for collecting car mileage information and energy consumption data.
Using actual mileage and engine sizes rather than fleet averages gives a more accurate travel total.
This, allied to a 40 per cent increase in teleconferencing to 422,000 meetings, has significantly reduced our travel related CO emissions.
2 Future environMental risks and opportunities We want to inspire Lloyds Banking Group colleagues to rise to the challenge of tackling climate change.
We have put in place a structured communication programme including dedicated intranet site, regular staff magazine and news features, competitions and seminars.
In 2008, we established a Group-wide sustainability network for colleagues at all levels to meet, share experiences and ideas and to help fulfil our commitment to reducing our environmental impact.
Our staff have responded enthusiastically to our carbon reduction plans and are keen to help with their delivery.
Beyond managing our own immediate impact, Lloyds Banking Group can be part of the response to climate change by engaging customers and suppliers.
Lloyds Banking Group provides finance to all sectors of industry and by understanding the risks and opportunities our customers face, we are better able to help them develop appropriate solutions.
