40 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 OUR PEOPLE engagement index 2008 2007 2006 BUILDING Engagement index 78.3 75.3 74.5 The engagement index is based on the result of a survey conducted quarterly, asking Lloyds TSB colleagues a series of questions which reflect both the drivers and outcome of engagement.
LONG LASTING The data captures the percentage of total responses received which were favourable for each question, combined into a simple average overall score.
RELATIONSHIPS talent, reCruitment and retention THROUGH PEOPLE Recruitment, retention and development of talented people continues to be one of the highest priorities for our leaders.
Top performers are We are a business based on building strong and long lasting relationships attracted to the Group because of our strong brand and values: together through the efforts of our people.
Colleagues are our most valuable with top class development and career opportunities.
It is our colleagues who build long lasting relationships with Developing our current colleagues and succession planning are vital our customers and, therefore, managing our colleagues effectively is in supporting our growth strategy.
In Autumn 2008, an Organisational fundamental to the success of the business and achieving our vision of Capability Review was completed.
As a result, we have strong succession being the best financial services organisation in the UK.
and development plans for all our senior leaders across the Group Creating a great place to work is a core priority to enable the Group to be and have collected qualitative data on our top 300 colleagues.
We are recognised, both within the financial services sector, but also more generally retaining people for an average tenure across our business of 13 years.
in the UK employment market, as the best organisation to work for.
We run a wide range of generalist and specialist development In creating a great place to work in this way, we believe we will attract programmes to support career progression into management.
In 2008, the highest performing people to join us and secure the commitment we recruited 125 people into our graduate trainee programme, offered of those who are the strongest performers and have the highest 44 internships and 110 student placements.
Following the launch of the potential to stay.
new Graduate Programme for 2009, our focus is now on attracting top talent into the organisation who will become senior business leaders We are building a high commitment, high performance organisation.
We have also introduced a customer facing element to the are clear about what we expect from our colleagues.
Our values guide us main programme so that all our graduates gain core banking front-line in all our dealings with colleagues, customers and the wider community.
We are consistently identified in The Times Top 100 Lloyds Banking Group, our values are that we: take ownership: act wisely: organisations for graduate recruitment.
We also ran numerous make it simple: stretch ourselves: and succeed together.
programmes across our more senior populations to develop our pipeline of leaders for the future.
Colleague engagement We actively track and manage retention of our highest performers, retaining 96.7 per cent of top performers in 2008 up from 96 per cent We pride ourselves in our people and we commit to giving them the in 2007. training and tools to develop themselves, and to develop the relationships they have with customers and colleagues throughout the PerformanCe management Group.
We believe that to create a high commitment, high performance organisation, we need to have high levels of colleague engagement.
In Our business strategy is translated into the Groups balanced scorecard order to do this, we listen to what our colleagues tell us and act on the and this is aligned at each level of the organisation.
The Group uses a comprehensive, confidential online colleagues understand how their personal objectives relate to the engagement survey to help us to measure and assess current levels of strategy and that their contribution is measured against a range of colleague engagement across the organisation.
Our Group Chief factors, including long term growth of the business: customer service: risk Executive personally agrees the content of our colleague engagement management and personal development, as well as financial success.
survey, demonstrating our commitment to and investment in Through twice yearly formal reviews and feedback, all our people understanding their views.
Over the last three years, the overall understand how their performance impacts on colleagues, customers engagement index has continued to rise and in 2008, the Group and our overall business success.
Together, these act as robust processes achieved a record response rate and an all-time high engagement index, for differentiating high performance and addressing and managing which put us above both the financial services norm and the high underperformance.
performance norm for the UK.
In addition, our approach to colleague engagement saw us recognised in The Sunday Times as One to Watch within their annual Best Big Company survey and accreditation.
reward and reCognition Overall, we have taken a conservative approach to remuneration levels and we have differentiated reward for our high performing colleagues through a number of performance measures, including the management of risk and other balanced scorecard objectives.
For 2008 bonus awards, we have worked with the UKFI, the body responsible for the governments shareholdings in UK banks to undertake a review of our bonus arrangements.
We are also undertaking an ongoing review for 2009. overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 41 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overall, through aligning reward to our balanced scorecard, our aim is to training days recognise performance against factors including how well our colleagues 2008 2007 2006 manage risk and therefore the long term health of the business.
We have Number of days formal learning per FTE 2.9 2.3 1.8 structured our reward arrangements with this in mind.
We will continue to differentiate our reward for colleagues who fulfil our commitment to building relationships for the long-term.
CommuniCations total reward The Group invests in a range of internal media, ensuring our colleagues We take a broader view on reward than financial benefits and our 2008 are informed and involved.
These include a company intranet, print flexible benefits scheme enabled colleagues to select from a range of publications, e-zines, audio and video.
We have also recently introduced non-cash benefits including medical and life-assurance, additional pension, group-wide, monthly face-to-face communication briefings to all education vouchers, matched learning and childcare vouchers.
In 2008, colleagues through their line managers.
68 per cent of colleagues participated in the scheme.
In addition, in 2008, over 95 per cent of colleagues opted to participate in one of our various equality and diversity employee share plans.
The vast majority of our colleagues are therefore shareholders and have a vested interest in our long term success.
Equality and diversity is not just about complying with equality legislation.
We believe that it is vital for achieving competitive During 2009, we will undertake a full review of our approach to total advantage.
We need to be close to our customers and provide them reward as part of the integration of Lloyds TSB and HBOS.
with the right products and services.
By attracting and retaining a diverse reCognition workforce, we will better understand the needs of all our customers and be able to build lasting relationships.
While our emphasis is on providing recognition through line management, we also formally recognise those who have exceeded Over the last few years, we have been working to increase the number expectations and pushed boundaries in areas such as colleague support, of women in management and senior management positions across the customer service and building community profile.
One example of this is organisation.
At the end of 2008, our group executive committee had through our Making a Difference awards, which in 2008 recognised the one of the highest proportion of women for a FTSE 100 company, and contribution of over 180 colleagues who made exceptional contributions 23.4 per cent of our senior managers were women.
to the business and the community last year.
Were also working to increase the representation of ethnic minorities in the workforce at every level.
In 2008, Race for Opportunity named learning and develoPment us as top performer out of 85 organisations for our leading edge race We remain committed to investing in the development of our colleagues programme.
We became the first organisation in the campaigns history so that they can deliver great customer service and results.
Our learning to be awarded Platinum status.
and development focuses on the capability and skills needed for current We continue to make significant progress with our disability and sexual roles as well as those we will need to be successful in the future.
Our disability programme has been ranked first Our line managers play a critical role in creating a positive learning out of 116 organisations by the Employers Forum on Disability and we environment, managing and supporting our colleagues to maximise maintained our sixth place ranking in Stonewalls Index of the 100 best development opportunities and embed learning to drive results.
employers of lesbian, gay and bisexual people.
Developing and strengthening management capabilities remains a priority, along with personal learning plans built around the specific diversity learning and future needs of our colleagues.
Our business-focused 2008 2007 2006 learning programmes include critical business capabilities such as Women managers 41.1% 40.1% 38.5% financial, risk and relationship management which enable us to support our customers effectively.
Women senior managers 23.4% 21.7% 20.9% Ethnic minority managers 5.1% 4.9% 4.3% CorPorate university Ethnic minority senior managers 2.6% 2.5% 1.9% We have one of the largest corporate universities in Europe, which delivers a range of business-focused learning programmes.
In addition Disabled colleagues 1.9% 2% 1.5% to internally developed content, the university continues to work with Lesbian, gay and bisexual LGB colleagues 1.0% 0.8% 0.2% best-practice suppliers to develop and deliver learning.
The availability of programmes carrying relevant external certification provides Race for Opportunity RfO is a national business network of over 150 UK organisations from the private and public sectors working on race and diversity as a business imperative.
colleagues with performance benchmarks and portable qualifications.
Stonewall is a campaigning organisation that works to achieve equality and justice for lesbians, We also support a range of business focused and developmental gay men and bisexual people.
Shows percentage of whole workforce although not all colleagues have supplied information on race, disability or sexual orientation.
A range of delivery media is used including highly successful on-line modules and face-to-face workshops to support skills development.
In 2008 the university website, which is accessible from both the corporate work environment intranet and Internet, received over 4.2 million visits 33 per cent increase Our objective is to provide great facilities and a safe environment for on 2007 and over 780,000 on-line assessments were completed.
colleagues and customers, in all our business locations.
The learning environment in our Group Learning Centre has also Flexible working is increasingly important in the competitive workplace been upgraded to further enhance our ability to meet the changing and we have created a balanced environment where we offer a multitude development needs of our leaders and managers.
We now deliver an average of 2.9 days formal learning per full time equivalent FTE, an of flexible working practices including: reduced hours: variable hours: job increase of 26 per cent on 2007. sharing: compressed hours: term-time working and tele-working.
