the worlds capital market corporate responsiBilitY our approach to corporate responsiBilitY reFlects our BranD Values anD our reputation For inteGritY We have identified those areas where Governance we can make a real impact and have The Group remains committed to delivering established these as our priorities for the highest standards in boardroom optimising relationships with our practice and financial transparency through: stakeholders.
These priorities are: clear and open communication with We can only continue to support community investors: We operate a Community Programme in carers by working in partnership maintaining timely and accurate financial the UK which supports charitable and other with companies like the london records which transparently and honestly good causes and motivates our people to reflect the financial position of our stock exchange.
We have been raise money and work together.
We match business: and astounded by the energy and donations made by our staff through our matching scheme.
The main focus of our endeavouring to maximise shareholder commitment of london stock charitable activity during the year has been returns.
exchange employees and are our partnership with the Princess Royal Trust confident that our relationship will for Carers.
The Trust is the leading charity A comprehensive programme of investor strengthen and deliver real benefits providing support to people who give unpaid relations activity ensures appropriate care to a person who, without this help, contact with institutional and private for carers.
their support is greatly could not manage on their own.
Through shareholders, with regular meetings, appreciated and will undoubtedly their network of 133 carer centres and two presentations and disclosure of important make a positive difference to the interactive websites www.
Regular updates on trading and lives of carers throughout the uK.
net, they support 290,000 financial results are provided to enable carers including 15,500 young carers.
various stakeholders to understand the performance and prospects of the Group.
Carole Cochrane, Acting Chief Executive The partnership has being running for the Princess Royal Trust for Carers since August 2007 and generated almost Over the last 12 months, the Company has 100,000 for the Trust.
conducted over 200 calls and meetings with major UK and international shareholders and Borsa Italiana has developed a strong financial analysts.
Presentations of results history of community support in Milan, are accessible by webcasts through the Rome and other Italian cities by investing Companys website, which also provides in community programmes and charitable press releases, financial reports, trading causes.
In 2007, Borsa donated 100,000 data and other information released by to 8 charitable associations in Italy the Company.
These included the Italian Foundation for Cancer, Mdecins Sans The Annual General Meeting is held in central Frontires, the Alzheimers Association London and is the principal opportunity for and Unicef.
private shareholders to meet directors and management of the Company and put questions to the Board.
London Stock Exchange 32 annual report 2008 the worlds capital market employees A full health and safety audit is completed Our success is dependent on employing annually which includes advice from external people of the highest calibre and creating consultants on new or changing legislation the right conditions for them to do their best and best practice.
There were no reportable work.
We achieve this through a number illnesses, dangerous occurrences or of initiatives: liabilities, nor were any health and safety enforcement notices received during the fostering an environment which enables year.
employees to develop their skills and knowledge: environment As an organisation we appreciate that our establishing a clear link between their operations have an impact on the environment performance and their reward: and continue to manage this in a responsible ensuring that our people have regular and appropriate manner.
opportunities to learn about all aspects of our business, including its strategy We continue to work in partnership with and priorities: and the Carbon Trust and again received the Gold Award under the Clean City Awards encouraging open and honest Scheme, which recognises good practice to assessment of employee performance reduce consumption and reuse and recycle and behaviour through regular where practicable.
In addition, we have now performance feedback and annual implemented several new processes at our appraisals.
corporate headquarters to further increase recycling.
Our environmental strategy and In addition, the importance of operating performance has also contributed to our with integrity, openness and respect is continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
recognised by: In the coming year we will continue to review encouraging a working environment in our activities to ensure environmental good which employees feel comfortable about practice is maintained across the enlarged highlighting wrongdoing and providing group following the merger with Borsa Italiana.
them with a formal procedure in which Borsa Italiana aims to reduce its environmental to do so: footprint by purchasing green energy to significantly decrease CO emissions and 2 promoting an environment of equality by implementing further efficiencies in of opportunity which is intolerant energy use.
of discrimination, harassment or victimisation: and Our Environmental Policy Statement, maintaining healthy and safe working which provides a framework for developing conditions.
and reviewing environmental objectives, can be found on our website at www.
London Stock Exchange 33 annual report 2008
