BUSINESS REVIEW PEOPLE People Our people are our key asset.
Attracting the best talent, motivating them to excel, retaining them and ensuring that they progress in their careers is fundamental to the sustainability of our business and our leadership position.
At year end we had a total of 1,583 people, an increase of 235 people during the year.
As a market leader in our industry we have a strong brand to attract top talent to To maintain our continue to grow the franchise.
leading position Our 2007 Employee Survey showed that our people are we will continue proud to work for Man and are clear about what they and to grow and the Group are trying to achieve.
Our people also felt develop talent that the Group had created a challenging but rewarding environment in which to thrive and an inclusive environment at all levels and for all.
continue to recruit Our senior management team has extensive industry for future growth.
For senior management development, our Future Leaders Programme provides formal training for the future senior leaders of the Group to ensure that our people can achieve their full potential.
1,583 Our people directly influence our success and the performance for our investors and shareholders.
This Permanent contribution is recognised in their advancement within the employees Group and in their remuneration.
The Groups share programmes, which are an important part of their total 3.6 years average remuneration package, ensure that our people think and length of act as long-term shareholders in the Company.
service 16 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW PEOPLE 17 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW PEOPLE People At year end we employed 1,583 people Michael Robinson on permanent contracts.
Approximately Head of Human Resources 650 were located in London and 560 were located in Pfffikon, Switzerland.
The remaining 373 are located around the world in regional operating centres Our reputation is held in trust by our servicing investors and distributors people: they represent our goodwill: or supporting the Core Investment Managers.
We have a strong culture they are, in every sense, our brand.
of moving people between the regions with 7% of our employees globally mobile, so that we have a broader sharing of ideas, processes and relationships.
We also actively promote internal mobility between the business areas to ensure that our In the area of senior management We are driven by a strong culture of people have the broadest sense of our development, we introduced the Future development, incremental performance or whole business.
Leaders Programme to provide formal alpha generation.
The same applies to the training to the future senior leaders of advancement and compensation of our the Group and to support our robust people.
People have defined objectives and succession planning.
During the year, targets set in each performance review 48 of our senior managers attended the period.
The objectives are directly aligned 12 days of training.
The objective of the to the strategy of the Group and deal training was to give our senior leaders with specific areas of implementation valuable skills in managing people, and execution.
Peoples performance is increasing productivity and investor routinely measured against these objectives.
service and generally expanding their network Remuneration is set by reference to the within the Group.
We are committed to achievement of these objectives and continuing this programme and will introduce demonstrating other competencies.
a similar programme for different levels in The system is based on an individual, the organisation during the coming year.
business unit and Group wide meritocracy.
Our people have a direct impact on the This regime reflects the Groups own success of our business, investors and investment performance culture and shareholders.
This contribution is recognised gives our people a direct alignment with in their advancement within the Group and the performance objectives of in their remuneration.
18 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW PEOPLE www.
com cr The Groups share programmes, which Our reputation is held in trust by our realistic expectations of our investors, are available to all employees ensure people: they represent our goodwill: distributors and shareholders.
that our people think and act as long they are, in every sense, our brand.
term shareholders in the Company.
Innovation: to be at the forefront of our Trust and integrity are essential prerequisites Our remuneration programme for senior industry in terms of the timely development in order to maintain our long standing employees includes a significant component and delivery of new products and services investor relationships, establishing new of shares which vest over time and are rigorously and comprehensively tested for ones and deepening our relationships with subject to forfeiture provisions.
This risk, compliance and investor suitability.
Our Boards, and senior ensures that our people take a long-term managements, overriding leadership focus Collective corporate responsibility holds view so that real value is created for all is therefore on our people for it is they who our people together in a joined sense shareholders.
are entrusted with that most critical of of purpose and direction, reinforcing assets, our reputation.
understanding of the behaviour that is acceptable and that which is not.
Maintaining, quantifying and evidencing The corporate responsibility mandate good corporate behaviour sustains and is an essential part of our franchise, and We have a strong enhances our reputation, which in turn management is committed to ensuring all sustains the trust of our key stakeholders.
aspects are embedded in what our people culture of share Our corporate responsibility programme is do and how they act.
based on four fundamental principles: ownership which Integrity: to be responsible, honest, open ensures that our transparent and fair in all our dealings with our stakeholders and amongst our people think and colleagues.
act as long-term Excellence: to strive for excellence in shareholders.
everything we do, including our delivery of products and services to our investors, our interaction with the outside world and our delivery on promises to our people.
Performance: to deliver outstanding performance against the legitimate and www.
com cr Geographical basis of employees Employee length of service Employee shareholding Permanent employees only Permanent employees only Current and past employees represent 10.4% of shareholders 10.4% 3.6 1,583 Years average Shareholding Total employees 46.2% UK 32.8% Switzerland 0-2 years 21.3% Current employees 8.2% US 2-5 years 3.2% Asia 5-10 years 13.3% Directors and Senior Mgt 9.6% Rest of the World 10 years 65.4% Past employees 19 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
