International Corporate social responsibility Were making a positive contribution Our corporate and social responsibility principles set the framework for Our corporate social our core areas of support, but our activities generally take place at a local responsibility principles level based on the needs of our 39 markets.
are to Communities We support our local communities through an array of different activities Contribute positively to primarily focused on education, sport, health and culture.
In the past 12 months weve given US$2.6 million to community initiatives.
We also the social and economic provide substantial in kind support and positively encourage our colleagues development of the to work with their chosen charities.
communities where Education Addressing the digital divide is a core focus for us.
Many of our businesses we operate provide free broadband access to schools, libraries, childrens homes and community centres.
We also provide free computers to worthwhile Seek continuous causes in Jamaica alone we donated 616 computers in 2007 08. improvement in Weve also created national spelling competitions and academic awards our environmental like the Knowledge Bowl in Grenada the countrys most prestigious academic competition where we also provide 80 scholarships for underprivileged performance children.
In Panama, working with the Ministry of Education, weve constructed three schools, installed 29 computer laboratories in schools Respect cultures, and equipped 150 rural schools with satellite internet access.
values and human Sport rights throughout Sport is an important way to teach team work, discipline and well being.
We focus on youth and grass roots sports including athletics, cricket our operations and football.
From free soccer schools for deprived children on St. Kitts to softball tournaments in Antigua, we are at the heart of community Nurture best practice sports, providing sponsorship and support in kind.
In Panama, weve built or refurbished 25 basketball courts and instituted a nationwide youth in all our activities basketball tournament.
In 2008 well double the size of this tournament by building another 25 facilities.
Health We support a range of local and global health issues.
In the Caribbean we fund diabetes and AIDS organisations including the HIV Business Council.
In Jamaica, weve extended our support for the Ministry of Health and Environments Learning for Life programme to three years.
This programme targets young men in violence-prone inner city communities, providing computer-based literacy training.
20 Culture Local cultural events contribute to the well being of any community.
This year our support included the St. Lucia and Barbados jazz festivals and Creole in the Park, the biggest music festival on Dominica.
In the Isle of Man our active support of the Peel Bay festival has led to the creation of the 2008 Sure Live!
Environment Across our International business our annual greenhouse gas emissions are estimated at 160,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide scope 1 and 2.
Whilst our main electricity sources are fossil fuels and hydro-electricity, in the Maldives weve introduced solar powered mobile base stations.
In the Cayman Islands and Grenada we continue our growing participation in Earth Day activities, while in the Turks and Caicos Islands we sponsor Ozone Day and will host Tele-Gathering XIII a community event around environmental issues.
Our focus for During the rest of 2008 well be conducting conservation studies, focusing on energy consumption, recycling, waste disposal and water usage 2008 09 and determining our key performance indicators, including our carbon reduction targets.
We are investing in sustainable In the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man weve launched a mobile alternative energy sources recycling scheme and we have waste paper recycling schemes in place across most of our businesses.
and new energy efficient Customers power units to replace legacy We work with our customers to give them the products and services equipment, which is expected they want.
In Panama, our pioneering telemedicine service enables local to reduce power consumption medical centres to carry out diagnosis under the supervision of specialist medics located elsewhere.
Strong customer relationships from the outset by up to 20%.
provided invaluable input and ensured the service we delivered exceeded expectations.
We would like to thank The Adan Rios Foundation, The Panamanian Society of Cardiology, Panamanian Society of Obstetrics Our recycling programmes and Gynaecology, Santo Tomas Hospital and the Childrens Hospital.
will be extended, key Suppliers performance indicators will We audit all our major suppliers and positively encourage high levels be introduced and we will of understanding within the supply chain.
This year our supply audit improved considerably to incorporate questions on carbon emissions and continue to build beneficial international standards, furthering our responsible procurement process.
community relationships Colleagues wherever we operate.
Our colleague culture is well developed.
Multiple communication channels, town hall gatherings and global conferences bring colleagues together to discuss matters of interest.
A colleague engagement programme across the entire portfolio provides profile updates every six months and our annual Gallup Great Manager programme provides training to improve skills.
As a result, our colleague engagement level has doubled.
Diversity is accentuated by our policy of localisation, which has reduced the number of UK expatriates from over 100 in 2004 to fewer than 30 today.
Our health and safety records remain good with no fatalities or prosecutions to report.
In Panama we are an active member of the UN Global Compact, the worlds largest global corporate citizenship initiative, a framework for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.
This is a summary of our full corporate social responsibility report which will be published in July 2008.
21 Business review Europe, Asia & US
