BUSINeSS revIeW Corporate Responsibility During 2008, we concentrated on eight key areas of business practice identified as having high significance through our business risk management and stakeholder engagement processes.
2008 Highlights Reduction in Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR and Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate TRIFR across Cairn India and Capricorn International Finance Corporation IFC Cairn India partnership in Rajasthan Updated Corporate Responsibility CR Guiding Principles and Climate Change strategy Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions rate below the industry average Code of Business Ethics updated No recordable safety or environmental incidents during the Greenland seismic campaign 28 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 our Corporate responsibility Priorities During 2008, we concentrated on eight key areas of business Cairn is conscious that its operations especially in regions of practice identified as having high significance through our economic, social or environmental sensitivity may have impacts business risk management and stakeholder engagement on staff, local communities and the environment.
These are: to the highest standards in all of its business activities including corporate responsibility.
Cairn promotes the principles of Stakeholder Engagement respect, relationships and responsibility to staff, partners, Business Ethics suppliers and contractors.
This helps to create a widespread Employee Development and sustainable business culture, founded on a fundamental Health Safety and Security respect for people.
Community Development Human Rights Underpinning our strategy for transformational growth is Environmental Impacts the phased development of our 25 oil discoveries in Rajasthan, Climate Change complemented by a new and exciting frontier exploration position in Greenland.
We have sought to meet these priorities through responsible business practices underpinned by our policies and guiding We remain committed to ensuring the sustainability of principles.
Some years ago, Cairn established specific groupour business strategy by conducting all of our activities wide policies for Health, Safety and Environment, Security and Corporate Social Responsibility.
Endorsed by the Board, in a responsible manner.
these policies establish the principles by which the Company is managed.
Our CR Guiding principles describe Cairns fundamental values and approach to managing CR.
The CR guiding principles and policies can be downloaded from the Cairn website at www.
Image Left A student at a Cairn supported school in the Barmer district of Rajasthan Image Above Local women carrying water in the Barmer district of Rajasthan CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 29 BUSINeSS revIeW Corporate Responsibility Continued In 2008, Corporate Responsibility guiding principles were reviewed and updated in line with the re-organisation of the Group and stakeholders expectations.
Stakeholder engagement employee Development Cairns success is driven by its people.
Consequently, employee At Cairn we believe that building strong, open and lasting engagement and personal and organisational development relationships with our stakeholders is not merely a social have been key focus areas for the Company throughout 2008, responsibility, it is also vital to achieving our business goals.
particularly in the Capricorn arm of the business where the Our activities are influenced by and may potentially impact organisational transformation has been greatest.
In 2008, a range of different stakeholders at local, national and we have updated HR policies for Capricorn after an employee international levels.
In particular, governments and local engagement survey was carried out across the UK and communities can significantly affect our capacity to carry out Bangladesh.
Leadership and management development our activities and achieve our aims.
In Rajasthan, the scale of has remained a key focus being recognised by Cairn receiving our development project requires extensive consultation.
the Scotland PLC Developing Your People award for 2008.
This continues to be guided by a Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan that completed 54 consultation meetings in Absentee rates across the business also remain below the UK 2008.
Thirty-four grievances were received for the Rajasthan Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development benchmark project in 2008 all of which were successfully resolved.
In 2008, although there has been some increase in absenteeism over we have initiated public consultation in Greenland where we the business in 2008. carried out a seismic acquisition campaign without recording a single grievance in relation to our activity.
Health, Safety and Security We recognise that we must protect the health, safety and Business ethics security of our employees and contractors working on our sites Corruption when it occurs is recognised as a major hindrance and the people who come into contact with our operations.
to sustainable development with an often disproportionate In Rajasthan and Gujarat more than 10,000 people are employed impact on poor communities.
At its worst the impact on in building the MPT and pipeline to the Gujarat coast.
We are businesses can be considerable, impeding economic growth, pleased to report that our safety statistics have improved across distorting competition and representing serious legal the business and remain below the average for the oil and gas and reputational risks.
industry as last reported by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers OGP for 2007.
In 2008, we also maintained Revenues paid to government and the value of contracts zero lost time incidents for a 10th consecutive year at our Sangu awarded in carrying out our activities can be significant in the production plant in Bangladesh.
countries in which we operate and in the local communities in which we work.
It is important that we operate at all times with integrity, honesty and transparency.
The Code of Business Ethics and Whistleblowing Policy are currently under review.
A comprehensive communication plan to roll out the new Code and Policy to all staff is proposed for 2009.
30 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Community Development Cairn recognises that its activities can affect the social and economic environment of the communities in which we operate.
This is particularly true where Cairns presence dominates local industrial or commercial activity as is the case in the remote and arid part of Rajasthan where Cairn are developing major oil and gas fields.
In 2008, we have continued our partnership with the IFC, further establishing the Enterprise Centre to promote local economic development, a rural dairy development project and a child and maternal health awareness initiative.
human rights Cairn recognises the importance of human rights.
In Rajasthan, we continue to apply a Rights Aware approach to safeguard the local communitys right to water in an area with limited water resources while accessing the water required to support Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR our operations.
Land acquisition for the Rajasthan project is also important for a project requiring land access for well pads, terminals and pipelines.
Consultation underpins the land acquisition plans and ensure that processes for grievances and Capricorn compensation are well understood by effected stakeholders.
Cairn India environmental Impact OGP Benchmark Cairn recognises that its exploration, development and 2006 2007 2008 production activities can have an impact on the environment.
Some of Cairns exploration and production acreage lies in areas of environmental significance.
Cairn recognises its Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate TRIFR responsibilities and focuses on the avoidance of negative impacts on the environment during its operations.
In 2008, we were pleased to complete the seismic acquisition offshore Greenland without safety or environmental incident.
Capricorn Cairn India Last year, we reported that we were exploring long-term water effluent management solutions for our production facility at OGP Benchmark Sangu in Bangladesh in order to eradicate the requirement to 2006 2007 2008 dilute effluent to meet regulatory discharge limits.
We have been Note OGP benchmark data is not yet available for 2008 examining the feasibility of reinjecting produced water into a non-producing well and testing the effectiveness of this solution, culminating in a successful pilot carried out in October and GHG Intensity November of 2008.
Produced water injection will be continued in 2009.
Cairn India production Climate Change sites Activities involved in our operations, such as power generation, Sangu production site, flaring, venting and transportation, produce emissions to air, Bangladesh including methane CH and carbon dioxide CO, two gases 4 2 OGP benchmark recognised as GHG.
The burning of oil and gas, our primary 2006 2007 2008 products, also produces emissions.
Climate change is a complex issue with many causes both natural and due to human activity.
Tonnes CO E per 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon production 2 Energy is essential to social and economic progress but we recognise that we have a responsibility to take a precautionary approach to climate change.
In 2008, we adopted a climate change strategy for the group focussing on four key areas: i.
Verifying and reporting on GHG ii.
Maintaining energy and emissions efficiency iii.
Demonstrating informed and transparent action on climate change iv.
Contributing to programmes addressing environmental and social impacts of climate change our Cr approach and priorities are described in detail At all times, we seek to minimise GHG emissions of our within the Corporate responsibility report 2008 Crr 2008 operations.
In 2008, we met our targets for GHG emissions that complements this report.
environmental resource across the business maintaining our emissions relative to Management ERM has provided limited assurance of the hydrocarbon production below the average for the oil and gas contents of the CRR 2008 and a statement of their findings industry as last reported by OGP for 2007. is included.
Image Above Cairn has supported the rebuilding of several schools such as this one in the aftermath of the 2006 floods in Rajasthan.
