Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information corporate and social responsibility 29 Responsible policies on the treatment of investors, clients, entertainment they receive in excess of a modest threshold.
suppliers, the community in which Novae operates, the Whilst moderate hospitality is an accepted business courtesy, environment and our staff, are central to good business there are also strict limits imposed on the entertainment by practice and to the long term success of the Group.
Novae staff of the Groups clients and their brokers.
The stakeholder review in 2007 shaped our approach to corporate and social responsibility and these policies Suppliers have been built on in 2008.
The Groups business partners and suppliers can expect Novae to deal fairly and openly with them and to adhere to Investors agreed terms of trade.
The Groups dialogue with investors and their advisory bodies, as well as with analysts, is open and continuous.
Community Contact with major shareholders is described in the Novae continues to support community programmes that corporate governance statement.
Regular meetings are are appropriate to the business and that contribute to society.
held with investor advisory bodies and Novaes corporate The Groups Charities Committee has an annual budget of disclosures are in part shaped by those discussions.
Staff participate in sponsored events raising funds Novaes registrars are provided with detailed brie ng for the for charities in which they have a particular interest.
Subject support of smaller investors and the Company Secretarys to a cap, Novae matches the funds raised.
Some funding department also provides direct assistance.
is given following staff nominations of charities and there is a particular emphasis on the support of charities for which Clients the Groups donation will make a difference.
Novae also Novaes clients and their brokers can expect the Groups supports staff who give their time and effort to the Lloyds staff to uphold its reputation for diligence, commitment, Community Programme.
The staff handbook and Novaes support for the Princes Trust continues.
As patrons, procedures manuals are reviewed annually to keep pace the Group contributed over 33,000 in 2008: 25,000 with changing commercial and regulatory circumstances.
through corporate membership: and over 8,000 through They provide clear statements to the Groups staff of fundraising events in which the Groups staff participated.
Novaes corporate values and they are consistent with its regulatory obligations.
The 2008 Polar Challenge, in which teams hauled sleds to the 1996 site of the Magnetic North Pole, was supported The Group only enters into agreements with insurance by 10,000 in corporate donation and the campaign intermediaries which can be fully disclosed to clients.
that Novae supported raised over 60,000 to support Novae has no corporate political af liations and makes pharmaceutical research into child oncology led by the no political donations of any kind.
Potential con icts of interest facing the directors of all Total donations to charities from these activities in 2008 Group companies are properly addressed in accordance with amounted to 37,342 24,963 in 2007: 10,400 in 2006: the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, all 6,985 in 2005. directors and staff are required to record gifts and corporate www.
com 30 Novae staff volunteer through the Lloyds Community Programme to work in local schools with the Tower Hamlets Education Business Partnership.
Volunteers conduct individual mock interviews with pupils, giving constructive feedback after each interview.
Our responsibility | Novae is committed to managing the impact of its business activities on the environment and helping to support the wider community in which the Group operates.
Novae is supporting a young British decathlete, A car rally to the South of France in Richard Reeks, in his efforts to compete decorated jalopies was organised by Novae in the 2010 Commonwealth Games and staff and sponsored by Novae.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information corporate and social responsibility | continued 31 Fig.
05 Recycling as at 31 December 2008 Recycled waste Landfill waste Novae provides financial support to Richard Reeks, Staff a decathlete training for the 2012 Olympic Games.
Novaes long term success is largely dependent on the commitment of the Groups staff.
Such commitment has to The Group continues to encourage staff participation in be earned.
Novaes ability to attract, retain and motivate the a Give As You Earn scheme.
highest calibre staff at all levels is conditional on the Groups input to training, equal opportunities, family life, health and Environment safety, extra-curricular team activities and equity participation.
Novae is committed to a rigorous recycling and waste policy.
All paper, glass, cans and, where possible, plastics are Training is led by the appraisal system, which identi es skills recycled.
Many of the environmental initiatives have been gaps and development needs.
Both in-house and external promoted by members of staff.
The percentage of waste training is provided.
It is supported by the provision of study material sent to land ll sites has fallen again in 2008 to leave and the payment of training fees as well as by bonuses 36% 39% in 2007 see gure 05 above.
payable on professional examination passes.
Recycling of shredded paper is not only environmentally Staff are recruited, trained, and rewarded on the basis of sound, but increases the security of paper-based data.
merit and contribution to Novae, irrespective of their sex, A staged review of the Groups paper archive was implemented age, disability, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, sexual in 2008 with a view to reducing overall storage, recycling orientation, political persuasion, or party or union unwanted paper records, improving data security and membership.
reducing the environmental impact of document recovery Working wholly or partly from home, where this is feasible by recalling scanned records where possible.
for the role, is supported by IT provision.
This forms part Within the limits of a multi-tenanted building, Novae is of Novaes exible working arrangements for parents of working to reduce energy consumption.
Where possible, younger children and helps to recruit and retain the best computer equipment is switched off at night and lighting people.
Child-care vouchers for staff who have young systems are programmed.
The document management children are provided.
system is being overhauled in 2009, not only to improve Novae aims to provide a safe working environment and to business practices, but also to reduce paper consumption.
promote good health among staff.
The Groups health and Double-sided printing and copying equipment has been safety policy forms part of the staff handbook and is published provided across all areas of the business.
The internal on the Groups intranet.
Novae carries out regular reviews environment of Novaes head of ce building is controlled to ensure that of ce equipment is safe and properly used.
by an energy-ef cient system.
According to gures produced by the landlord, the building consumes 30% less energy and The Staff Sports and Social Committee has its own budget emits 33% less carbon dioxide than a conventionally and co-ordinates sporting, social and community events.
Novae teams competed in cricket, football, netball and sailing events in 2008.
The Group pays for kit for use by No company cars are provided and staff use mass public Novae sports teams and sponsors their participation in transport wherever possible on the Groups business.
Corporate membership Novae also subsidises staff in the Ride to Work scheme.
has been negotiated at a gym close to the London of ce.
com 32 Commercial eet | The Liability segment is made up of business.
Our people | Well-trained, motivated and satis ed people are essential to Novaes success, and Novae is committed to attracting and retaining the highest calibre staff at all levels.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information corporate and social responsibility | continued 33 Sickness absence as a proportion of total working time has improved to 1.1% 12 months to December 2008 from 1.4% 12 months to December 2007.
Novae was among the first companies to introduce an All Employee Share Ownership Plan in 2001.
Now operating as the Share Incentive Plan SIP, it enables staff at all levels in the Group to build a stake in Novae and 60% of our staff participate.
In 2008 the Group introduced a Novae-sponsored Self-Invested Personal Pension Plan SIPP to encourage further equity participation and pension planning.
At the end of 2008, 10% of the staff participated.
The SIP and SIPP are linked.
Novae received two Commendations at the ifs Proshare awards in 2008 for its commitment to the promotion of employee share ownership.
It was the only insurance sector employer to be shortlisted and the opportunities provided for the wider financial education of staff were highlighted.
Increased equity participation is not simply an attractive employee bene t: the resulting alignment of the interests of staff and investors fosters long term staff commitment to Novae.
Staff turnover is lower among our SIP participants than non-participants.
Accreditation Novae is a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
This identi es companies that are considered by the FTSE to be working towards environmental sustainability and developing positive relationships with stakeholders.
The Group continues to review policies in those areas over which it has direct control, such as working practices and community involvement, and to support credible initiatives for making a positive contribution in other areas where Novaes impact is less direct.
