EMPLOYEES The success of our business relies on developing relationships with a broad range of stakeholders, from customers and suppliers to government and media.
Our employees sustain these relationships and are therefore central to our success.
Kevin Stacey Acting Group HR Director The success of our business rests on our relationships RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: with a broad range of stakeholder groups, from customers and suppliers to government and media.
Our employees EMPLOYEES sustain these relationships and are therefore central We want Old Mutual to be an organisation that people are proud to to our success.
We work hard to ensure that we attract, work for.
To attract and retain the best people, we work hard to engage and develop the best people by creating an create an environment in which they can t and ourish.
environment where our employees feel supported, Across our businesses, we will: challenged and rewarded.
Recruit and reward employees fairly and according to merit.
We believe that our Business Units are best positioned to manage issues relating to their employees, so speci c This principle is balanced against the need to ensure that we policies for employees are set at local level.
But this local advance transformation in the unique context of our southern exibility is complemented by a strong Group framework African operations that helps shape the way we relate to our employees.
Promote the health and wellbeing of our employees in a work Our Group values and our Responsible Business environment conducive to personal and team growth Principles see box provide a broad overview of our approach, while our Group HR Policy sets out in more Provide opportunities for employee dialogue, listen actively detail the standards of what we expect from business and encourage participation in the resolution of issues units.
Some of the areas where we made progress in Invest in employee development to enable each individual to 2008 are detailed below.
reach his or her full potential and provide opportunities for Skandia-BSAM was recognised as a Top 10 Best career and personal advancement, including involvement in Employer of the Industry community activities Skandia UK was highlighted as one to watch in the 2008 Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work Safeguard employee rights, including rights to freedom For list.
of association and collective bargaining Developing our people Embrace and encourage the diversity that exists amongst our To help employees ful l their potential, we have a formal employees while respecting each persons special individuality process to identify training needs and create individual development plans.
As part of this process, in 2008 we continued to roll-out our Career Choices model.
This framework helps employees to identify the right career path for them and clari es the knowledge and skills they will need at different management levels.
We work hard to ensure that It also ensures that they know what is expected of them at each level of the business.
we attract, engage and develop To be a successful business, we need managers with the ability to develop the talent of individuals and build the best people.
In 2008, 17,500 employees took part in our ongoing Management Development Programme.
Feedback from these courses has been very positive: our employees tell us that they value the opportunity to focus on developing the skills that matter most for their role.
In addition to the programmes and courses on offer around the Group, we are extending access to eLearning programmes.
In 2008 we formed a Page 90 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 relationship with Harvard University to provide business Useful links: Employee data school eLearning to employees in the UK, southern Gender representation www.
co. za Africa, the United States and Europe.
Nearly half of all our employees are women.
In the top Managing succession risk leadership group the proportion of women rose from 20 In an extremely challenging year, voluntary turnover percent in 2007 to 24 percent in 2008. amongst senior management rose to an annual rate of 10 percent for voluntary leavers and to 19 percent Total number of overall.
The loss of key staff can cause signi cant employees 57,000 disruption in any company, and we see this as a key Male 51% risk to the business.
Female 49% We have mitigated this risk by strengthening our succession planning and our processes for growing talent within the business.
In 2008 we developed the Global Leadership Potential Programme to identify individuals with leadership potential and give them as Top Leadership Group 96 early as possible the support they need to accelerate Male 76% their progression.
We will roll this programme out Female 24% globally in 2009.
We carefully monitor the degree to which we have successors for key roles identi ed and ready over the short, medium and long term.
In 2008 we introduced a talent database to help us analyse and measure our succession coverage index, which draws on a variety of indicators from across the business.
This enabled us to improve our level of coverage: our strong talent pipeline meant that we were able to ll 65 percent of our leadership vacancies internally.
Increasing diversity We are committed to increasing diversity throughout the Group: the different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives of our employees are a great asset.
Our policies ensure that no employee receives less favourable treatment on grounds of their gender, age, sexual orientation, race, disability, religion or any other factor unrelated to the requirements of their position.
In southern Africa, recognising the unique circumstances, we balance these principles against our commitment to address employment equity and transformation issues.
As part of our focus on increasing diversity we closely monitor our employee pro le, particularly at higher management levels.
In 2008 the proportion of women in the top leadership group rose from 20 percent to 24 percent.
We are committed to working towards our goal of 30 percent female representation during 2009.
Page 91 Corporate responsibility EMPLOYEES continued In 2008, Nedbank received the African Banker Gender Having strong company values helps us to develop Sensitivity Award in recognition of its commitment to a motivated and committed team and is the glue which improving gender equality and advancing women in the binds employees across the Group.
Nedbanks host of gender-based initiatives become meaningful when employees can see includes the Nedbank Womens Forum: more information their relevance in their day-to-day role.
At Skandia on this is given in its sustainability report, available online UK we created a team of Values Champions to focus from April 2009 at www.
As a result of on exploring what values mean for actual behaviour these initiatives, women make up more than 60 percent in the workplace.
They were then given the tools and of Nedbanks workforce and more than 50 percent of responsibility to start encouraging these behaviours in middle and senior managers are female.
Through our Your Recognition programme, individuals at Skandia UK can nominate Engaging our employees any employee, whatever level or department, to be Maintaining high levels of commitment becomes all the recognised for their contribution to any one of the more important in dif cult times.
We measure how well Old Mutual values.
Each quarter, the panel chooses we are engaging our employees through our annual 10-12 employees to be formally acknowledged by the engagement survey.
The 2008 survey placed us in the Company and given a special prize in recognition of top quartile of our sector for both emotional and rational their efforts.
commitment, and we outperformed the international financial services benchmark overall.
Communication is a key component of employee engagement.
We invest signi cant resources in internal communications tools such as our magazines and newsletters.
In 2008, Old Mutual South Africas internal staff magazine, Amicus, won the Best Internal Magazine trophy and Best Communication Award at the South African Publication Forum.
Page 92 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
