SOCIETY Businesses must earn the trust and respect of their stakeholders.
We see ourselves as an integral part of the societies in which we operate.
Playing a proactive role in society is a key way to build that trust and respect so we strive to ensure the impacts we have on society are positive ones.
We do this not only by conducting our core business RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: in a responsible way, but also by taking account of SOCIETY many of the wider impacts that we have as an organisation.
For us as a Group this means: We recognise that good relations and long-term partnerships Making responsible investment decisions with local communities are fundamental to our success.
Promoting financial education and inclusion Wherever we operate, we will: Supporting development in our communities.
Consider social impacts as part of our investment Making responsible investment decisions decision process where possible We are aware that our investments can have a huge consequence for society, both directly e. g. through Give our time and resources to projects that promote nancing a project in a community and indirectly education, health and economic development in the e. g. through trading shares in a company whose communities that we serve activities subsequently impact on a community.
Use our position as a financial services company to Maximising positive impacts and minimising negative improve levels of financial education and to promote ones, while still ensuring a good return to our customers, is a constant but necessary balancing act.
financial inclusion In 2008 we created our first Group Investment Statement see this online at www.
This has been another step in the direction of re ning our overall product offering and living up to the Groups new Responsible Business Policy.
In 2009 we plan to revisit this statement to re ect any changes to the business, and the marketplace, since its inception.
An important element of our approach is to help our customers make responsible investment decisions, too.
Through Skandia UK, for example, we offer our customers a choice of more than 25 ethical and environmental funds.
Promoting financial education and inclusion Access to basic financial products and advice is essential for people to function fully in society.
But it is just as important for people to understand these products, and how they can be used bene cially.
These are some examples of initiatives we took in 2008 to help address these issues.
Skandia-BSAM: In China we launched a financial education brand, Skandia-BSAM Wealth Vision, to promote financial education for our customers and the general public.
Under this initiative we produced quarterly magazines outlining general investment principles and arranged customer seminars on investment themes in Beijing, Shanghai, Nanjing, Guangzhou and Shenzhen Page 96 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Maximising positive impacts and minimising negative ones, while still ensuring a good return to our customers, is a constant but necessary balancing act.
Old Mutual South Africa: Poor financial education Skandia ELAM Colombia : Employees volunteered Useful links: is a particular challenge in South Africa, where the to mentor 40 children as part of the Mentoreo www.
net savings ratio is very low and levels of personal debt Intergenerational Dialogue programme www.
co. za are climbing steadily.
In response, as part of our Old Mutual South Africa: We continued to invest Masisizane Fund, we established a Financial in local communities through the Masisizane Fund www.
com csr Education Trust which provides financial education and the Old Mutual Foundation.
co. za and advice for individuals we committed over R21.9m in 2008 to projects about-us transformation masisizane.
aspx Nedbank: In 2008 we became the first South African focused on developing enterprise, supporting women bank to open a million Mzansi accounts designed in business and skills development.
More details can for people on low incomes who may not previously be found at www.
co. za about-us have had access to financial services transformation masisizane.
aspx Skandia ELAM: In Colombia we worked with Nedbank: During 2008 Nedbank contributed a major national newspaper, El Tiempo, to sponsor R43.5 million to projects through donations and a special section with articles about saving, personal employee volunteering finance and financial planning.
We also ran similar Old Mutual Financial Network: We matched initiatives in two business newspapers.
employee donations to charitable organisations, raising $20,500 for almost 50 initiatives Supporting development in our communities Old Mutual Asset Management: We donated During 2008 we supported a wide range of community $193,000 to local community programmes focused projects across the world.
Through these we invested on four areas: community, crisis intervention, in education, health and welfare, local economic healthcare and culture development, the environment and the arts.
In total we Skandia-BSAM: As part of the relief effort following put 7,717,102 into our local communities.
These are the huge earthquake in the province of Sichuan, just a few examples from 2008 more information on we donated RMB1 million to China Red Cross.
our community investment programmes in each region is available online at www.
com csr Old Mutual plc: We donated 350,000 to a range of organisations including Thames 21, Kidz, Crisis, the Deaf Childrens Society, Willow Foundation, Children with Leukaemia and the Alzheimers Society Skandia Nordic: Our Ideas for Life Foundation donated SEK5.7 million to 326 different projects Skandia UK: We continued to focus on employee volunteering, giving over 500 working hours to community initiatives, including the Bobby Moore Fund for Cancer Research UK and our Saints in the Community partnership with Southampton Football Club Old Mutual Zimbabwe: Despite another very dif cult year in Zimbabwe we continued our support for local community initiatives including Business Council on AIDS, Emerald Hill School for the Deaf and the Harare International Festival of the Arts Page 97 Corporate responsibility
