ENVIRONMENT It is inevitable that the scale of our global operations has an impact on the environment, both directly and indirectly.
As the full extent of the challenge posed by climate change becomes evident, we are taking action to address and mitigate these impacts.
During 2008 we started to develop a full set of RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: measurements that will give us a baseline against which ENVIRONMENT to measure performance in the future.
We plan to have completed this data collection in 2009 and will use it As a financial services group, we recognise that we have two as a basis for setting targets going forward.
types of environmental impact: our direct impacts that arise from As part of the measurement process in 2008 we the running of our of ces and branches, and our indirect impacts undertook our first publicly available Group submission through the investment decisions that we make.
to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
This included details To minimise our environmental impacts where possible we will: of our views on the risks and opportunities climate change presents the business, our greenhouse gas Take measures to reduce our energy and water use and the emissions accounting, our strategy to reduce emissions waste we generate in each of our locations and our corporate governance relating to climate change.
In addition to the Group submission, Nedbank Ensure that employees are trained to understand our impacts completed its own submission.
More details about these and their role in minimising these submissions can be found at www.
net Consider environmental impacts as part of our investment To help us manage our direct environmental impact, decision process where possible many of our sites now have their own structured Environmental Management System EMS in place.
In 2008 over 50 percent of our employees worked in of ces covered by an externally recognised EMS.
Climate change is an issue that we believe requires Although each one is site-speci c, many of these collaborative action between companies, as well as systems follow the internationally recognised action by individual companies.
That is why we signed ISO 14001 EMS guidelines.
the Poznan Communiqu at the end of 2008, and will Managing the impact of investment decisions continue to support it in 2009.
This initiative, led by the As a Group we try, wherever possible, to ensure that we Prince of Wales and the EU Corporate Leaders Group are aware of the environmental impact of our investment on Climate Change, calls for a comprehensive, legally decisions.
Ensuring this happens can be a complicated binding UN framework to tackle climate change.
We offer a range of financial products and the As a business we have direct environmental impacts structure of our products means that our teams for example, through our of ces and business travel investment decisions are governed by a variety of and indirect impacts, through the investments that we restrictions.
For example, many of our fund managers make.
In our revised Responsible Business Principles have strict mandates from their customers which limit we have tried to re ect both types of impact.
the exibility of the investments they can make, whereas for project finance there can be much more autonomy In this section we describe some of the work we have over the investment decision.
done, and continue to do, to minimise the impact of our operations, manage the impact of our investments and In 2008 we took the first step towards formalising engage our employees in our environmental efforts.
the way we manage the environmental impact of our Minimising the impact of our operations investment decisions as a Group.
We developed our Over the past year we have worked to improve our first Group Investment Statement to re ne the overall understanding of our operational impacts and to reduce product offering provided by Old Mutual companies.
The first step is to be clear about While this represents a clear step forward for the Group, what they are.
We have identi ed our main impacts as we plan to re ne the statement further in 2009 to re ect energy use, water consumption and waste creation.
the structure of our business and the changes that we have undergone.
Page 94 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Following our data collection exercise we can now start to demonstrate our environmental impact more clearly.
ELECTRICITY, WATER AND WASTE 3 Electricity KWh Water m Waste Kg Old Mutual plc 9,038,851 Old Mutual plc 30,656 Old Mutual plc 173,960 southern Africa 155,902,225 southern Africa 559,159 southern Africa data unavailable Europe 18,748,508 Europe 21,010 Europe 216,370 North America 3,065,163 North America 1,371 North America 273,300 Asia Paci c 2,255,859 Asia Paci c 1,605 Asia Paci c 14,826 3 Total usage KWh Total usage m Total waste Kg 189,010,606 613,801 678,456 A good example of how our business units are already Skandia Nordic Sweden : As part of the building taking action in this area is Nedbanks involvement in programme for our new head of ce we carried out the Equator Principles.
These social and environmental a sustainability workshop to help improve our benchmarks enable financial institutions to classify environmental practices within of ces projects according to the level of risk associated with Skandia-BSAM: Throughout the year we them and then to manage these risks in a structured ran campaigns to encourage employees to reduce way.
We were the first African bank to sign-up to the their carbon footprint.
These included campaigns Equator Principles in 2003.
During 2008 we provided to reduce the number of days employees drive to ongoing training on the Principles for key employees work, and to help employees reduce their energy, and awareness-raising sessions for top management.
water and paper usage in the of ce We also engaged with NGOs through the Nedbank Old Mutual plc: As part of the Groups support WWF-SA conservation partnership and continued for environmental initiatives we supported World learning and interaction with other Equator Principles Environment Day in June 2008.
Talks and information financial institutions.
More information on Nedbanks provided during the day showed employees how implementation of the Equator Principles can be found they could reduce their personal carbon footprint at www.
co. za and what they could do at work Skandia UK: We launched an of ce-wide recycling Engaging employees in our environmental efforts programme in 2008, removing all desk bins and We actively encourage our employees to join in replacing them with central recycling facilities.
our efforts to minimise the environmental impact of our operations.
Our aim as a Group is to reduce our environmental impact: but it is often the individual actions taken at a business unit level that help achieve real change.
Here are just a few examples of such action in 2008: Page 95 Corporate responsibility
