: DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW R C C O R T S T T N R E A M T T E I G M Y M O C C R P R O G R A M M E Corporate responsibility review 40 Corporate responsibility delivering long-term value to our stakeholders At a time when the world is responsibly and provide products which meet the needs of our customers.
This in turn enables experiencing an unprecedented us to demonstrate that we are a sustainable, economic downturn, and all the well-managed company.
uncertainty that that brings with Our approach to CR management is organised it, Provident Financial remains around the following six themes: governance and management, our customers, our people, committed to delivering a our supply chain, community involvement, and corporate responsibility CR the environment.
programme which, as a core part Governance and management of our overall business strategy, The Provident Financial management committee oversees the groups CR programme on behalf of will enable us to understand and the board.
The committee comprises the manage effectively the social, executive directors of the Provident Financial environmental and economic board ie the Chief executive, Finance Director and Managing Director of the Consumer Credit impact of our operations.
Division, the Managing Director of Vanquis Bank, Provident Financials Director of Corporate By continuing to embed CR within the fabric Affairs, Director of Corporate Strategy, and the of our business, we can differentiate ourselves Company Secretary and general Counsel.
Since from other companies in our sector and secure its formation in July 2007, one of the committees a business advantage, deliver long-term value roles has been to ensure that our businesses to our shareholders, and contribute to the manage the risks and respond to the sustainability of our businesses.
It also provides opportunities which are presented by a groupus with the opportunity to achieve bottom-line wide issue such as CR.
benefits that will result from managing material environmental, social and governance eSg Below the management committee are three risks, reducing costs associated with energy key working groups which have been established use, reducing staff turnover and enhancing to address the social, environmental and our reputation.
economic issues that are material to our operations, products and services.
This section of the business review provides an overview of the Provident Financial CR programme and key activities for the 2008 Provident calendar year.
For a more comprehensive Financial board explanation of our programme, please refer to the CR section of our website at www.
PF management committee Introduction Our CR programme is a cornerstone of what we do as a business.
It enables us to maintain Responsible environmental CR working lending group working groups group relationships with the people that matter to the business whether theyre customers, employees, suppliers, local communities or Consumer Vanquis Bank Health & Credit Division environmental Safety investors.
It helps ensure that we reduce our environmental working group steering impacts on the environment, and take account of working group groups the social, environmental and ethical issues that relate to our supply chain and the workplace.
From a customer perspective, our CR programme underlines our commitment to lend Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc S C R I N I T Y I G A T E I T V A E R S T S S S E N I S U B : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility review continued 41 At Provident Financial, CR governance is managed at the highest level.
The executive directors have ultimate responsibility for CR activities and meet regularly to discuss them.
Rob Lawson Corporate Responsibility Manager The management committee meets to discuss CR issues These working groups feed into the Provident The responsible lending group The purpose Financial board directly, or through the of this group is to put in place a framework management committee.
to manage the issue of responsible lending for both operating divisions.
The group The CR manager and community affairs is chaired by Chris gillespie, Managing manager, who are both based at Provident Director of the Consumer Credit Division, Financials Bradford headquarters, have overall and includes representation from the responsibility for co-ordinating the management Consumer Credit Division, Vanquis Bank of the groups CR programme.
In addition, and the corporate office.
key personnel from across the group are represented on the groups described above The corporate responsibility working group which embeds CR within our operating divisions This group, which includes representation across all management levels.
from the Consumer Credit Division, Vanquis Bank and the corporate office, exists Provident Financials group mission and values to ensure that human resources and supply statement, which was developed following chain management issues are factored consultation in October 2008, also underlines into Provident Financials CR programme.
our commitment to ensuring that our business This will enable us to continue to address activities are conducted in a responsible way.
workplace issues such as diversity and The values of being fair, responsible, accessible, improving the opportunities for our straightforward and progressive provide the employees to get involved in our community basis for understanding the aims and activities projects, and our supply chain relationships.
The values also shape what we do, how we do it, and provide a basis against Environmental working groups The groups which our performance can be assessed.
that have been established within both the Consumer Credit Division and Vanquis Bank, Sustainability assessment and which include representation from In order to provide our stakeholders with facilities management, HR and IT functions, demonstrable evidence that we conduct our contribute to development and delivery of the business in a responsible way, and with due Provident Financial environmental consideration to the social, environmental and management programme.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility review continued 42 economic issues that are material to our Responsible lending activities, we remain committed to maintaining With over two million customers, Provident a presence on the worlds main sustainability Financial has the UKs largest non-standard indices.
To this end, we continue to be included credit customer base.
With many of these in the FTSe4good index and were selected as customers living on a modest income, it is members of both the Dow Jones World important that the principle of responsible Sustainability Index and Dow Jones STOXX lending is at the heart of our business strategy.
We also responded to the In practice, this means providing our customers Carbon Disclosure Project, which enables us to with straightforward and clear information on provide institutional investors, with a combined our products and their charges so that they can $57 trillion of assets under management, with make informed choices.
It also means not information on how Provident Financial is lending customers more than they can afford managing the risks and opportunities presented and ensuring that they are not overstretched by climate change.
We also continued to make an annual To further underline our commitment to lending submission to the Business in the Community to customers in a responsible manner, we Corporate Responsibility index, which enables established a responsible lending group for our us to benchmark our CR management businesses in 2008.
The principal objective of performance against that of our peers, other the group is to ensure that the Consumer Credit private and public sector participants and CR Division and Vanquis Bank operate at, or above, best practice.
The results of our most recent the standards expected by the regulatory submission to the index were announced in May frameworks which relate to the responsible 2008.
Our performance on the overall CR index lending agenda.
increased, with our score rising to 94.5%, up Home credit and Real Personal Finance from 89.5% in the previous year.
We attained To support the lending decisions made by agents strong scores on the community and and employees, the Consumer Credit Division environmental components of the index, which uses a range of scoring systems and models.
increased from 91% to 98% and 90% to 96% These systems and models, which have been respectively.
As a result of Provident Financials designed to supplement the skills and expertise efforts, we were again recognised as one of the of our employees and agents, play an important Top 100 Companies that Count by the Sunday role in enabling us to determine whether to Times in its CR supplement on 25 May 2008. accept new customers or to offer further credit Our customers to existing ones.
Both the System enhanced Our customers are central to the success of Lending programme, which is used for our Provident Financial.
Our ability to become a existing customers, and the Single View of sustainable financial services organisation Customer system, which is applied to customers depends on our ability to build and maintain that come to us direct, or via website, contact long-term relationships with existing and new centre or agent referrals, generate credit customers by providing well-suited products scores which are used to inform our lending and outstanding service.
As such, we recognise decisions and ensure we provide the right that we have a corporate responsibility to amount of credit to customers at an appropriate continue to deliver products which are wellrate and time.
These systems and models, for suited to the needs of our customers by offering example, resulted in our home credit business high levels of customer service in a personal, turning down around 60% of customer friendly and flexible manner.
Throughout the year, we also engaged with our customers by providing a range of money saving tips, including those that relate to using energy at home in a more efficient manner.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility review continued 43 During 2008, almost two million Vanquis Bank leaflets were sent to customers Vanquis Banks approach to lending is carried advising them of ways to save out with the intention of managing risk.
The money and be more Bank operates a low and grow strategy, which environmentally friendly means that much lower credit limits are set for customers than that of other credit issuers often 250.
Customers card payment performance is then monitored on an ongoing basis with a view to giving a controlled increase 2 m in the credit limit when it is appropriate to do so.
Our cautious approach to underwriting, both for new customer applications and for increases to existing customers credit lines, continued to be tightened during 2008, with over 80% of new customer applications being declined.
Agents At the heart of our home credit service are 11,500 self-employed agents who play a Sarah takes part in a training session at the very important role in issuing credit to, and call centre in Chatham collecting repayments from, our customers.
It is therefore important that all agents adhere Training to our credit control policies and deliver Training and development are an essential part against our commitment to lend in a fair of our CR commitment to our people and to the and responsible manner.
long-term success of our business.
By providing opportunities to our staff to learn and improve During 2008, we introduced a new commission their skills, our workforce becomes more able scheme, which continues to reward agents on to offer a better service, we improve our what they collect, not on what they lend.
This reputation as an employer of choice, and our means that agents have no reason to lend more people can fulfil their potential.
Throughout 2007 than their customers can afford to repay.
The and 2008, both the Consumer Credit Division and new scheme aligns agents behaviour even more Vanquis Bank introduced new systems which will closely with the objectives of the company and, improve the way that training is delivered to among other things, pays in line with collections staff and is subsequently recorded.
The performance, rewarding agents who are taking learning management systems that have been on customers who are able to meet their implemented will enable all employees, whether repayments.
The scheme is much easier to they are in our branch offices or call centres, to understand and is clearer for agents to see what access a range of role-related, computer-based lending practices are required of them, and so training CBT modules that will be accessed act and be rewarded accordingly.
Throughout the year, CBT Our people modules were delivered to employees on a When it comes to delivering our business range of issues.
objectives, we recognise that our employees are As part of our commitment to lend in a fair and our single most important asset.
With nearly responsible manner, and ensure full compliance 3,400 people across the UK and Ireland we are with regulation, CBT modules were also committed to providing them with a motivational delivered to agents on, in particular, personal and safe working environment.
safety, the changes to the Consumer Credit Act, and the FSA Treating Customers Fairly initiative.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility review continued 44 During 2008, we introduced a range of communication and consultative mechanisms across our businesses.
These include monthly leadership briefings, team talk bulletins, intranet sites and employee newsletters.
We also have a number of dialogue mechanisms in place to enable staff to raise and address issues of concern.
Both the Consumer Credit Division and Vanquis Bank have employee forums which are made up of elected representatives and meet on a quarterly basis.
They enable employees from across our business to make suggestions or raise concerns.
Our supply chain Management of our supply chain plays an important role in enabling us to embed social, environmental and ethical considerations within our procurement processes.
It also plays an Home credit agent, Julie, goes through a computer package on responsible lending integral role in enabling us to improve the efficiency of our business processes, to manage Managing equality and diversity risks and to enhance further our reputation as a We realise that it is of strategic importance and responsible company.
Our responsible supply benefit to Provident Financial to attract and chain management policy underlines our retain a diverse workforce and ensure that commitment to upholding professional and equal opportunities underpin our recruitment, responsible supplier relationships, our intention employment, training and remuneration to adhere to the payment of suppliers according practices.
Having a diverse workforce will help to their terms and conditions, and our to draw more customers from diverse responsibility to keep suppliers informed of communities, help us to understand better the our expectations.
needs of existing and future customers, improve We recognise, particularly in the current productivity by enhancing job satisfaction, show economic climate, that a critical issue for our us to be fully inclusive, and reduce exposure to suppliers, particularly small to medium-sized risks associated with legislative compliance.
enterprises, is prompt payment in line with their During 2008, a disability-awareness workshop terms and conditions.
During 2008, we continued was delivered to human resources managers in to assess whether we pay our suppliers of both the Consumer Credit Division and Vanquis products and services in a prompt manner.
Bank by the employers Forum on Disability.
The Throughout the year, the average time taken to focus of the training was to give managers an pay our suppliers across the entire Provident in-depth understanding of our employment Financial group was 25 days.
This continues to obligations under the Disability Discrimination compare well with other UK organisations.
Act and guidance on its practical application.
Community involvement Communication and engagement Provident Financials mission is to be the With our workforce spread over a wide leading non-standard lender in the UK, acting geographical area, it is imperative that we have responsibly in all our relationships and playing good communication channels in place for our a positive role in the communities we serve.
In addition, it is important that we make This means we have a duty to ensure that we it possible for our people to contribute their are a model corporate citizen and have positive comments and suggestions to help us improve impacts on the people within the communities in our service to our stakeholders.
There are two main strands to our community programme: providing Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility review continued 45 benefits to communities where our customers and agents live and our employees work through community partnerships, and working with the money advice sector on financial inclusion initiatives and financial literacy.
Spark, which started in 2006 following extensive stakeholder consultation, continues to be the main strand of the Provident Financial community involvement programme.
This arts-based project is managed throughout the UK and Ireland in partnership with the West Yorkshire Playhouse, and delivered with seven other regional theatres and arts centres in Battersea, Birmingham, Bolton, Dublin, Dundee, edinburgh and Newport.
The children who get involved in Spark generally have few chances to encounter the arts.
Their schools are in the former education Action Zones or excellence In Cities scheme and, as such, are often in the Spark offers children the opportunity to take part most deprived parts of the UK and Ireland.
in exciting arts activities each of the regional theatres works with a most underprivileged areas of the UK and minimum of six schools in its local area, Ireland are given the opportunity to use the delivering a series of five-week courses of arts to learn and develop, and at the same stimulating arts activities to children aged time, increase their confidence and self-esteem.
We also actively support, through financial During 2008, more than 5,300 children from 52 contributions and other means, the delivery schools participated in the Spark project.
The of a programme of advice and education by overall result is that children from some of the the money advice sector across the UK and Ireland.
Throughout the year, this continued to involve supporting mainstream money advice organisations such as Citizens Advice, National Debtline and Money Advice Scotland, and working with more specialised providers, including Credit Action, Debt Cred and Christians Against Poverty.
Head office employee graeme takes part in a Provident in the Community team challenge Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility review continued 46 Weve been working hard Also during 2008, we carried out initial research Assurance and audit process over the past seven years on the focus for our community involvement We remain committed to subjecting our to significantly reduce our programme from 2010 onwards.
The work corporate responsibility programme to energy consumption involved consulting with residents in some of the processes of independent audit and assurance.
communities we serve to understand the types By doing this we can reassure stakeholders that of issues our community involvement activities our CR management systems, processes and should focus on in the future, and to identify procedures are well managed and in accordance potential community partners.
with legislation and best practice.
It also provides reassurance that our reports and any data we In 2009, we aim to develop a new, major strand disclose are accurate, complete and material.
We will work with community leaders in the local CR reporting communities we serve to identify projects The commentary and data contained within our that will benefit each particular community.
annual CR reports is independently assured by Our local management will then work with Corporate Citizenship, a specialist management community organisations to deliver each project consultancy advising corporations that seek and provide leadership, manpower, expertise to improve their economic, social and and funding.
Our aim is to initiate projects environmental performance.
In forming an throughout the UK and Ireland.
opinion and making comments about our CR reports, Corporate Citizenship has regard to: The environment Provident Financials commitment to manage its The principles of materiality, completeness impacts on the environment has become a and responsiveness which underpin the central business issue and a core management international assurance standard activity.
By ensuring that our operations, AccountAbility 1000. products and services are delivered in an The reporting guidance for content and environmentally responsible way, we can grow principles for defining quality contained our business in a way that safeguards the in the global Reporting Initiatives g3 environment.
We have had a group-wide environmental policy Community assurance and environmental audit in place since 2000, with the focus on energy Our community involvement programme has and resource consumption, and waste, water been subject to an external assurance review and transport use minimisation.
This process assesses our environmental management system is a application of the London Benchmarking practical tool that enables our businesses and group LBg model and the effectiveness of departments to understand their impact on the the implementation of our community strategy.
environment and manage these in a structured The LBg model is used as the basis for way.
It also ensures compliance with collecting and reporting our community environmental legislation which, along with the involvement data.
This work is also undertaken requirements of ISO 14001, is evaluated on an by Corporate Citizenship.
annual basis through an independent audit.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility review continued 47 CR key performance indicators Our employees 2008 2007 2006 employee turnover % 15.9 17.1 22.1 Women overall % 49 49 49 Women management % 29 27 24 ethnic minorities % 5.2 3.8 4.0 Our customers 2008 2007 2006 Home credit customer satisfaction % 95 94 93 Our suppliers 2008 2007 2006 Average creditor days 25 24 30 Our environmental management system is also audited against the requirements of the international environmental standard ISO 14001.
This audit work has been carried out by the consultancy firm SeQM since 2006.
Total number of employee Further information volunteering hours Our annual corporate responsibility reports provide further information on our approach to CR management and the activities that underpin our programme.
Our 2008 report will be available in print and online at 2,283 www.
The report is designed to give our stakeholders an account of the way we manage the CR issues that are material to our activities.
If you have any queries or feedback on the CR information reported here or on our approach to CR management in general, please contact our CR manager at @providentfinancial.
com Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc
