Corporate responsibility review Corporate Responsibility CR is a philosophy that is firmly We never underestimate how important the customer is to embedded in Prudentials business, and has become an us.
We work hard to make sure we understand the individual integral part of how we think and behave.
needs of our customers around all of our markets.
Our strong commitment to CR reflects our recognition that A demonstration of this commitment to customers is Prudential stakeholders including customers, employees, shareholders Corporation Asias continued efforts to improve customer and communities increasingly favour companies that satisfaction.
In 2008 we conducted a study on customer embrace sound values around trust, ethics and environmental behaviour and perceptions of Prudential Corporation Asia responsibility.
Prudentials own stakeholders take the same across 11 markets, in particular assessing whether existing view.
As we strive to meet this need, we are helped by the customers would be inclined to recommend its products and fact that these values have been fundamental to Prudential services to others, and areas where service could be improved.
throughout the past 160 years, underpinning our longThe study reaffirmed our focus on extensive agency training, established brand values of reliability and stability.
as customers told us they attached a high priority to the provision of informed advice and guidance in assisting them At the same time, we recognise that our performance in key with their financial objectives.
areas of CR such as corporate governance, environmental management and employment practices can have a significant In the UK, the financial services industry is working with the and positive impact on the Groups financial performance.
UK regulator, government and consumers to improve the way it treats customers.
To support these efforts, Prudential Prudentials main focus in 2008 was to ensure that our CR UK has signed up to the Association of British Insurers strategy continued to align with our business objectives and Customer Impact Scheme.
This scheme is part of the industrys with our stakeholders concerns and interests.
commitment to driving continuous improvement in customers experiences, and as part of it we will participate in an annual Stakeholder dialogue customer survey, to measure changes in our customers Our stakeholder engagement programme enables our experiences and attitudes.
employees and relevant external groups to play a part in shaping Prudentials activities, and ensures that their Jacksons commitment to achieving continuous improvement reasonable expectations are translated into business value.
in the service and experience that we offer customers was This means listening to and working with our stakeholders recognised in 2008 in a leading annual study of call centres.
on an ongoing basis, and being very clear about our The Service Quality Management Group SQMG gave intentions and priorities.
Jackson the 2008 award for highest customer satisfaction in the financial services industry in North America in its annual To gain useful feedback from our stakeholders and ensure survey.
SQMG carries out benchmarking surveys covering our brand values are maintained, Prudential conducts surveys more than 250 of North Americas leading call centres in periodically on a range of topics including how our company various industries.
Jackson also achieved World Class status is perceived, what things we are regarded as doing well, and in the survey the fourth year out of five that we have received where we could improve.
For World Class status to be awarded to a provider, at least 80 per cent of all its customers Customer focus in the survey have to rate themselves as very satisfied with Prudential has over 11 million customers in Asia, nearly their experience.
2.8 million policies and contracts in force across the US through Jackson, over seven million customers in the Building financial capability UK through Prudential UK and around 0.5 million In 2008, the Groups core financial education programme customers through M&G Investments.
continued to focus on the need to play our part in enabling Customers are at the heart of our business.
Over 160 years consumers to make the right decisions for their individual on from our foundation, we remain committed to treating financial savings needs.
The decisions people face in this all of our customers fairly and believe that honesty, openness area range from debt management to saving for retirement.
and transparency in all our dealings with customers are vital, Informing and empowering consumers to make better both before and after they buy from us.
We maintain effective decisions on key issues such as these will, we believe, relationships through regularly monitoring customers build better and more permanent relationships between satisfaction levels and responding accordingly.
consumers and providers, as well as benefiting the wellbeing of both parties in the long term.
74 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Business review We began developing our financial capability programme Similarly, Jackson has a strong tradition of giving back to in the United Kingdom in 2001 and are continuing to see the communities in which it operates.
The Jackson National significant progress, both in the UK and increasingly Community Fund was launched in 2007 and makes numerous internationally.
grants to charities focused on children and the elderly.
In the UK, we work through partnerships with a diverse range In 2008, Jackson donated US$297,000 and more than of organisations such as Citizens Advice, the Personal Finance US$25,000 as in-kind donations to a range of charities focused Education Group pfeg, the Specialist Schools and Academies on the needs of elderly people and children.
The volunteering Trust, and the National Institute of Adult Continuing Education.
programme for employees Jackson in Action saw Jackson As a result of these collaborative initiatives, thousands of adults employees volunteer more than 3,900 hours, a 62 per cent and children are now benefiting from learning how to make increase on the previous year.
Volunteering activities included decisions that will have a profound effect on their financial teaching financial literacy programmes to high-school children.
Jackson also matched employee donations with more than US$400,000 to organisations on the Jackson National We extended our financial literacy programme to Asia in 2004, Community Fund list for 2008. starting with an innovative programme called Investing in Your Future.
This community-based financial training initiative Employee practices provides vital education to women, who are often responsible At Prudential, we do all we can to create an environment that for planning their familys financial needs.
This was launched in enables us to attract and retain the right people those who China and rolled out in Vietnam and India.
To date, more than are committed and able to deliver top performance for our 18,000 women have benefited from the programme.
To achieve our aim of being a leading international retail financial services company, and Investing in our communities to sustain the relative outperformance we achieved in our In 2008, Prudential invested 5.3 million in a wide range chosen markets in 2008, we need to have the right talent of projects to benefit communities in which we do business, in the right places at the right time.
supporting education, welfare and environmental initiatives.
This total investment includes a significant contribution With this requirement in mind, our primary objective in Human made by many of the employees around the Group Resources HR is to deliver the leaders and leadership the through volunteering, often linked with professional Prudential Group needs and will continue to need now and skills development.
It also includes direct donations into the future.
Our HR Strategy is to achieve this by focusing of 3.5 million to charitable organisations.
on five key challenges: We recognise that many employees already make a significant Getting the right people into the business: contribution to charities as volunteers in their own free time.
building and rewarding performance: The Chairmans Award programme was set up to recognise this growing a strong talent pipeline: considerable involvement in the local community.
It also gives developing credible successors: and all the Groups employees the opportunity to get involved with developing an organisation that works.
We will now look at how we continued to tackle each of these The charities that Prudential supports through The Chairmans challenges during 2008.
Award programme were selected following a Group-wide survey of employees.
This identified our employees preference for projects that address the needs of children and the elderly within their local community.
In line with this, we have identified sustainable projects which, where possible, have education at their core.
This focus lies at the heart of our CR programme to raise levels of financial capability worldwide.
In 2008, over 2,200 employees registered to engage in volunteering, and The Chairmans Award programme supported over 50 projects around the world.
75 Corporate responsibility review continued Diversity Growing a strong talent pipeline Our view of diversity complements our equal opportunities The talent and knowledge of our people is the key to policy, which embodies the core principles of treating people Prudentials future success and in 2008 we continued fairly and reasonably according to their individual merits and to invest strongly in employee Learning and Development.
We strive to ensure that Prudential employees Initiatives during the year included the launch in work in an environment where everyone is respected and November 2008 by Prudential UK and ICICI Prudential treated equally on merit.
We therefore fully recognise the Asset Management in India of Managing for Success, value that a diverse workforce brings to our organisation.
a comprehensive new programme to raise the confidence It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration and and capability of our managers.
encouragement to the employment of applicants with suitable Designed and launched in response to the findings of the aptitudes and abilities, and to continuing the employment of 2008 employee survey, the programme provides managers staff who become disabled, and to providing training and with the knowledge, skills and tools they will need to manage career development opportunities to disabled employees.
their people effectively and help us achieve our strategic Our diversity programme has particular application to ambitions.
November 2008 saw the launch of the first part international operations in areas where the equal opportunities of the programme to coincide with end-of-year reviews.
culture is less well embedded than in the UK.
Our Business Each element of the programme has diversity built into Units also continued to drive numerous diversity initiatives.
For example, ICICI Prudential Life in India built on the successful launch of EGDE, its diversity initiative, with new Developing credible successors policies on flexible working including part-time employment Identifying and developing Prudentials future leaders is and additional maternity leave.
In the UK, PRUPIM employees critical to our ability to sustain the success of our business over provided mentoring to students as part of the Ethnic Minority the long term.
In 2008, as in previous years, we undertook Undergraduate Scheme run by the National Mentoring a review of talent across the Group, identifying, developing Consortium NMC.
Also, in the US, Jackson participated and rewarding people with leadership potential.
We also in the Gateway Leadership Programme through the Money continue the series of Group-wide management development Management Institute.
programmes we launched in 2007, assessing senior talent and identifying the development they need to be credible Building and rewarding performance successors to future leadership roles.
As part of our reward practices we believe it is important to A further key part of our efforts to grow our talent pipeline is enable employees to share in the success of the Group through the Momentum Programme.
Launched in 2007, this aims to share ownership.
In the UK we operate two all employee share identify high-potential individuals early in their careers and plans: a share investment plan and a save as you earn SAYE provide them with opportunities to develop the skills needed scheme.
Over 55 per cent of eligible employees in the UK to manage an international business.
Momentum has a strong participate in the SAYE scheme and nearly 30 per cent in the diversity focus and is open to people both within and outside share investment plan.
In Asia we operate two SAYE schemes Prudential.
In 2008 it continued to attract a wide diversity of similar to the UK scheme: one for employees and one for applicants from across the world.
Over 23 per cent of eligible employees and almost 10 per cent of eligible agents participate in these schemes.
Developing an effective organisation structure In 2008 we continued to refine our reward policies to help Having engaged and committed staff is key to the us deliver a fair and transparent reward system to all our smooth operation and success of our business, and effective employees.
We believe employees should be rewarded for communication is invaluable in achieving this goal.
Each the contribution they make to our business as a whole and we of our Business Units runs its own intranet site to keep staff are committed to rewarding both the what results and the up to date, and provides staff with an opportunity to pose how behaviour and competencies.
As part of our reward questions to the Chief Executive of their business.
There are practices, we regularly review and update our remuneration also a number of employee consultation forums, such as the policies and procedures to ensure they are competitive against M&G staff Consultative Committee and the UK Insurance the market and support the growth of our businesses.
We continued to do this in 2008.
76 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Business review To monitor our peoples level of engagement with Prudential as In the US, Jackson has carefully monitored and worked to an employer, and identify areas for improvement, we conduct minimise any negative environmental impact since it moved to employee surveys in our businesses around the world.
These its current headquarters in 2000, working with state and local show us how effectively our organisational elements are authorities on new projects which protect the environment.
In working, and help us take a temperature-check of our culture 2008, all of Prudentials North America operations including to chart our progress towards embedding our four target Jackson, PPM America and PRUPIMs investment properties behaviours deliver, inspire, challenge and connect.
formally joined the US Climate Leaders programme, an Environmental Protection Agency EPA industry government In 2008, these initiatives included employee satisfaction partnership that works with companies to develop surveys at seven of Jacksons subsidiaries in the US.
The comprehensive climate change strategies.
results were used at employee focus groups to gather input on possible improvements, resulting in the development In Asia, we are currently in the process of grading our of action plans including employee recognition, increased buildings using a clear and transparent environmental training opportunities, and career planning.
Where opportunities arise, we then is M&G, which completed an employee survey for the fifth intend to improve our overall environmental performance by year running in 2008, and found that over 90 per cent of migrating to properties in the highest category for employees were proud to work at M&G.
Reducing our environmental footprint Responsible investment RI Protecting the environment is essential to sustaining the Prudential is committed to responsible investment RI, which quality of life of current and future generations.
The challenge involves focusing on the way the entities we invest in manage is to combine continuing economic growth with long-term their own CR issues.
M&Gs approach to RI is described in the sustainable development.
Prudential is committed to ensuring booklet Issues Arising from Share Ownership, available at that its policies and business actions promote the consideration www.
To date, RI has tended to focus principally of the environment.
on equity markets, but its scope is now expanding to other types of investment, including property.
With around Under the European Union Energy Performance of Buildings 15 billion of funds under management as at 31 December 2008, Directive, Energy Performance Certificates EPCs will be PRUPIM is one of the UKs largest commercial property required for any building that is constructed, sold, or rented.
investment managers and accounts for over 75 per cent of EPCs will rate the energy performance of a building, enabling Prudentials direct environmental impact in the UK.
Through both property investors and prospective occupiers to consider its participation in the Institutional Investors Group on climate energy efficiency ratings and levels of carbon emissions.
We change and the property working group of the United Nations will be introducing EPCs, initially in the UK, for our commercial Environment Programme Finance Initiative UNEP FI, PRUPIM investment property portfolio and our occupied property is helping to boost awareness of the implications of climate portfolio.
We will also implement the directive elsewhere in change for property investment, while also providing us with accordance with national regulations.
valuable insights into how Prudential can constructively Sustainability is critical to our business model and we are address this important issue.
in the process of formally integrating it into our investment process.
PRUPIM was one of the first property companies to Supply chain management achieve the international environment management standard Prudential recognises that its own social, environmental ISO14001 for its UK portfolio.
In 2007, PRUPIM set up an and economic impacts go beyond the products and services innovative project called the Improver Portfolio to examine it supplies to include the performance of its suppliers ways it can reduce a typical property portfolios carbon and contractors.
footprint while maintaining or even enhancing investment returns.
The Improver Portfolio consists of 25 PRUPIMmanaged properties covering all sectors.
77 Corporate responsibility review continued With this in mind, our policy is to work in partnership with our Under this framework, seven CR priorities have been developed suppliers who operate with policies and procedures consistent as a basis for guiding and planning our activities.
with the standards set out in our Group Code of Business 1 Giving consumers in each country where we operate the Conduct, and to help them reduce their impact on the confidence and tools they need to protect and nurture their environment.
Procurement practices in Prudential UK have financial security through building their financial capability.
been successfully accredited with the Chartered Institute of 2 Giving customers fair, transparent financial products Purchasing and Supply CIPS certification, an industry through a variety of trusted distribution channels.
benchmark of recognised good practice.
3 Supporting ageing populations and changing demographics by providing products that meet evolving customer needs.
Payment policy 4 Understanding and reducing our direct and indirect It is the policy of the Group to agree terms of payment environmental footprint.
when orders for goods and services are placed and to pay in 5 Being an employer of choice.
Trade creditor days, based on 6 Investing to benefit the communities in which we operate.
the ratio of amounts which were owed to trade creditors at the 7 Being open and transparent about our responsibility year-end to the aggregate of the amounts invoiced by trade priorities, reporting challenges as well as achievements.
creditors during the year, were 21 days.
The approach we take to delivering against these priorities is Donations closely aligned with our operating model.
This means our CR Prudential is committed to supporting the communities activities are managed by our businesses, locally, since it is where it is an employer.
In 2008, our Group spent 5.3 million they who are closest to their customers and communities and in support of our various communities.
Our direct donations therefore best positioned to deliver the most positive impact to charitable organisations amounted to 3.5 million, of which possible.
Meanwhile, the Group sets the overarching strategy approximately 1.9 million came from EU operations.
and governance, provides support tools and advice, manages external reporting and benchmarking, and drives Group-wide This is broken down as follows: Education 1,040,000: programmes such as The Chairmans Award.
Social and Welfare 419,000: Environment and Regeneration 88,000: Cultural Activities 83,000 and Staff Volunteering Importantly, we do not impose a one-size-fits-all approach to 313,000.
The aggregate figure for charitable donations from CR.
Instead, our new framework ensures a common approach Prudentials non-EU subsidiaries Jackson National Life and across the Group while allowing our businesses the flexibility Prudential Corporation Asia amounted to 1.6 million.
they need to devise and implement programmes that best meet the needs of their local environment and stakeholder It is our Group policy not to make donations to political parties expectations.
nor to incur political expenditure, within the meaning of those expressions as defined in the UK Political Parties, Elections and In 2009, as part of the process of embedding the new Referendums Act 2000.
In line with this policy, we did not framework, we are developing a new set of key performance make any such donations or incur any such expenditure indicators and assessment processes for each of our seven CR in 2008. priorities.
We will report against these in the years to come.
Our 2008 2009 responsibility report, More Than Words, has 2009 developments been structured to reflect our agreed priorities, highlighting In late 2008, we developed a new CR Framework to drive our governance, policies, programmes and activities.
improved sustainability performance across our current activities, provide greater focus to our programmes and Further information can be accessed at enable a more consistent approach to our reporting.
co. uk prudential-plc cr Hard copies of the report are available from the Groups CR team: Prudential plc, Laurence Pountney Hill, London EC4R 0HH.
Tel: 44 0 20 7548 3706 78 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Governance Governance 80 Board of directors 83 Governance report: Corporate governance Risk governance Corporate responsibility governance 99 Additional disclosures 100 Index to principal Directors Report disclosures 79
