Corporate responsibility report continued Environment continued Objectives for 2009 Electricity usage in ofces with higher than expected consumption relative to the benchmark will be reviewed.
An environmental action plan will be prepared with a focus on energy efficient technology, habits in the workplace and energy management.
Scope 3 Business travel excluding company cars This year a full assessment of the Groups business travel activities was conducted, focusing on ights, rail, taxis and car travel.
Travel emissions are dominated by ights.
Consequently, our priority for the coming year is to reduce their number.
This will include the continued promotion and use of video conferencing.
To improve data collection and travel policy adherence we plan to move to a single travel provider.
Chart 3. Business travel 2007 08 tonnes CO2e Tonnes CO2e Flights 265 Non company cars 93 National rail 87 Taxis 5 Total 450 Flights The most frequent journeys were between London and Edinburgh, UK mainland and Jersey, and London and Geneva.
Over 77% of ights were UK domestic.
We will aim to reduce this over the next 12 months by switching to rail where possible.
Following the sale of our offshore trust businesses, the number of overseas ights should decline.
Rail National rail accounts for the majority of business travel journeys.
We will continue to promote the use of rail travel as the preferred mode of transport between ofces in the UK.
We plan to improve the recording of rail journey details in 2009.
Taxis and non-company cars The use of taxis and non-company cars may result in significant emissions.
We plan to monitor staff use of their vehicles for business travel and will continue to encourage the use of public transport where practical.
Landll waste and recycling This year we have improved coverage of our waste and recycling reporting to cover all main ofces in the Group.
Waste and recycling data 2007 08 Mass collected kg Proportion of total Mass employee kg Paper and cardboard 80,224 34% 114 Secure shredding 67,678 28% 96 Other materials 14,118 6% 20 Total recycling 162,020 68% 230 Residual landll waste 76,666 32% 109 Total waste 238,686 100% 339 All ofces have an active recycling programme with high levels of participation that cover at a minimum paper and cardboard.
In most ofces shredded paper, glass, plastic bottles and cans are also recycled.
Of the 339kg of waste produced per employee per annum, it is estimated that 230kg is recycled.
Redundant IT equipment is passed to EOL IT Services an approved WEEE disposal agent with a zero to landll policy for re-use or recycling.
Wherever possible we continue to recycle uorescent tubes, batteries, toner cartridges and mobile telephones.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 52 Corporate responsibility report Environment continued Recycling rates for the business have been calculated from supplier provided data, and sampling.
Average recycling rate is estimated at 68%, with Liverpool, Cambridge, Winchester and Edinburgh ofces achieving rates of over 74%.
Objectives for 2009 Improving overall recycling rate and coverage of recyclable materials will be a target for Rathbones in 2009.
The London ofce is investigating the possibility of moving to a zero to landll waste management approach with residual waste being taken to a waste to energy plant by specialists Paper Round Ltd. Paper usage From this year we will report paper usage within the Group.
This will include stationery paper and paper used for printing.
Paper usage Stationery purchased Printing stock purchased Total tonnes tonnes tonnes 100% recycled 37 32 69 Some recycled content 8 8 Virgin stock 6 6 12 Total 43 46 89 Total paper consumption amounts to 89 tonnes, which is approximately equivalent to 14 million A4 sheets.
Paper is an energy and carbon intensive product to produce.
We aim, where possible, to reduce usage, purchase recycled paper and to work with our print suppliers to reduce waste in the printing of our reports and brochures.
We are pleased that our paper usage is dominated by recycled stock: this represents 78% of our paper consumption by weight.
The majority of the stationery paper purchased is Evolve brand.
We have chosen this as a 100% recycled product made exclusively from UK post consumer waste.
In London our paper recycling waste stream returns to the mills in Kent that produce Evolve paper.
Paper usage was unusually high in late 2007 due to the production of new client documentation following the implementation of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
We have estimated that our paper consumption this year has caused emissions of 175 tonnes CO e. However, as no agreed 2 standard currently exists for GHG emissions estimation for paper, we have excluded this from the overall carbon footprint.
Objectives for 2009 A paper usage reduction plan will be developed: this will address three themes: Reduction of paper use in Rathbones ofces better printer management and staff working habits Reduction of paper documents used for client communication Improved waste management at our printers Whilst Financial Services Authority rules require the posting of paper valuations to clients at least twice a year, the introduction of on-line client access to information regarding their investment portfolio should reduce the printing of ad-hoc reports.
We will also continue to seek cost effective ways to reduce use of virgin stock where possible.
Conclusions Rathbones will aim to reduce its carbon footprint over the next few years by, for example, reducing its paper consumption and, where possible, business travel, particularly by air.
We will also be investigating the introduction of carbon offset arrangements with a view to making Rathbones carbon neutral.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 53 Corporate responsibility report Corporate responsibility report continued Environment continued Carbon Smart Opinion Statement Carbon Smart has been commissioned by Rathbone Brothers Plc to measure Rathbones carbon 7 footprint for selected UK ofces for its 2008 Corporate responsibility report.
In addition, Carbon Smart has provided Rathbones with guidance with regards to the collection of data and identication of practical actions for its Environmental Action Plan.
Through this engagement Carbon Smart has assured Rathbones that the reported carbon footprint is representative of the UK business and that the data presented is credible, coherent and compliant with appropriate standards and industry practices.
Data has been collected and calculated following the WRI GHG Protocol tools and principles.
When assessed against the GHG Protocol principles of completeness, consistency and accuracy, we conclude the following: 7 London, Liverpool, Bristol, Edinburgh, Cambridge, Winchester and Exeter Relevance We have ensured the GHG inventory appropriately reects the GHG emissions of the Company and serves the decisionmaking needs of users both internal and external to the Company.
Completeness Reported environmental data covers 92% of worldwide employees including all entities that meet the criteria of being subject to control or significant inuence of the reporting organisation.
Assessment of the data gathering processes reveal that the completeness of quantitative data reported needs further improvement.
Consistency Due to changes in the scope of the review and data quality, it was decided to use 2007 08 data as a new baseline to improve comparability over time.
Transparency Given the limitations in data quality and completeness, we have had to make assumptions in some cases, especially in business travel.
Appropriate references to the accounting and calculation methodologies and data sources have been made in this report.
Accuracy Data is considered accurate within the limits of the quality and completeness of the data provided.
Carbon Smart has assessed the data quality against the GHG Protocol principles.
Data from each emission source has been rated 1 poorest to 5 best.
For this year, overall data quality has been rated 2.6.
Rathbones goal is to increase this rating to 4 by 2010 by strengthening its data gathering systems.
Scope Data quality rating Comments Overall 2.6 Scope 1 2 A significant portion of gas data was not available and benchmarks had to be used.
Company car data required minor assumptions and estimates.
Scope 2 3 Majority of electricity related data is free from assumptions and estimations.
However, it includes extrapolations and pro rata calculations.
Scope 3 2 Flight data quality was good with minor assumptions and estimates.
Rail and car data required significant extrapolation.
Taxi data was based on cost benchmarks.
Paper 4 High level of good quality data coverage.
Waste and recycling 2 significant level of data sampling and extrapolation required.
About Carbon Smart Carbon Smart is a carbon and sustainability consultancy headquartered in London.
Our team of sustainability, environmental, business and academic experts cover energy efficiency, waste and recycling, green procurement, travel, renewable energy, carbon offset, carbon management, communications and wider sustainability issues.
Signed Ben Murray Esther Rodriguez Director Associate Director Carbon Smart Limited Carbon Smart Limited Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 54 Corporate responsibility report Employees As with all professional services rms, Rathbones greatest asset is its people.
Their health, well-being, development, remuneration and involvement are all vital to the continuing success of the business.
Health and welfare Rathbones is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment in which its employees can work.
With the help of external consultants our health and safety policy for the UK ofces is regularly updated to reect current legislation and best practice.
We provide a range of training courses for those staff with health and safety responsibilities and a steering group comprising representatives from all our ofces meets quarterly to share knowledge and to ensure that health and safety standards are maintained.
Upon completion of a qualifying period, all UK employees and their direct family members are eligible for private medical cover paid for by the Company.
All UK staff have the opportunity to attend an annual medical examination and a biennial eye test and Rathbones also provides an independent and condential employee assistance programme offering advice on employment, personal and legal concerns.
Equality and diversity Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is our policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly and on merit regardless of their race, gender, marital status, age, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
It is our policy and practice to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled people.
If employees become disabled during their service with Rathbones, wherever practicable, arrangements and adjustments are made to continue their employment and training.
Should this not be possible we provide support in the form of a permanent health insurance scheme which pays a monthly income in lieu of salary and pays pension contributions on behalf of the employer and employee.
Work-life balance The review and implementation of our work-life balance policies have continued over the last year.
On average, 42 staff now take advantage of the childcare voucher scheme up 17% on 2007.
Despite the increase to holiday entitlement made for 2008 the popular holiday purchase scheme has again been offered and 115 employees are opting to buy up to five additional days of leave to take in 2009, but we are mindful that this can lead to greater pressure on other staff.
Maternity benets remain considerably in excess of those required under statutory provisions.
In 2008, only five women out of the 20 due to return from maternity leave chose not to return to work.
Career breaks of up to two years are also available for those with childcare responsibilities.
Flexible working policies are offered with a high number of successful applications, particularly from parents with young children.
Expected changes in legislation which will extend the opportunity and right to apply for exible working will be incorporated into our policies.
On completion of five years service, employees have the opportunity to take up to three months unpaid leave once in every ten years without any loss of service-related benets such as pension or death in service cover.
The uptake and effectiveness of these policies is monitored together with other indicators of staff satisfaction levels such as average annual sickness rates and staff turnover.
Training and development Professional development Rathbones is committed to the professional development of its staff.
The Company gives full support to those studying to achieve professional examinations.
This year saw significant changes in our chosen qualications.
The first stage for investment professionals is the Certicate in Securities Retail awarded by the Securities and Investment Institute SII.
This has been enhanced with an additional module on investment and risk.
The second significant change has been the move by the SII to streamline their diplomas to give practitioners in the private client investment industry a dedicated professional qualication.
The SII Masters Programme Wealth Management has been designed in conjunction with the industry and is entirely relevant to our business.
Rathbones is now encouraging its staff to take this qualication and there are already some who are due to complete the course in early 2009.
The Company has also extended its use of the Chartered Financial Analyst CFA examinations beyond the unit trust business.
The increase in numbers of staff taking this internationally recognised qualication is to ensure the maintenance of capability in financial analysis.
Following qualication, all regulated staff are required to maintain a high level of continuous professional development by attending training courses, seminars and to keep up to date through industry related reading.
Rathbones has established a standard for continuing professional development which is above that recommended by the SII.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 55 Corporate responsibility report Corporate responsibility report continued Employees continued Graduate programme Our first formal graduate programme concluded in 2008 with participants taking up roles during September in investment management teams.
The scheme provided delegates with specialist knowledge and work experience across the business in both investment and support functions.
It is expected that the knowledge gained and the appreciation of the business as a whole will be beneficial not only for the individuals concerned but also the wider team in which they work.
Management Development Programmes Rathbones has continued with its commitment to improving networking, knowledge of the business and engagement with staff through a formal development programme sponsored by our chief executive.
The Rathbone Development Programme, now in its third year, brings together cross functional, multi-location groups of staff to facilitate their development in skills such as negotiation, presentation and team working.
A significant element of the programme involves delegates working on live business projects.
Projects are identied by senior managers or are business improvement ideas suggested by the employees on the programme.
IT training There is now a dedicated IT training team in place, focusing on improving IT skills across the business, both on Rathbones specic investment systems and the widely used Microsoft packages.
Rewards and benets Employees are encouraged to identify and to become involved with the financial performance of the Group.
We have used equity as part of the package for investment managers bringing business into the rm and, in 2001, Rathbones was one of the first companies in the country to launch a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Under the SIP, which is open to all employees, the Company matches every share purchased by individual employees with another free of charge.
Shares are also given free of charge if earnings growth conditions are achieved.
Take-up of the SIP is high, with employees at all levels and in all locations participating.
A member of staff who has been in the SIP since launch and has made the maximum monthly contributions now owns 4,428 shares, which were valued at 36,907 as at 31 December 2008.
To encourage the use of public transport, we offer interest-free loans for season tickets to all staff on satisfactory completion of their probationary period.
We have introduced a Cycle to Work scheme in 2008 and 19 employees have taken up the option.
Rathbones recognises its responsibility to assist in the financial welfare of its employees when they reach retirement age and pays contributions to provide death in service cover and benets on retirement.
The opportunity to sacrifice profit share payments into pension arrangements is now available to staff.
We believe that the benets provided are generous and worthwhile, and are valued by all permanent employees eligible to join the schemes available.
We continually monitor this area to ensure the provision of benets and practices remain up-todate and in line with rapidly changing legislative requirements.
Employee involvement Communication with staff takes place through a variety of means including internal email, and a quarterly internal newsletter to which all staff are actively encouraged to contribute both information and news about business issues, as well as articles on social, environmental and community issues.
Employees have easy access to policies, procedures, organisation charts, announcements and company news through a web-based shared workspace.
Presentations to staff on full and half year results are given by Board members.
All investment managers across Rathbone Investment Managements ten ofces in the UK and in Jersey are linked by telephone for a daily morning meeting to hear key market news and by telephone and video conference weekly for a more in-depth discussion of market trends, asset allocation and individual investment matters.
Non-investment management staff are also welcome to attend these meetings.
Consultation with staff takes place when major changes to benets such as pensions are being considered and a range of internal committees and working parties draw in participation from across the rm on key issues such as IT, training, business continuity and marketing.
We were named as a runner up as Employer of the Year for 2008 by Executive PA magazine.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 56 Corporate responsibility report Community Rathbones continues to review community activities, both on a group and a local scale, and supports employees participation in a wide range of activities involving both local and international charities.
We encourage employees to take up voluntary and charitable positions, and the Board supports participation in such activities.
For example, the chairman is deputy chairman of Fight for Sight and the chief executive is involved with an educational charity.
Many of our staff are involved with schools, colleges, charities, civic, youth and religious groups in various capacities.
Donations and fundraising During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 165,478, representing 0.39% of continuing Group pre-tax profits 2007: 205,079, representing 0.43% of continuing Group pre-tax profits.
This included 45,000 as part of a four year commitment totalling 150,000 made to support four Liverpool secondary schools in their bids for Specialist Schools and Academies Trust status.
In addition to this financial support, a number of individuals from our Liverpool ofce sit on the governing bodies of the four schools, thus helping to forge strong working relationships with each school whilst bringing a range of skills to their committees.
It also provides the members of staff involved with the opportunity to develop their wider professional and management skills.
A number of initiatives have been implemented with the individual schools to cater to their particular needs and we have agreed to provide two work experience places for each school annually.
Additionally, as part of our contribution to the celebrations for the 2008 Liverpool Capital of Culture, we hosted a Summer Exhibition of artistic works in conjunction with the four schools.
In 2008, Help for Heroes and the Roy Castle Lung Cancer Foundation were selected by employee ballot as the charities we would support for 2008 and 2009.
Payments of 250 each were made to 20 charities that were not selected.
Employees were encouraged to support the charities through participating in various events such as sweepstakes, an Oktoberfest celebration and Christmas party rafes, and in 2008 raised 7,000.
Staff are encouraged to donate to charity in a tax efficient manner through the Give As You Earn GAYE payroll giving scheme.
In 2008, Rathbone staff made regular payments totalling 107,783 2007: 66,879 through this scheme, which is administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
The Company matched staff donations of up to 200 per month made through GAYE and in 2008 donated 77,843 2007: 40,729 to causes chosen by employees through this method.
Following the active promotion of GAYE to staff 115 UK staff 16% now use this way of donating to charity.
Sponsorships As well as direct charitable donations, Rathbones provides support in the form of sponsorship, advertising and attendance at events organised by charities and arts organisations.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments continues to support Schumacher UK in its aims to promote sustainable development through its co-sponsorship of the organisations Bristol series of lectures.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments has also maintained its sponsorship of The Funding Network, a UK-based organisation which brings people together in a marketplace to help fund charitable projects.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 57 Corporate responsibility report Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements, in accordance with law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In the case of persons who were directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened in the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as dened and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Responsibility Statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 1 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2 the Directors report, together with information provided in the Chairmans and Chief executives statements, Strategy and KPIs and Business review includes a fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with the description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By Order of the Board A D Pomfret Chief executive 3 March 2009 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 58 Directors responsibilities Consolidated accounts Contents Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc 60 Consolidated income statement 62 Consolidated balance sheet 63 Consolidated cash ow statement 64 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 65 Notes to the consolidated accounts 66 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 59 Consolidated accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Rathbone Brothers Plc for the year ended 31 December 2008, which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash ow statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Rathbone Brothers Plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specic information presented in the Business review, which is cross referenced from the Business review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, Chief executives statement, Business review, Directors report, Corporate governance report and all of the other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the 60 members of Rathbone Brothers Plc
