Additional information continued Economic and monetary environment and firms, for example by purchasing mortgage-backed securities and The world economy entered its most difficult period in a generation in corporate commercial paper.
More unorthodox policy measures are the second half of 2008.
The failure of a large financial institution in likely this year.
Similar to the UK, monetary policy failed to gain much September coincided with the near-seizure of already fragile interbank traction in the wider economy.
Three-month US$ LIBOR averaged close funding markets.
Heightened risk aversion among investors led to to 100bps higher than the prevailing policy rate.
unprecedented volatility across global financial markets including equities, fixed income and foreign exchange.
Many asset prices The US officially entered recession in December 2007 and, in spite of a tumbled, with global real estate and equity markets the worst hit, while a fiscal stimulus in the first half of the year, activity continued to fall flight to quality prompted an historic rally in government bond markets through 2008 and is forecast to decline markedly in 2009.
The effects that pushed long-term risk free interest rates towards all time lows in were acutely felt in employment, with US non-farm businesses shedding many developed economies.
2.6 million jobs in the twelve months to December.
The dollars 11% depreciation in 2007 helped to boost net exports, making trade the The pronounced increase in commodity prices in the first half of 2008, single biggest contributor to GDP growth in 2008.
However, this support together with the intensifying financial crisis led to a further sharp was fading in early 2009, due to slumping overseas demand.
deterioration in private sector confidence in all major economies.
Softer demand conditions adversely The Eurozone started 2008 on a strong footing, with some member affected prospects for profitability and employment.
Policymakers countries experiencing above-trend growth in the first quarter.
Since September, governments have either for reasons that varied across countries, conditions worsened markedly proposed or implemented measures that include the recapitalisation of throughout the remainder of the year, and the region officially entered the banking sector, tax cuts and or new infrastructure spending.
Central recession in the second quarter.
Growth in Germany, the regions largest banks provided support through rate cuts and increased liquidity economy and the worlds largest exporter, was hit hard by the slowdown provision.
Despite these supportive actions, the global economy in global trade.
Many of the more peripheral economies, like Ireland and remained on a downward trajectory at the beginning of 2009, with many Spain, with higher debt levels were hit hard by the turbulence in credit industrialised economies in recession.
markets and falling asset prices.
Economic activity in the entire region is forecast to continue to contract in 2009.
In the UK, the Bank Rate fell from 5.5% at the beginning of 2008 to 1.0% in February 2009.
The Bank of England remained cautious in the Policy in the Eurozone was on average less supportive than in the UK or first half of 2008, lowering policy rates a modest 25bps twice.
Mounting the US, with the Repo Rate on hold at 4% in the first half of 2008.
In inflationary pressures were a major constraint, with the annual inflation July 2008, the ECB raised rates by 25bps to fend off the dangers of rate climbing as high as 5.2% in September, the highest reading since spiralling inflation.
Official rates finally started to fall in October, when the Bank of Englands operational independence in 1997, and some the ECB participated in a globally co-ordinated rate cut to calm way above the official target of 2%.
Before October, the Bank focused investors fears amid intensifying strains in the global financial system.
on liquidity measures to support the financial system.
When it became The euros strong appreciation against the dollar also reduced the clear in the final quarter of 2008 that the confidence in the wider competitiveness of the regions exporters.
economy had fallen to levels consistent with a deep contraction, policy became more aggressive.
The government assisted the recapitalisation Initially, Asia Pacific appeared insulated from economic difficulties of the banking sector, while the Bank of England reduced rates rapidly, elsewhere as China and India continued to grow strongly in the first half from 5.0% in October to 1.0% in February 2009. of 2008.
In fact, surging inflation reinforced concerns about overheating, and prompted a series of policy measures aimed at cooling monetary However, the economy had already gathered too much negative conditions.
But this perception changed towards the end of 2008, when momentum to stop an official recession GDP declined by 2.1% in the recession in the major industrialised countries highlighted the regions second half of 2008, and is widely expected to fall further in 2009.
One exposure to a retrenchment in global trade.
Growth forecasts have been reason is lower policy rates have failed to translate effectively into looser cut substantially, with 2009 growth in China and India potentially falling monetary conditions for the private sector.
Three-month sterling LIBOR, to half its level from a year earlier.
Increasing risk aversion of a key determinant of borrowing costs for households and firms, international investors also led to large capital outflows, putting remained on average almost 100bps above the prevailing Bank Rate, downward pressure on floating currencies and local equity markets.
well above its long-term average of 20bps.
Sterlings 17% depreciation on a trade-weighted basis did not deliver a significant offset to Exchange rates affect earnings and costs reported by the Groups weakening domestic demand due to the difficult economic conditions non-UK subsidiaries, and the value of non-sterling denominated assets prevailing in the UKs main trading partners.
Sterling weakened significantly during 2008, losing 28% against the dollar and 30% against the euro, respectively.
These US policy rates also declined substantially in 2008, from 4.25% in movements increase the sterling-value of non-sterling earnings, costs, January to effectively zero in December.
With no room to cut interest assets and liabilities.
As a result, the Group recognises translation rates further, the Federal Reserve has since started to target longer term benefits if it reports profits and or has a positive net asset position market interest rates to directly lower the cost of funds for households denominated in foreign currency.
278 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
