BUSINESS REVIEW | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REMAINS FUNDAMENTAL TO THE WAY RSA CONDUCTS ITS BUSINESS AND THIS HAS BEEN PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT IN A YEAR OF TURBULENCE AND UNCERTAINTY FOR FINANCIAL SERVICES.
help to ensure that doing the right thing forms APPROACH AND Our UK Personal Customer Management part of the performance and remuneration GOVERNANCE programme, provides customers with their structure at RSA.
own dedicated customer services manager, Behaving responsibly and ethically in the way was pioneered in our Canadian business.
Our CR data, processes and external reporting we manage our business directly affects the It has now been rolled out to over 300,000 are verified by the Corporate Citizenship customers.
This demonstrates our focus on environment, people and the communities in Company AA1000, GRI, ISAE3000 with an the customer experience.
We are committed to extra audit on the Groups carbon footprint doing the right thing both as individuals and forming part of our offsetting due diligence Product innovation is also key to our success and as a company.
across the business we have created tailored and relevant products for specific customer groups.
We aim to make sure our approach is practical Our progress was recognised in 2008 by the Social and environmental changes create new and focused on our main business impacts, award of the Investor Relations Society Best demands for insurance and we continue to delivering commercial benefits while recognising communication of CR, inclusion in the Dow develop insurance solutions that provide the value we add to society.
Jones Sustainability Index winner of Sector additional social or environmental benefits: Mover and being a Gold rated Times Top We focus on three key themes across the 100 Company.
r In the UK, our Energy Performance Group: the environment and climate change, Management Proposition won the Insurance safety and social inclusion.
These issues have Further information on our approach, Times insurer innovation category.
The been identified as important by our customers, governance and policies can be found at: solution provides Energy Performance investors and employees.
com rsa pages responsibility Certificates to support Government the sustainability charity who we ask to carry ourapproach legislation to reduce CO out an annual assessment, agree that we are emissions 2 focusing on the right issues.
r We are the providers of a VanCity CUSTOMERS Purehome insurance proposition through The principles by which we operate the CNS in Canada.
The policy provides business and our brand beliefs underpin our As an insurer, we play a vital role in helping supplemental coverage to upgrade your commitments and our CR policies form an people recover from sometimes catastrophic home with more environmentally sound essential part of our broader risk and setback.
Helping get their lives back on track is alternatives for windows, heating systems, governance framework.
Our response during the 2008 flooring, paints, energy efficient appliances snowstorms, flooding and earthquake in China and more Responsibility for CR lies with the Group CEO, was to help our customers through our rapid r RSA Marine in China is helping to who chairs the bi-annual Group Executive claims response.
Across RSA both employees provide solutions for the growing sector Committee review of CR and annual review and the business assisted others less fortunate of aquaculture where 70% of world by the Board.
Briefings and training on specific through disaster relief.
CR issues are given as they arise.
Customer service is of critical importance to We remain committed to clear and open CR targets and objectives are included in CEO us and our Canadian business embodies this.
communication with our customers, and to goals which are cascaded to direct reports Johnson is the leader out of 750 blue chip resolving any complaints promptly.
This was and relevant business functions.
All employees organisations around the world for the CMAT reflected in our continued upper quartile are assessed against the brand beliefs, which customer relationship management assessment.
performance in the Association of British | | 34 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Insurers 2008 benchmark, which is 16% EMPLOYEES CLIMATE CHANGE above the industry average.
& ENVIRONMENT A sustainable business needs to attract, BUSINESS PARTNERS develop and reward talented people, as well Climate change has continued to rise up the as giving responsibility and making them political agenda in 2008.
As an insurer, any We work closely with our business partners accountable for their actions.
We continue to change in the intensity or frequency of extreme and intermediaries to grow a successful focus on developing employees throughout weather conditions is a significant issue.
business together while reducing our collective the business and at all levels through our environmental and social impact.
During 2008, major initiatives in 2008: We remain committed to engaging in the in the UK we asked 96 of our suppliers about climate change debate and working closely their management of these issues and engaged r Our Technical Academy now has over with a range of forums: including in 2008 the in active dialogue to improve standards.
10,000 members across the Group in insurance working group of the United Nations the core disciplines of claims, actuarial Environment Programme for Financial In 2009, we will look to pilot this approach and underwriting Institutions and the ABI ClimateWise initiative.
in Canada and Scandinavia building on our r The Executive Development Programme is responsible procurement agenda and sector now entering its fifth year, bringing together During 2008, we have focused on integrating wide collaboration through the Financial leaders from across the Group to work our online environmental management system Services Procurement Forum.
collaboratively on critical strategic issues across our business.
We achieved over 73% of r Our Graduate and FastTrack programmes our environmental targets across the Group for RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT supported thirty new employees in 2008 2008.
We will continue to set challenging targets providing structured support and career and extend our approach across the Group.
paths for new starters and high potential The bulk of our UK equity assets continue to be individuals.
F&C has Our Irish business became carbon neutral for one of the largest Governance and Sustainable the first time, joining our UK business in building In 2008 we focused on employee engagement Investment teams in Europe, enabling it to on strong programmes of targets and leveraging the insights from a revised Employee follow a policy of active engagement across operational energy efficiency improvements.
86% of employees within RSA its portfolios on environmental, social and All offsetting of equivalent emissions is made in participated.
The feedback obtained has been governance issues.
Last year F&C engaged renewable energy projects certified to the used to generate ideas and clear action plans Voluntary Carbon Standard.
with 902 companies on a wide range of issues to make changes across our business.
from climate change to labour standards.
1 Data includes additional Emerging Markets operations.
3 1 1 WATER m WASTE Tonnes PAPER Tonnes ENERGY MWh CO Tonnes 2 2007 2008 11,887 litres per fte 2007 2008 174kg per fte 2007 2008 135kg per fte 2007 2008 2,823 kWh per fte 2007 2008 2,780 kg per fte BUSINESS REVIEW | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 35 We are constantly improving and evolving During 2009, we look forward to rolling out Environment targets 2009 % reduction our technology to assess risk for customers.
our volunteer programmes across our Latin CO 2 Our flood risk assessment tool allows us to American business to help local communities GROUP 1.5 insure customers who might otherwise be selected by employees.
UK 2.5 excluded by assessing risk to the individual ENERGY postcode level.
We are partners in Road safety continues to be a major issue for UK ELEC 15 Eurotempest which allows a forecast of us as an insurer and we have continued to IRELAND ELEC 5 CANADA ELEC 3 likely wind damage up to five days in support road safety programmes around the TRAVEL advance of a storm.
world, most recently in Lithuania, Chile, Dubai 1 DENMARK AIR 1 and Sweden.
In Denmark, we launched a new 1 DENMARK CAR 2 We aim to make it more affordable for programme for children based on our successful 1 SWEDEN AIR 1 customers to make environmental choices programme in Sweden, donating over 2,000 1 reflective safety vests.
SWEDEN CAR 5 through products and services such as our IRELAND AIR 5 discounts for fuel efficient and alternative fuel IRELAND CAR 5 vehicles and our customised environmental We donated over 2.2 million 2 UK SHORT HAUL 5 2007: 2.3 million in charitable donations home insurance for the members of the UK WASTE & RECYCLING in 2008, with over 13,039 volunteer hours charity the National Trust.
We also provided 1,000,026 in gifts in CANADA RECYCLING 2 kind in the form of sports fields for three schools COMMUNITY 1 DENMARK PAPER WASTE 5 in London.
Our focus continues to be helping IRELAND WASTE DISPOSED 10 issues which link to our business objectives and During 2008, building on the success of the UK WASTE TO LANDFILL 10 brand beliefs and where we are able to use our UK National Volunteer Week held in 2007, PAPER knowledge such as safety, environment and we launched similar programmes across 1 SWEDEN 5 social inclusion to do the right thing.
Canada, Scandinavia and our Asia & Middle East WATER businesses.
For the first time employees were UK 5 For full details of progress please see the full actively encouraged to help local communities Corporate Responsibility Report.
Note during work hours with 7,250 volunteers taking All Canadian targets refer to RSA Canada only.
part in Community activity across the Group.
CO IMPACT CO EMISSIONS BY REGION 2 2 % % RAIL 2 AIR EMERGING MARKETS 13 12 ENERGY INTERNATIONAL 58 30 UK INCLUDING ROAD 58 22 CORPORATE CENTRE OTHER 5
