Business review Corporate responsibility Innovation: We challenge the established way Corporate Schroders has a long-standing commitment to of doing things and seek to anticipate future responsibility sustainability, maintaining consistently high developments.
We have the expertise and standards in all areas of corporate responsibility.
flexibility to provide the right solutions.
20 21 Teamwork: We work as a team to create value for We seek to: our clients.
We value the contribution of individuals Attract and develop the best people: and encourage healthy debate.
Reduce our environmental footprint: Excellence: We strive to deliver the best and continually look for ways to improve.
Support the communities in which we operate: Be transparent in our operations and reporting: Further information on our CR activities will and be published during the first half of 2009, with the release of our 2008 CR report, on Encourage and support these principles in www.
the companies in which we invest.
Governance structure Schroders is an index component of both the The Board is responsible for corporate Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the governance and corporate responsibility within Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Index.
Alan Brown, Group Chief Investment also included in the FTSE4Good Index, which is Officer, chairs the Corporate Responsibility designed to identify companies that meet globally Committee that oversees all employee, recognised corporate responsibility standards.
environmental and community involvement As a major investor, we recognise that how we issues, socially responsible investment and behave can influence other companies.
corporate governance issues relating to the companies in which we invest.
This Committee Our stakeholders, with whom we maintain an is responsible for the development of Schroders ongoing dialogue, include shareholders, clients, policies on corporate responsibility and their employees, regulators, non-governmental implementation throughout the Group as we look organisations, the wider community and to embed corporate responsibility principles in all companies in which we invest.
We endeavour to our activities and culture.
develop close relationships with all stakeholders.
Our behaviour is influenced by our core values: Our approach to corporate responsibility Integrity: We are honest, open and is built around four main areas: uncompromising in our commitment to our Marketplace: standards.
We welcome the responsibility that comes with the trust our stakeholders place in us.
Workplace: Passion: We share a deep rooted belief in what weEnvironment: and do.
We demonstrate this through the dedication, Community.
enthusiasm and energy we bring to our work.
Marketplace Schroders has a long-standing Transparency, accountability and sustainability are essential to the success of our business and commitment to corporate have become increasingly prominent in light of market events in 2008.
At Schroders, we put our responsibility.
clients first and we are committed to developing sustainable relationships.
Treating clients fairly is an important principle for our business.
Our long-term values are embedded in our culture and can be seen in the integrity with which we behave.
In providing solutions to address our clients investment needs, we seek to communicate clearly the services we offer and to be transparent in our relationships with clients.
As a leading asset management group, we recognise our responsibility in ensuring that we engage with companies to assess not only the financial risks but also the environmental, social and governance ESG risks that can impact long-term value.
We introduced a socially responsible investment policy in 2000 to enhance our approach to corporate governance.
This policy meets the Association of British Insurers Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment and endorses the Voluntary Code on Shareholder Activism issued by the Institutional Shareholders Committee.
A copy of the policy is available on our website at http: ir.
We are also a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment which serves to reinforce our commitment to integrating ESG issues into our investment decision making.
Bu Corporate r siness ree view sponsibility We are a founding member of the Institutional Workplace Corporate Investors Group on Climate Change, signatories Schroders has more than 2,700 employees responsibility to the Bali Communique issued by the Corporate across 26 countries.
Our aim is to be an employer Leadership Group on Climate Change and of choice and one of our strategic priorities is to a member of the Carbon Disclosure Project.
develop, manage and retain our talented people 22 23 Our investment process incorporates ESG in order to deliver to our potential.
During 2008, research into the corporate responsibility we undertook an independent, global employee performance of companies and we engage with opinion survey.
This survey addressed the Groups companies where their ESG practices fall short of strategic area of focus, and gave employees the acceptable standards.
opportunity to tell us where they thought we could improve the way we do business.
Over 72 per During 2008, we engaged in dialogue with 62 cent.
of employees took part in the independent companies on specific ESG related issues and survey, which gave us confidence in the results all our meetings with companies would be used and over 90 per cent.
of respondents indicated to assess ESG issues if there were concerns over that they were proud to be associated with the impact of a companys ESG performance on Schroders and would recommend it as a good the share price.
Overall, we voted on 92 place to work.
We believe that this is indicative shareholder resolutions of a social, ethical or of the high level of employee engagement within environmental nature.
In addition we also utilise the Group.
the Ethical Investment Research Service to screen investable universes in order to reflect clients We used the feedback to benchmark our progress values in their investment portfolios.
At the end since the last survey in 2005 and against other high of 2008, we had 3.7 billion of funds under performing organisations.
The survey indicated management which had some form of ethical that whilst we have improved our communication criteria attached to them.
with employees since 2005, we can do more and this will be a focus for us during 2009.
Number of ESG engagements We also work to ensure that our employee policies reflect best practice within each of the countries where we operate, and that our employees 00 8 5 understand the strategic aims and objectives of 01 22 12 the Group, are clear about their role in achieving 02 29 33 them and aware of and participate in the wider community.
03 17 33 04 30 24 In the UK, there is an Employee Consultation Forum, consisting of employees elected by their 05 48 41 peers.
Members of the Forum meet regularly 06 30 60 with management as part of a Joint Consultative Group which discusses employee-related matters 07 32 48 and provides feedback and recommendations 08 11 51 to senior management.
Investor led Company led Remuneration A flexible working policy has been developed Corporate Our approach to remuneration is consistent with to recognise the diverse needs of employees responsibility our ambition to be an employer of choice.
We in managing the responsibilities of their work have developed flexibility to enable our employees and personal lives.
We believe that achieving to personalise elements of their remuneration an effective balance in these areas is beneficial 24 25 package to suit their own needs and ambitions.
to both the Group and the individual.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration We have significantly enhanced the defined to applications from disabled persons, having pension contribution rates for UK employees, regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
and we are reviewing the pension arrangement For the purposes of training, career development in other locations.
and progression, disabled employees, including those who become disabled during the course High ethical standards of their employment, are treated on equal terms We actively promote high ethical standards.
We operate a zero Concerns about behaviour or decisions that tolerance policy to harassment and bullying.
are perceived to be unethical can be raised by employees through our internal whistleblowing Personal development process.
Personal securities trading by employees Our performance management process is regulated and monitored.
Employees are not comprises an annual performance appraisal permitted to solicit or accept any inducements against agreed objectives and our core values.
which are likely to conflict with their duties.
Output from this performance process is used Training is provided in relation to these issues and to inform decisions on remuneration, career in relation to money laundering, terrorist finance, development and progression.
In creating a data protection and treating customers fairly.
high performing organisation, we recognise the importance of encouraging all our employees to Diversity learn, develop and fulfil their potential.
We provide We are committed to providing equal opportunities our employees worldwide with access to a wide and we seek to ensure that our workforce reflects range of training and development opportunities the diversity of the many communities in which that are relevant to our business.
Our culture values and promotes diversity, harnessing individual strengths and Health and safety differences to surface the best ideas and insights.
We promote high standards of health and safety We recognise that through the attraction and at work and have a global health and safety policy, retention of a diverse workforce we are better which we expect all employees to follow and which able to understand the needs of all our clients.
highlights our commitment to ensuring employees are provided with a safe and healthy working environment.
Training is offered to all employees.
Environment During 2008, we made a number of key improvements to help minimise our environmental impact.
We remain committed to continuous improvement in this area and to the promotion of positive environmental practices.
In September we held a week-long series of internal events in London to increase awareness.
We measure our performance in terms of waste management, energy usage and water usage.
We have joined Green500, an initiative from the London Development Agency, which works with organisations to achieve carbon reduction goals as well as providing, in the future, independent verification of carbon savings.
Schroders held a Sustainability Conference for over 100 Property Investors in December 2008, sharing best practice from across Europe in reducing carbon emissions.
com Corporate responsibility Waste management Energy usage In 2008, we saw a 38 per cent.
reduction in waste Our energy usage is one of the most significant generation in London following the completion of impacts that our operations have on the our building refurbishment project.
We have monitored and managed improved the way in which we collect and dispose our energy consumption for several years and in of waste, which combined with the introduction of 2008 installed an electrical sub-metering system further recycling initiatives and employee awareness at our Gresham Street offices, to understand campaigns in 2009, will allow us to move towards better our energy consumption and to target our target to recycle or reuse over 90 per cent.
In November, we procured an annual our waste, despite falling short in 2008. contract to supply our London-based needs with 100 per cent.
2007 2008 Waste generated tonnes 568 351 We have also introduced other initiatives, including Waste recycled or reused per cent 91 82 automated double-sided printing and the automatic Waste generated hibernation of PCs outside office hours.
tonnes per employee 0.40 0.23 In total, energy consumption for 2008 across our London offices has decreased by 7.3 per Schroders has been awarded the Platinum cent.
This reduction Award in the City of Londons Clean City Scheme primarily reflects the introduction of more energy for the fourth year running.
The award places us efficient systems and advanced controls and the in the top 20 out of 1,300 buildings in the Scheme, consolidation of space and IT computer systems.
which recognises good waste management and effective recycling.
Energy consumption MWh 07 11,682 08 10,829 CO tonnes excluding travel 2 07 5,520 08 5,186 We use the National Grid Rolling Average, as recommended by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, to calculate CO emissions relating to the electricity element 2 of our total energy consumption.
Water usage Volunteering Corporate We are also committed to the efficient use of water We also encourage employees to spend time responsibility and encourage our employees to conserve water.
Employees globally Our consumption of piped water in London has are able to take up to 15 hours paid leave per reduced in 2008, reflecting the completion of our year to provide volunteering services.
26 27 building refurbishment project and the introduction of water efficiency initiatives.
During 2008, employees continued to volunteer to help Habitat for Humanity, a global charity dedicated to eliminating sub-standard housing Total water consumption and homelessness.
cubic metres In London, we are a corporate sponsor of 07 14,207 the Hackney Schools Mentoring Programme, 08 12,820 established by the East London Business Alliance and Hackney Learning Partnerships.
Our employees help to mentor 14 and 15 year Travel old students in the London Borough of Hackney During the year, we revised our travel policy to increase students self confidence, whilst to encourage our employees to use video allowing them to gain experience of the working conferencing as an alternative to business environment and broaden their aspirations.
travel and to reduce our CO impact.
To facilitate 2 Employees have also helped senior school this change, we have installed an additional five children with literacy skills and worked with video conferencing units in our overseas offices.
Overseas, our employees This contributed to a 4 per cent.
reduction also participate in volunteering schemes.
Community We encourage all employees to participate in the community and in civic and charitable causes.
We believe that involvement is valuable to the community and the individual as it can assist personal development.
Charitable giving Our charitable giving is focused on employee choice, with the Group matching employee donations and sponsorship.
In 2008, donations totalled 1.1 million 2007: 1.25 million.
A number of our offices operate payroll giving schemes, of which the UK scheme remains the largest, with 19 per cent.
Charitable donations of 199,000 were made through this scheme and we again received the Payroll Giving Quality Mark Gold Award in 2008, which recognises that over 10 per cent.
of employees donate money to charity via our payroll.
Forty employees, from both the UK and overseas, built houses in China and raised over 60,000 for Habitat for Humanity, with Schroders part funding the cost of participating.
com ir Governance As one of the UKs largest asset managers, corporate governance is very important to us.
We are committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism across all our activities.
Governance 28 Directors profiles 30 George W. Mallinckrodt 31 Directors report 34 Corporate governance report 38 Remuneration report 49 Nominations Committee report 50 Audit Committee report 52 Risk management and internal control report 53 Directors responsibility statement 54 Auditors report
