Section 03 Our performance 35 Carillion plc Our performance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Sustainability review Our performance In this section of our annual report we provide In 2008, Carillion won the Sunday Times Best Green Companies a summary of what we are doing to make our Award for large and medium-sized companies with a high business more sustainable.
The survey tested the credentials of participating companies by examining their corporate policies account is provided in our 2008 Sustainability and by asking employees to comment on whether green policies Report, which will be published on our are truly embedded in the companies for which they work.
A resounding 76 per cent of Carillion employees believed that website in April 2009.
Carillion practised what it preached.
Presenting the award, the Managing Editor of The Sunday Times, commented, Carillion is no Johnny-come-lately to the green cause.
It has had an environmental policy in place for 14 years, Strategy dating from the time when environmental protests about road We have a well established strategy model for sustainable building and other construction projects started to hit the public development, which is aligned with the four priority areas consciousness.
defined by the UK Government in its sustainable development strategy, Securing the Future, namely We also achieved a gold performance ranking in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index, published in sustainable communities and workforce 2008, achieving a score of 92.5 per cent and topping the natural resource protection and environmental enhancement Construction and Building Materials Sector.
Alfred McAlpine also climate change and energy achieved agold performance ranking with a score of 90.5 per sustainable consumption and production.
cent, which topped the Support Services Sector.
The Corporate Responsibility Index involves a detailed assessment of strategy, We have identified 12 behaviours and activities across these management processes and performance, which enables us to four priority areas, details of which can be found in our 2008 benchmark our performance externally.
The average score of all Sustainability Report, that affect the delivery of our business participating companies was 82.6 per cent, which demonstrates objectives.
that we not only continue to be the leader in our sector, but also that our performance compares favourably with that of all Managing sustainability participating companies.
Our commitment to sustainability is driven by our Board, supported by a Sustainability Advisory Committee.
This Carillion continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index Committee is chaired by our Chief Executive, John McDonough, and we were delighted to be ranked among the top 22 most and includes a number of Executive and Senior Directors.
The ethical companies in the FTSE350 in 2008 by the Observer Committee also benefits from expert advice from two external newspapers Good Company Guide.
members, Jonathon Porritt, Chair of the UK Governments Sustainable Development Commission and founder of Forum In 2008, as well as continuing to set specific sustainability targets for the Future, and Julia Cleverdon, Vice President of Business for each of our business units and for the Group as whole, we are in the Community BITC.
focusing in particular on a number of important areas, namely The Sustainability Advisory Committee is supported by a embedding our Sustainability Excellence Model into our Sustainability Forum comprising our senior business leaders, business units and reviewing their progress on a quarterly to inform the development of our sustainability strategy, share basis best practice and ensure the effective dissemination of our a carbon reduction strategy with action plans to support sustainability strategy and policies.
All Carillion business units delivery of our challenging target of reducing our carbon have a sustainability plan and objectives, which form an integral emissions by 50 per cent by 2010, measured against a part of their annual business plans.
2006 baseline improving the processes through which we capture data Enviros, one of the UKs leading environmental consultancy on our carbon emissions businesses, which we acquired as part of Alfred McAlpine, delivering our commitments on sustainable procurement has also been used to support the development of our through applying the framework methodology developed sustainability strategy.
by the UK Governments Sustainable Procurement Task Force improving our performance in the Business in the Each year we organise a Sustainability Week, a Group-wide Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index.
programme that coincides with World Environment Day and focuses on how individuals and teams can adopt a more The Groups sustainability targets for 2008 were based on sustainable lifestyle and contribute to making Carillion a more 14 specific and measurable targets.
In order to drive continuous sustainable business.
In 2008, a graduate team organised improvement, we set demanding targets and our performance the weeks activities and succeeded in engaging the support of against them is independently audited by Bureau Veritas.
A full more of our employees than ever before.
For the first time, we report on what we have achieved will be published in our 2008 also supported a charity during our 2008 Sustainability Week, Sustainability Report, in April 2009. raising 10,000 for Barnardos.
36 Carillion plc Our performance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Sustainability review continued Sustainable Communities and Workforce National resource protection and environmental enhancement Creating a sustainable business requires the commitment of all our people the Carillion community.
We seek to achieve What we do and how we do it can have significant impacts this through our Health and Safety, leadership, personal on the use of natural resources and the environment and we development and employee engagement programmes, use our knowledge and skills to develop sustainable service which are described in more detail solutions and to create positive on pages 18, 19, 42 and 43. impacts in these areas.
How we do business is based on our belief that its not only what Carillion has developed and implemented environmental we do that matters, but also how we do it, which drives our management systems across the Group and over 99 per cent commitment to living our values in everything we do.
Through of our UK operations are accredited to ISO14001, by a registered Values awards we recognise the outstanding contributions our third party.
people make to our success in delivering an excellent service to our customers and in 2008 1,322 Carillion people received a The preservation of natural habitats and the wildlife they support Values award.
is important both socially and environmentally.
Eight years ago, we entered into a partnership with the Wildlife Trusts and We are proud that our people are also independently winning established the Carillion Natural Habitats Fund.
To date we have prestigious awards.
Helen Jones, one of our chartered Civil contributed over 220,000 to the fund, to finance 38 projects Engineers, received the Future Star Award in the 2008 Property providing opportunities for our people to volunteer and support and Building Services sector of the Atkins Inspire Awards.
These the preservation of natural habitats.
Our 2008 graduate awards are made annually to encourage, recognise and reward induction programme included a programme of environmental exceptional women, aged between 21 and 30 and working in improvement work at Rudyard Lake near Leek, Staffordshire.
the built environment, who demonstrate significant personal achievements and the ability to be role models in the future.
In recognition of our ongoing commitment to integrate sustainability into everything we do, we have adopted the UK Our commitment to sustainable communities also extends Governments Sustainable Procurement Taskforce SPTF Flexible beyond our own people.
We have a community engagement Framework.
This framework provides a step-by-step approach strategy for all our major worksites and projects and we to demonstrating leadership in sustainable procurement and we encourage our people to understand how we can have positive plan to achieve Level 4 by 2010. impacts on the communities in which we operate and to participate in community activities.
We understand that sustainable procurement is also important to our customers and this year Carillion signed the Ministry of Carillion gives over one per cent of its pre-tax profits in cash Defences Sustainable Procurement Charter, confirming our or in kind to community activities.
For example we support the commitment to sustainability and procurement best practice as a Business Action on Homelessness BAOH campaign, designed major supplier to Defence Estates.
to help homeless people break the cycle of no home, no job, through the Ready to Work programme.
Carillion continues to be a member of the WWF-UK Forest and Trade Network and during 2008 re-affirmed our commitment to As the UKs leading private sector provider of construction skills eradicating illegal timber products from our supply chain.
We are training, we contribute to the development of individuals and committed to using timber from sources certified by the Forest communities.
At the end of 2008, we had nearly 2,700 people Stewardship Council on all our projects.
We report the volumes in apprenticeship and other training programmes in our 19 UK and sources of the timber we use to the WWF-UK FTN annually training centres.
We also provided training on behalf of the and develop detailed action plans for improvement.
Princes Trust get into construction programme to 315 candidates in 2008.
Section 03 Our performance 37 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Climate change and energy Sustainable consumption and production Climate change is increasingly recognised as the most serious Carillions leadership in developing and implementing its long-term threat to human prosperity and lifestyle.
Effective sustainability strategy model, which relates our impact on management and reduction of greenhouse gas GHG the environment and on society to business performance, has emissions has become increasingly important, as we realise made a major contribution to the Groups risk management that the way in which companies operate will need to change policies and processes.
significantly if we are to respond effectively to this threat.
We aim to build on our leadership in sustainability by reducing These policies and processes address strategic risks and those our direct CO emissions by 50 per cent by 2010 from a 2006 specific to individual businesses and contracts, including 2 baseline.
We have developed a carbon reduction strategy and economic, social, environmental and ethical risks, and are policy, which involves measuring and reporting every quarter on therefore fundamental to the management of the Group at our carbon footprint in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas every level of our activities.
Our carbon footprint covers our direct Scope 1 and 2 emissions generated from In 2008, we undertook a customer perception survey, which buildings, transport, travel, waste and from plant powered by sought the views of our customers on a wide range of issues, fossil fuel on project sites.
including the importance of sustainability.
The survey showed that 70 per cent of our customers believe that sustainability We are focusing our activities on areas in which we can have the and Carillions ability to deliver sustainable solutions are very greatest direct impact by reducing carbon emissions generated by important, a two per cent increase on the figure reported in our 2007 customer perception survey.
employee business travel commercial vehicles We believe that our leadership in sustainability differentiates us plant fuel from our competitors.
We seek to understand the needs of our our offices.
customers and their objectives in respect of sustainability and to use our knowledge and skills to meet their needs by developing The acquisition of Alfred McAlpine in February 2008 has had sustainable solutions.
We also seek to promote sustainable a significant effect on Carillions carbon footprint, due to the solutions by explaining to our customers how a sustainable size of the acquired business and carbon-intense nature of its approach can not only create positive impacts on the activities.
Details of our performance in respect of measuring environment and on society, but also reduce costs, increase and reducing our Carbon Footprint will be published in our efficiency and improve the quality of the services we offer.
In 2008, Carillion Planned Maintenance received Energy To manage our carbon emissions effectively, we also need to Efficiency accreditation from the Carbon Trust for its Royal Courts consider our indirect impacts and in 2009 we plan to identify of Justice contract.
This is the first award of its kind within Her and begin to manage our indirect Scope 3 emissions.
Majestys Court Services HMCS and recognises that the Royal Courts are being managed and operated to optimise energy Our commitment to tackling climate change is also reflected performance.
Since 2006, when Carillion Planned Maintenance in the way we work with our customers to provide sustainable secured this contract for the Royal Courts of Justice, it has buildings, infrastructure and lifetime facilities management implemented initiatives to deliver greater efficiency and a and services.
Carillion will report in more detail on its carbon emissions in its 2008 Sustainability Report and through participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
38 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 04 Governance 40 Board of Directors 42 Report of the Directors 45 Corporate Governance report 51 Remuneration report 59 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and financial statements 60 Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc Carillion manages around 65 million square metres of floor space in 600,000 buildings for public and private sector customers.
Section 04 Governance 39 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 18% Growth in dividend to 13.0 pence
