214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:15 Page 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report St. Jamess Place is committed to growing our business in a way that takes account of the economic, social and environmental impacts of what we do.
Responsible management is increasingly important to our The St. Jamess Place Foundation stakeholders shareholders, clients, Partners, employees, suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
We Overview are pleased that St. Jamess Place continues to be included The St. Jamess Place Foundation was set up in 1992, in the FTSE4 GOOD Index, which comprises companies following the creation of the St. Jamess Place Group by that meet globally recognised Corporate Social Sir Mark Weinberg and Mike Wilson in 1991.
From day Responsibility CSR criteria.
In this years report, we one, Directors, Partners and employees at St. Jamess have sought to provide information on how we manage Place had a collective desire to give something back to CSR at St. Jamess Place and highlight five key areas where the community.
As a result, the Foundation has grown we have had a positive impact in 2008: into a thriving grant-making charity that relies on the efforts of Partners and staff to raise vital funds for The St. Jamess Place Foundation charities in the UK and abroad.
The Company matches People every pound raised by Partners and staff for the Our Clients Foundation on a pound for pound basis.
Community Activities Environment 2008 Grant-Making Activities During 2008, the Foundation donated 1.2 million to Further information can be found on our website at fund the building of a specialist Hydrotherapy Centre at www.
The Childrens Trust, Tadworth in Surrey.
CSR Governance St. Jamess Places Corporate Social Responsibility programme is steered by the CSR Committee.
The Committee comprises senior executives from across the business and is chaired by the Company Secretary.
The Committee meets on a monthly basis to review the programme.
An artists impression of the completed Hydrotherapy Centre at Tadworth, Surrey 24 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
