214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Finance, Marketing, IT and Law.
Our support takes various Community Activities forms, including personal mentoring from a business coach, a six-week paid summer internship, student visits to our St. Jamess Place recognises that we have a responsibility to premises, various college-based presentations, Academy help build strong and healthy communities in the areas that awards sponsorship and representation on the various we operate our business.
We have also employed four Academy Where possible, we work with local charitable partners students as a direct result of our relationship.
The combination of their expertise and the talents and enthusiasm of our employees Young Gloucestershire makes our community involvement effective and Young Glos is a leading voluntary youth organisation rewarding for all concerned.
delivering high-quality programmes and training for vulnerable young people.
In 2008, we have helped Young Highlights from our community activities include: Glos to set up a drop-in centre for young people in South Cerney, in partnership with the local Parish Council.
Some Employee Volunteering of our employees also provided advice to the Trustees of We operate an Employee Volunteering Scheme which the organisation on topics such as employment issues and supports St. Jamess Place employees wishing to volunteer risk management.
in schools, charities or local community groups.
Under the Scheme, employees can take time off work to work with CCP Christmas Hamper Scamper event charities and other organisations in their local CCP provide a range of crisis and preventative services to communities.
During 2008 employees in Cirencester were improve the lives of children, families and vulnerable involved in a number of activities for local charities and adults across Gloucestershire.
The Hamper Scamper is a organisations, including The Cirencester Housing Society, Christmas giving scheme, providing food hampers and The Encephalitis Society and Friends of Young Carers.
CCP experienced their most successful year ever with St. James's Places help.
225 Cirencester Church goody bags, 178 luxury food hampers and 225 presents We entered into a partnership arrangement with the were distributed in total, 115 of which were donated by Trustees of the beautiful Cirencester Parish Church to St. Jamess Place employees along with 450 in donations.
help them to raise funds for the much-needed restoration Due to the success of the scheme in Gloucestershire we programme.
Under the scheme, St. Jamess Place will are looking into the feasibility of expanding the scheme to match funds raised by the Church in local fundraising a national basis by donating to similar charities which are activities up to a limit of 50,000 per year.
We very much local to each of our offices in 2009. hope this will encourage the local community to support the restoration programme.
Loughborough Swimming Programme St. Jamess Place also sponsors the UKs top-ranked Cirencester College swimming programme, Loughborough University In 2008, the Department for Education and Skills DfES Swimming.
The support will help the team in a number of awarded Cirencester College the title of top Tertiary and ways, but will primarily safeguard the existing swimming General Further Education College in the country.
The programme allowing the squad to enhance its current College has over 1,600 students between the ages of 16 and performance and receive additional coaching in the period 19 and a further 7,000 students attending a variety of adult up to the Olympic Games in 2012.
Our main involvement with the College is Loughborough swimmers successfully qualified and competed at the Beijing Olympics where a number of to provide support for the 16 to 19 year old Academy National and European records were set and two medals Programmes, of which there are eight, all designed for were won.
St. James's Place will continue to provide students who aspire to work in a particular market sector.
sponsorship as the team turns its focus to London 2012.
The most relevant academies to St. James's Place are 32 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
