214443 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK SEC:JR0534 Report & Accounts 2008 BACK 12 3 09 01:31 Page 93 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards continued s Borrowings Borrowings are measured initially at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the borrowing period on an effective interest rate basis.
Borrowings are recognised on drawdown and derecognised on repayment.
t Other payables Other payables are stated at amortised cost.
u Net asset value attributable to unit holders The Group consolidates unit trusts in which it holds more than half of the units.
The third party interests in these unit trusts are measured at fair value and are presented in the balance sheet as net asset value attributable to unit holders.
Income attributable to the third party interests is accounted for within investment income, offset by a corresponding change in investment contract benefits.
v Employee benefits i Pension obligations The Group operates a defined contribution personal pension plan for its employees.
Contributions to this plan are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is recognised as an expense spread over the vesting period of the instrument, with a corresponding increase in equity in the case of equity settled plans.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards at the grant date, measured using standard option pricing models.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest and it recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, such that the amount recognised for employee services are based on the number of shares that actually vest.
The charge to the income statement is not revised for any changes in market vesting conditions.
w Treasury shares Where any Group company purchases the Company's equity share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from equity attributable to shareholders, as disclosed in the Treasury Shares reserve.
Where such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to shareholders, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects.
93 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
