214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued We are particularly pleased with an 18% reduction in the Environment amount of waste going to landfill.
This has primarily been achieved from the improved recycling systems in place at We remain committed to managing the Company in a way the new head office, where all under-desk bins were that takes account of our environmental impact.
During removed at the beginning of 2008 and replaced with 2008 we continued to introduce changes and investigate centralised recycling bins for plastics, paper, cardboard and alternative options, to improve our environmental cans.
Paper recycled amounted to 30 tonnes while performance.
We recognise that we all have a cardboard, plastics and cans increased the total amount responsibility to contribute towards managing the effects recycled at Head Office by a further 5 tonnes.
The of climate change by taking a responsible approach to programme was such a success that towards the end of the business activities.
year we started implementing similar schemes in the office locations.
By the end of December 2008 we had We measure our environmental data from October to implemented the scheme in 25% of our locations and we September, which allows sufficient time for the data to be completed the rollout in our solely occupied buildings by collated, in particular from some of our third party the end of February 2009.
In the multi-tenanted buildings providers who produce data from billing processes.
This we occupy, we are working with our landlords to see how data is used to provide the information for inclusion in we can secure space for the external recycling bins to this Report.
reduce waste going to landfill in these offices as well.
These improved recycling facilities have ensured that we have Environmental Data increased the amount of paper recycled by 11% to 162 The table on the following page summarises our CO2 tonnes for 2007 8 on a full time occupant basis.
footprint for the years 2006 7 and for 2007 8 produced from our core business activities.
During the year we changed all of our marketing print material to either Forestry Stewardship Certified FSC or For consistency purposes we have produced comparable Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification figures across the core business activities which produce PEFC accredited stock, and are moving a proportion of greenhouse gases.
These have been presented as tonnes of our literature to uncoated printed material as well as CO2 per category and measured on a full time occupant reducing products printed with matt lamination and spot basis to give percentage changes between 2006 7 and UV.
We also introduced the use of 100% recycled branded 2007 8. copy paper throughout all of our offices in 2008.
As expected, our consumption of gas and electricity has increased following the move in early 2008 from six small buildings to a larger, purpose built new air-conditioned head office in Cirencester, increasing the space available by 73%.
During the course of the year, we changed our energy consultant company to G. S. Hall who now provide a service to monitor and process our gas, electricity and water consumption.
Gas has increased by 21% and electricity has increased by 7% based on a full time occupancy measure.
Our fuel management systems provide fuel usage figures, which are added to mileage expense claims to obtain annual mileage figures.
This, along with rail and air mileage is converted into a CO2 figure attributable to travel, which in 2007 8 has reduced by 9% from 2006 7, which is mainly explained by less vehicle mileage set off against increased rail travel.
33 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued CO2 Emissions The table below summarises our CO2 footprint for the years 2006 7 and for 2007 8 produced for our core business activities.
FTO figures for electricity, gas and travel include all occupants of St. Jamess Place Offices.
FTO figures for travel only relate to those to whom St. Jamess Place pays travel expenses directly and are staff related.
Engagement with Third P arties For the second year running, St. Jamess Place has taken part in the carbon disclosure project CDP6 which is a global initiative to inform investors of the risks and opportunities presented by climate change.
It provides the investment community with information on companies greenhouse gas emissions and climate change management strategies.
We continue to be a member of Business in the Community BITC, and have engaged with them during the year to discuss other ways in which we might target changes to improve our environmental performance.
New Head Office Building The new head office building in Cirencester.
Our new head office in Cirencester, which has now been In particular the optimum ceiling height with full glazing fully occupied for a year following our move from delivers outstanding natural light and timber brise soleil several smaller offices in the town, has received a rating manages solar gain and glare.
The building uses advanced of Good with BREEAM Building Research heat recovery technology to increase efficiency of the Establishment Environment Assessment Method.
heating and cooling of the building and there was a St. Jamess Place was also placed as Regional Winner further emphasis on using and sourcing natural materials Corporate for South of England and South Wales in the throughout including limestone, timber and granite.
2008 British Council for Offices Awards.
It was awarded Added to this is more efficient high frequency lighting for technical standard which reflect BCO specifications.
which switches off if no movement is detected after a pre-determined time.
34 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 17 3 09 12:07 Page 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Further details of these projects are set out below: Forestry: Mynydd-Y-Garnedd, W ales Right in the heart of Snowdonia, Mynydd-Y-Garnedd will link two existing National nature reserves through a new native woodland.
Mynydd-Y-Garnedd has been designed to grow from a combination of natural regeneration and new planting.
Wind: Sebenoba-Karakurt Wind Power Project This project sees the construction of 21 new wind turbines at two sites in Turkey.
By providing renewable energy, the project reduces Turkeys reliance on fossil fuels for electricity supply.
The project aims to generate emission reductions of 127,000 tonnes CO2 equivalent The Street inside the new head office building between 2007 and 2009, certified and verified to the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
Environmental Projects We continue to look at ways to reduce our energy Wind: Tirunelveli Wind Power Generation emissions and have engaged with our energy consultants This project sees the construction of 22 new wind turbines for the purchase of green energy from renewable sources in India.
By providing renewable energy, the project helps for another two years, which has been supplied to the to reduce Indias reliance on fossil fuels for electricity majority of our offices.
The project has generated emissions reductions of 47,000 tonnes CO2 between 2005 and 2007, We do however, recognise that we will still generate CO2 verified to the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
emissions in spite of our efforts and to this extent we continue to engage with the Carbon Neutral Company to Hydro: Sichuan Province Hydro Power Project offset our emissions.
In 2007 we entered into a three year This project bundles four small run-of-river hydro power contract with the Carbon Neutral Company to fully stations in Sichuan Province, western China.
The project offset our carbon footprint, which was verified by the displaces electricity generated by fossil fuel power plants Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management ECCM.
and will generate emission reductions of an estimated Two sustainable projects were invested in during 2007: a 360,000 tonnes CO2 equivalent between 2006 and 2012, forestry regeneration project in Snowdonia, Wales and a certified and verified to the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
renewable energy project in Southern India.
In 2008 this was increased to include a wind power project in Turkey and a hydro power project in Sichuan Province, China.
35 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 17 3 09 12:07 Page 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued eTree Electronic Communication Going Forward in 2009 We are signed up to eTree a programme designed to Areas of activity for the year ahead include the following: encourage shareholders to receive electronic communications in order to save paper and reduce theReduce printed literature by increasing electronic impact on the environment.
The scheme is run in access to information and being more creative with association with the Woodland Trust tree for all printing requirements: campaign and for every shareholder that registers toIncrease our recycling strategy into more office receive their information electronically, a sum is donated locations to reduce general waste going to landfill: on the shareholders behalf to an area selected for re-Reduce the amount of business travel being forestation in the UK by the Trust.
During 2008 we ran a undertaken where possible, by looking into further appeal to those shareholders not already alternative ways to conduct business, for example by receiving electronic communications, to opt into the greater use of video conferencing: scheme.
Further details of the scheme can be found atInvestigate whether improvement can be made to www.
com BMS control systems to make heating and cooling systems more efficient and reduce energy wattage: Engage further with our employees and the Partnership to encourage energy efficiency within our office base: and Reduce the overall amount of energy used per full-time occupant within our office base.
A full environmental report is produced annually on our website at www.
co. uk, where our environmental policy can also be found.
36 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 37
