e c n a n r e v o e G m A  i s c g r e n c c n r a i e v l l n i k a s c c i c s e i c a s a t T n S l o a o c n i  a C i l n o c v m o e s n m t t r m u i e b e n n t i e u g t t n t h n i y t e o a g n G m h n Business review continued Eyesights restored thanks to Seeing is Believing 2.0m people Sustainability If anyone needed convincing of the importance of taking a Highlights and achievements in 2008 sustainable approach to business, then the extraordinary dislocation and disruption in financial markets in 2008 Launched Seeing is Believing A New Vision, a provided dramatic proof.
Banks with unsustainable business commitment to provide eye care to 20 million people models collapsed or were rescued by governments.
in 20 cities by 2015 In this context, our sustainability agenda must take into Number of Living with HIV Champions increased by account the fundamental task of re-establishing confidence 150 per cent to 850 and trust in banks whilst continuing to maintain an unwavering Expanded our microfinance initiatives into new markets focus on addressing the longer-term challenges that the world including China, the Philippines and Nigeria faces.
We need to acknowledge what has gone wrong.
We need to articulate the essential role banks play in the economy.
Met or exceeded all targets to reduce the Banks direct We need to demonstrate that the way Standard Chartered environmental impact works was and is sustainable and creates value for Became a founding member of the Climate Principles customers, investors and society as a whole.
So our approach to sustainability focuses both on continuing to Our priorities in 2009 manage our core banking practices responsibly and on the seven specific areas which have been at the heart of our sustainability Drive our sustainability strategy to deliver shareholder strategy for some years.
value by being the Right Partner to our customers, communities and regulators Responsible selling and marketing Implement an enhanced environment and climate Many people have seen the value of their investments drop as change policy to underpin delivery of our 2011 a result of the global financial crisis.
Market dislocation environment strategy has prompted increased customer and regulator awareness Embed the implementation of position statements and around the mis-selling of financial products.
Both threaten to practitioners guides on sustainable lending undermine the long-term wellbeing of the financial services sector and highlight how responsible selling and marketing has Continue to deliver our Clinton Global Initiative to be at the heart of banking.
At Standard Chartered, we have commitments on HIV AIDS education and Seeing is always taken the protection of customers funds seriously while Believing's comprehensive eye care programme endeavouring to match individual customers risk profiles to the Implement our technical assistance strategy for the products offered to them.
microfinance sector Access to financial services Our sustainable business priorities Improving access to financial services is a vital part of promoting economic growth and helping to bring people out of poverty.
A continuing priority for us is to stimulate grassroots enterprise and we are on target to meet our $500 million Clinton Global Initiative commitment to provide access to microfinance.
Since September 2006, we have provided $385 million of new credit lines and financial instruments to 52 partner microfinance institutions in Africa and Asia and provided technical support to increase their effectiveness.
In May 2008, we made a commitment to the UK Governments Economic Millennium Development Goals Call to Action by launching a contribution new programme which will include innovative financial products, skills development, business mentoring and research to help the crucial small and medium enterprise SME sector fulfil its growth potential.
Tackling financial crime To effectively manage risks from financial crime, our Group Financial Crime Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing current and emerging financial crime risks and ensuring there 30 Standard Chartered 2008 r c t i n e t o e o c a t r t e w i a t v o p o r m l n r k a P i e l c c e d n R a e t s a n p n e o d n m e m s l i n a b e b r o a l c k r e n i e n i v t s a i a n e n t n l s E g l  i u n S g Credit extended to partner Value of renewable energy and clean microfinance institutions technology projects financed since 2007 $385m $3.2bn is an appropriate risk management strategy in place to address Sustainable finance those risks.
In 2008, we launched a new Group strategy to By 2050, the world will need to generate twice the energy it tackle money laundering and extended the use of our does today but with half the carbon.
At Standard Chartered, monitoring systems for identifying suspicious transactions.
we have already financed over $3 billion renewable energy and clean technology projects and remain committed to growing Community investment our business further.
Our financing of the SinAn-Gun Solar Power Project in Korea is an example.
Generating 25 megawatts Society is still failing to win the war on HIV AIDS, with 6,800 of electricity it is the largest photovoltaic plant in Asia.
To meet our commitment to educate one We participated in a coalition of five leading financial institutions million people about HIV and AIDS by 2010, we extended our to shape the Climate Principles, launched in December 2008 and education programmes to SME customers in Africa, as well as we are committed to implementing these across our business.
to global corporations and to students around the world.
In 2008, we introduced a range of Position Statements that set out The challenges of preventable blindness and malaria also our environmental and social policies in lending to customers threaten lives and economic prospects across our markets.
In on a broad range of sensitive issues, from climate change to October 2008, under the banner of Seeing is Believing A New child labour and from bio-fuels to ship-breaking.
Vision, we made a commitment to provide eye care services to 20 million people in 20 cities by 2015.
Nets for Life, a regional Great place to work programme to tackle malaria in Africa, has distributed over one million anti-malarial nets since 2006.
We have extended our Our employees have more than doubled in number over the commitment to supply a further five million nets by 2013. past five years.
Our culture has helped fuel our success but it could have become a victim of our growth as we assimilated many new people into the Bank.
During 2008, we refreshed Protecting the environment awareness of our values as a guiding compass of responsible We have all seen how a lack of international accord on the behaviour, which we believe will sustain our success in future, global financial system results in disarray.
Just as multilateral along with the talents, diversity and values of our people.
For co-operation is needed to address the global financial crisis, so more information please refer to our People section on page 28. too must an international agreement for environmental action As a leading international bank, we recognise the importance of be achieved in 2009.
We will continue to play our part as a helping to re-invigorate growth by supporting our clients across member of the Climate Group and Carbon Disclosure Project Asia, Africa and the Middle East in new and improved ways of on climate change issues.
doing business, as well as helping address some of the worlds We are conscious of our responsibility to cut the carbon dioxide most pressing social and environmental challenges.
emissions caused by our operations and have exceeded our reduction targets for 2008.
We work with employees, customers www.
com sustainability and other stakeholders to raise awareness, stimulate action and reduce their impact on the environment.
In 2008, we began implementing our revised environment strategy with ambitious targets for 2011 and beyond.
Financial literacy training Group environment strategy Our global network of environment The Consumer Banking business in co-ordinators and committees implements the Group environment strategy in Singapore organised five investment seminars in 2008 on a range of each country where we operate.
During 2008, India's committee supported investment topics to increase customers financial literacy.
the India Carbon Disclosure Project launch, energy efficiency, volunteering, and innovative carbon financing.
com 31 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Sustainability
