Business review continued People Building great leaders Our highlights and achievements in 2008 We believe we get the most out of our people by playing to their strengths, and it is our strengths-based philosophy that Successful integration and harmonisation of the helps us to attract leaders.
Ensuring that we get the best from American Express Bank acquisition across 47 markets, our employees is the responsibility of every leader in the Bank.
19 of which are new markets to the Groups footprint In 2008, nearly 1,500 individuals took part in the Leadership Strengthened our leadership capability through the Great Development programme, focusing on how to lead through Managers and Leadership Development programmes challenging times.
We will continue to focus on this critical which covered 4,000 and 1,500 managers, respectively area in 2009.
Launched a refresh of the Groups values and behaviours Strong progress has been made in building robust leadership and talent pipelines, with succession coverage of key roles Our priorities in 2009 increasing by 15 per cent and the size of our junior talent pool growing by 49 per cent.
To further build on our leadership Continue to drive performance through productivity capabilities, 200 of our most senior leaders participated in and engagement a 360 degree process which provided them with feedback on their values behaviour.
Continue to recruit and develop strong and diverse leaders The Group piloted a development programme in four key markets aimed at identifying talented individuals with no prior Further embed the Groups values to maintain our banking experience.
We partnered with a number of universities distinctive and unique culture in India and China, selecting 120 undergraduates to enter the Maintain sharp focus on recognising and rewarding the programme.
The Group also initiated an exchange programme appropriate behaviours for sustainable business performance between China and India to promote the sharing of talent and best practice.
For women with high performance potential at midIn the current economic environment, it is more important management levels, we launched a mentoring programme than ever to focus on our people.
The diversity of our as part of our 2008 Diversity and Inclusion agenda.
By employees provides us with our unique source of strength.
providing professional guidance and practical coaching We place particular importance on continuously improving support, the programme aims to help talented women the way we work and living the Groups values to embed our reach more senior positions in the Group.
By focusing on building great leaders and engaging our employees, we continue to drive performance.
Driving performance through productivity and engagement The Groups values Engaging employees is key to retaining talent and helps to motivate them to go the extra mile, which is particularly Our people are guided by the Groups five core values: important in todays environment.
In our eighth year of courageous, responsive, international, creative and trustworthy.
measuring engagement, almost 95 per cent of employees took We uphold and nurture these values because we believe that 12 part in the Gallup Q survey of staff engagement.
Our level of our behaviour and culture are sources of our competitive employee engagement was maintained in 2008 and was further advantage: they are why our customers bank with us and affirmed when Standard Chartered was rated amongst the top why our employees stay with us.
third of companies whose employees recommend their firm In 2008, to further embed these values, over 250 employees as a Great Place to Work.
in ten markets developed a refreshed series of behaviours Throughout the year, the Group completed various studies on that bring our values to life.
Our employees also participated the impact of engagement on business performance.
During in activities under the banner Blue and Green Week to build a challenging year for Consumer Banking in Korea, we found greater understanding of the values and what they mean.
robust links between employee engagement in branches and the overall performance and revenue growth of those branches.
With the integration of American Express Bank AEB across 47 markets we focused on engagement of former AEB employees.
Since completion of the acquisition, we have retained the core AEB management team.
28 Standard Chartered 2008 Global representation of female Percentage of employees employees who received training 46% 90% 2007: 46% 2007: 85% Blue and Green Week Tanzania excelled during Blue and Green Retaining talent The Group gathered feedback from employees and Week, an international celebration of our brand, values and culture.
Go Green leavers of the Bank to understand the root causes of employee turnover in tree-planting events were one way through which our staff lived the brand the growth markets of India and the UAE.
The findings were used to develop and values to be the right partner for their local communities.
action plans to increase retention and resulted in a seven per cent decrease in employees choosing to leave the Bank in India in 2008.
Continuously improving the way we work Diversity and Inclusion The Bank places great emphasis on continuous improvement With 125 nationalities represented among over 70,000 to increase productivity, enhance customer service and reduce employees, our diversity provides us with innovative ideas administrative tasks, so that employees can spend more time and in-depth local knowledge, enabling us to better serve on rewarding activities that add value to the Group.
our customers and maintain our competitive advantage.
The Group has successfully implemented a number of global Supporting employees to meet their obligations outside of work projects which transform our processes to make them simple, is key to attracting and retaining this diverse talent.
In 2008 scalable and sustainable, increasing efficiency and productivity we continued to roll out a flexible working policy in five new and reducing costs.
The human resources function has markets, taking the total to nine.
We have piloted working supported a number of infrastructure functions across the from home across three functions in three markets.
Over 180 Bank in reviewing and improving their operating models.
employees from our Global Shared Service Centre in Chennai have enrolled in the Working@Home initiative, contributing to We provide our diverse workforce with the skills needed to a more healthy work-life balance.
serve our customers and operate in an international environment.
We offer a global English course to improve We have also expanded the coverage of paternity policies to communication and a written English course for business the US, Australia, Lebanon and Bangladesh and opened a purposes.
Furthermore, almost 150 of our International number of day care centres in India and a crche in Sri Lanka.
Graduates have enrolled in Mandarin courses.
2008 was a year of focusing on the key, unique elements that In these turbulent times, it is increasingly important to ensure make the Group successful.
By creating an engaging responsible selling.
The Group runs compliance training environment where our people and our culture can flourish, courses that have so far reached 2,500 managers in India we enter 2009 with clear targets for the year ahead.
In key Consumer Banking markets, we have launched an integrated approach to training new frontline employees www.
com sustainability for Day One Readiness.
This innovative approach combines great-place-to-work theoretical learning with practical training conducted in a simulated branch environment with emphasis on stringent assessments and on-the-job performance.
com 29 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review People
