24 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility policy is designed to meet the expectations of our stakeholders and ensure the sustainable development of our business.
Protecting the environment and running our business ethically makes good commercial sense and will help us to enhance shareholder returns and improve the environment for everyone.
We have developed policies to cover the following : Providing great service Our aim is to provide outstanding customer service by selling a comprehensive range of floor covering products at the keenest prices, supported by excellent store staff and approved independent fitters.
Our aims Our staff are trained to serve our customers and handle any complaints: Stores will have sufficient estimators to ensure that customers can be visited at home at times to suit them: Stores will be accessible to disabled customers: All fitters should be independently assessed to ensure they give the best service to our customers: and Customer feedback will be obtained, analysed and used to identify areas for improvement.
Our performance Fitting we have been working with the Flooring Industry Training Association to assess and, if necessary, train the independent fitters recommended by us.
Since the scheme started more than 2,100 fitters have been assessed, including fitters recommended by Storeys: Store ordering our new EPOS store system is now live in over 400 stores: Complaints a new monitoring system has been developed in our central customer services team enabling a more efficient flow of data and facilitating the faster resolution of complaints.
Our targets Average number of complaints per m To continue to assess and train carpet fitters and implement an accreditation system for solid wood and laminate fitters: 2002 17.8 To introduce a customer survey asking for views on the 2003 14.3 level of satisfaction and service received: 2004 12.0 To complete the roll-out of the EPOS system.
2005 13.0 2006 9.4 2007 5.8 2008 7.5 Developing committed people We employ over 4,000 people in stores, depots and offices throughout the UK, Republic of Ireland and the Rest of Europe.
Our aims To ensure everyone has the right skills and knowledge to do their jobs: To offer our people a good range of incentives and benefits: To value and promote the diversity of our workforce: and To encourage our staff to help in the community or support charities, and recognise those who make an outstanding voluntary contribution.
Our performance Communication we communicate in an open and regular way through local management briefings, newsletters, in-house radio broadcasts and the Companys annual conference: Benefits well-rewarded staff are essential to providing excellent customer service and a key objective is to select and retain the best.
Staff benefits have been rebranded, to ease recognition and ensure consistency.
A Chairmans Award scheme rewards exceptional performance: Policies we operate an open recruitment policy and do not discriminate against any employee or potential employee.
We operate a Code of Conduct to which all staff are expected to adhere.
We have a widely disseminated formal grievance procedure and a well documented and fully publicised whistleblowing procedure so that staff can raise issues of concern in the strictest confidence: Community we are fully appreciative of the importance of voluntary service to the community and, wherever possible, we encourage staff to take on community commitments, such as service as local councillor, magistrate, school governor, charity trustee, or member of the Territorial Army.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 25 Our targets To train all our store staff on the new computer system via direct training courses and computer-based training, initially in the UK only: To promote all our benefits particularly via a new intranet site to all staff: To launch a new electronic communication tool into stores to improve the quality, quantity and timeliness of communication: To recruit more estimators so we can meet customer requirements: and To monitor the composition of our workforce to ensure we reflect the communities we operate within.
Sourcing great products We are committed to buying great products from suppliers who operate in an entirely responsible manner.
Our aims Suppliers are subject to vetting for satisfactory ethics and procedures including staff terms and conditions: Our supply chain partners will be required to sign up to a Carpetright Code of Conduct to ensure we are always acting in a responsible and ethical manner: and Where a particular environmental concern is associated with a product we will work with our suppliers to deal with it responsibly.
Our performance Suppliers our suppliers complete a questionnaire to confirm they operate to satisfactory standards.
We take particular care to see that any chemicals and materials used by suppliers in the manufacture of products are only those we consider acceptable.
Carpet suppliers from Belgium conform to a Europe-wide set of industry standards for chemicals: Product we source most of our products from the UK and Europe, and some from the USA.
Sustainability is always key and we are proud to have achieved the following: We have introduced a new Timber Policy and ensure all our wood products have attained 100% Forest Stewardship Council certification: Our underlay range includes a product made from recycled tyres: We offer a vinyl product range that includes a totally recyclable vinyl: We have introduced a new carpet product which is manufactured without generating latex waste product.
Our targets To develop a supplier Code of Conduct that supports our Corporate Responsibility policy: and To look for products manufactured by more environmentally friendly methods.
Creating a safe place to work and shop We are committed to achieve the highest standards of health and safety in all operational areas, not only for our staff but also for all those who may be affected by what we do.
Our aims To develop and implement health and safety management systems and relevant procedures: Stores will be safe and we will introduce new equipment e. g. forklifts so that heavy loads do not need to be handled physically by the staff: We will find a new and safer system for cutting carpets and vinyls in our shops: Health and safety training will be given to everyone: To ensure that risk assessment and effective safe systems of work are vital components of the health and safety management strategy: and To secure the support of all employees at all levels to make this policy truly effective.
Our performance Training a modular Health and Safety training programme has been introduced in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
A supplementary induction declaration specifically for the young ensures that all employees know their responsibilities at the start of their employment: Accident Reporting Procedure our procedure has been improved by a new accident incident report form.
We have improved accident investigations and reactions.
Our external helpdesk produces detailed statistics on a monthly basis, which help to identify trends across the Company and any changes necessary to systems and or equipment: 26 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate responsibility continued Our accident levels have yet again fallen year on year as illustrated in the table below: New equipment we constantly look at new equipment Health and safety number which might reduce manual handling.
The continued rollout of pedestrian forklift trucks has helped to reduce 2007 2008 the number of reported accidents over the last five years: 300 First aid the level of trained first aid provision throughout 250 the Company exceeds statutory requirements: 200 Smoking in the workplace all our workplaces are non-smoking areas: 150 Communication an internal health and safety newsletter 100 is produced every month.
It provides important additional 50 information on certain health and safety issues as well as reminders of correct procedures and information on 0 relevant future legislation changes.
Accidents Dangerous RIDDOR Incidents occurences Our targets Introduction of an illustrated Health and Safety manual: Introduction of e-learning modules for all staff: Rewrite training in line with the new manual and launch in stores: and Introduction of a new and safer system for cutting carpets and vinyls in our shops.
Respect for the environment We are committed to taking steps to control and minimise any damage our operations may cause to the environment through manufacturing processes, transport and logistics, energy usage and packaging.
In particular we want to understand and minimise our carbon emissions.
Our aims To ensure operational compliance with all relevant environmental legislation: To have fuel efficiency measures operating within our distribution network: To have energy efficiency measures in our sites to reduce energy consumption and to consider alternative sources of power: To minimise waste disposal, recycle whenever practicable, and look for alternative materials: and To raise staff awareness of the issues by training and co-operation with our suppliers and partners.
Our performance Energy Consumption we expect to minimise energy consumption and CO emissions from stores and improve energy efficiency by using alternative electricity technology.
Waste management we are compliant with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations, working in partnership with our approved contractors.
During the year to April 2008 we have reduced our waste by over 40% whilst the number of stores has increased by nearly 9%.
Since September 2006 we have identified stores with high water consumption for investigation by engineers: remedial work has led to a reduction in consumption of up to 85% per store site.
Fuel Efficiency We have reduced the distance our products are carried to reduce pollution and road congestion.
Our store delivery schedule is reviewed weekly in order to minimise distance travelled by the fleet, whilst still ensuring excellent customer service and all delivery vehicle drivers have undergone fuel efficiency training.
Our targets Following the move to our new facility we will remove the need to truck stock to an external distribution centre thereby saving mileage and fuel: Trials to improve upon waste disposal and recovery of reusable and recyclable material used for customer orders will be undertaken by taking waste material from stores back to the centre for recycling.
We will start to make our own cardboard inner tubes for carpets in the forthcoming year: Upgrading lighting systems within stores will reduce the overall electrical consumption by 15% across the portfolio and reduce CO emissions by over 2,100 tonnes per annum: To evaluate energy saving schemes and implement the most promising: To establish benchmark figures for utility consumption against which targets can be set for future years: and Our company car policy will be reviewed to ensure more environmentally friendly choices of vehicle are available.
