Corporate Managing a Responsibility Review sustainable business Centrica is a major provider of essential services, a company that affects and is affected by the physical, social and ethical environments in which it works.
A responsible approach to managing the associated risks and opportunities is integral to the successful delivery of the Companys strategy.
Corporate responsibility CR is, therefore, central to the delivery of sustainable value for our shareholders.
During 2008, we have continued to review, understand and manage the social, environmental and economic impact of our operations.
Sometimes this approach means taking decisions which put longer-term considerations before short-term ones, and it may mean that we choose not to undertake business which would be profitable but would be contrary to our values.
Such decisions require strong leadership and governance.
They also require a clear strategy and clear values that are applied consistently throughout the business: and the ability to measure the impact of our choices in order to understand what we Corporate should do.
Just as in any other part of the business.
responsibility Our strategy is central to Our CR strategy is to ensure the sustainability of our business by managing the the delivery of risks and seizing the opportunities presented to us in areas where we have a direct impact.
A successful approach can help us win business advantage and sustainable deliver value to our shareholders.
Conversely, if we fail, we face reputational and financial risks.
value for our Our key impact areas are: shareholders.
climate change and the environment serving our customers health and safety valuing our people our local impact our supply chain We have spent and continue to spend considerable effort on refining performance indicators for these areas to give us the management information we need.
We seek to achieve a leadership position in areas such as climate change, health and safety and social programmes which are at the heart of our business and can help us be distinctive and deliver competitive advantage.
In all of them we monitor the implementation of our policies through appropriate performance indicators and clear targets.
We report on them over the following four pages.
These impact areas also help to frame our engagement with government, regulators, investors, customers, employees and other key stakeholders in each of our operating regions.
Profound debates are taking place about climate change and the security of energy supply and it is part of our corporate responsibility to have opinions and contribute fully to those debates.
The understanding provided by the impact areas enables us to develop positions of advocacy on issues ranging from the development of the EUs renewable energy strategy and fuel poverty in the UK, to the operation of the global energy market.
We need to understand our impact on society in the broadest possible sense.
And that understanding must then be reflected in what we do and how we do it.
24 Directors report Business review Directors report governance Financial statements shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our climate change and environment strategy is to lead the market LeaDershIp anD gOvernance in responding to growing consumer demand for low-carbon I am pleased that our Board-level Corporate Responsibility products and services: maintain our low-carbon position on power Committee CRC continues to receive strong commitment from generation: and work with our employees and suppliers to reduce our senior leadership and provides strategic oversight to our the environmental impact of our operations.
The CRC was strengthened in late 2007 with Our work in these areas has been recognised for the the inclusion of a second Non-Executive Director and the Chief second year running by our inclusion in the leadership Executive within its membership.
A senior manager is also now index of the Carbon Disclosure Project.
accountable for CR performance in each business.
This structure has been increasingly effective in challenging the business units Leading the consumer market for low-carbon products to address their CR risks and opportunities.
The Committee and services meets four times a year and ensures that our day-to-day business The UK has a binding target to reduce CO2 emissions by 80% operations respond to the opportunities and mitigate the risks by 2050 with a corresponding target of 15% of all energy coming posed by CR issues.
Smaller scale renewable technologies have a significant role to play in helping to achieve process monitoring these aims and during the year BGNE made a number of Through continual challenge at CRC, we believe we have robust acquisitions to help develop our capability in microgeneration.
risk management and internal audit processes for our Group CR exposure and that our controls in high hazard activities are good.
These investments will enable us to install solar photovoltaic During 2008, we integrated non-financial key performance technology in the UK: develop combined heat and power systems indicators KPIs into Group business performance metrics and for residential properties based on solid oxide fuel cell technology: the internal audit process.
and offer consulting services to help businesses reduce their energy usage.
We will continue to look for acquisition opportunities Overseas governance to increase our range of low-carbon products and services.
Direct Energys Executive Committee enhanced CR governance by establishing its own CR Committee with responsibility for We continue to offer green energy tariffs, although encouraging overseeing North American business-specific issues.
This take-up of these remains challenging.
commitment to CR helped Direct Energy achieve recognition in a We have signed onto Ofgems Green Supply Guidelines list of the Top 50 Most Responsible Corporate Citizens in Canada.
which define a Green Tariff as one that must deliver an Our Group-wide business principles listed on page 6 on corporate additional environmental benefit.
This will raise the conduct continue to underpin all our actions.
Following a 2007 standard of industry products, ensure genuine benefits programme to communicate these to our UK employees, Direct for the environment and provide transparent and Energy introduced them during 2008.
In 2009 we will focus on consistent information to reduce consumer confusion embedding these further through our risk and internal audit processes.
Where we have identified areas of higher risk, such as our operations In North America, Direct Energy is working with the Canadian in Nigeria, we are using the business principles to guide our government to develop a standard for carbon offset calculations corporate behaviour and to ensure that we commit to the highest from energy efficiency projects.
Within British Gas, our 18-month-long Green Streets competition Developing our management culture between eight communities has highlighted practical solutions for Also during 2008, we launched our Leadership Behaviours consumers to make their homes more energy efficient.
This has been developed to support We have also linked our expertise in energy efficiency to our our leaders in understanding how they can improve our business, programme of work with vulnerable customers.
These inspire our people and deliver exceptional customer service.
These customers are some of the main recipients of energy-saving behaviours are currently being embedded into all our processes products which we supply under our carbon emission reduction including training and development, performance management, target CERT obligations.
Assessing subsequent behavioural change is a challenge for the next 12 months.
British Gas is already the UKs leading supplier of A-rated high-efficiency boilers.
The energy efficiency products provided under CERT in 2008, which included the cLIMate change anD the envIrOnMent distribution of 48 million low-energy light bulbs to our The energy efficiency products provided by British Gas customers, equated to a lifetime carbon saving of 17.87 in 2008 equated to lifetime savings of 17.87 million tonnes million tonnes of carbon dioxide.
By the end of 2008 we of carbon dioxide had completed 50% of our three-year CERT target.
We reduced our UK carbon intensity to 377g CO2 kWh, the Maintaining our low-carbon position lowest of the major energy suppliers in Britain We aim to invest in low-carbon generation.
This currently includes high-efficiency gas-fired power stations and offshore wind farms, Centrica is playing a crucial role in creating a sustainable but we are also actively pursuing an interest in nuclear power low-carbon future, whilst securing energy supplies over the long through a proposed acquisition of 25% of British Energy.
We formed British Gas New Energy BGNE in 2007 as a commercial response to the challenge of global climate change.
25 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Our new efficient gas-fired power station at Langage, Devon will servIng Our custOMers generate its first power in 2009.
And our offshore wind farm British Gas increased the number of accounts on the development at Lynn and Inner Dowsing currently the largest of its Essentials tariff for vulnerable customers by 55% type in the world has now been commissioned.
In October 2008, we also obtained consent for the Lincs wind farm development.
An estimated 1.4 million vulnerable and in-need customers have benefited from British Gas support in 2008 In North America, commercial operation began at the 170MW Buffalo Gap 3 wind farm near Abilene, Texas, from where all the We are committed and have long been committed to providing electricity produced will be purchased by Direct Energy under proactive help to our vulnerable customers and to working alongside a seven-year power purchase agreement.
the UK Government to seek ways of alleviating fuel poverty.
During 2008 we further reduced our carbon intensity in Since 2005 we have pursued a range of initiatives to support older line with our target of achieving a figure of 350g CO2 kWh customers and those who are disabled or on income-related by 2020.
In 2008, the energy we supplied had the lowest benefits.
We made a voluntary public commitment not to carbon emissions of any major supplier in Britain.
disconnect anyone we knew to be vulnerable and we provide extensive debt advice to help those struggling to pay their reducing our operational footprint energy bills.
We are also focused on reducing our own operational carbon footprint and are creating an understanding and culture among Poverty and vulnerability are also important issues in our North our employees appropriate for a business leading the way towards American markets, although the concept of fuel poverty is not as a low-carbon future.
In 2008, British Gas joined our upstream prominent as it is in the UK.
Direct Energy has tailored a number of assets in achieving certification to ISO 14001 from the British programmes for different regions, such as Neighbor to Neighbor Standards Institute.
This Standard covers our 26,000 employees in Texas and the Seniors Discount Tariff in Ohio to provide support in the UK, highlighting their commitment to and awareness of for vulnerable customers.
We aim to complete Fuel poverty became an increasingly significant issue in the UK certification across Direct Energy by the end of 2010. during 2008 with the latest figures from National Energy Action Employee engagement as a result of internal communication estimating fuel poverty in Great Britain is currently affecting more campaigns and the work of locally based Green Teams of than 5 million households.
But many of its causes in particular employee champions has cut UK office energy consumption low income compounded by unemployment are beyond our by 7.23% exceeding our target of 5%.
In 2008, 14% less control as an energy supplier.
Instead we are focusing our waste was sent to landfill when compared to 2007 and 64% resources where we can have the most impact.
Through British of our UK waste was recycled, exceeding both our targets Gas partnership with five charities, we are improving the way we in these areas.
identify vulnerable customers and are looking to provide better means of targeting those most in need to make our programmes In 2008 Direct Energys Climate Change Committee approved more effective.
a carbon footprint management programme that addresses the greenhouse gas emissions of the North American fleet, business In July 2008 we were obliged to increase tariffs for domestic travel and facilities.
Direct Energy reduced emissions by an gas and electricity as a result of sharply increased wholesale estimated 7%, although these reductions are mainly attributable energy prices.
The price rise focused the attention of the media to a slowing economy and fewer business miles travelled.
and UK Government on our approach to those hardest hit by the increases.
Our approach to supporting our more vulnerable customers is an example of how we are prepared to take decisions KPI 2008 2007 which put longer-term considerations before short-term ones, and refuse to act in ways that would be contrary to our values.
Carbon intensity of UK power generation g CO2 kWh Whats next: Reduce UK power generation carbon 377 390 intensity to 350g CO2 kWh by 2020.
To help customers with these price rises and as part of our CERT obligations, British Gas will install energy efficient products in many Lifetime carbon savings for UK household energy customers homes over the three years from April 2008, delivering efficiency products provided million tonnes 17.87 n a Whats next: Provide energy efficiency products an estimated value of over 1 billion the largest such initiative in in 2009 with total lifetime carbon savings of the UK.
In addition, our planned investments to secure energy from 13.2m tonnes of CO2 to meet our CERT obligation.
a diverse range of sources aim to mitigate the effects of future Year-on-year percentage reduction in energy % volatility in wholesale prices.
electricity and gas consumption savings across 7.23 our UK property portfolio Whats next: Achieve 5% reduction in UK office Energy suppliers reached a voluntary agreement with Government energy use in 2009. in April 2008 to increase their collective spend on social 2008 data subject to final verification.
British Gas has the largest commitment of all The basis on which carbon savings are calculated has changed making a comparison with 2007 inapplicable suppliers at 34 million during 2008 09 but by the end of this period we will have spent more than double this amount on our Essentials programme for vulnerable customers.
26 Directors report Business review Directors report governance Financial statements shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 We launched a new Essentials tariff in July 2008 which protected vulnerable customers from the price rise until April 2009 and KPI 2008 2007 provided free energy efficiency measures to reduce their Lost time injuries LTI 100,000 hours worked consumption.
Our more recent Essentials Advance initiative, Whats next: 20% LTI reduction on 2008 1.00 1.05 offering vulnerable and in-need customers free energy efficiency performance to 0.8. measures and a 50 rebate once measures are installed, is in line Total number of fatalities with the Governments save money, save energy programme.
1 0 We have restated the 2007 LTI figure following a review of the data and the reclassification of a number By the end of 2008, there were more than 526,000 accounts of accidents.
on our Essentials tariff for vulnerable and in-need customers, a 55% increase compared to 2007.
In total, we provided support to an estimated 1.4 million vulnerable vaLuIng Our peOpLe or in-need customers during 2008 and remain committed to playing a leading role in this area.
Employee commitment has increased by an average of over 3% in most businesses British Gas is creating more than 1,500 new skilled jobs KPI 2008 2007 over the coming years Number of customer accounts on Essentials 526,500 340,000 During the year we employed an average of 32,817 people: 27,538 tariff UK Whats next: Commitment to manage up to 750k in the UK: 4,991 in North America: and 288 in the rest of the world.
We want to ensure that we attract and retain the best talent and offer an environment in which all our employees can flourish.
employee engagement heaLth anD saFety We want Centrica to be a great place to work and our engagement survey helps us to measure employee attitudes and opinions.
We achieved a 5% reduction in the rate of lost time injuries Overall, there was a 94% response rate to the 2008 survey, per 100,000 hours worked up from 84% in 2007.
Scores for employee commitment The health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers have increased across most business units by an average and the communities in which we live and work is a top priority.
This is well in excess of UK benchmarks Despite our continued focus in this area, a British Gas engineer and also above both European and global benchmarks.
was tragically involved in a fatal incident during the year.
Our We are aiming to hold the next full engagement survey in 2010, thoughts and deepest sympathies are with his family.
where we are targeting a commitment of 62%.
An interim survey A new health, safety and environment HS&E sub-committee of the will be held in 2009 as a temperature check.
Executive has been set up to determine the policies, targets and Diversity and inclusion KPIs we need to meet our strategic vision and objectives for HS&E.
We are committed to pursuing both equality and diversity in all Health and safety is a standing item on the agenda of all our activities and continue to work with external organisations Executive Committee meetings and business quarterly to share best practice and identify performance improvement performance review meetings with the Chief Executive.
Following a detailed internal examination of our management Our sixth Equal Pay Review concluded that Centricas reward systems, we believe that we have effective processes for managing processes and implementation, including performance assessment, the condition of our plant and equipment.
Accident rates in our were not subject to gender bias.
Female representation within upstream assets are low.
Centricas senior leadership team is currently 24% against a Company average of 30% female employees.
The British Gas However, while trends in many of our businesses show Services Academy has a dedicated Diversity and Inclusion team improvements, our overall lost time injury LTI rates are high, with tasked with improving the representation of female engineering British Gas Services accounting for more than 80% of our accidents.
recruits and those from ethnic minorities.
The team was recognised To decrease injury rates, British Gas Services has launched a major by Personnel Today, winning the 2008 award for Diversity in the programme of safety improvements, including a high profile internal Workplace.
Direct Energy has a Diversity and Inclusion Council to awareness campaign.
oversee strategy in North America.
Our main occupational health issues in the UK are related to We also continue to support initiatives to provide employment musculoskeletal disorders and mental health.
We are currently opportunities for people from under-represented groups, including reviewing our procedures and introducing new KPIs to improve those with a disability, carers and lone parents.
We recently joined our reporting in this area.
We are also exploring a proposal to other top employers in the UK Governments flagship National develop a Group-wide approach to managing these issues and Employment Partnership, working with Jobcentre Plus to speed up their impact on our business.
We remain committed to improving recruitment, highlight vacancies and boost on-the-job training.
Our overall health and safety performance that will enable us to existing partnership with Jobcentre Plus has recruited more than benchmark more positively with other leading companies in 200 people over the past two years.
27 Corporate Responsibility Review continued On a wider scale, over 8,000 UK schools have signed up recruitment and retention to the British Gas Generation Green programme.
Schools In an economic downturn, providing work can be a significant act can win prizes such as solar panels and energy audits by of corporate responsibility.
collecting leaves which reward measures to tackle climate British Gas is trebling its recruitment of apprentice gas change.
The next phase of the programme encourages our engineers over the coming years creating more than 1,000 employees to volunteer in the schools to build stronger new jobs.
This will also see the business invest 30 million links with local communities.
in training across its network of five UK Engineering Academy training centres.
In India, British Gas is working with agency partners EXL and WNS to build relations with local communities.
For example, with EXL we We continued to make progress in attracting and retaining have co-funded the creation of a new secondary school for 280 employees and increasing productivity and morale through pupils near Delhi.
Unplanned employee attrition In Nigeria, where youth unemployment is a key issue, we are reduced across most business units, including British Gas developing community investment and skills acquisition programmes, Residential where the reduction was 16%.
which have already enabled 25 young people to study at the Maritime In 2008 there were significant changes in our graduate recruitment Academy of Nigeria.
Our focus on stakeholder dialogue here, and and development process.
An improved marketing and assessment at other operations such as our UK wind farm developments, has strategy achieved better access to the highest calibre graduates and helped us to resolve issues at the earliest opportunity and ensure all a new placement rotation process met business needs and graduate risks are taken into account and managed effectively.
The Summer Placement Programme, which provides ten-week work placements grew to equal size and also became a significant route to the main graduate programme.
KPI 2008 2007 Centrica was named as a Top 50 graduate recruiter by Total community contributions m 52.9 30.2 both Oxford and Cambridge Universities and the Summer Placement Programme was a finalist in the 2008 National Combination of figures calculated from London Benchmarking Group methodology and cost of voluntary programmes to support vulnerable customers in the UK.
Council for Work Experience Awards.
G roup cash donations during the year amounted to 5.9 million 2007: 4.1 million.
This included a donation of 3.6 million to the British Gas Energy Trust, which supports vulnerable customers.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made for political purposes.
The Group, in the normal Our approach to flexible working is seen by employees and managers course of its business, has paid for its management to attend events at which politicians and other opinion-formers have been present, but does not consider these payments to be political donations.
alike as a key factor in both the attraction of staff and a reason for their staying.
A research project undertaken by Cranfield University highlighted that flexible working is an important business tool, improving recruitment, retention and overall employee engagement.
suppLy chaIn It is also embedded in our culture with 65% of respondents to the We developed corporate responsibility clauses for our 2008 research saying that they worked flexibly and more than 29% supplier contracts having formal flexible working arrangements in place.
As a large international company, we have responsibilities for the application of appropriate business practice throughout our KPI 2008 2007 supply chain.
Percentage of employees committed to % % Following sign-off of our Responsible Procurement and Supplier Centrica measured through the Employee 57 53 Engagement Survey Management Policy in December 2007, we developed robust Whats next: Employee commitment score foundations for embedding responsible procurement into our of 60% by 2009 and 62% by 2010. procurement and supplier management processes.
Our approach Employees from ethnic minority groups % % % is to integrate the identification of non-financial risks in our supply 15.3 15.2 chain into our business as usual procurement process.
This Employee gender female male % 30.0 70.0 30.2 69.8 includes incorporating corporate responsibility clauses in contracts with suppliers.
During the year we hosted two workshops with 18 of our LOcaL IMpact strategic suppliers to communicate our new policy and to create a platform to discuss and share best practice More than 8,000 schools have signed up to the British Gas on supply chain responsibility.
Generation Green programme All suppliers responded positively to our approach and provided We aim to work with the communities in which we operate for useful insights on how other companies are implementing and our mutual benefit.
We do this by understanding local social and embedding responsible procurement.
environmental issues and by taking action to address those issues.
We also build strong community relations through our support for local organisations and by encouraging our own employees to get involved in a range of volunteering opportunities.
For example, more than 180 engineers from British Gas Services gave up their Mary Francis CBE own time to install around 130 boilers for customers in need across Senior Independent Director the country.
