DIREcTORS REpORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 71 In this section, we describe our commitment in Other areas in which we are driving further pHARmACEuTICAlS IN THE ENVIRoNmENT two key areas of environmental sustainability: improvement include: managing our carbon footprint and The presence of trace amounts of understanding the potential impact of Implementation of green technology pharmaceuticals in the environment PIE pharmaceuticals in the environment.
More principles in our process design.
resulting from patient excretion is an inevitable information about our work in these areas result of the way most current medicines work: and others, such as waste management, Exploring the potential for further pharmaceuticals need to be stable enough resource efficiency, biodiversity and emissions investment in low carbon and renewable to have a useful shelf life and oral dosage to air and water, can be found on our website, energy options at our sites.
forms must be robust enough, in most cases, astrazeneca.
to pass through the stomach intact.
Further investment in greener energy We continue to track, actively participate in, supply from external power suppliers.
Continued publication of data relating to and pursue initiatives relating to international the presence of pharmaceutical residues research and policy developments associated Implementation of further energy in surface waters and more recently also with emerging safety, health and environment conservation programmes, particularly in drinking water has stimulated a wider SHE policy and legislative matters.
related to fume cupboards in laboratories.
We understand the concerns these publications raise and are committed to ClImATE CHANGE Alongside this, we also continuously seek to addressing this issue responsibly.
use external opportunities to share learning We are committed to minimising our impact on and foster best practice.
For example, as part Whilst the scientific studies published to date climate change and in recent years we have of prioritising the selection of goods transport suggest that the low levels of pharmaceuticals been making good progress in reducing our partners on the basis of their reliability, quality detected in the environment are unlikely greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2008 our total and internal safety, health and environmental to pose a risk to human health, we continue emissions from all sources were 5% lower management, we take into consideration to develop a better understanding of the than in 2007.
Data on our performance over the efficiency of their air and road fleets.
potential long-term effects on aquatic life.
the last three years is provided on page 15.
In 2008, AstraZeneca, in conjunction with our We are committed to ensuring that any European road freight and logistics provider, potential adverse effects are responsibly In common with most businesses, our was recognised in the European Outsourcing balanced against the benefits our medicines emissions arise from the energy we use at Awards for the success of a new initiative to bring to patients.
our facilities, from other in-house activities co-load our product into vehicles with product and from the various means of transport we from other companies minimising vacant This is an ongoing priority for our scientists use.
Our carbon footprint is also affected by space and significantly reducing costs and at our Environmental Laboratory in Brixham, some of our respiratory therapies, specifically environmental impact.
UK, who are at the forefront of this field of our pressurised metered dose inhaler pMDI science, working both independently and in products which rely on propellants such as ouR TARGETS collaboration with other companies, leading hydrofluoroalkane HFA, a greenhouse gas, We continue to work hard to manage our academics and regulatory bodies to advance to deliver the medicine to the airways.
Patients environmental impact without compromising PIE-related research.
We recently invested who are unable to use our Turbuhaler dry our ability to deliver new therapies for important $24 million in new laboratories at the Brixham powder inhaler, which does not require areas of healthcare.
Our current climate change site to further improve the facilities for the propellants, need these pMDI products.
targets, approved by the Board in 2005, aim evaluation of the environmental fate and We believe that the expanded treatment choice to ensure that our absolute emissions in 2010 persistence of pharmaceuticals.
and potential benefits that they offer outweigh will be no greater than they were at the start the potential impact on the environment.
of the decade and 55% less than they were The environmental profile of our new in 1990. pharmaceuticals is assessed prior to applying The business of developing, manufacturing for government approval in a manner that and distributing innovative medicines is This requires substantial efforts to be made is consistent with applicable regulatory increasingly complex and uses energy both across our business to produce, by 2010, regimes.
In addition, many of our existing in our facilities and in travel and transport.
an absolute reduction of 12% in global products are assessed to comply with the We continue to drive the implementation of warming emissions from all sources other new EU requirements in connection with post initiatives and programmes that are focused than pMDIs, when compared with 2005. approval applications.
on managing our carbon footprint across key More details about our reduction targets and areas of our business activity.
For example, performance can be found on our website, We have also introduced internal Environmental recognising the significant global warming astrazeneca.
Risk Management Plans that will accompany emissions from business road travel for sales all new medicines and which will enable all and marketing activities, we continue to invest We are currently in the process of developing available environmental data for a product to in advanced driver training to improve both a new environmental sustainability strategy, be taken into account at key decision points safety and efficiency associated with road together with associated objectives and during development.
travel and we are increasingly using a range targets, which will take us beyond 2010 of hybrid and alternative fuel vehicles.
and drive our continued commitment in this important area.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
