72 IN THE GLOBAL cOMMUNITY Consistent with our overall commitment 2008 CommuNITY SuppoRT dEdICATEd RESEARCH to product stewardship and sustainable We have a dedicated scientific resource in production, AstraZeneca manufactures its 51% SPONSORSHIP HEALTHCARE Bangalore, India that focuses on finding a new, 23% SPONSORSHIP SCIENCE products in accordance with strict regulatory improved treatment for TB a major cause AND EDUCATION requirements and our processes are designed of illness and death worldwide, especially 20% CHARITABLE SUPPORT DONATIONS to avoid, or otherwise minimise, the loss of in Asia and Africa.
AstraZeneca is the 6% OTHER product to the environment.
We will continue only major pharmaceutical company with to proactively manage emissions of active TOTAL SPEND: $72 MILLION a research programme in India totally EXCLUDING PRODUCT DONATIONS pharmaceutical ingredients from manufacturing dedicated to TB.
Further information can activities, integrate green chemistry principles be found in the Infection section on page 59. into our operations, and otherwise ensure that any residual losses of pharmaceuticals Wherever AstraZeneca is located worldwide, WoRKING IN pARTNERSHIp to the environment that do occur are at we aim to make a positive contribution to As well as the availability of appropriate levels that would be unlikely to pose a threat our local communities through charitable medicines, effective healthcare depends to human health or the environment.
donations, sponsorships and other initiatives on having a functional healthcare system in that help to make a difference.
Our activities place that ensures medicines are used to full We make our environmental risk data, together focus on bringing sustainable benefit in effect as part of overall health management.
with available information on our existing ways that are consistent with our business In some parts of the developing world, this products, publicly available via the Swedish of improving health and quality of life, and is a particular challenge.
To help meet this Doctors Prescribing Guide website using the on promoting the value of science among challenge, we continue to partner with voluntary disclosure system introduced by the young people.
NGOs and other organisations working Swedish Association of the Pharmaceutical with local communities to strengthen their Industry LIF.
The system was developed by In 2008, we spent a total of $718 million healthcare capabilities.
LIF and a number of Swedish stakeholders, 2007: $588 million on community in conjunction with expert representatives sponsorships and charitable donations Key principles for these partnerships are that from international pharmaceutical companies, worldwide, including $646 million of product they lead to positive measurable outcomes, convened and chaired by AstraZeneca.
donations, valued at average wholesale can be scaled up and potentially replicated to We are also working with the Association of prices 2007: $518 million.
improve outcomes for a greater number, and the British Pharmaceutical Industry, to help can deliver a sustainable framework that can the Environment Agency for England and We also contribute where possible to disaster ultimately be owned and managed locally Wales to evaluate the risks of the existing relief efforts.
During 2008, following the without the need for our continued support.
medicines on their priority action list.
earthquake tragedy in China, we committed We also aim to ensure that such partnerships can contribute to AstraZenecas business a total of $2 million to the immediate relief We continue to be active in communicating effort and to a longer-term programme development, by enabling us to understand and discussing our research and initiatives designed to help the affected communities better the health needs, and build important at international and national conferences rebuild their lives.
Following the devastating relationships in future markets.
with academia and other stakeholders.
cyclone in Myanmar Burma, we committed We also participate in informal networks and a further $200,000 to increase Red Cross Our long-standing partnership with the are active in proposing topics of interest for emergency relief stocks held in the charitys British Red Cross and Red Crescent discussion at scientific conferences and with regional Disaster Response Centre in Kuala Societies includes support to programmes non-governmental organisations.
in Central Asia that are helping to combat Lumpur, which was originally established with $700,000 of funding from AstraZeneca TB and improve the quality of life of people in 2005. living with TB and TB HIV co-infection in the hard-hit areas of Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan IN THE dEVElopING WoRld and Kazakhstan.
Work is community-based and progress to date includes over 7,500 Whilst we remain committed to making people successfully completing their TB a contribution to improving healthcare in treatment, with treatment completion rates the developing world, we believe that real exceeding 90% among the most poor and progress can only be made through the vulnerable, and public awareness campaigns commitment of all the related stakeholders, that have reached over one million people.
including governments, non-governmental Overall, this work is contributing to the organisations NGOs and the international implementation of national programmes that community, as well as the private sector.
are leading to a stabilisation and reduction in the incidence of TB in these countries.
The medicines in our range today are not relevant to the treatment of tuberculosis TB, HIV AIDS and malaria, the most significant healthcare problems that many developing world countries are currently facing, but we are applying our skills and resources to helping in other ways.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIREcTORS REpORT 73 Our partnership with the African Medical and ENGAGING AT AN INTERNATIoNAl lEVEl Research Foundation AMREF is focused on developing a model for the integrated As part of our focus on TB, we actively management of TB, HIV AIDS and malaria at engage in international efforts to help in the both national and local levels in Uganda, where fight against this devastating disease.
In some there is high incidence of all three diseases.
cases, our external collaboration specifically This integrated management approach has not supports our own research effort by providing been widely addressed previously and we are opportunities for gaining valuable external one of the few organisations involved in such input and sharing of best practice.
A pilot programme is now underway in the high incidence areas of Luwero and During 2008, we helped fund and participated Kiboga districts of central Uganda.
Progress in the third Open Forum on Key Issues in TB includes increased detection rates from 59% Drug Development, organised by the Bill and in March to 73% in June in the Luwero district Melinda Gates Foundation, the Global Alliance and the training of village health teams in for TB Drug Development, Treatment Action 14 villages.
Work with the district health Group and the Stop TB Partnership Working teams is also delivering better health planning Group on New Drugs.
The meetings are and co-ordination.
designed to bring together TB drug developers, regulators and other interested stakeholders, In Ethiopia, our partnership with Axios is such as TB care providers, public health focused on building local capability in managing policy-makers, and community advocates.
breast cancer the second most common The agenda is focused on addressing key cancer among young women in that country.
issues in the discovery, development and The project has focused on strengthening registration of new TB treatments.
diagnosis and treatment capabilities, including the creation of previously unavailable treatment We also stepped up our involvement with the protocols and standardised reporting Stop TB Partnership during 2008.
AstraZeneca guidelines for use across the country.
is now a member of its International Board, which provides leadership and direction and Our support to Voluntary Service Overseas monitors the implementation of agreed VSO includes the secondment of a senior policies and plans.
manager to the organisation to help them further develop their strategy and framework for delivering their health goals.
We also fund VSO volunteers working to build local healthcare capabilities in underserved communities across Africa and Asia.
Alongside this, we are enabling our employees to volunteer for placements in appropriate countries to support VSO, drawing on the broad range of skills they can offer in human resources, finance, IT and communications, as well as health and medicine.
More information about these partnerships and our other activities worldwide is available on our website, astrazeneca.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
