Corporate Responsibility The Board regards responsible behaviour in all Vodafones operations as underpinning the value of the brand and has established being a responsible business as one of the Groups long term goals.
The Groups approach to corporate responsibility CR enables it to understand the expectations of stakeholders, forecast trends in social, environmental and ethical requirements and to manage the Groups performance in an appropriate manner.
More detail will be available in the online CR report with the full CR performance for the year ended 31 March 2008 at www.
Business impact CR governance CR issues present both risks and opportunities for Vodafone and a broad range of Vodafones approach to CR is underpinned by its business principles which cover, stakeholders are increasingly interested in how Vodafone manages these issues.
amongst other things, the environment, employees, individual conduct and For example, the Groups licences to operate are granted by governments that community and society.
The business principles are available on www.
frequently seek evidence of responsible business practices and in many markets com responsibility businessprinciples and are communicated to employees in a consumers are becoming more concerned about CR issues, such as climate number of ways, including induction processes, websites and face to face meetings.
change, content standards and mobile phones, masts and health.
The Executive Committee receives regular information on CR and, for the last The range of stakeholders and the breadth of the issues involved indicate that five years, the Board has had an annual presentation on CR.
A CR management CR is relevant across all aspects of Vodafones activities and therefore the Group structure is established in each local operating company, with each one having seeks to integrate its CR approach into all key business processes.
a representative on its management board with responsibility for CR.
For the purposes of this section of the Annual Report, operating companies refers to Strategy the Groups operating subsidiaries and the Groups joint venture in Italy.
It includes The CR strategy, which addresses CR issues material to the Group, has the information for the first time for Turkey and Arcor, Vodafones fixed-line business following main strands: in Germany, but excludes the newly acquired operations in India and Tele2 in Spain and Italy.
These newly acquired operations will be included in the 2009 to capture the potential of mobile to bring socio-economic value in both financial year.
emerging economies and developed markets, through broadening access to communications to all sections of society: CR performance is closely monitored and reported at most local operating to deliver against stakeholder expectations on the key areas of climate change, company boards on a regular basis.
CR is also integrated into Vodafones risk a safe and responsible internet experience and sustainable products and management processes such as the formal annual confirmation provided by services: and each local operating company detailing the operation of their controls system.
to ensure Vodafones operating standards are of a consistent and appropriate level across the Group.
These processes are supported by stakeholder engagement, which helps to ensure Vodafone is aware of the issues relevant to the business and to provide a clear understanding of expectations of performance.
Stakeholder consultations take place with customers, investors, employees, suppliers, the communities where the Group operates and where networks are based, governments and Key CR strategic objectives regulators and non-governmental organisations.
In addition, the Group has continued the Vodafone CR Dialogues programme of in-depth discussions on Core initiative: specific, emerging issues.
CR Dialogues this year focused on privacy, climate change, safe internet and emerging markets.
More information on this can be Access to communications found at www.
Safe and responsible Climate change Sustainable internet experience products and services Vodafones CR programme and performance as reported on the Groups online CR report has been independently assured using the AccountAbility 1000 Assurance Standard AA1000 AS by the Groups auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Supported by responsible business practices The AA1000 AS requires Vodafone to report its responses and performance on material issues.
Deloittes assurance statement outlining the specific assurance Underpinned by values, principles and behaviours scope, procedures and reasonable assurance opinion is published in the Groups online CR report.
The Groups CR reporting comprises an online report and a printed CR summary focusing on strategy and trends, while 12 operating companies also produce their own CR reports.
During the year, Vodafones 2007 CR report won the main accolade of the Corporate Register Reporting Awards for the best report and was commended by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants ACCA for the best disclosure in Tax and Public Policy.
Vodafone is included in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Index and rated fifth in the Global AccountAbility Rating, published by Fortune.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 59 Vodafone Performance Corporate Responsibility continued Performance in the 2008 financial year Privacy and freedom of expression In response to concerns raised about privacy and freedom of expression on the Access to communications internet, Vodafone continued to participate in a multi-stakeholder engagement Access to communications offers the single greatest opportunity for Vodafone initiative to agree principles for companies on these issues.
More than 20 to make a strong contribution to society, with a considerable body of research academics, investors, companies and non-governmental organisations are now showing that telecommunications and mobile communications in particular involved in this process.
has the potential to change peoples lives for the better, by promoting economic and social development.
During the 2008 financial year, Vodafone continued The Group launched mobile advertising activities in 11 markets, adopting a its focus on mobile payment services and own brand handsets for emerging conservative approach to content and privacy issues.
Vodafone has begun to markets as follows: monitor conformance with the Groups global guidance on advertising and is reviewing feedback on areas where the guidance should be clarified, adapted Vodafone has continued with the ambition of extending access to or modified.
communications in emerging markets by increasing the portfolio of own branded handsets that introduce higher levels of technological development Climate change and affordability so that more people are able to use more services.
The Group Vodafone recognises that climate change is likely to result in profound has shipped more than 10 million of these new handsets to more than 30 consequences for the environment, society and the economy.
Limiting the markets during the 2008 financial year.
Groups contribution is a priority and during the year the Group announced that Over two million people in Kenya have used the Vodafone M-PESA Vodafone by 2020 it will reduce its CO emissions by 50% against the 2007 financial year 2 Money Transfer mobile transaction service since its launch in February 2007, baseline of 1.23 million tonnes.
The Group is currently gathering data about the with an average of 200,000 more signing up each month.
Customers can pay carbon footprint of its newly acquired businesses in India and Turkey, and climate in and withdraw cash at local agents, transfer money to other mobile users change targets for these businesses will be announced in due course.
via SMS and buy prepaid airtime credit.
Vodafone M-PESA Vodafone Money Transfer is being used by customers for a wide range of money transfer The Group reviewed the options for achieving this target, including carbon offtransactions, with the majority of transaction values being below 20. setting as a last resort, and concluded that the most effective strategy is to cut Partnering with local mobile operator Roshan, Vodafone is piloting a similar CO emissions directly.
The target is expected to be achieved principally through 2 scheme in Afghanistan and plans further launches in India and in other operational changes and technological innovation to improve energy efficiency African countries.
Renewable energy will be used when and where possible.
The Group is also finding ways to make mobile phones easier to use, particularly In addition, as part of the climate strategy, the Group announced that it will also for customers who are elderly, deaf, hard of hearing, blind, visually impaired or have be focusing on developing products and services which will help customers limit other disabilities.
Examples include a speaking phone for the visually impaired their own emissions.
This is expected to include exploring consumer related and special data tariffs for deaf customers.
The Group is currently conducting solutions such as solar-powered or universal chargers as well as improving a strategic review of how best to address those issues and will announce the understanding of how mobile technology can enable lower emissions through development of a centre of excellence during the 2009 financial year.
more efficient traffic management, logistic planning and scheduling and the remote monitoring of utility meters.
Safe and trusted internet experience Vodafones reputation depends on earning and maintaining the trust of its Energy use associated with the operation of the network accounts for around customers.
The way the Group deals with certain key consumer issues directly 80% of the Groups carbon dioxide emissions.
In 2006, the Group set a target to impacts trust in Vodafone.
These include responsible marketing, clear pricing, reduce CO emissions per unit of data transmitted by 40% by 2011.
This target 2 protecting customers privacy and developing a mobile advertising proposition has been achieved in 2008, three years in advance, with network carbon dioxide that customers find acceptable.
During the year, Vodafone has re-drafted its emissions per unit of data transmitted decreasing by 50% from 0.034 Kg Mb to responsible marketing guidelines to ensure that customers can continue to trust 0.17 Kg Mb.
In the 2008 financial year, Vodafones energy use was 2,996 GWh, the Groups services in new areas such as mobile advertising, social networking equating to 1.45 million tonnes of carbon dioxide.
Sustainable products and services Age-restricted content Vodafone is developing programmes aimed at making delivery of its products and During the 2008 financial year, the Groups research has shown that parents are services more sustainable.
The key focus during the 2008 financial year was on increasingly concerned about what their children see on the internet and it is the reuse and recycling of handsets and accessories, and network equipment.
anticipated that those concerns will be transferred to childrens use of mobile devices as parents become more aware of mobile internet.
Mobile phones, accessories and the networks on which they operate require upgrading, replacement and decommissioning.
The Group complies with the EUs Vodafones initiatives in these areas include: Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment directive through its handset recycling programmes in all operating companies where it applies.
The Group has also All mobile operating companies that offer age-restricted content have worked with suppliers to ensure substances prohibited by the Restriction of the implemented parental controls.
These block access to age-restricted content use of certain Hazardous Substances directive are phased out.
During the 2008 on the Vodafone live!
domain to those under 18 years of age.
Internet filters financial year, 1.33 million phones were collected for reuse and recycling through are offered by eight operating companies, which also enable parents to prevent collection programmes in 16 mobile operating companies, achieving the Groups their children accessing inappropriate age-restricted content on the internet target.
11,849 tonnes of network equipment waste was generated, with 96% of via their mobile phones.
The mobile operating companies that have not this sent for reuse or recycling, exceeding the target of 95%.
implemented the filter will remove individual access to the internet completely on request.
Mobile phones, masts and health Vodafone is leading a pan-European ICT Education Initiative in partnership with Vodafone recognises that there is public concern about the safety of Radio other ICT companies and European Schoolnet, to develop online education Frequency RF fields from mobile phones and base stations.
These will help teachers understand new mobile and internet contributes to funding of independent scientific research to resolve scientific technology and encourage their students to use it responsibly.
uncertainty in areas identified by the World Health Organisation WHO.
The Vodafone is a founding member of the Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual WHO established an International EMF Project in 1996, which records global Abuse Content, launched by the GSMA in February 2008 to prevent users from research into mobile phones, masts and health and prioritises research needs.
accessing websites identified as hosting child sexual abuse content.
In 2006, they identified the following three main areas for additional research: A representative from Vodafone chaired the UK Home Office taskforce to long term more than 10 years exposure to low-level RF fields, possible health develop industry guidelines on social networking.
Vodafone will develop its effects of mobile use in children and dosimetry the way levels of RF absorbed own social networking guidelines for operating companies based on the are calculated.
industry guidelines to inform the way access is offered to services like Bebo, Facebook, Flickr, MySpace and YouTube.
60 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Vodafone requires manufacturers of the mobile devices it sells to test for Specific Supply chain Absorption Rate compliance when used both against the ear and against, or near, The Group continues to implement Vodafones Code of Ethical Purchasing, the body, using the US FCC Test procedure.
Vodafone is actively engaged with which sets out environmental and labour standards for suppliers.
the IEC Standards Organisation in developing a new global protocol for body worn phones and expects a new standard, which better reflects customers use The Group increased its CR capability in China by training all supply chain of mobile devices, to be adopted later this year.
The Groups long term programme employees, establishing two CR qualified auditors within the Groups offices in of engagement, with a range of stakeholders, aims to reduce levels of concern Beijing and Hong Kong and embedding CR in supplier selection and management amongst the public and to demonstrate that Vodafone is acting responsibly.
using the Groups global qualification process.
A project with two strategic Chinese suppliers was implemented to manage CR risk within sub-tier suppliers.
Responsible network deployment Vodafones mobile services rely on a network of radio base stations that transmit A total of 488 suppliers, including 63 strategic global suppliers, have been and receive calls.
The Group recognises that network deployment can cause assessed using the Groups supplier evaluation scorecard in which CR accounts concern to communities, usually about the visual impact of base stations or for 10% of the total.
The scorecard evaluates the suppliers CR management health issues concerning RF fields.
During the year, the Group reviewed and systems, public reporting and approach to managing their suppliers.
Seven site updated its policy on responsible network deployment.
In addition, nine mobile evaluations of high risk suppliers have been completed.
operating companies have signed up to national industry codes of best practice on network deployment.
The duty to report programme provides suppliers with a means to report any ethical concerns.
Twelve incidents were reported in relation to managing the By cooperating with other mobile operators to share sites, the Group is reducing global supply chain in the 2008 financial year.
All have been investigated and the total number of base stations required.
This lowers costs, enables faster resolved satisfactorily.
network deployment and reduces the environmental footprint of the network without loss of quality or coverage.
Vodafone has active or passive network Social investment sharing agreements in 17 countries.
In India, in partnership with Bharti Airtel The Vodafone Group Foundation and its network of 21 local operating company and Idea Cellular Limited, the Group announced the creation of Indus Towers, and associate foundations have continued to implement a global social an independent mobile infrastructure company that will provide infrastructure investment programme.
services to all telecommunications operators on a non-discriminatory basis.
During the 2008 financial year, the Company made a charitable grant of The Group has conducted audits of network deployment contractors in all its 24.0 million to the Vodafone Group Foundation.
The majority of foundation local operating companies to verify adherence to the global responsible network funds are distributed in grants through operating company foundations to a deployment policy.
As an example, more than 1,000 site audits took place in variety of local charitable organisations meeting the needs of the communities Turkey, one of the newest operating companies and the focus of significant in which they operate.
network deployment during the year.
The Vodafone Group Foundation made additional grants to charitable partners Vodafone aims to comply with local planning regulations but is sometimes found engaged in a variety of global projects.
Its areas of focus are: sport and music to be in breach.
This is normally related to conflicting local, regional or national as a means of benefiting some of the most disadvantaged young people and their planning regulations.
During the 2008 financial year, Vodafone was found in breach communities, and disaster relief and preparedness.
of planning regulations relating to 423 mast sitings.
Fines levied by regulatory bodies or courts in relation to offences under environmental law or regulations In addition, operating companies donated a further 12.9 million to their were approximately 61,000. foundations and a further 4.2 million directly to a variety of causes.
Total donations for the year ended 31 March 2008 were 44.9 million and included donations of 3.8 million towards foundation operating costs.
1 Key performance indicators 2 3 4 KPI 2008 2007 2006 Number of mobile operating subsidiaries undertaking independent RF field monitoring 15 15 15 5 Total energy use GWh direct and indirect 2,996 2,690 2,900 5 Total carbon dioxide emissions millions of tonnes 1.45 1.23 1.31 Percentage of energy sourced from renewables 18 17 12 Number of phones collected for reuse and recycling millions 1.33 1.03 1.37 Network equipment waste generated tonnes 12,096 9,960 2,950 Percentage of network equipment waste sent for reuse or recycling 96 97 97 Notes: 1 These performance indicators were calculated using actual or estimated data collected by the Groups mobile operating companies.
The data is sourced from invoices, purchasing requisitions, direct data measurement and estimations where required.
The carbon dioxide emissions figure is calculated using the kWh CO conversion factor for the electricity provided by the national grid 2 and for other energy sources in each operating company.
The Groups joint venture in Italy is included in all years.
2 The data for the 2008 financial year excludes the newly acquired Vodafone Essar in India and Tele2 in Italy and Spain.
3 The data for the 2007 financial year excludes the newly acquired operations in Turkey and the operations in Japan that were sold during the 2007 financial year.
4 The data for the 2006 financial year excludes the acquired businesses in Czech Republic and Romania and the business in Sweden that was sold during the 2006 financial year, but does include the business in Japan that was disposed of during the 2007 financial year.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 61 Vodafone Governance Board of Directors and Group Management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Directors and senior management 4.
Andy Halford, Chief Financial Officer, aged 49, joined the Board in July 2005.
Andy joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director for Vodafone Limited, the UK The business of the Company is managed by its board of directors the Board.
operating company, and in 2001 he became Financial Director for Vodafones Biographical details of the directors and senior management at the date of this Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
In 2002, he was appointed Chief report are as follows: Financial Officer of Verizon Wireless in the US and is currently a member of the Board of Representatives of the Verizon Wireless partnership.
Prior to joining Board of directors Vodafone, he was Group Finance Director at East Midlands Electricity Plc.
Andy Chairman holds a bachelors degree in Industrial Economics from Nottingham University 1.
Sir John Bond, aged 66, became Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc in July and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
2006, having previously served as a non-executive director of the Board, and is Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Sir John is a nonDeputy Chairman and senior independent director executive director of Ford Motor Company, USA, and A. P. Mller Mrsk A S 5.
John Buchanan, aged 64, became Deputy Chairman and senior independent and is a director of Shui On Land Limited Hong Kong SAR.
He retired from the director in July 2006 and has been a member of the Board since April 2003. position of Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc in May 2006, after 45 years He retired from the board of directors of BP Plc in 2002 after six years as Group of service.
Other previous roles include Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and director Chief Financial Officer and executive director, following a wide-ranging career with of The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and HSBC North America the company.
He was a member of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards Holdings Inc.
Previous non-executive directorships include the London Stock Board from 1997 to 2001.
He is Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc, a non-executive Exchange, Orange plc, British Steel plc and the Court of the Bank of England.
director of AstraZeneca PLC and senior independent director of BHP Billiton Plc.
Arun Sarin, Chief Executive, aged 53, became a member of the Board in June 6.
Dr Michael Boskin, aged 62, became a member of the Board in June 1999 1999.
He was appointed Chief Executive in July 2003.
Arun joined Pacific Telesis on completion of the merger with AirTouch Communications, Inc. and is Chairman Group in San Francisco in 1984 and has served in many executive positions in of the Audit Committee.
He was a director of AirTouch from August 1996 to June his career in telecommunications, which spans more than 20 years.
He has been a Professor of Economics at Stanford University since 1971 director of AirTouch Communications, Inc. from July 1995 and was President and and was Chairman of the Presidents Council of Economic Advisers from February Chief Operating Officer from February 1997 to June 1999.
He was Chief Executive 1989 until January 1993.
Michael is President and Chief Executive Officer of Officer for the Vodafone United States and Asia Pacific region until 15 April 2000, Boskin & Co. an economic consulting company, and is also a director of Exxon when he became a non-executive director.
He has served as a director of Mobil Corporation, Shinsei Bank Limited and Oracle Corporation.
He will retire The Gap, Inc.
The Charles Schwab Corporation and Cisco Systems, Inc. and is from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 29 July 2008. a non-executive director of the Court of the Bank of England.
He will retire as Chief Executive at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 29 July 2008.
Alan Jebson, aged 58, joined the Board in December 2006.
He retired in May 2006 from his role as Group Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings Plc, 3.
Vittorio Colao, Deputy Chief Executive and CEO of the Groups Europe a position which included responsibility for IT and Global Resourcing.
During a region, aged 46, joined the Board in October 2006.
He spent the early part of long career with HSBC, Alan held various positions in IT, including the position of his career as a partner in the Milan office of McKinsey & Co working on media, Group Chief Information Officer.
His roles included responsibility for the Groups telecommunications and industrial goods and was responsible for recruitment.
international systems, including the consolidation of HSBC and Midland systems In 1996, he joined Omnitel Pronto Italia, which subsequently became Vodafone following the acquisition of Midland Bank in 1993.
He originally joined HSBC as Italy, and he was appointed Chief Executive in 1999.
He was then appointed Head of IT Audit in 1978 where, building upon his qualification as a chartered Regional Chief Executive Officer, Southern Europe for Vodafone Group Plc in accountant, he built an international audit team and implemented controls in 2001, became a member of the Board in 2002 and was appointed to the role the Groups application systems.
He is also a non-executive director of Experian of Regional Chief Executive Officer for Southern Europe, Middle East and Africa Group plc and McDonald Dettwiler in Canada.
In 2004, he left Vodafone to join RCS MediaGroup, the leading Italian publishing company, where he was Chief Executive until he rejoined Vodafone.
He will become Chief Executive at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 29 July 2008.
Audit Committee Nominations and Governance Committee Remuneration Committee 62 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 8.
Nick Land, aged 60, joined the Board in December 2006.
Professor Jrgen Schrempp, aged 63, has been a member of the purposes of relevant legislation, he is the Boards appointed financial expert on Board since May 2000.
He is a former Chairman of the Board of Management the Audit Committee.
In June 2006, he retired as Chairman of Ernst & Young LLP of DaimlerChrysler and one of the principal architects of Daimler-Benzs merger after a distinguished career spanning 36 years with the firm.
He became an with Chrysler in 1998.
He became Chairman of Daimler-Benz in 1995.
Jrgen audit partner in 1978 and held a number of management appointments before continues to hold the position of Non-Executive Chairman of Mercedes-Benz of becoming Managing Partner in 1992.
He was appointed Chairman and joined the South Africa Limited and is a non-executive director of the South African Coal, Oil Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young Global LLP in 1995.
He is a non-executive and Gas Corporation SASOL, Compagnie Financire Richemont SA, Switzerland director of Royal Dutch Shell, Alliance Boots, BBA Aviation and the Ashmore Group.
Jrgen is Chairman Emeritus of the Global Business He also sits on the Advisory Board of Three Delta, is Chairman of the Practices Coalition on HIV AIDS and holds South Africas highest civilian award, the Order Advisory Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales of Good Hope, conferred upon him by President Nelson Mandela.
He will retire and of the Board of Trustees of Farnham Castle, and is a member of the Finance from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 29 July 2008. and Audit Committees of the National Gallery.
Luc Vandevelde, aged 57, joined the Board in September 2003 and is 9.
Simon Murray CBE, aged 68, joined the Board in July 2007.
His career has Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a director of Socit Gnrale been largely based in Asia, where he has held positions with Jardine Matheson, and the Founder and Managing Director of Change Capital Partners LLP, a private Deutsche Bank and Hutchison Whampoa where, as Group Managing Director, equity fund.
Luc was formerly Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Carrefour SA, he oversaw the development and launch of mobile telecommunications networks Chairman of Marks & Spencer Group Plc and Chief Executive Officer of Promodes, in many parts of the world.
He remains on the Boards of Cheung Kong Holdings and he has held senior European and international roles with Kraft General Foods.
Limited, Compagnie Financire Richemont SA, Macquarie HK Limited and Orient Overseas International Limited and is an Advisory Board Member of the China 13.
Anthony Watson, aged 63, was appointed to the Board in May 2006.
He also sits on the Advisory Board of Imperial Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Chief Executive of Hermes Pensions Management College in London.
Limited, a position he had held since 2002.
Previously he was Hermes Chief Investment Officer, having been Managing Director of AMP Asset Management 10.
Anne Lauvergeon, aged 48, joined the Board in November 2005.
She is and the Chief International Investment Officer of Citicorp Investment Management Chief Executive Officer of AREVA Group, the leading French energy company, from 1991 until joining Hermes in 1998.
He is Chairman of Marks & Spencer having been appointed to that role in July 2001.
She started her professional Pension Trust Ltd, the Strategic Investment Board in Northern Ireland and the career in 1983 in the iron and steel industry and in 1990 she was named Asian Infrastructure Fund.
He is also a non-executive director of Hammerson Plc Adviser for Economic International Affairs at the French Presidency and Deputy and Witan Investment Trust Plc, and was formerly a member of the Financial Chief of its Staff in 1991.
In 1995, she became a Partner of Lazard Frres & Cie, Reporting Council.
subsequently joining Alcatel Telecom as Senior Executive Vice President in March 1997.
She was responsible for international activities and the Groups 14.
Philip Yea, aged 53, became a member of the Board in September 2005. industrial shareholdings in the energy and nuclear fields.
In 1999, she was He is the Chief Executive Officer of 3i Group plc, having been appointed to that appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AREVA NC.
Anne is currently role in July 2004.
Prior to joining 3i, he was Managing Director of Investcorp and, also Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Safran, a member of the Advisory from 1997 to 1999, the Group Finance Director of Diageo plc following the merger Board of the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS and a non-executive director of Guinness plc, where he was Finance Director, and Grand Metropolitan plc.
previously held non-executive roles at HBOS plc and Manchester United plc.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 63
