Vodafone Business People Vodafone employed approximately 72,000 people worldwide during the 2008 financial year, with a goal to recruit, develop and retain the most talented, motivated people that are well aligned with the Vodafone brand essence.
The Group aims to do this by providing a productive and safe working environment, treating people with respect and offering attractive performance based incentives and opportunities.
Red Vodafones global people strategy was embedded during the Employee engagement was high at a steady 71 out of 100 Being passionate 2008 financial year and aims to increase employee engagement in the 2007 People Survey, compared to 73 out of 100 in and energetic by setting out a framework that enables Vodafone to be clear the 2005 People Survey and 70 out of 100 in the April 2007 about the employee experience the Group wants to create.
This Pulse Survey Pulse surveys are smaller surveys carried out enables Vodafone to engage employees to deliver to customers in between People Surveys.
Rock Solid and to increase business performance.
The first Manager Index scored 69 out of 100 globally, with Being reliable and individual questions showing that managers are growing following through Additionally, during the 2008 financial year, the Group further stronger in coaching, which scored 8 points higher when on promises embedded the Vodafone brand essence, Red, Rock Solid, compared to the 2005 People Survey, feedback, which Restless, which communicates a common way of behaving scored 10 points higher when compared to the 2005 People that is designed to enhance business performance and Survey and recognition, which scored 7 points higher when Restless customer orientation.
This has been reinforced at the local compared to the April 2007 Pulse Survey.
Continually striving level through workshops that encourage teams to apply the Leadership continued its strong trend upwards, with for improvement Vodafone values to their specific work concentrating on confidence in the strategy strengthening further.
Confidence and challenging improving the experience of their customers.
In addition, in operating company senior management increased by 8 the status quo human resources HR processes such as induction and points, and trust and confidence in the function business training have been developed to explicitly provide people department increased by 8 points in the six months since the with a deeper understanding of how to demonstrate the April 2007 Pulse Survey.
behaviours in their daily work.
Employees are feeling more cared for, with wellbeing questions showing considerable improvement.
57% of Training and development employees rated their operating company favourably on Training and development programmes help employees to taking a genuine interest in the wellbeing of its people develop their skills and experience and to reach their full 15 points on 2005 People Survey and 5 points on April potential, benefiting themselves and the Company.
70% of employees rated their manager favourably on supporting them to achieve a work-life balance, During the 2008 financial year, the Group delivered a training which is 13 points on the high performing norm externally programme to build total communications awareness and benchmarked best in class companies who have excellent capabilities within the Groups employees.
The training was engagement coupled with strong financial performance.
designed to equip employees to understand the Groups new total communications strategy, the competitive landscape, Vodafone is focused on continual improvement and values key technologies and resources and Vodafones products and the feedback that the People Survey provides.
Over 4,500 managers across the Group more than in response to employee feedback from last year, the Global 99% of the managerial population completed 36,000 hours Change Framework was developed, a practical set of guidelines of dedicated total communications training.
Feedback on the with training to help employees effectively manage change programme has been overwhelmingly positive.
During the within the business.
coming financial year, the Group will ensure all employees receive the same training via an online learning tool and that The Group plans to carry out another full global survey in awareness is maintained through monthly webinars web November 2008.
Targets have been set by each operating seminars, a daily blog and a wiki site a collaborative website company and Group functions to ensure that Vodafone where content can be edited by anyone who has access to it.
continues to drive engagement across the business.
99% of managers globally Vodafone operates a global Performance Dialogue process Communications and involvement for every employee.
The process ensures that employees can Employee engagement remains a key driver for Vodafone.
received training in the make a clear connection between their goals and the business Effective employee communication and the need to create total communications objectives.
Each individuals performance is discussed with dialogue with its people is championed at Board level.
Vodafone strategy, products and their manager and career development goals are set.
93% continues to use its own products and services to reach out to marketplace of managers completed the Performance Dialogue process staff the use of mobile technologies such as SMS, video clips in the 2007 calendar year and 83% of employees approved and mobile intranet sites is commonplace, all assisting in development goals with their manager.
sharing knowledge amongst employees, creating a sense of global community and demonstrating the flexibility of People Survey Vodafones products, allowing employees to become advocates In October 2007, Vodafone carried out its third global People of the brand.
Survey and had an 83% response rate globally, with 50,548 people giving their views on 68 questions.
Vodafone India was not Visibility and access to the Executive Committee helps included in the survey as it had only been acquired in May 2007. create Vodafones open and honest communication culture.
For the first time, the Manager Index was also introduced to the The Chief Executive and other members of the Executive People Survey, a subset of questions focused on the experience Committee continue to host the Talkabout programme, which a manager creates for their team.
A strong set of results were puts executives on tour to visit the Groups operating companies.
achieved with a number of key strengths and improvements: The Executive Committee use these sessions to discuss the Groups strategic goals, listen to employee views and provide an opportunity to discuss the issues that most matter to employees.
20 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 It also allows an open exchange of views and suggestions on A variety of share plans are offered to incentivise and retain our Allocation of Groups 72,000 employees by activity % how Vodafone can best continue to serve its customers.
Monthly employees and, in July 2007, all eligible employees across the messages from the Chief Executive, using a wiki platform and Group were granted 320 shares under the All Shares plan.
video-cast, provides another opportunity for the Vodafone employees to understand how the Group is progressing against Retirement benefits are provided to employees and vary 3 its goals and to provide feedback direct to the Chief Executive.
depending on the conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
These are provided through a variety of Face to face communication, particularly with employees arrangements including defined benefit and defined 1 2 line managers, is a fundamental principle of good employee contribution schemes.
engagement and is critical for communicating change effectively.
Performance and transnational change issues Measurement of employees views of their reward, recognition are also discussed with employee representatives from the and benefits is undertaken through the global People Survey.
1 Administration 51.7% European subsidiaries, who meet annually with members of In the 2007 People Survey, the overall Vodafone Group 2 Selling and distribution 30.5% the Executive Committee in the Vodafone European Employee employee response relating to reward and recognition had 3 Operations 17.8% Consultative Council.
Equal opportunities and diversity Health, safety and wellbeing Vodafone does not condone unfair treatment of any kind and The health, safety and wellbeing HS&W of the Groups operates an equal opportunities policy for all aspects of customers, employees and others who could be affected by employment and advancement, regardless of race, nationality, its activities are of paramount importance to Vodafone and sex, age, marital status, disability or religious or political belief.
the Group applies rigorous standards to all its operations.
In practice, this means that the Group is able to select the best people available for positions on the basis of merit and capability, This year has seen a clear focus on execution of the global HS&W making the most effective use of the talents and experience of initiatives across the business.
Work progressed on three key people in the business and providing them with the opportunity focus areas agreed with the Global HS&W Board and Group HR to develop and realise their potential.
These included continued delivery of employee wellbeing initiatives as part of the Global People In April 2008, Vodafone implemented a new strategy to improve Strategy implementation, integration of HS&W into Group gender diversity across the Group.
This includes carrying out Supply Chain activities, particularly the Supplier Performance senior leadership training on diversity, and plans to build a more Management processes, and updating, communicating and inclusive culture.
implementing Vodafones policy on mobile phones and driving.
Vodafone is conscious of the difficulties experienced by people Improvement of Group wide governance continued with with disabilities.
Every effort is made to ensure ready access to integration of serious incident reporting systems for network the Groups facilities and services and a range of products have service providers and improved policy and processes for been developed for people with special needs.
In addition, managing supplier terminals compliance.
disabled people are assured of full and fair consideration for all vacancies for which they offer themselves as suitable candidates Employment policies and efforts are made to meet their special needs, particularly The Groups employment policies are consistent with the in relation to access and mobility.
Where possible, modifications principles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of to workplaces are made to provide access and, therefore, job Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation Core opportunities for the disabled.
Every effort is made to continue Conventions and are developed to reflect local legal, cultural the employment of people who become disabled via the and employment requirements.
High standards are maintained provision of additional facilities, job design and the provision wherever the Group operates, as Vodafone aims to ensure that of appropriate training.
the Group is recognised as an employer of choice.
Employees at all levels and in all companies are encouraged to make the Reward and recognition greatest possible contribution to the Groups success.
The To support the goal of building the best global team by attracting Group considers its employee relations to be good.
and retaining the best people, the Groups aim is to provide competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits in each local market where we operate.
Within Vodafone, there are initiatives that reward our employees based on their contribution to the success of the business.
In the 2009 financial year, the Group expects to continue to extend reward differentiation based on individual contribution, through the global reward programmes, including the Global Long Term Incentive Plan.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 21
