32 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT BRITISH SAFETY COUNCIL AWARD Tom Conde, Health and Safety Manager for Howden UKs Construction and Maintenance Division, receives a Sword of Honour from Brian Nimick, Chief Executive of the British Safety Council BSC.
The Sword of Honour is recognised as the most prestigious international health and safety accolade that BSC awards companies and is designed to encourage and reward organisations that work to best practice.
Inaugurated in 1979, every year only 40 swords are awarded worldwide by an independent awards panel.
Receipt of the Sword is recognition that Howden UK is considered to be amongst the best global companies in terms of employee health and safety.
Approach and policies CSR is considered to be an important driver of long-term The Board considers social, environmental and ethical matters sustainable business success and is being integrated within in the context of the overall business environment and the the overall risk management practices of Charter.
Risks and management of them within the overall corporate governance issues relating to CSR are updated by subsidiary companies and risk management framework see page 47. as part of their regular reviews.
Progress on mitigating actions is monitored regularly.
The Head of Risk Management has an Charter is committed to understanding and responsibly managing overall coordinating role in areas of CSR to improve the sharing significant risks to the environment and the communities in of best practice, collection of data and consistency of reporting.
which it has a presence in those instances where it has operational He is also responsible for ensuring that sections of the policies control or significant influence.
In such instances, the aim is and procedures manual relating to risk management and for continuous improvement, driven by appropriate policies, business continuity planning are updated.
management systems, operational performance measurement, internal reporting and assurance activities.
The Board and the senior management receive a monthly performance report on health and safety and environmental The Company also sees opportunities to contribute to matters.
Additionally, a formal review of major risks by the international environmental programmes through application senior management on a quarterly basis and by the Board of its technology solutions, particularly in the areas of air every six months takes account of ongoing and emerging pollution control and renewable energy.
Howden has supplied CSR related risks.
a significant proportion of the worlds installed base of air pre-heaters fitted to coal-fired utility boilers, reducing the fuel Environment, Health and Safety EHS consumption of each boiler so fitted by about 10 per cent, Management approach which equates to an estimated reduction in CO2 emissions The responsibility for EHS issues follows the general management of more than 100 million tonnes per year.
ESAB is a leading organisation structure.
This means that local line management supplier of cutting and welding solutions to firms engaged at each Charter business has primary responsibility for: in the construction of wind towers.
compliance with local regulatory requirements: In 2008, Charter commissioned an external study to identify following Charter policies and procedures: the potential for strengthening management of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR across its worldwide operations.
In lightimplementing standards issued by ESAB or Howden: of this project the key policy areas that provide the framework assessing and managing operational EHS risks: and for the management of CSR, which are Environment, Health and Safety, Employment and the Code of Conduct, are  management systems and driving being updated.
An early initiative will be to provide improved continuous improvement.
CSR content on the Companys website, www.
ie, In 2008, a new EHS policy was developed for adoption in early where copies of the policies will be available in due course.
2009, under which safety performance became a factor taken CSR governance into account in evaluating the performance of senior managers.
The core CSR policies which apply to all Charter businesses The Board and the senior management receive a monthly worldwide are communicated via an overall policies and summary of EHS performance worldwide, which highlights lost procedures manual provided to the operational heads of all time injuries and days away from work, and also reports the Charter businesses, who have responsibility for providing number of near misses, progress during the month on key adequate resources to implement the policies.
Operational activities and plans for the next quarter.
This enables issues accountability for CSR performance, in particular for ensuring most relevant to the business to be identified and resources policy implementation, also lies with the operational head to be focused on any key areas identified.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OUR BUSINESSES 33 LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE LOST DAYS SEVERITY RATE 6-MONTH ROLLING AVERAGE 6-MONTH ROLLING AVERAGE 70 3.0 60 2.5 50 2.0 40 1.5 30 1.0 20 0.5 10 0 0  Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Resources EHS regulatory issues EHS management resources were strengthened further in 2008 During 2008, there were no reported regulatory actions, fines with additional central resources and the ongoing reinforcement or penalties.
of operational capabilities as required through additional recruits Pre-registration under REACH EU Regulation on the Registration, and skills training.
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals was EHS conferences were run in each business with representatives completed by 30 November 2008.
Pre-registration allows taking part from all sites.
ESAB held an EHS conference in India, Charter to benefit from phased-in deadlines for final registration attended by 44 EHS personnel from nineteen countries and of qualifying substances starting in December 2010.
Charter Howden ran a two-day event in Edinburgh attended by 15 EHS has been preparing to participate in Substance Information personnel from nine countries.
Exchange Forums SIEFs as required.
So far no major impact on any of the businesses has been identified.
EHS management systems Charter requires that all of its operating sites use EHS The Company is currently evaluating the implications, management systems to implement policies and drive if any, of the UK Governments new legally binding climate performance improvement.
Newly acquired businesses are change and energy saving scheme called the Carbon required to put in place an EHS management system as soon Reduction Commitment.
as possible as part of the integration process.
Safety performance Certification of EHS management systems is a priority as It is pleasing to record that no fatalities occurred in 2008 it provides a high level of assurance that the systems being including on-site contractors.
implemented are of an appropriate standard.
Significant progress In 2008, in order to improve the comparability of data, the has been made in achieving this objective in recent years.
ESAB Charter safety performance indicators were adjusted to exclude gained worldwide certification by the end of 2007, which in restricted duty injuries and restricted days, making them more 2008 was successfully extended to include ESAB India and comparable with those of other companies.
The indicators now other sites acquired in 2007.
An objective for 2009 is to extend reflect any injury that results in days away from work and the the certification to include the Romar automation business, total number of days away LDSR, capped at 180 days which was acquired during 2008. per injury as per OSHA reporting requirements.
Howden has continued to make progress in 2008 with Charters target for safety is zero lost time injuries.
Progress the certification of management systems at various of its towards this is monitored by tracking the lost time frequency manufacturing locations, including certification to OHSAS rate, expressed as the number of lost time injuries per 200,000 18001 at seven sites and to ISO 14001 at six sites during the hours worked LTIFR.
One site passed its pre-certification OHSAS 18001 audit a third less than 2007.
The number of days away from work per in December 2008 and will receive its certificate in March 2009.
200,000 hours worked was reduced by 30 per cent from 57 in This leaves three manufacturing sites, including the recent 2007 to 40 in 2008.
These numbers include ESAB India and the acquisition of Aeolus in Brazil, to be certified to OHSAS 18001. other businesses acquired in 2007.
The total number of hours Certification to SCC Safety Checklist for Contractors is worked in 2008 was 26 million compared to 20 million in 2007. in place at Hengelo in Netherlands and Coswig in Germany.
In addition to ESAB group certification audits, trained internal In 2008, the total number of first aid injuries and near misses personnel undertake internal audits of ESAB sites to ensure reported was recorded.
A first aid injury is any minor injury that compliance with policies and that remedial actions are taken does not require medical care other than by a trained first aider.
to correct any audit findings.
24 audits were completed in A total of over 3,200 such incidents were recorded in 2008.
2008, representing 57 per cent of all ESAB operating units.
Correcting unsafe conditions before they result in serious In Howden, certified sites are independently reviewed as injuries is an important part of the management system and part of the re-certification process.
so the target is to increase the reporting of near misses and unsafe conditions by at least 20 per cent in 2009.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 34 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED TOTAL GREENHOUSE GASES IN CO 2 EQUIVALENTS IN METRIC TONNES 000 TOTAL ENERGY IN GJ 000 1,800 350 1,600 300 1,400 250 1,200 200 1,000 800 150 600 100 400 50 200 0 0 1997 2006 2007 1997 2006 2007 Environmental performance Employment In selecting its performance indicators for environmental impact, Human resource management Charter has taken into account government guidelines and the Retaining key employees and recruiting and training new worldwide concerns over climate change and water scarcity.
employees with requisite skills is vital to the continuing success As a result, Charter has selected as performance indicators the of Charters businesses.
In 2009, key goals for human resource reduction of direct and indirect energy usage, water consumption management will be managing and developing existing talent and waste transferred to landfill.
Focusing on these performance worldwide, succession planning and more consistent and indicators is also expected to drive efficiency gains and cost rigorous performance appraisal systems, which will include savings and will be integrated with the introduction of Lean increased emphasis on CSR objectives.
Employee numbers The graphs on pages 34 and 35 show totals of energy During 2008, the average number of employees increased from consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption 11,240 to 13,279.
As at 31 December 2008, the total number and total waste to landfill for 1997, 2006 and 2007 for all ESAB of employees was 13,364, compared with 12,180 at 31 December production sites.
These totals do not include acquisitions made 2007.
During the year, employees were recruited for two new during 2007 but have not been adjusted for changes in the ESAB factories in China.
As a consequence of a fall in demand business as a result of new sites constructed, disposals, site for ESAB products in the fourth quarter of 2008, reductions in closures or production line transfers.
More detailed information manned capacity were implemented throughout ESABs will be available on the website shortly, including ESAB data business which is expected to result in 940 employees leaving for 2008 after it has been validated.
During the period 2006 to 2007, ESABs revenue increased Equal opportunities by 17.2 per cent with production capacity in consumables Charter recognises and values diversity in the workforce growing by almost 15 per cent.
With such growth it is not and all recruitment, selection and promotion is on the basis surprising that all the KPIs show an increase, but most are of individuals qualifications, skills, experience and merit.
less than the increase in revenue and production.
Energy No reports have been received of any breaches of antiusage increased by 9.5 per cent whilst the rate of increase discrimination laws in all relevant jurisdictions concerning in greenhouse gases was higher at 10.2 per cent, reflecting matters of gender, ethnic origin, age, religion, sexual orientation, the new consumables site in China where a high proportion or disability.
of electricity is generated from coal.
Training and development of employees Waste to landfill increased by 14.5 per cent.
There was a good Charter businesses invest in employees skills and capabilities performance in ESABs water consumption with the total reducing through a variety of programmes, including training and by 4.1 per cent.
Howden performance data for 2007 and 2008 succession planning.
There is continuing investment in is being collected and will be reported on the website after developing skills as shown by the ongoing investment in consolidation.
Lean Manufacturing training across both ESAB and Howden.
In 2008, seventeen training sessions were completed, with 214 The following additional targets have been set for reducing participants from 21 countries.
the energy intensity of Charters businesses, as measured in March 2010 compared to March 2009: ESAB has continued with its Henley Leadership programme and during 2008 a further nine individuals completed the 10 per cent reduction in energy consumed per tonne programme.
In 2009 ESAB will begin to identify its Leadership of welding consumables manufactured by ESAB: Talent, utilising its present performance review systems and 5 per cent reduction in energy consumed per unit of sales additional testing.
This population will be eligible to attend from other ESAB manufacturing sites: and the Senior Leadership programmes being run in 2009.
5 per cent reduction in energy consumed per production hour at Howden manufacturing sites.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OUR BUSINESSES 35 TOTAL WATER USED IN METRIC TONNES 000 TOTAL WASTE TO LANDFILL IN METRIC TONNES 000 3,000 18 16 2,500 14 2,000 12 10 1,500 8 1,000 6 4 500 2 0 0 1997 2006 2007 1997 2006 2007 In 2008 a global e-learning pilot was launched by ESAB for 200 Howden does not yet have a formal programme for surveying individuals across Europe, Asia and the Middle East.
The SkillPort or auditing its suppliers against environmental or social criteria: web engine from SkillSoft was selected and the pilot ran from however, this is being reviewed and an approach will be September 2008 to January 2009.
Within this period over 240 formalised in 2009. hours of e-learning was logged on the system.
ESAB is looking Code of Conduct at continuing its use of SkillPort in 2009.
Charters Code of Conduct provides the framework for the Howden has an ongoing requirement for additional engineers behaviour expected of all employees in conducting themselves, with the required level of expertise in its products and industries whatever their role and wherever they are located.
It is the to assist it in achieving its worldwide growth aspirations.
responsibility of all Charter businesses and employees to To respond to this, in 2008, Howden set up the Howden ensure the Code is followed and that all supporting policies Academy, an in-house training school for engineers new to and procedures are complied with.
As part of the Code of the company intended to deliver focused training on products Conduct, Charter operates a whistleblowing policy.
Two three-week courses were held in 2008, 2008, nine disclosures were made, all of which were thoroughly with 97 participants from 13 countries.
No substance to the allegations was found in four a module on EHS and Howden intends to introduce more CSR of the cases.
In another four either final warnings were given or content in 2009. employees were dismissed.
One case is still under investigation but no evidence of wrongdoing by Charter employees has so Employee relations and communications far been identified.
ESAB is continuously seeking to improve communications with its employees.
During 2008, ESAB continued with Lets Talk Communities and The Wire, and introduced monthly employee briefings Many Charter businesses support local charities through which focus on updating senior management on current fundraising or other forms of assistance.
In addition, local issues facing the business for dissemination down throughout voluntary initiatives and community investment serve to build the organisation.
stakeholder relations and enhance reputations as a good employer and corporate citizen.
Examples will be published Howden continues to produce the Team Brief every two on the website.
months and a group newsletter every six months.
Works councils and other consultative bodies are also used to provide information to employees.
In the UK, all Howden employees had the opportunity to participate in a workplace organisation assessment.
Actions have been put in place to address key areas of concern highlighted by the assessment.
Sub-contractors and suppliers ESAB and Howdens relationships with sub-contractors and suppliers create potential risks in their supply chains associated with a range of CSR aspects related to such issues as mineral extraction, manufacturing, employment, the environment and business ethics.
ESAB has a Code of Ethics for purchasing and, in relation to certain criteria not covered by this Code, has in place a selfassessment procedure through which some 1,500 suppliers have been surveyed since 1997.
A list of banned and hazardous substances has also been circulated and is monitored regularly.
Auditing and other tools for managing supply chain CSR risks and obtaining assurance are being reviewed for possible future use.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
