28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate responsibility management Health and safety The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are required and accountability in order to protect our employees, whilst achieving growth and The Board fully acknowledges its obligation to ensure the maintaining leadership in the Groups chosen markets.
The Board responsible operation of the Groups businesses at all times believes that all injuries are preventable, and management systems with due regard to the interests of shareholders, employees, and a long term strategy have been adopted to ensure that we customers, suppliers and the wider community.
The Board continually improve our performance and reduce risk within the has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining constraints of what is reasonably achievable.
the Groups policies in this area, and the Chief Executive is accountable to the Board for ensuring that the Groups The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for health, safety and businesses adhere to these policies.
environmental matters across the Group.
A new Director of Safety was appointed during the year, who reports directly to the Business conduct Chief Executive, and is responsible for the effective administration The Group has adopted a Code of Business Principles, which and implementation of the Groups health, safety and requires our employees, our businesses and all third parties who environmental strategy.
Strategic direction is considered by the act on our behalf to comply with our standards of acceptable Groups Risk Management Committee, and the Director of Safety business conduct and applicable laws and regulations in all of reports to the Executive Committee on the performance of the the countries in which we operate.
The managing directors of businesses against agreed objectives.
The Chief Executive reports each business are required to report to the Chief Executive on monthly to the Board on all key health and safety issues.
compliance with the Code of Business Principles on an annual basis.
The Board requires that all businesses systematically manage Ethics and anti-corruption their health, safety and environment hazards, set objectives, The Group has committed to adherence with the European monitor progress by regular measurement, audit and review, and Aerospace and Defence Associations Common Industry take additional action where necessary.
Each Managing Director Standards on Anti-Corruption, and we are currently reviewing all is responsible for the management of health, safety and of our business processes across the Group in order to ensure environmental issues within their business and for providing that we achieve full compliance.
This involves entering into new adequate resources to satisfy the Boards requirements.
arrangements, compliant with the Common Industry Standards, Managers are required to enforce procedures, and to provide with all of our agents and other third parties who act on behalf leadership and commitment to promote and embrace a positive of the Group.
Our Code of Business Principles has also been health and safety culture.
We emphasise the importance of updated to incorporate the Common Industry Standards.
individual responsibility for health and safety at all levels of the organisation.
We expect employees to report potential hazards, Our US businesses have adopted an ethical compliance to be involved in implementing solutions, and to adhere to rules programme to satisfy US Government requirements for ethical and procedures.
training for employees, compliance audits, an employees hotline, and related investigation procedures.
We are currently We recognise that a key element in the continual improvement running a similar ethics and anti-corruption training programme of health, safety, and environmental management is sharing for the management of our businesses outside of the US.
best practice and lessons learnt from incidents across all of the Group companies.
A common incident reporting and The Group has a whistleblowing policy and procedures in place investigation procedure is in place, as well as an alert system which enable all employees to raise concerns, in con dence, that formally ensures key findings from incidents are quickly about possible improprieties.
These arrangements now re ect communicated to all operational sites and actions taken as the requirements of the Common Industry Standards.
All accidents and near misses are investigated.
An annual Group health, safety and environment conference is Policy on the sale of goods and services attended by representatives from all businesses, and a Health, The Groups strategy is to become the world leader in the Safety and Environment Technical Committee supports continual manufacture energetic material products and countermeasures improvement through the development and promotion of good for the global defence market, and we are presently delivering practice across the Group and provision of training and support.
signi cant growth in this area though a combination of organic development and acquisitions.
The scope of the Groups activities We continue our successful implementation of formal management has signi cantly widened over the last few years, particularly systems across the business and now have seven sites validated with regards to the supply of components and sub-systems for as compliant with the health and safety management system various types of munitions, and there is increasing demand OHSAS18001.
We require all newly-acquired businesses to for the supply to our customers of third party products.
achieve certi cation within two years of joining the Group and, Consequently, the Board has adopted a Policy on the Sale of with the exception of these businesses, we expect all other Group Goods and Services, which provides guidance to all stakeholders companies to have achieved certi cation by the end of 2009. on the products and services that the Group will supply and to which customers, and sets out a clear fide nition of what we will not supply.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29 Whilst we are pleased to report that there were no serious safety In recognition of the need to drive further improvements in the incidents in the year, our safety programmes have been heavily management of health and safety within the Group, we embarked in uenced by the incident which occurred at Simmel Difesa in upon a project to develop and establish a common safety culture October 2007, which led to the death of one of our employees.
The project undertook audits Following the incident, a formal structured investigation and root and employee culture surveys at most sites in Europe and the cause analysis was undertaken using an established process.
US, and from the themes which emerged, a number of common This generated a series of actions which were disseminated approaches have been fide ned including leadership behaviour, across the Group.
We are determined to do all we can to minimise training and competence, maintenance management and the the likelihood of similar incidents in the future.
implementation of safety case methodology.
The project also included a review of the Groups health, safety and environment Following three years of static lost time performance, added management system, which has been updated and re-published focus on the management of health and safety resulted in a real as a result.
improvement in performance during the year, with our lost time incident rate calculated using the US OSHA rules reducing from Cultural development is an ongoing activity and further actions 1.56 to 1.20 incidents per 100 employees, as set out below: will emerge.
Newly-acquired businesses are rapidly introduced to the Groups 1.80 safety philosophy, with detailed regulatory compliance audits and programme gap analysis.
Risk registers are compiled and 1.60 businesses are required to reduce their major health and safety 1.40 risks to as low as reasonably practicable.
1.20 In the US, all businesses participated in a process safety management workshop, with external speakers, to ensure that a 1.00 common level of knowledge and awareness was in place and best 0.80 practice networks established.
0.60 The Group has committed to substantial investments in facilities that will, in addition to improving productivity, improve the safety 0.40 of the workforce by reducing the levels of risk.
0.20 The Group has also established a relationship with 0.00 Cran eld University, both for the supply of employee training 2005 2006 2007 2008 programmes and for the development of simulation modelling to evaluate blast and thermal effects from the ignition of This performance improvement has been achieved by pyrotechnic materials.
implementation of several structured and formal processes including: Environment The Board believes that environmental protection will help to cultural development secure the long term future of our businesses.
The Groups product safety management Health, Safety and Environment Policy states that we will control introduction of formal safety case processes pollution, minimise the quantity of material burnt at each site, enhanced training consume resources ef ciently, and use materials that minimise manufacturing process re nement the environmental impact of our operations where practicable.
extended audit programmes: and product safety reviews.
We now have ten sites certi ed to the environmental management system ISO14001.
As with OHSAS18001, we require Six of our sites reported no lost work days in the year, which is an all newly-acquired businesses to achieve ISO14001 certi cation excellent achievement.
within two years of joining the Group.
All other businesses are expected to achieve certi cation by the end of 2009.
A focus on near misses during the year resulted in 1,332 near misses being formally reported and acted upon.
Employees Our ISO14001 programme requires that all sites have their own are encouraged to report issues, however small, which then go goals and objectives which are very much focused on local through a rigorous corrective action process.
However, we continue to monitor key environmental data from a Group perspective, speci cally energy consumption to allow us to derive CO emissions and waste.
2 Lost time rate 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report CONTINUED We are continually improving our waste management and Our total emissions, excluding those of businesses acquired during percentage of waste recycled.
Our total waste volumes are the year, in CO equivalents were as follows: 2 dominated by a caustic etching process at Alloy Surfaces, which prepares metal products for coating.
The waste is sold to a 2008 2007 Source tonnes CO tonnes CO third party who is able to use it as feedstock for waste water 2 2 treatment.
This has eliminated the discharge of 6,177 tonnes of Electricity 27,131 21,556 process water to local sewer systems, signi cantly reducing the Gas 12,384 11,931 need for the third parties to purchase neutralisation materials.
Oil 2,351 2,878 Our total non-recycled waste in the year, excluding that generated Total 41,866 36,365 by businesses acquired during the year, was as follows: Non-hazardous 1,027 tonnes Our total CO emissions increased by 15% in a year in which 2 the Groups revenue increased by 39%.
Whilst this reduction in Hazardous 1,425 tonnes intensity is pleasing, we will increase our efforts to address energy conservation and thus indirect emissions in the future.
Total 2,452 tonnes This year we are monitoring water consumption.
Dependant In order to better understand our CO sources, the Group 2 upon what we nd we may establish future targets and monitored car and air travel throughout the year to gauge the improvement programmes.
size of this impact against the more easily accessible utilities data.
The year of data collection revealed that only 2.77% of our total During the year we acquired Scot, Inc. which is based in CO emissions were generated by travel.
As this data capture was 2 Downers Grove, Illinois, USA.
We were aware, prior to acquiring dif cult and time-consuming, we propose not to collect this data in the business, that the Downers Grove area has superfund the coming year but may return and check it again at some stage status under the US contaminated land CERCLA regime, and in the future.
Our major source of CO is indirect emission from 2 this was re ected in the price agreed for the business.
All Group businesses now have goals is a 5.0 million provision in respect of the pre-acquisition to reduce their future consumption.
A breakdown of CO emissions 2 environmental liabilities associated with the site, which the is set out below: Board considers to be adequate see Note 25 of the financial statements.
We are now working with external consultants to ensure that the legal obligations of the business in relation to this matter are fully satis ed.
28.76% Employees The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the Groups 0.63% 0.25% employees continue to make to its success, and aims to provide a working environment that re ects and rewards this.
The Group now 5.46% 0.28% has over 3,000 employees in seven countries.
2.77% 0.70% The Group pursues a policy of employee communication through meetings including team brie ngs and works councils and 0.91% 63.01% in-house magazines by which employees are made aware of the progress of the Group and the companies in which they work.
A Group magazine, The Chemring Eye, was introduced during the year, which is distributed to all our employees on a quarterly basis Electricity Long haul air travel and has been well-received to date.
Gas Short haul air travel We continue to address training and development requirements for employees at all levels within the organisation.
We are in the Oil Medium haul air travel process of implementing a tailored management development programme for senior managers in the Group, which will be Travel Car travel - diesel delivered by Henley Management College.
This will subsequently be rolled-out to the next tier of management.
Succession planning, Car travel - petrol human resource requirements and the future organisational structure of the Group as it continues to grow are reviewed on a regular basis by the Board.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 31 The Board obtained shareholder approval for the establishment In addition to making cash donations, the Group also encourages of a savings-related share option scheme at the last Annual and supports employees who undertake voluntary work in General Meeting.
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan the local community, where appropriate.
During the year, our was launched for UK employees in July 2008, and The Chemring employees donated their time and services on a wide range of 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan was launched for US employees in projects, several of which had an educational bias.
The Board is keen to encourage eligible employees to join the schemes in order that they can share in the future The Group is involved with a number of educational initiatives, success of the Group.
Provided that there is suf cient interest notably including the sponsorship of various local schools.
Each from employees, we also intend to introduce similar schemes in the year, Kilgore awards a scholarship to a student graduating from other countries in which we operate.
its local high school to enable the student to pursue a college education.
Certain businesses are assisting their employees The Group employs disabled persons wherever circumstances who did not graduate from senior school to return to academic permit, and full and fair consideration is given to applications for studies in order to supplement their vocational training.
The employment by disabled persons having regard to their particular Group has a partnership agreement with Cran eld University, aptitudes and disabilities.
Disabled persons in employment receive under which the Group has committed to the provision of equal treatment to that afforded to other employees, in line with signi cant funding for students research activities over the next the Groups philosophy of equal opportunities for all employees, five years.
The Group has also instigated a programme which irrespective of race, nationality, gender, disability or age.
The aims to attract new graduates to pursue a career in the Group, Group is committed to meeting, at a minimum, the labour rights and we are now offering gap year placements in the UK.
and legislation requirements in each country in which it operates, and in practice, often exceeds these.
These policies are introduced With regards to the impact of our manufacturing activities at newly-acquired businesses at the earliest opportunity after they on the local community, at locations where our operations join the Group.
During the year, Martin Electronics received an may inconvenience neighbours through product proo ng, we award from its local governor, by which it was recognised as one of liaise with local residents to minimise any impact.
We are also Floridas top employers of persons with development disabilities.
cognisant of the potential impact of our operations on the local environment, and we are addressing this through our environmental strategy.
Community The Board recognises that each of the Groups businesses has an important role to play in its local community.
The Board operates a charitable policy, which con rms its commitment to support selected charitable causes with a focus on the military and armed services, and those linked to the local communities in which the Groups businesses operate.
At a Group level, charitable donations are considered on a monthly basis by the Executive Committee, and each business has its own locally held charity budget.
Examples of support provided during the year include: Donations to a range of charities including Help for Heroes, the Falklands Veterans Association, Wiltshire Air Ambulance, the Salvation Army, various local hospitals and hospices, and ongoing support for the Mary Rose Appeal.
Sole sponsorship of the 7 Air Assault Battalion Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers REME Royal Navy Field Gun Crew.
The Group is proud to be associated with the 7 Air Assault Battalion, who provide support to the vehicles, weapons and aircraft of 16 Air Assault Brigade.
The soldiers support aircraft in various areas of con ict around the world.
Sponsorship of a UK employee in his efforts to compete in his chosen sport of archery at the 2012 Olympics.
