INTRODUCTION Big Yellow has appointed a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Manager to provide structure and responsibility to the management of social and environmental risks and opportunities across the Group.
The CSR Manager reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer, James Gibson, who has overall responsibility for CSR matters.
A review of social and environmental aspects of the Groups development plans and existing store operations has taken place and a CSR policy established.
The policy has been communicated to all employees and is available more generally on bigyellow.
CSR Policy The Policy commits the Group to striking the balance between its social, environmental and economic objectives.
The aim of the Policy is to document Big Yellows sustainability objectives across all activities, as both a developer and a self storage operator.
In order to achieve these objectives the Board has once more committed significant resources to the environmental aspects of its store development programme, such as the requirements for energy efficiency, on site renewable energy generation and improving land value, quality and ecology.
Reporting In the year ended 31 March 2007 Big Yellow established and reported on 14 environmental and social objectives.
The Group has also established social and environmental key performance indicators KPIs to benchmark current performance and measure continued improvement in future years.
Based on benchmark data for the year ended 31 March 2008 the Group will set targets for the year ending 31 March 2009 as indicated in the tables below.
More detailed reporting for the future will be established within the CSR section of our website.
STAKEHOLDERS Last year Big Yellow outlined its commitment to CSR by identifying its main stakeholders as its customers, local community, employees, suppliers, planning authorities and shareholders.
In future years the Group will seek feedback from its stakeholders on its management systems and performance reporting and review its Policy accordingly.
Below is a summary of the actions that have been undertaken with each of the stakeholders.
Customers Big Yellow provides a high quality, safe, secure and convenient self storage environment for residential customers who need more space to fideclutter, extend or move home.
Big Yellow also provides space for business and office based customers, to assist new start ups or existing business expansion.
Big Yellow has made its customers aware of its CSR policy and has provided waste management guidance within the Guide to Self Storage which is given to all new customers.
During the year ending 31 March 2009 the CSR Manager will review the environmental credentials of the packaging materials we offer our customers.
Local Community Big Yellows stores provide services, employment and charitable support to local communities within a 5 mile radius of its stores.
In accordance with the Groups evolving Giving policy, some storage space is provided for local charities at a discounted rate.
Where available, space and time in kind may also be donated to disaster relief causes.
In the year ended 31 March 2008 the Group has committed to the establishment of modest charity budgets for each of the regional groupings of stores.
During the year ending 31 March 2009 Big Yellow will review the ways in which it engages with local communities to improve its giving policy.
Employees The CSR Manager has worked with Human Resources and Operations to raise awareness of the social and environmental impacts of their work to employees.
A CSR Policy poster has been distributed to all stores and presentations have been given to Area and Store Managers.
Employee inductions include an introduction to the Groups CSR objectives.
In the year ending 31 March 2009 the Groups training work books will be improved to raise awareness and set tasks on CSR Policy.
An intranet based employee work travel questionnaire will also be implemented to further improve the Groups carbon footprint and to highlight and encourage opportunities for alternative modes of transport, other than the car.
Stakeholder Health and Safety The Group has Store, Head Office and Construction Health and Safety Policies that are reviewed on a quarterly basis by each relevant committee.
Accident books are used to record incidents and these are recorded by a central help desk.
The number of accidents, injuries and near misses in stores are documented below: Store Customers Staff Financial year 2006 2007 2008 Prosecutions 00 0 Notices 00 1 Near misses 4 6 1 Fatal injury 00 0 Total RIDDOR 50 77 54 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation 1995 RIDDOR 24 Big Yellow Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 2.
STAKEHOLDERS continued Customer, contractor and employee minor injuries have been predominantly through handling of goods when putting them in or taking them out of self storage.
For the year ended 31 March 2008 incidents decreased but one store was served with a Fire Safety Enforcement Notice due to minor infringements of the regulation, which have now been rectified.
Health and safety risks are assessed by independent consultants for Store and Head Office.
About six stores per year are audited by an external consultant and feedback has helped to reduce incidents against a rising number of store openings, customers and employees.
Big Yellows head office in Bagshot has maintained its zero tolerance on employee health and safety prosecutions, injuries and fatal injuries.
Head office staff are trained in first aid and all staff are retrained every three years.
Business recovery training is provided for senior staff.
For construction sites an independent consultant has been instructed to conduct regular site safety audits in order to measure compliance, reduce minor injuries and near misses and maintain a zero tolerance on Construction prosecutions, notices and fatal injuries.
The number of accidents, injuries and near misses are documented below: Construction Fit-out Stage Financial years 2006 2007 2008 Prosecutions Notices 00 0 Fatal injury 00 0 Total RIDDOR 53 2 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation 1995 RIDDOR Big Yellow Construction Company Limited had two notifiable injuries in the year ended 31 March 2008 and has organised a five day Construction Industry Training Board CTIB update on health and safety for its site managing agents.
Construction Design Management Regulation CDM training is programmed for the year ending 31 March 2009.
Suppliers In the year ended 31 March 2008 the CSR Manager identified Big Yellows main suppliers of materials, products and services for store development and operations.
A CSR questionnaire was sent out to these stakeholders to obtain feed back on their policies, management systems and performance reporting.
Initial feedback responses have been supportive in developing social and environmental initiatives to gain opportunities through innovative market developments in energy efficiency, renewable energy technologies, low environmental impact materials and supply chain waste recycling.
A summary of Big Yellows supply chain performance will be reported in the year to end of March 2009.
Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS All Big Yellow Construction Limited contractors for demolition, shell and fit out have been instructed to sign up to the Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS.
This Scheme is a national initiative set up by the construction industry to improve its image.
Sites that register with the Scheme are monitored against a Code of Considerate Practice, designed to encourage best practice beyond statutory requirements.
The main areas of performance assessment fall into three categories: the environment: the workforce: and the general public.
Site managers can gain a maximum of 5 points for each of 8 main categories and are responsible for site workers performance in the following areas: being considerate: environmental protection: maintaining cleanliness: being good neighbours: respectability: safety: responsiveness: and accountability.
CCS auditors visit the sites and assess each of the eight category performances for a maximum score of 40 points.
Reports are sent to the Construction Director and CSR Manager for review and actions if required.
Considerate Constructors Scheme Year 2007 2008 2009 Target No of schemes 6 6 6 CCS Registered % 25% 100% 100% Average score 26.3 31.3 33.0 In the year ended 31 March 2007 Big Yellow Construction sites averaged a score of 26.3 points which exceeded the 24 points required for compliance with the code.
However, this score was below the national average score of 30 points for all sites registered on the scheme.
In the year ended 31 March 2008 Big Yellows construction sites improved their average score to 31.3 points, rising above the national average score mainly due to CCS monitoring feedback improvements.
In the year ending 31 March 2009 Big Yellows aim is to further improve our average score.
Big Yellow 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 2.
STAKEHOLDERS continued Local Planning Authorities Local Planning Authorities are beginning to recognise the sustainable benefits of self storage in densely populated urban and inner city regeneration areas.
In some cases new or traditional businesses need to expand and these business would otherwise have moved out of the area if additional local storage space, work units or offices had not been provided at a reasonable cost.
Additionally, Big Yellow is communicating its sustainable development performance through the Local Planning Authority Checklists that support good practice in providing local employment, infrastructure, energy efficiency, biodiversity, water conservation and waste management.
Shareholders In the year ended 31 March 2008 Big Yellow applied to the Ethical Investments Research and Information Service EIRIS and satisfied their stringent social and environmental standards for membership to the FTSE 4 Good index series.
Ethical investors use the FTSE 4 Good to identify and invest in companies that exhibit and benefit from both good economic and corporate responsibility practices.
To achieve membership Big Yellow published material information relating to its main stakeholders, human rights and environmental impacts.
In the year ended 31 March 2008 Big Yellow established CSR management systems and key performance indicator benchmarks to demonstrate improvements in this and future years.
Based on current carbon footprint performance data, Big Yellow will also take part in the sixth Carbon Disclosure Project CDP6 in the year ending 31 March 2009.
The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP is an independent not-for-profit organisation aiming to create a relationship between shareholders and companies regarding the implications for shareholder value and commercial operations presented by climate change.
Its goal is to facilitate a dialogue, supported by quality information, from which a rational response to climate change will emerge.
CDP provides a coordinating secretariat for institutional investors with a combined US $57 trillion of assets under management.
On their behalf it seeks information on the business risks and opportunities presented by climate change and greenhouse gas emissions data from the worlds largest companies, some 3,000 companies in 2008.
CSR IMPACT AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS During the review of Big Yellows store development program and operational activities the following environmental and social aspects were identified as having the most significant direct impacts, either positive or negative, on local communities and the environment.
The most significant impact was the carbon foot print of the operational stores due to the long term use of energy, compared to the shorter and smaller demands from store development and work related travel.
Big Yellow has calculated its basic equivalent carbon dioxide CO emissions using DEFRA conversion 2 data.
These emissions are caused directly and indirectly by its activities, but excluding employee travel and supply chain operations.
Store Energy Consumption and Carbon Foot Print Big Yellow stores have two types of carbon emission.
Typical energy consumption is predominantly grid electricity for lighting 73% and lifts 27%, which cause indirect off site power station carbon emissions.
Eight stores with flexi-offices have additional gas heated areas which cause direct onsite gas combustion carbon emissions.
Work related travel emissions from private and public transport will be estimated in the year ending 31 March 2009 from an employee survey.
Customer travel emissions are more difficult to measure accurately but can be based on store distance, move-in or out variability and visit frequency.
Operational Stores Carbon Dioxide Emissions The store energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions per square metre of final storage space have decreased on average by about 3.5% per year.
2 This reduction has been due to the Groups new store development program moving away from refurbishing older buildings towards purpose built stores, with higher standards of insulation, air tightness and energy efficiency.
Future years should see a continued improvement in this trend through the use of more energy efficient lighting and improved lift specification.
26 Big Yellow Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 3.
CSR IMPACT AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS continued Carbon Off-setting Energy Supplier Green Tariff 2006 2008 Big Yellow purchases electricity from renewable sources through its suppliers Green Tariff, as indicated in the table below.
Certification for 30 stores and the head office was guaranteed from October 2006 to October 2008.
Energy Supplier Renewable Energy Offset EDF Green Tariff Year 2007 2008 2009 Emission Kg CO 5,647,457 5,865,633 2 Offset Kg CO 1,739,852 3,479,703 1,739,852 2 Net Emission Kg CO 3,907,605 2,385,930 2 Data from energy supplier The supply of green electricity started 6 months into the year ended 31 March 2006 therefore the year ended 31 March 2007 received the largest portion of the renewable energy offset.
The scheme is independently audited to ensure that the Big Yellow stores on the Tariff are successfully matched to renewable generation.
The energy supplier matched the electricity Big Yellow used by purchasing electricity generated from renewable sources such as wind turbine and hydroelectric power, rather than from the combustion of fossil fuels such as coal and natural gas.
Flexi-Office Gas Use Carbon Dioxide Emissions The table below shows the year ended 31 March 2008 natural gas usage from Big Yellows seven flexi-office operations.
These are ancillary office services offered alongside the normal self storage service at our stores.
The use of natural gas for space and water heating in flexi-offices causes carbon dioxide emissions.
However, these emissions are only 1.3% of the total carbon dioxide emissions, compared with electricity usage from all operating stores.
This ranks the flexi-office contribution to a relatively low carbon foot print impact compared to the Groups self storage and construction fit out activities.
Operational Stores Flexi-offices Gas Usage Year 2008 Gas Energy kW hr year 366,523 Kg CO emissions 75,504 2 2 Final Storage Area m 9,420 2 Kg CO m 8.0 2 From gas bills using a conversion factor of 0.206 for Kg CO emissions.
2 Construction Fit-Out Stage Carbon Dioxide Emissions Annual construction fit-out energy usage, over which Big Yellow has direct management control, depends mainly upon the speed of the planning process, the number of stores being built in any one year, the size of the store and the local site conditions.
Construction fit-out diesel and electricity usage Year 2007 2008 Energy use kWh 230,300 320,800 2 Final Storage area m 33,983 35,847 Emissions kg CO 97,187 135,378 2 2 Emissions Kg CO m 2.9 3.8 2 Energy usage data supplied by Countrywide Electrical Services CES The annual energy usage in the table above increased because we opened the same number of stores in the year, but the projects were larger and more complex, requiring more use of energy than in the same period the year before.
The energy calculation includes an average of 6 weeks diesel generator usage for temporary lighting followed by a mains supply until the store opening dates.
The 2008 carbon dioxide emissions for construction fit out are only 2.3% of the annual carbon dioxide emissions for store operation in 2008.
Big Yellow 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 3.
CSR IMPACT AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS continued Summary of Big Yellows Carbon Footprint Calculating our carbon footprint is the first step in a program to establish a benchmark, obtain more accurate data, reduce emissions and improve energy efficiency.
Big Yellows Carbon Foot Print Year ended 31 March 2008 Activity Emissions Kg CO 2 Operational Stores and Head Office Electricity 2,385,930 Construction Fit-out Electricity and Diesel 135,378 Flexi-Office Natural Gas Use 75,505 Employee Travel Estimate Total Carbon Footprint 2,597 tC0 e 2 Data includes energy supplier renewable electricity offset To be surveyed in the year to the end of March 2009 Expressed as carbon footprint metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent The following section describes Big Yellows initiatives to reduce its carbon footprint by increasing energy efficiency through store design, specification and the installation of renewable energy technologies.
STORE PLANNING, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION Planning authorities are increasingly requiring environmental assessments of new building designs, specifications and construction.
Accordingly Big Yellow commissions Faber Maunsel Consultants to conduct Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM reports where this is required on new store developments.
Big Yellows stores are assessed using the industrial assessment category.
The environmental performance of the new stores are assessed for energy efficiency, onsite renewable energy generation, alternative forms of transport other than the car, water conservation, low impact material use, waste management and landscape biodiversity, amongst other criteria.
Big Yellow stores now have the potential to score an Excellent rating with the highest ratings achieved in the areas of energy efficiency, renewable energy, management: health, transport, water, land use and ecology.
The following sections show how these key performance indicators are achieved: Energy Efficiency by Design The reception area of the store represents on average only 3% of the building area, but this is occupied during our trading hours and requires heating and cooling.
New build store receptions are energy efficient compared to Building Regulations in 2002 and 2006 due to good design, with improved insulation and low air leakage rates.
To reduce seasonal variations in temperature to a minimum, reception areas are oriented towards the south where possible to optimise natural heat gain and light in the winter.
To avoid overheating, low e-coated double glazing is specified on the display windows.
Thermal Mass The thermal mass of the concrete floor slab and ground floor brick and block walls absorb heat during the day and release it during the night, equalising diurnal and seasonal temperature variations.
The solid insulation and air tightness of the buildings steel cladding and roof further reduce the need for heating and cooling in the storage area.
As a result 97% of the storage building by area is passive.
Electric or mechanically assisted ventilation is only required on the top floor of stores, where heat accumulates in the hottest months of the year.
Energy Efficiency by Specification The highest usage of energy in operational stores is internal lighting and this causes the most significant environmental impact and carbon dioxide emissions.
In 2007 trials of energy efficient and motion sensor lighting have confirmed significant improvements in reducing emissions as indicated in the table below.
Electricity Emission Reductions Reductions Percentage Store Energy Efficiency Measures 2008 kWh year kgCO year Improvement 2 Energy efficient lighting 34,500 14,559 19.0% Reactive light controls 8,050 3,397 4.4% Energy efficient lifts 13,000 5,486 7.0% Estimates of energy reductions provided by the Building Services Research and Information Association BSRIA 28 Big Yellow Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 4.
STORE PLANNING, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION continued Energy Efficiency by Specification continued An estimated cost pay back period of about three and a half years has initiated a commitment by the Board to install energy efficient lighting and sensors in all new stores from the year ended 31 March 2008.
The Board has also agreed to start an upgrading programme for reactive light controls on older stores from the year ended 31 March 2008.
The second highest energy use is lift operation and certain types of lifts can reduce electricity consumption as indicated in the table above.
Construction are reviewing their specification for lifts and assessing economic viability of alternatives in the year ending 31 March 2009.
Renewable Energy Generation FY 2009 In the year ended 31 March 2008 four of the six new stores listed in the table below had renewable energy technologies installed, such as solar photo-voltaic panels and wind turbines for electricity.
Heat and cooling energy is also generated from ground source heat pumps.
New Store Estimated Renewable Energy And CO Emission Reductions 2 Renewable Energy CO Reduction CO Reduction 2 2 Store kWh kgCO yr % 2 Barking 22,500 9,500 13.0 Balham 60,518 7,700 10.0 Fulham 33,307 17,400 10.0 Merton 15,708 7,600 10.0 Total 132,033 42,200 10.8 In the year ending 31 March 2009 Big Yellow will aim to report the actual renewable energy generated and the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions achieved as a percentage of the total emissions for operational stores and the effect this will have on the Groups carbon foot print.
Additionally the CSR Manager will review more economically viable solutions to introduce renewable energy into our store development programme.
Transportation Big Yellow stores are planned and designed with good pedestrian and cycle access and are often near to public transport.
Previous transport plans for our stores have indicated relatively low customer and employee transport usage.
Typically low numbers of car or van parking spaces 8 9 per site are required as compared to other comparable retail premises.
Big Yellow installs cycle storage shelters to encourage employees to choose alternative modes of transport other than the car.
In the year ended 31 March 2009 the CSR manager will conduct a work related travel survey in the Group to estimate travel carbon dioxide emissions and will look for opportunities to raise employee awareness of lower environmental impact modes of transport and incentives for walking and cycling to work, where safe and viable.
Construction Materials Big Yellows construction program performs well in its selection of low impact environmental materials with a low embodied energy, durability and a high recycled content.
The recycled content percentages in the table below enable higher BREEAM rating for our new buildings and hence higher local planning authority sustainability ratings.
Building Material Recycled Content by % of building material cost Building Materials Estimated % of build cost Recycled Content Steel: structural framework: roof: cladding: partitioning 67.0% 97% Steel: cold rolled: mezzanine decking: & roller doors 35 97% Timber products: Floor and wall particle board dust 19.0% 66 100% Concrete: floor slab 7.5% 0% Concrete: crushed & recycled into foundations 0% 25 50% Bricks 2.4% 0% Blocks pulverized fuel ash 2.4% Variable PFA Rockwool: insulation slag 1.6% 75 100% Aluminium: window frames & roof 0.1% 100% Forestry Stewardship council FSC certified Pulverised Fuel Ash PFA a by-product of coal burning power stations Slag a by-product of iron and steel manufacture In the year ending 31 March 2009 the CSR Manager will report on Big Yellows materials and product supply chain and look for innovative and cost effective opportunities to improve performance.
Big Yellow 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 4.
STORE PLANNING, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION continued Construction & Operations Waste Management Construction has established a waste management policy, site posters and a waste plan to address recent Landfill and Hazardous Waste Directives.
The principles of waste segregation, reduction, reuse and recycling on site have been communicated to contractors for site clearance, shell and fit out stages.
Most contractors segregate waste off site.
The operational stores have separate containers for recycling.
Waste packaging paper and office supplies are recycled by the store staff.
Re-lamping of fluorescent light fittings is undertaken by a company registered to handle hazardous waste.
Big Yellows waste production is inherently low, even where flexi-offices are part of the operation.
Customers and employees are encouraged through documented guidance on Reduce, Reuse and Recycle principles.
The contents of our store bins are segregated and recycled off site by contractors.
The CSR Manager will review off-site waste recycling performance in the year ending 31 March 2009.
Water Conservation and Harvesting Potable drinking water use is significantly low in self storage operations.
A study of one of Big Yellows stores revealed a domestic scale water usage of 65 m3 per annum 146 per annum.
Potable water appliances are low flow aerated 4-6 litre taps and duel flush 6 to 4 litre WC cisterns for use by customers and staff.
Rain water is collected at Big Yellows Sutton, Barking Central and Merton stores by sustainable urban drainage systems.
These systems collect rainwater from either roof or at ground level from permeable paving systems.
The water is channelled to underground storage tanks for use in the stores water closet systems.
In the year ending 31 March 2009 the CSR Manager will review economically viable smaller scale water systems for landscape irrigation, where required.
Land Quality and Use To date Big Yellow has always developed new stores on brownfield land previously developed land and this in some cases contributes to city centre or urban regeneration.
Where there is a risk from previous land use contamination, such as at our sites at Fulham and Merton, Big Yellow has remediated these sites and raised the land quality and value as a longer term investment.
Where good quality derelict buildings are acquired these have been refurbished to conserve listed facades, such as at Fulham, a former power station.
Where Big Yellow can offer residual land, and there is a demand for mixed use development, then work units Balham and flexi-offices Kennington can be built to create more employment and support commerce in the local community.
Ecology and Biodiversity As Big Yellows stores are on brownfield sites, this means that the Companys developments are unlikely to impact on the Green Belt and biodiversity.
At stores such as Balham, Ealing Southall, and Merton new landscaped areas surrounding the buildings have raised the ecological value of the sites by adding more native flora species.
In addition stores such as Barking Central, Fulham and Sutton have had green roofs installed that replace lost wildlife habitat, reduce rainfall run-off, cool upper floor levels of stores in the summer and contribute to reducing the heat island effect in towns and cities.
