Business Review Joint Venture Portfolio Valuation Rent Finance BL interest 1 Portfolio JVPartner m m m m BLT Properties Ltd Tesco PLC 316 16 185 79 1 retail park, 8 Tesco superstores Tesco BL Holdings Ltd Tesco PLC 601 31 315 144 2 retail parks, 2 shopping centres each anchored by Tesco, 5 Tesco superstores Tesco British Land Property Partnership Tesco PLC 112 7 45 23 district shopping centre anchored by Tesco Tesco Aqua Limited Partnership Tesco PLC 594 29 487 48 21Tesco superstores The Scottish Retail Property Limited Partnership Land Securities PLC 252 15 119 70 shopping centre in Aberdeen BLFraser Ltd House of Fraser Limited 262 14 126 67 12 department stores 2 Eurofund Investments Zaragoza SL Private Investors and Copcisa Corp 239 46 85 Puerto Venecia, out-of-town shopping scheme Whiteley Village, Fareham Universities Superannuation Scheme 45 3 24 factory outlet shopping centre BL Sainsbury Superstores Ltd J Sainsbury plc 1,190 61 722 232 38 Sainsbury superstores, 1Waitrose superstore 1 Annualised net rents 2 Development project People Business review Individuals are essential ingredients in our long-term success.
We have provided herein a commentary on our markets, activities It is important that we retain and attract motivated and skilled and prospects.
Where we make forward looking statements they professionals able to deliver our strategy and work effectively reflect our current views: future results will depend on many in a small and focused team.
factors and interactions which may cause outcomes to differ The business model is people light and asset heavy it leverages from those anticipated.
the work, skill and judgement of a relatively small staff over a large value of efficiently financed assets.
The strategy and business changes introduced in 2005 are designed to emphasise the human Directors responsibility statement value added in order to lift performance at the property level, whilst We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: retaining efficient translation to profits and net asset value via a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with financial and fiscal structure.
This is all the more important in a International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by market where outperformance is going to be delivered through the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, superior rental growth and an activist approach to asset selection financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the and management.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the management report, or Business Review, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and Corporate responsibility the position of the Company and the undertakings included in Our full Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 8 may be viewed at the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description www.
It is designed to be accessible of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
and easy to navigate for users.
The switch to online reporting, rather than circulation of full printed copies, is part of our efforts to improve By order of the Board, Graham Roberts, Finance Director our environmental performance.
The British Land Company PLC 39 Recycling Capital Rubbish from Meadowhall is sorted in a special on-site facility.
The savings on this investment are well into six figures, not counting the value of recycled material.
