Section 2: Business review CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsible behaviour towards our stakeholders and the wider community is fundamental to Chlorides business.
We seek to ensure that we always act with integrity: that we give priority to the health and safety of our employees and those affected by our activities: and that we manage our activities so as to control our environmental impact.
The Chloride Board takes full responsibility for compliance with ethical, health and safety and environmental standards and the Chief Operating officer is responsible for reporting on these issues at Board level.
ETHICAL BUSINESS POLICY being responsive to customer needs, Our employees are required to act with and providing the highest standards integrity in all their business activities.
of customer care: Our statement of business policies reinforces Chlorides commitment to: opposing bribery and corrupt business practices: maintaining fair and competitive employment practices, which promote ensuring that employees act in the best equal opportunities and develop the interests of the Company and do not potential of our people: accept inappropriate gifts or payments: providing a safe working environment and treating our suppliers fairly and building encouraging health and safety awareness: long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with key suppliers: and setting standards of environmental management, conservation of resources supporting local communities through and waste management that meet or charities supported by our employees.
exceed the legal requirements in the countries where we operate: 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 New employees go through an induction EMPLOYEES HEALTH AND SAFETY and initial training process which explains key The Company is committed to providing equal We recognise the primary importance of ensuring employment conditions and Company policies, recruitment and other opportunities for all the health and safety of our employees and including those relating to the elimination of employees, regardless of age, sex, sexual others affected by the Companys activities.
bribery and corruption in whatever form.
We orientation, religion, race or disability.
We Chlorides policy is to manage activities so that have a policy in place with our agents and endeavour to provide all possible help to retain employees and others are not exposed to distributors to ensure that any commissions employees who have become disabled while unnecessary and unacceptable risks to their paid to intermediaries are legitimate and fairly working for the Group.
health or safety, and to meet or exceed the reect the value of services provided.
legal and regulatory health and safety standards At 31 March 2008 the Group had 1,578 in the territories in which we operate.
During Limits of authority are in place to restrict employees.
The Companys employees are the year the Board approved a restatement of the size and type of contracts that individuals spread over 15 countries and in the larger its overall policy on health and safety, together may sign, ensuring that significant contracts sites there are dedicated human resources with a new Group framework for managing with customers, suppliers and intermediaries managers reporting to the local General health and safety risks.
are signed off at an appropriate level in Manager.
The Group Director of Human the organisation.
Resources is responsible for compliance on Health and safety management is embedded a global basis with human resources policies.
The General Manager in General managers are required to report It is the practice to encourage lines of each business is accountable for health and quarterly on compliance with Company employee communication at local level through safety issues within his her business, and in policies by their businesses, as part of the appropriate means, such as works councils, the major sites there are designated senior management reporting cycle.
Compliance is brieng groups, workshops and newsletters.
managers with responsibility for health further veried by internal audit inspections and safety.
Policies and procedures are carried out by the Group Risk Manager.
The Company is committed to developing documented and in our principal locations, and motivating its people and, in the UK employees representatives are involved WHISTLEBLOWING participates in the Investor in People scheme.
in discussion of health and safety issues We encourage open and honest There is also a programme to help employees through Works Councils or Health and communication between employees and acquire professional and technical Safety Committees, on a regular basis.
qualications that are relevant to their jobs.
Employees may also use our condential The Chloride Academy, established in May Where health and safety issues are identied whistle blowing procedure if they 2007, provides enhanced skills training to as significant risks, the Risk Committee keeps have serious concerns about ethical or employees, as described in the Chief under review the actions taken to address the management issues that they feel unable Executives review on page 12. risk.
These in turn are reported to the Audit to discuss directly with local management.
Committee, along with statistics on workplace Outstanding achievement among the sales accidents.
Evaluation of health and safety and staff is recognised by the award of prizes environmental performance is also an integral at an annual sales conference.
part of the due diligence process on the acquisition of businesses.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 27 Section 2: Business review CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Health and safety training is provided as ENVIRONMENT All of these production and sales and service necessary, particularly in relation to battery Chloride is committed to maintaining good centres have achieved ISO 14001 certication, handling and working with electricity.
The environmental practice to minimise the impact and upgraded to the more demanding ISO Chloride Academy includes health and safety of its activities on the environment and we are 14001, 2004 issue.
As part of the ISO 14001 as an integral part of its education programme, a constituent company of the FTSE4Good requirement, each site is required to evaluate ensuring that students recognise the health Index.
Our policy is to comply with standards environmental risks, and measure performance and safety implications of delivering secure that match or exceed environmental legislation on the key areas of impact.
We continue to focus on in all countries in which we operate, and to measurements are specic to each site, minimising risk to service engineers while comply with the ISO 14001 environmental enabling the focus to be maintained on the providing installation, commissioning and management standard in our principal areas of importance to each site.
Compliance after-sales technical service in customers operational sites.
with ISO 14001, 2004 issue is certied by an premises.
independent certication body, such as the We encourage initiatives which benefit the British Standards Institute.
We have procedures in place to minimise environment and result in cost savings.
We the exposure of our employees to terrorist have reduced the requirement for air travel 95% of Chlorides turnover is generated by and other risks while working in sensitive through the use of video conferencing.
All travel to areas deemed sensitive Energy savings are achieved through the use of our components are purchased from by the Foreign Ofce travel advice service of thermographic technology in Chicago, to ISO 14001 certied suppliers, and our principal is subject to prior approval by the Group detect areas of the building where heat is lost Far Eastern supplier of outsourced products Risk Manager.
Business continuity policies and improve insulation.
We encourage energy is also ISO 14001 certied.
developed in response to the threat of saving initiatives, such as the innovative epidemics such as SARS and avian u system in use at our large systems test facility Where requested by the customer, Chloride also restrict travel to affected areas in the in Bologna, where the energy used in the test undertakes responsibility for disposing of event of such an epidemic.
process is recovered and recycled, resulting in used batteries at the end of their useful life.
All waste batteries are handled through licensed During the year ending 31 March 2008, 190 waste contractors who recover and recycle working days less than 0.10% of the total ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS the lead content, and dispose of any waste were lost due to work-related accidents.
The Company has three principal production in accordance with applicable regulations.
centres at Bologna, Italy: Lyon, France and Chicago, USA.
Such activities mainly involve the assembly and testing of electronic products.
In accordance with the nature of these activities, emissions to air and water are low and the assembly processes have low consumption of water, energy and hazardous substances.
The principal sales and service sites are in Southampton and Bedford, UK: Erlangen, Germany: Bologna, Italy: Istanbul, Turkey: Madrid, Spain and Sydney, Australia.
28 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 PRODUCTS We are actively involved in industry bodies Chlorides total power protection solutions notably the European Committee of perform an essential role in providing secure Manufacturers of Electrical Machines and power to a wide range of safety-critical Power Electronics CEMEP which consider applications.
These include emergency lighting the application of the EU Directive 2002 95 EC in challenging environments such as offshore Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous drilling rigs and underground metro tunnels: Substances in Electronic Equipment the hospital equipment: passenger safety systems RoHS Directive to UPS systems.
Although in airports: control centres for the emergency this directive, which requires the reduction services: signalling on railway networks, of substances such as lead and cadmium and trafc management systems on major in electronic equipment, does not directly road networks.
apply to UPS systems, we are committed to avoiding the use of non-compliant materials Our solutions are an essential part of many where this does not compromise the operation renewable energy generation projects, such or reliability of the UPS system.
Our low as wind farms and solar power installations.
power ranges now have RoHS compliant We have also formed alliances with partners electronics and we work with customers to for the supply of fuel cells the only waste meet their individual compliance requirements.
product of which is water and for rotary Although currently there is no equivalent technology, to help our customers achieve standard covering the USA, our Oneac their environmental goals.
subsidiary produces all its new low power products with RoHS compliant electronics.
We ensure that our products meet environmental regulations in the countries where they are installed and that new products are progressively more energy efficient.
Our 80-net and 90-net UPS systems were designed for high energy efficiency and our 90-net model has been recognised by an independent laboratory as the most energy efficient double conversion product of its kind.
Chloride is the only UPS company to participate in the EU Code of Conduct to improve end-use energy efficiency in AC uninterruptible power supplies.
