3 4.0 4.0 150 128 4 122 3.0 3.0 93 95 2.7 2.7 2.6 86 84 100 82 2.0 2.0 70 72 1.7 1.7 2 50 8 0 Executive Cosec Development Finance IT Invest Asset Corporate EnvironEstates Finance Health IT 0 Directors Admin Governance mental Management and Safety and HR 2006 2007 2008 2006 2007 2008 Our people Training programmes provided during the year included both Achievement of our strategic priorities is dependent upon our business related topics, key risk areas and personal skills ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain talented employees.
To facilitate this, our objectives are: Meetings involving all employees are held on a quarterly basis to to create an environment where employees are well motivated and keep everyone up to date and involved in the Companys plans have a strong belief in the Group, its strategy and its core values: and activities and to act as a forum for the Executive Directors to answer questions.
Weekly meetings are held both across and within continual improvement in the skills and competency of our departments to ensure good communication throughout the Group.
employees at all levels and across all disciplines: Meetings with non-office based personnel are also held weekly the retention and growth of key skills which are critical to ensure their involvement and to encourage the sharing to the business: of best practice.
well constructed and fair reward systems which incentivise All employees receive a copy of the Companys Ethics policy which superior performance and align employees and shareholder sets out the Companys core values and approaches in its relations interests: and with tenants and the local community, shareholders and other development and use of appropriate employment practices across investors, employees, suppliers, and the government.
Employees are involved at all levels in the development of the A significant proportion of remuneration for all employees Companys operating policies.
is performance related based on both corporate and personal objectives and targets and we are pleased that our overall retention Corporate responsibility CR people objectives set for rate remains high at 93% per annum.
The constant length of service 2008 09 include: from 2007 and 2008 of the Finance and Asset Management Teams to ensure employee personal development through relevant shown in the table above reflects additional employees either hired training: or transferred to the Group during the year as a result of the GCP to raise employee awareness of the importance of CR throughout joint venture.
the organisation and how it can achieve our long-term objectives: The Company is committed to equal opportunities and formal to encourage CR related employee initiatives: and performance reviews are undertaken every six months with a view to ensure all employees operate ethically and with integrity.
to maximising employees potential and contribution and a formal training programme of both external courses and in-house seminars is provided.
The Company encourages career development through the provision of relevant training with funding and study leave to support professional development including formal training for professional qualifications, external degrees or as part of a vocational training programme.
During the year 44,905 was invested in formal staff training providing 1,028 hours of training.
