32 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 Corporate responsibility Awards Progress against CR objectives and targets Property Week 2008 Property Company of the Year A D C B  2007 Building Public Trust Award for the FTSE 250 Telling It How It Is BDO Stoy Hayward Property Accounts Awards 2007 Overall winner Gold Award Business in the Communitys A.
80% to 90% met 2 for corporate responsibility C. 50% to 70% met 2 Silver Award D. Less than 50% met 2 Great Portland Estates recognises that the importance of the Robert Noel is Vice Chairman of the Westminster Property Owners effectiveness of its operations in respect of the environment Association, is a member of the South Bank Employers Group and together with interaction with its key stakeholders, including is on the Board of the New West End Company, a formal Business investors, employees, neighbours, communities, customers Improvement District encompassing Bond Street, Oxford Street and and suppliers is key to ensuring the long-term sustainability Regent Street.
Objectives and targets The Board has responsibility for the approval of policy relating Great Portland Estates set a total of 33 CR targets at the beginning to social, environmental and health and safety matters, and is of 2007 covering the key areas of: determined to apply high standards to social, environmental and ethical issues in all areas in which the Group operates including the our people: management of the joint venture operations on behalf of the joint environment and the portfolio: venture partners.
This year, the Company was delighted that its tenants and the community: efforts were rewarded with a series of awards covering a range of health and safety: and corporate responsibility activities.
The Board receives an annual report from the Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired by the Property Director, 82% of these were fully achieved.
Where targets have not been Robert Noel, and regular reports from the Health and Safety and achieved, where relevant, these have been included again for the Environmental Working Committees also chaired by Mr Noel.
Details of the Companys The Groups alignment of Corporate Responsibility CR risks 2007 08 and 2008 09 objectives and targets can be found on the with its Corporate Responsibility Value Statement, strategy, and Company website at www.
objectives and targets together with the Groups Health and Safety To ensure the highest level of achievement for 2008, where and Environmental policies are approved by the Board on an appropriate, elements of the Companys objectives and targets annual basis.
have also been included within individual employees objectives and targets.
Property industry Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent the Companys views and contribute towards the development of the property industry.
Toby Courtauld is a member of the Management Board of the Investment Property Forum and a member of the Policy Committee of the British Property Federation BPF.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 Corporate responsibility 33 Energy management and usage and reporting Environmental strategy Target Actual 2007 08 Achieved % Achieved To ensure energy audits completed Environmental Environmental on at least 25% of the joint venture Policy Management portfolio 25% 46% 184% Policy Committee System To switch 5% of energy consumption at our properties onto green energy tariffs 5% 15% 300% To reduce head office energy usage by 15% 15% 15% 100% Manage To introduce long life light bulbs through out common areas of individual buildings in 40% of the portfolio over three years 13% 14% 108% Environmental Working To introduce check meters in Monitor landlord areas in 30% of the Group portfolio 30% 27% 90% To include energy consumption data on Company website 2008 2008 100% Environment and the portfolio During the year 95 hours of environmental training were provided The Company is committed to effective environmental management, to employees covering energy management, sustainability, to ensure that appropriate environmental policies are set to assist climate change and benchmarking standards for developments.
the Group in future proofing the Companys portfolio to meet Environmental training is also included in the induction process rapidly changing legislation requirements and resulting tenant for all new employees.
We regard regulatory compliance as a minimum standard.
An Environmental Working Group EWG, chaired by Robert Noel The Companys Environmental Policy Statement is reviewed as the Property Director and made up of senior representatives annually by the Board and may be viewed on the Companys of each department, meets on a quarterly basis and report to the website, www.
Board annually and to the Environmental Policy Committee.
The Environmental Policy Committee chaired by Toby Courtauld The EWG monitors the Groups compliance with environmental is responsible for reviewing the Groups environmental polices and legislation and best practice across the portfolio and agrees procedures.
During the course of 2008, the Environmental Policy procedures to be followed on key environmental issues.
Committee: Asset manage identified the need for a Group Energy Manager: The Companys Environmental Management System is controlled and administered by the Safety, Health and Environmental reviewed the way the Group procures it energy: Manager, and audited by external consultants on a regular basis.
instigated actions required in respect of Energy Performance Our Environmental Management System has identified the Certificates: Company aspects and impacts in line with ISO 14001 and its approved the new Environmental Construction and Design procedures and checklists are based upon the issues identified.
Policy: and All contractors are required to comply with the Companys approved the Companys tenant survey.
environmental policy statement, and external consultants also carry out environmental checks on all managed properties on Given the significant number of changes in environmental an annual basis.
legislation over the last 12 months, the Committee is in the process Energy and water consumption is monitored by external consultants of undertaking an in-depth review of the Companys environmental and usage data is analysed on a monthly basis.
Energy and water management system, policies and practices in respect of each of consumption data, externally verified by Bureau Veritas is also the Groups core operations of asset management, recycling and available from our website.
During the year we employed an Energy development with a view to providing overarching key objectives Manager to assist in ensuring that all properties have Energy and an environmental improvement plan for each area during the Performance Certificates in readiness for the appropriate deadline course of 2008. and improving both energy efficiency and reporting across the portfolio.
During 2007 a survey was undertaken of all lamps across the common areas of our properties with a view to changing fittings to energy efficient alternatives as they expire.
34 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 Corporate responsibility New West End Company contributions 120,000 103,029 100,000 79,349 75,578 80,000 60,000 40,000 20,000 0 2006 2007 2008 An environmental guidance note explaining the Groups CR environmental objectives set for 2008 09 include: environmental procedures is distributed to all tenants on an annual to monitor and seek to reduce resource consumption: basis to encourage them to adopt similar standards.
In February to encourage all contractors and consultants to adopt similar 2008, we surveyed our tenants to obtain their feedback on a number environmental policies and standards as the Company: of environmental issues including, the premium they would be to consider environmental issues during acquisition, design, prepared to pay for green energy, energy best practices and recycling development and refurbishment: initiatives.
to ensure our employees are kept informed of our environmental During the year additional recycling schemes were introduced in polices and are given relevant environmental training: 20% of the portfolio and we continue to address how recycling to encourage new recycling schemes where practicable: can be increased through co-operation and co-ordination with our tenants.
to procure timber used on developments and refurbishments from FSC certified sources: and Recycle to ensure that the Company is involved in the setting Prior to acquisition an environmental due diligence report of environmental best practice standards.
is undertaken with particular regard to environmental risk.
Mechanical and electrical surveys are also undertaken to identify Tenants and the community plant and equipment inefficiencies.
The Company recognises that local initiatives are important in Develop enhancing various aspects which serve to improve and promote All major developments are subject to BREEAM with a target to central London, and supports a number of groups including the achieve a rating of Very Good on major refurbishments increased Westminster Property Owners Association, Westminster City in 2007 to a target rating of Excellent on all new build properties Council, Transport for London and the New West End Company with renewable energy considered at the design phase.
We are in their work to address issues such as planning, transport and constantly reviewing ways to maximise the energy efficiency security.
In respect of the New West End Company, the Company and sustainability of our buildings and in 2007 published our has made voluntary contributions to match those of the Companys Environmental Construction and Design Policy which sets out tenants to support its activities in the marketing of the West End: standards for segregation and recycling of waste materials, sourcing reducing crime: keeping the street clean: and hosting traffic free of timber products and energy consumption, with a compliance days and shopping events.
In addition, in partnership with the audit undertaken by our in-house Project Management Team at Westminster City Council and various retailer associations we have the end of each development.
provided sponsorship for activities such as West End Live and decorations at Christmas.
In 2007, we signed up to the British Property Federations initiative, the Commercial Lease Accreditation Scheme, to ensure continued best practice in our dealing with tenants.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 Corporate responsibility 35 Health and safety statistics 2006 2007 2008 Number of RIDDOR reportable injuries 10 2 First aid injuries 78 8 Three day injuries 10 2 Work related fatalities 00 0 Number of Enforcement Agency prosecutions or fines 00 0 Number of prohibition notices 00 0 Employee accidents and incidents 22 1 Number of employee days off work from injury 00 0 Our employees participated for a third year in helping pupils at St. Vincents school in Marylebone to improve their reading Principal contractors on all developments and major Health and safety refurbishments continue to be required to be members of the Great Portland Estates is committed to managing health and safety Considerate Constructors Scheme with all Monitors site reports to a consistently high standard.
received achieving ratings of a high level beyond compliance and, The Group employs a Safety, Health and Environmental Manager, in February 2008, we were invited to join the Considerate reporting directly to the Property Director, Robert Noel, to manage Constructors Scheme Client Partnership.
Newsletters were produced and review health and safety compliance.
A Health and Safety on a regular basis to keep stakeholders appraised with progress on Management System designed to comply with ISO 18001 all our major development sites during the year at Wells & More, requirements is maintained for all properties managed by the Group 60 Great Portland Street, 79 83 Great Portland Street, Elsley House, and includes on site inspections by external consultants and reviews 46 58 Bermondsey Street and 240 Blackfriars Road.
Regular of risk assessments with all procedures updates at least annually.
meetings are also held with tenants to provide feedback to Our Senior Building Manager also carries out regular building contractors on performance and, as a result of feedback received audits to monitor compliance with the Groups health during the year we have designed a Tenant Action Plan for use and safety procedures.
on all future development sites to improve our management of relations with both tenants remaining in situ and those occupying A Health and Safety Working Group which is chaired by Mr Noel neighbouring buildings.
meets on a quarterly basis, and monitors performance, the achievement of key objectives, the results of safety audits and In March 2008, 33% of tenants responded to our environmental inspections, accidents and near misses, changes in legislation, the survey designed to engage tenants in recycling and green energy development of new procedures, and the allocation of resources initiatives and which will be used in focusing our activities for the to health and safety.
During the year 212 hours of health and safety training was The Company has continued with its tradition of encouraging provided to employees covering general health and safety staff to be involved in, and of supporting their, charitable activities.
management, first aid at work, stress management and terrorism.
In particular, the Company targets charities involved in health, Additionally induction training, which includes health and safety the homeless and the community, and, where practicable, allows issues, is provided to all new employees.
temporarily vacant buildings to be occupied, at no cost, by charities seeking premises.
In partnership with Westminster Education Asset manage Authority, through a Primary School Volunteer scheme, 21% of As one of the significant health and safety risks to the business the Companys employees have participated for a third year in is the control of contractors, a contractor and consultant selection helping pupils at St. Vincents school in Marylebone to improve scheme is in place.
The Company runs a Permission to Work system their reading.
for contractors which includes contractor vetting, reviewing of contractor risk assessments and monitoring of contractors CR social objectives set for 2008 09 include: performance on site.
Major contractors have service level to improve and promote services to tenants: and agreements as an integral part of their contract and scoring on to minimise disruption during developments to tenants in situ health and safety performance has been included within these and neighbours.
36 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 Corporate responsibility The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good UK index All accidents and incidents occurring in areas managed by the Investors Group are recorded and reported and appropriate action is taken.
The Board believes in the importance of effective communication.
A formal investigation of all accidents is conducted by the Safety, The Company seeks to improve investors and potential investors Health and Environmental Manager.
During the year ended understanding of its objectives, strategy and performance.
In the 31 March 2008, there were two reportable accidents arising year to 31 March 2008 over 157 presentations were made by a from Groups activities.
combination of the Chief Executive, Property and Finance Directors in order to explain the Groups business and financial performance Recycle and to answer questions.
All such meetings are conducted within Prior to acquisition, detailed surveys are undertaken of new the guidance provided by the UKLA Listing and Disclosure Rules properties to ensure that, where possible, hazardous materials and on the dissemination of price sensitive information.
health and safety risks are identified and are dealt with as soon as practicable on completion.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good UK index, a benchmark index of companies which meets criteria set down Develop by EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Services on environmental, At our construction sites, our Safety, Health and Environmental social and corporate governance performance.
For the fifth year, Manager liaises closely with CDM Coordinators and Project the Company has taken part in the Business in the Communitys Managers to assist in ensuring that health and safety is managed annual Corporate Responsibility Index, which, together with the effectively on site.
All consultants are required to complete a CR activities contained within this report, is independently verified competency review in line with Health and Safety Executive by Bureau Veritas.
guidance under the Construction Design and Management Regulations 2007.
Where building works are being carried out The Companys approach to corporate governance is set out on with tenants in situ, our Building Managers regularly attend site to pages 46 to 48. ensure that health and safety concerns are brought to the attention CR investor objectives set for 2008 09 include: of contractors and dealt with in a timely fashion.
to improve the quantity and quality of CR related information: CR Health and Safety objectives set for 2008 09 include: to ensure regular dialogue with shareholders and fund managers: to provide a safe and healthy working environment for all and employees, contractors working on the portfolio, visiting to take part in relevant benchmark indices.
members of the public, and all others affected by the activities of the Company.
