CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION We believe that the value of the business is best enhanced by respecting the interests of all our stakeholders, and that the creation of long-term financial returns is dependent upon our effective management of environmental and social performance.
The principle of our approach is to adopt business practices across the Group that are economically, socially and environmentally sustainable, and to promote these to our partners and customers in order to strengthen relationships, share knowledge and encourage best practice.
FIVE ISSUES OF FOCUS Hammerson focuses its sustainability initiatives on five key issues identified as a result of a materiality study carried out in 2007.
Issue Objectives Climate change and energy To reduce the carbon footprint of each of our properties To adapt our buildings to minimise the impact of climate change Resource use To maximise the efficiency of our use of natural resources To reduce waste and reuse where viable Community regeneration To invest in local communities including skills training and job creation Supply chain To engage with our suppliers to share best practice and to procure sustainable goods and services Customers To anticipate and meet our occupiers long-term needs To share best practice on sustainability issues HOW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR IS MANAGED AT HAMMERSON The CR Group agrees overall CR strategy and targets and monitors target progress.
CR targets are grouped around our five identified material issues and are delivered by working groups representing the three principal areas of Hammersons business activity: Operations, Development and Corporate.
We adopt a common approach in the UK and France.
Members of the CR Group, and the leaders of working groups in the UK and France, are set out below.
MEMBERS OF THE CR GROUP John Richards Chief Executive David Atkins UK Managing Director Paul Edwards Head of Sustainability Robin Dobson Director, UK Retail Development Jean-Philippe Mouton Director of Operations, France Andrew Thomson Director, UK Operations Philippe Bouveret Sustainability Director, France Andrea Cockram Corporate Communications Manager WORKING GROUP LEADERS UK Operations Development Corporate Andrew Thomson Robin Dobson Paul Edwards Director, UK Operations Director, Retail Development Head of Sustainability WORKING GROUP LEADERS FRANCE Operations Development Corporate Marc Valente Jean-Louis Coquand Valrie Petitbon Development Director Director, Shopping Centres Director, Marketing & Communication ANNUAL REPORT 2008 19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT PORTFOLIO IMPACTS In our development activities, we have a responsibility to design buildings which will meet, and preferably exceed, future legislative requirements on environmental and social issues.
Highlights of CR activity relating to the development programme and pipeline in 2008 are as follows: Cabot Circus, Bristol, which opened to the public in September 2008, achieved BREEAM Building Research Establishment Energy Assessment Methodology Excellent, making it the first shopping centre ever to achieve this rating.
60 Threadneedle Street, London EC2, completed in January 2009, achieved BREEAM Excellent.
125 Old Broad Street, London EC2, completed in July 2008, and Highcross, Leicester, completed in September 2008, both achieved BREEAM Very Good.
Both were extensions or refurbishments to existing buildings.
Waste produced during construction reused or recycled ranged from 54% Highcross to 70-88% Cabot Circus.
Skills training and recruitment programmes Cabot Circus Jobs and Work Highcross were held in respect of 6,000 retail and leisure jobs created at the Groups developments in Bristol and Leicester.
In partnership with Waste Resource Action Programme we have developed targets for recycled content for all future developments.
A social sustainability workshop, facilitated by Future Focus, was held in June 2008, and outcomes were incorporated into Hammersons guidance notes for best practice community engagement.
Sustainability implementation plans, covering the period from pre-acquisition to construction, were initiated for each pipeline development.
2008 REVIEW In 2008 we built on the progress we had made in 2007, extending the reach of our initiatives to encompass the whole of our UK managed portfolio, and our operations in France.
Activity focused on: improving the accuracy of our monitoring, measuring and reporting systems: assessing the potential return on investment of specific sustainability initiatives: reducing consumption of energy and water and increasing waste recycling in the managed portfolio: sharing our CR objectives with our staff, our suppliers and our occupiers: working with occupiers to achieve improved environmental performance through implementation of the Green Lease and Tenant's Sustainability Guide: and participating in industry bodies in order to understand and shape legislation and best practice in the UK and France.
The four major development projects completed by Hammerson in 2008 each demonstrated leadership in sustainability: at 125 Old Broad Street, London EC2, we retained the existing building, expanding and, recladding it and improving environmental performance: at Cabot Circus, Bristol and Highcross Leicester, design features including natural ventilation limit future energy consumption and we ran skills and training programmes for the 6,000 jobs we created.
At OParinor, to the north of Paris, we recycled 85.4% of waste produced during construction and introduced rainwater harvesting for use within the scheme.
These achievements were recognised in environmental ratings of Excellent Cabot Circus and Very Good 125 Old Broad Street and Highcross awarded by BREEAM.
Initiatives in our managed portfolio were principally aimed at improving the environmental performance of our assets, thereby reducing costs associated with energy consumption and waste.
At the end of 2007, we created the Sustainability Programme for Innovation, an in-house forum where new solutions can be put forward and reviewed by the CR Operations group against economic, environmental and social criteria.
Collectively these initiatives resulted in a saving of over 3,000 tonnes of carbon per annum across the UK portfolio.
We continued to focus on engagement with retailers and office occupiers.
Following the introduction of a Green Lease in 2007, we have signed over 100 of these leases with retailers.
The success of this lease lies in its nature: rather than being prescriptive, it seeks to build partnerships with retailers and share solutions.
We are now rolling out this initiative in France, both on new deals and on lease renewals, signing eight leases since its introduction in October 2008.
Similarly, we have been heavily involved in the Better Building Partnerships design of a memorandum of understanding, which provides a structure within which to work with existing occupiers to improve environmental performance.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our service charge, meanwhile, has remained highly competitive, thanks to reductions in energy consumption totalling 7% in the UK and 14% in France since 2006, taking into account new space.
We are on track to deliver a 19% reduction in energy consumption in the UK and 21% in France against this baseline, thereby containing increases in service charges as a result of higher energy prices.
PEOPLE Hammerson is recognised as an Investor in People IIP, having first achieved this status in 1997.
IIP is a national quality standard for effective investment in people showing the importance an organisation places on the development of its staff in order to meet the Companys business objectives.
In 2008, Hammerson organised an all staff conference for its employees in Bristol, the aim of which was to acquaint staff with one of the Companys most recent developments and important assets: convey key messages and ideas relating to the Companys business objectives, challenges and opportunities it faces in the current climate: and encourage staff to share knowledge in a more informal setting.
Hammerson also sponsored professional qualifications for 12 of its staff in 2008, equating to an investment of 26,000.
Key Performance Indicators relating to Hammersons employees will be found in the full CR report, which will be available online at www.
VERIFICATION PROCEDURES An audit of Hammersons progress against the 2008 CR targets has been carried out in order to establish the extent of their completion.
Completed by Upstream, Hammersons strategic sustainability advisor, this audit does not constitute a fully independent verification, but intends to provide assurance of progress achieved during the year.
"Hammerson also engaged Bureau Veritas as a ""critical friend"" of its CR data collection and analysis process, in anticipation of a move to a formal, fully independent audit in the future."
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY The full text of Hammersons Environmental Policy, Responsible Procurement Policy and Equal Opportunities Policy are available on the Companys website, www.
Hammerson recognises the importance of taking a proactive, strategic approach to environmental management and strives to be at the forefront of this area within the property industry.
Our Environmental Policy sets out two overarching commitments to our stakeholders: To use best practice in the design and planning of our developments to ensure they respect their locations and enhance the built environment.
To design and build properties using sustainable materials and practices and manage these properties efficiently, leading to lower consumption of natural resources and to reductions in waste and emissions generated during our properties lifecycles.
We comply with all relevant legislation and strive to exceed legal requirements where possible.
By conducting regular and independent reviews of our progress, as well as through engagement with stakeholders, we aim to achieve continuous improvement.
This pursuit of excellence is facilitated by an Environmental Management System which enables the targeting and public reporting of our environmental performance.
Rigorous annual target-setting and monitoring at each of our properties is focused on the following key objectives: to substantially reduce our carbon footprint to maximise the efficiency of our use of natural resources to reduce our waste and increase recycling to minimise the risk of pollution and contamination to place emphasis on good design to enhance the built environment Responsibility for overall governance and implementation of this policy lies with Hammersons CR Group, which is also tasked with periodically reviewing the policy to ensure applicability and adherence to best practice.
Responsibility for overseeing this policy and ensuring it is upheld lies with the Chief Executive and Chairman of Hammersons CR Group, John Richards.
