Business overview Corporate Responsibility We continue to focus on reducing our footprint in terms of energy use, water use and waste disposal.
We have made good progress on energy efficiency and improved this again considerably.
Highlights Introduction Key focus areas In accordance with our Group vision, we plan We recognise that CR creates fundamental Significant improvement in energy efficiency to deliver sustainable long term growth in value.
We have benchmarked our peer group from 1,498 MWh m turnover to 1,206 MWh shareholder value by building trust with our key and identified three key focus areas to per m turnover stakeholders by considering economic, social focus on: Reportable injury incidence decreased to 260 and environmental issues in our day-to-day cases of greater than three days absence per business activities.
We plan to do this by: Business Ethics 100,000 employees, down from 548 Acting ethically and responsibly towards Decrease in waste efficiency, but recycling Embedding the principles of Corporate our key stakeholders: improved from 29% to 47% Responsibility CR into our governance Safety, Health & Environment SHE and strategy: Providing safe working conditions and Recruiting, training and empowering high practices for our people and reducing our performance talent to view CR as a core footprint: and competency: Stakeholder Engagement Pursuing CR initiatives to improve our social Engaging with our key stakeholders to and environmental performance within our respond to their concerns.
business and our supply chain: and Developing products and services that take These three focus areas encompass and account of the environment in their design.
build on the six narrower focus areas we have reported on in previous years.
During 2008 we reviewed our corporate Anti-corruption is now considered part of a governance position and established a CR broader business ethics area.
Staff safety, carbon committee chaired by the Chief Executive and footprint, chemicals and hazardous materials further developed our CR strategy.
management, waste reduction and supply chain management are covered under SHE.
Our strategy is to standardise our management approach in these areas such that our CR performance can be effectively and efficiently challenged and enhanced.
To enable this, the Business Ethics & Compliance Committee established in early 2008 and a newly established SHE Committee now report to the Group CR Committee.
Compliance with applicable laws in the countries in which we operate is our minimum performance Performance indicators standard.
As the approach matures, we plan to add additional focus areas.
Performance 2008 2007 2006 Target Business ethics Incidence rate injuries illness disease 3 days 260 548 720 Zero Cobham has operated a Code of Business absence 100,000 employees Conduct for several years.
In 2008 an Energy efficiency MWh m turnover 1206 1498 1892 1049 updated Code was issued and a phased 3 Water use efficiency m m turnover 259 162 197 113 approach to training on the new Code was commenced.
The Code of Business Conduct Waste efficiency Tonnes m turnover 8.2 5.3 5.7 3.7 sets out Cobhams approach to legal and ethical conduct and specifies employees Cobham plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business overview Corporate Responsibility continued Incidence rate Reportable injuries illnesses disease 3 days 100,000 2008 260 2007 548 responsibilities.
It covers matters of personal we will place more focus on eliminating these integrity, employee relationships, relationships injury types.
with customers, suppliers, the community and others, and possible breaches of the Code.
FB Heliservices FBH, in which Cobham has a 50% interest, experienced the loss of an Currently over one third of our employees aircraft during a low level flying exercise in an have been trained and the remainder are Army Squirrel helicopter whilst on detachment due to be trained in 2009. Business ethics in North Devon.
We deeply regret the loss of and compliance officers have been or will be life of the military instructor and student that appointed to each Cobham business unit who occurred as a result of this tragic accident.
The are primarily responsible for implementation initial findings from the Board of Inquiry state of the Code within his or her business unit.
that there is no evidence to suggest technical We operate help-lines for employees to call failure of the aircraft, which FBH maintain.
in the event of issues and each call or other contact is reviewed by the business ethics and We continue to focus on reducing our compliance committee.
Each complaint is fully footprint in terms of energy use, water use and investigated and the results reported to the waste disposal.
We have made good progress complainant where their identity is known on energy efficiency and improved this again and the Board.
considerably from 1,498 MWh m turnover to 1,206 MWh per m turnover.
This is partly Safety, health and environment SHE due to improved energy efficiency measure Our safety goal is to attain and maintain an being put in place and partly due to increased occupational injury and illness free workplace turnover.
Our water use increased in 2008 due for our employees, visitors and contractors.
to a combination of several major acquisitions To move towards this goal, we have embarked and an increase in high water use at some of on a two year SHE strategy to improve our our larger manufacturing facilities.
The strategy has three key resulted in a decline in our water use efficiency elements galvanising our leadership at all numbers.
While we expect the unusual levels, standardising our SHE management circumstances surrounding our high water approach across the Group and implementing use in the latter half of 2008 to normalise in step-change safety initiatives through 2009 we will continue to focus our efforts operational management.
This is our first on reducing our water use footprint.
step on our journey to meet our zero injury goal and we will monitor the progress of our Waste efficiency decreased in 2008 due to strategy closely to identify additional steps increased waste generation and the impact that we can take to improve our performance.
Whilst our waste efficiency decreased our recycling rate improved from During 2008, our injury incident rate decreased 29% in 2007 to 47% in 2008.
We will focus our to 260 cases of greater than three days efforts on waste reduction in order to meet absence per 100,000 employees, down from our 2010 target.
We will continue to review 548 cases in 2007 and significantly below our performance targets such that they drive the Health & Safety Executives benchmark performance and innovation.
We will review for manufacturing of 732 cases per 100,000 our KPIs to ensure that they are appropriate employees.
Analysis of our 2008 accident and where changes are necessary, we will data identified that manual handling injuries, transition them so we can maintain year on repetitive strain injuries and injuries arising year comparability.
from contact with a fixed or stationary object represented 40% of our recorded injuries and 28 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Business overview Waste efficiency Energy efficiency Water use efficiency 3 Tonnes m MWh m turnover m m turnover 2008 8.2 2008 1,206 2008 259 2007 5.3 2007 1,498 2007 162 A two day risk management seminar was held in fits well with this charter and we will seek to November 2008 for our US businesses, hosted extend this to all products and services we by our US insurance brokers in Denver.
The supply to the MoD where appropriate.
seminar focused on workers compensation risks and property loss prevention with presentations At Group level, Cobham continues to direct from distinguished external speakers.
Awards its community support at national campaigns.
for outstanding commitment to loss prevention Business units are encouraged to engage with and control were presented to business units in local communities where their products and the three Technology Divisions.
services are sold and in which employees work and live.
Priority is given to causes directly With the support of our in-house REACH supporting the achievement of educational, Regulation, Evaluation and Authorisation of engineering and scientific objectives, related to Chemicals experts, all of our business units the development of a responsible, sustainable have assessed the implications of the European aerospace and defence industry.
As more REACH legislation to them.
This assessment than 50% of Cobhams revenues are from identified that, with a few small exceptions all military and government markets, the Group of which have been managed, we were not also supports those who have served or are required to pre-register with the European serving in the Armed Forces.
Throughout 2008, Cobham graduates raised 5,500 for the Youth Chemical Agency.
Cobham continued to be a corporate sponsor Cancer Trust by competing in the UKs National and partner of the following organisations: Three Peaks 24 hour challenge.
Stakeholder engagement During 2008, two key issues emerged from our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families communications with our shareholders and Association SSAFA Forces Help: investors.
These related to our participation The Science Museum: in the Carbon Disclosure Project and whether Schools in Aerospace: we had involvement in the manufacturing Young Engineers.
Our response to these queries are as follows: Data verification Data verification has taken place since 2004 We have recommitted to participating in and was initially an internal programme the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2009: checking compliance with Group standards, Cobham does not make or sell cluster monitoring systems and raw data.
During munitions and we are committed to 2008 the organisation completed an complying with the national legislation of the external assurance process focusing on the countries where we are present, as well as effectiveness of SHE management systems with any relevant international regulations or and performance data.
Fourteen business conventions that our operations are legally units drawn from all divisions across the USA, bound to comply with.
UK and Australia representing 49% of the Group by turnover participated in the 2008 In addition, engagement with the Ministry audit programme.
Business units are required of Defence has resulted in Cobham Aviation to provide an action plan to address any Services signing the MoDs Sustainable recommendations made.
The action plans Procurement Charter.
The charter is designed are reviewed regularly at Group level.
to encourage defence suppliers to reduce For more information energy use and greenhouse gas emissions and Data is reconciled to account for acquisitions www.
com corporatelimit adverse effects on the environment and and disposals, and changes in foreign responsibility society.
Cobhams own strategy and policy exchange rates.
Cobham plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
