Report of the Directors Corporate responsibility continued 55 Volunteering The Foundation is responsible for encouraging every employee to volunteer a minimum of one day a year 487,600 in work time.
It has supported 326 volunteers so far, clocking up more than 3,000 volunteering hours in total.
This year around 20% of employees took part in projects, and our target is to have 50% of employees Charitable donations made in 2007 08. involved by 2010.
Employees who volunteer in their own time are encouraged to apply for matched leave.
Volunteering 32 hours a year earns two additional days leave, for example.
To date 30 employees have taken a total of 45.5 days of additional leave.
Some examples of our volunteering work: 50% Enterprise Young Enterprise scheme launched Our volunteers are helping young people interested in business to develop their skills and knowledge.
Our target to have employees in volunteering by 2010.
The teams set up and run concept companies and learn the lessons of business along the way.
Launched in 2008, we are running this project in London and the North West initially.
Education Supporting schools in Tower Hamlets Trillium has supported St Annes Catholic Primary School and Thomas Buxton Junior School in Tower Hamlets for six years.
We have helped to support literacy by buying books for their libraries and enabling more reading partners to come in and read to children.
Last year we funded local artist Janet Brookes involvement in a curriculum art project, and the art works produced in response were exhibited in Spring 2008 at the SW1 Art Gallery in our Cardinal Place scheme.
Over the years we have also used our core skills to help improve the schools buildings and infrastructure, and this year we turned a potentially hazardous part of the existing school playground into a safe play environment.
Environment Earthwatch For five years we have enabled employees to take part in a competition to win an environmental trip with the Earthwatch Foundation.
Everyone who takes part becomes an environmental champion in their area of the business, helping to increase awareness of issues among colleagues.
Last years winner, Anna Chapman from UCD, travelled to the tip of Vancouver Island to help monitor the migratory feeding habits of grey whales.
Employability SPEAR mentoring programme SPEAR is an eight-week programme for 16-24 year old unemployed people in West London.
The course is run by experts in change management, education and youth work.
This year four of our employees have mentored young people through the course and two other employees have applied to take part in the next course.
Each employee makes a commitment to meet the young person for an hour every fortnight to help him or her make decisions.
Land Securities Group also supports SPEAR with an annual donation of 6,000.
Birds Eye View project Children at schools in Tower Hamlets visited our Victoria of ces then worked with print artist Janet Brooke to create art works re ecting what they had seen.
The work was shown at the Land Securities Art Gallery in Spring 2008.
Land Securities Annual Report 2008 56 Corporate responsibility continued Give As You Earn 8.5% Donating to charity through the Give as You Earn GAYE scheme is tax ef cient for all involved.
This year we ran three GAYE promotions and increased the number of employees giving from 1% to 8.5%.
This The number of our employees donating to charity.
increase was boosted by the Companys offer to match each employee donation with an additional 20%, up to a maximum of 5,000 per employee each year.
Community Strong relationships are the lifeblood of any community and we work hard to ensure we play our part.
We start to build these relationships well in advance of any planning process because we want our 6,000 schemes whether of ce development, shopping centre or management of a school contract to help create a sense of local ownership and civic pride.
Here are some examples of our commitments in action: Annual donation to SPEAR.
Victoria Transport Interchange Our London team held a four-day public exhibition with models, video presentation, traf c modelling, interactive views and a take-home information pack.
Shopping Centre Study Support Our Study Support centres based at the White Rose Shopping Centre, Leeds, and the Stratford Centre, London, are helping to enhance the skills and personal development of children.
2,500 Child Awareness This scheme provides a hotline so people can alert us if a child appears to be lost or missing in a Members of the public who attended our shopping centre.
Art and development At the Cabot Circus development in Bristol our on-site artist has worked with construction workers of 60 different nationalities to write a Cabot Circus recipe book.
At the Southbank, Greyworlds spectacular interactive Monument to the Unknown Artist was unveiled this year and is now helping to add even more vibrancy to the area.
60 Employees We employ around 1,700 people across the UK.
Our strategy is to become the employer of choice in the Cabot Circus, Bristol property sector by attracting, recruiting and retaining exceptional employees who will add value to our One artist and construction workers from 60 different business and our customers.
Key areas of support for employees include: nations wrote the Cabot Circus recipe book.
Learning and Development Around 84% of our employees have a learning and development plan in place and our Learning and Development offer achieved on average a 96% satisfaction rating.
Diversity We look to create a diverse, inclusive and representative working environment where everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
We have also won awards for our activities to promote diversity within the communities in which we work.
Employee survey We have outperformed the survey provider benchmark consistently over the past few years.
This year the employee engagement score was 3.03 4.00, a small improvement over the previous year.
82% of the employee population completed the survey.
90% of employees are satis ed with working at Land Securities and over 92% are proud to work for Land Securities.
Land Securities Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate responsibility continued 57 Environment In July 2007 we were the only UK company included in the Worlds 20 Most Sustainable Stocks by 84% sustainablebusiness.
Since then the Dow Jones Sustainability Index named us a global leader in both Of our employees have a learning and development the real estate and finance sectors, and we have been named sector leaders for sustainability in the UK by plan in place.
Some examples of our commitments in action include: Development Our target is to design new of ces with 20% lower carbon emissions than that required by Building Regulations, and we are on target to reduce emissions of CO in our existing buildings by 10% 2 before 2011.
Customers 92% We are engaging with our tenants to help them reduce their own energy use.
For example, a successful workshop with occupiers at Cardinal Place, London, has led to the introduction of building-speci c Of our employees are proud to work for Land Securities.
Environmental Management Programmes that place responsibilities for success on each tenant, as well as on us as landlords.
Waste At Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth, just 0.5% of waste is sent to land ll due to successful recycling initiatives, while our Fremlin Walk Centre in Maidstone has started a composting trial with caterers.
10% Health and Safety The target to reduce our CO emissions by 2011.
2 We produce an annual health and safety plan and our Board reviews our progress every quarter.
We committed to a number of new targets in 2007 and met the following: Ensure that 70% of Group contractors are accredited with the Construction Skills Certi cation Scheme 71% are now accredited Certify one additional business activity to OHSAS 18001 standard both Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth and the Bridges Shopping Centre, Sunderland, have achieved this standard 0.5% Develop and launch a Wellbeing Policy for the Group and train 25% of management on its implementation The small amount of waste at Gunwharf Quays Develop a web-based e-learning training course for use within schools.
in Portsmouth going to land ll.
Accident records are reviewed across the Group every month.
We report on RIDDOR accidents those reportable to the enforcement authorities, events and near misses.
The number of RIDDOR accidents fell by 16.4% to 204 in the year compared to 244 in 2006 07.
Charitable giving Land Securities Group and its businesses made total charitable and community investments and donations in the order of 487,600 in 2007 08.
In addition to charitable giving and volunteering arranged through The Land Securities Foundation, we run numerous regional grant programmes.
The London Portfolios Capital Commitment Fund is now in its third year, for example, and has supported 33 groups in Southwark and Westminster.
Key national sponsorship relationships this year included: The Prince of Wales Arts & Kids Foundation Now in its third year, we have worked with schools to give 1,300 children the opportunity to study a new play, specially commissioned for the project.
British Volleyball Our partnership with British Volleyball is helping to achieve a higher pro le for the sport and providing business skills to help support its growth.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Our Corporate Responsibility Committee is drawn from across the Company.
Each Committee member has his or her own particular discipline and a drive to ensure we transform excellent new research and thinking into tangible improvements.
The Committee meets on a regular basis to set policy and overall objectives, and to review progress against targets.
Land Securities Annual Report 2008 58 Corporate responsibility continued Performance during 2007 08 Status Customers Host Energy and Environmental Ef ciency workshops for customers at 12 managed properties across the Groups Achieved London Of ce and Retail portfolios to enable these customers to improve recycling and reduce their energy and water commitments Achieve customer satisfaction targets Shopping Centres: 3.8 Achieved Retail Parks: 3.4 Not audited London: 3.7 Achieved Maintain 90% overall customer satisfaction rating on the DWP contract Achieved Employees Ensure out-performance across the Group of the Expert Training Systems ETS benchmark on employee Achieved engagement Contribute actively to local communities by enabling 20% of the Groups staff to volunteer time and expertise Achieved through the Land Securities Foundation Provide professional support to the Board of the British Volleyball Federation in the development of its Business Work in progress Plan and host, in Land Securities premises, two community based Volleyball events Enable 2.5% of staff to participate in charitable giving through the payroll Achieved Implement a system for monitoring the effectiveness of the equal opportunities and diversity policies, and respond Achieved to all issues raised Environment Reduce CO emissions by 5% against the baseline average for the three years 2004-07 in managed of ces and Mostly achieved 2 retail premises Reuse or recycle 80% measured by weight of non-hazardous demolition and construction waste on all projects Mostly achieved undertaken during the year Implement a trial strategy on the DWP contract aimed at procuring 90% of timber used on the DWP estate from Not auditable FSC-certi ed sources Achieved Design all new developments to be 20% below the prevailing Building Regulation requirements for CO emissions 2 Our new developments produce 20% less CO 2 than regulation requires Land Securities Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate responsibility continued 59 2008 09 Targets Achieve 90% overall customer satisfaction rating on the DWP Contract Achieve an overall customer satisfaction rating of 3.85 in annual As part of our partnership with DWP ensure the joint Invest to Save shopping surveys undertaken by Retail initiative achieves in 2008 09 a 6% reduction in energy consumption In response to customer requests develop and pilot a Sustainability against the baseline agreed with DWP Guide for retailers Develop a customer service improvement plan for each Public Private Partnership PPP project managed by LST Increase to 3.8 the customer satisfaction ratings across the five key performance areas identi ed by the London Portfolio in its 2007 surveys Ensure out-performance across the Group of the Expert Training In support of our commitment to diversity, through the Employee Systems ETS benchmark on employee engagement Engagement Survey measure staff perception of the statement Contribute actively to local communities by encouraging 30% of our employee pro le re ects the communities in which we work the Groups staff to volunteer time and expertise through the Land Securities Foundation We aim for at least 8% Encourage 8% of staff to participate in charitable giving through of staff to make charitable the payroll donations through the Ensure that at least 60% of staff, as measured by the Employee payroll this year it was 8.5% Engagement Survey believe that Land Securities Learning and Development platform meets their individual needs and enables them to develop their careers.
Climate Change Benchmark water usage across the London portfolio and survey 50% Design all new Group developments to be 20% below the prevailing of these sites for opportunities to reduce water consumption Building Regulation requirements for CO emissions Undertake a trial of the Forestry Stewardship Council FSC project- 2 Achieve a 5% reduction in the CO emissions associated with energy speci c registration scheme at LSTs Falkirk development to ensure the 2 use in managed of ce and retail premises, thereby reducing the cost of timber comes from sustainably managed sources our commitment to offset emissions arising from energy use in our own Reuse or recycle 85% of demolition and construction waste for projects occupied of ces, and common parts of shopping centres covered by Site Waste Management Plans Produce a case study analysis of energy and CO performance for the six Reuse or recycle 85% of of ce waste generated at our own Head Of ce 2 properties audited in 2007 08 which account for 30% of energy usage premises across the London portfolio Increase the rate of recycling by an average of 5% across all managed shopping centres, with no centre falling below its 2007 08 recycling rate Biodiversity Evaluate existing biodiversity conditions before commencing Management development and demonstrate that the completed scheme improves Submit all new major of ce, retail warehouse premises and retail the quality of the habitat and the number of species of ora present shopping centre developments for Breeam assessment with a minimum target of very good Resource Use and Waste Management Ensure that every shopping centre develops and implements a siteAchieve a minimum level of 20% recycled content by weight or value speci c Environmental Management Programme in every new development Ensure that LSTs managed PPP projects are certi ed to ISO14001 Monitor the performance at all occupied premises of grey-water within the scope of its Environmental Management System recycling and rain water harvesting Re ne the environmental benchmarking process for managed of ces and shopping centres to facilitate meaningful comparisons Land Securities Annual Report 2008 60 Corporate responsibility continued Performance during 2007 08 continued Status Community Consult with 33% of schools in the current LST portfolio, and identify Group expertise to develop the appropriate Achieved support programmes work experience, training modules, mentoring etc Implement, based on the London Benchmarking Group Model, a system of recording and sharing the range of Achieved community-based activities undertaken across the Group Commit 150,000 through the London Capital Commitment programme, ensuring payments are made to five Achieved organisations which are new to the programme Investors Implement all the recommendations included in the Makinson Cowell Investor Relations Survey, and identify Achieved one alternative method of benchmarking the quality of the Groups investor relations Identify a suitable Socially Responsible Investor SRI, and hold a pilot visit presentation on one aspect Achieved of the Groups CR programme Increase from 7% to 10% the number of investors subscribing to e-communications Achieved Health and safety Certify one additional Group workstream or business activity to the international standard OHSAS 18001 for Achieved health & safety management systems Ensure that 70% of Group contractors achieve the Construction Skills Certi cation Scheme CSCS Achieved accreditation, providing advice where requested Develop and launch a Wellbeing Policy covering the entire Group, and deliver training on its implementation Achieved to 25% of management staff Design the content for a web-based learning programme for community based safety awareness training, Work in progress and identify potential participating junior schools in the communities in which the Group operates Suppliers Identify agencies to facilitate the recruitment of disabled and disadvantaged people, and recruit in this way Achieved 5% of all new cleaning staff in the LST supply chain Document current staff volunteering initiatives in the top 10 Group Service Partners selected by total contract Achieved value, and map against LS Foundation activities Identify the criteria fide ning Category One suppliers, and determine the companies in this category Achieved Land Securities Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate responsibility continued 61 2008 09 Targets Exceed the value of community investment achieved in 2007 08 Develop a structured Work Experience programme in LST which can as measured by the Community Investment Reporting system, and be made available to schools in the LST portfolio ensure the system is used across the Group to record the full range of Introduce to a minimum of ten Shopping Centres a Childsafe Awareness community-based activities Scheme giving assurance as to the safety and welfare of children in Supplement the Capital Commitment Fund of 150,000 by securing retail centres additional sources of external funding Establish formal Community Link programmes at three retail P ilot a web-based learning system to deliver community-based safety development sites to support a range of training and skills development awareness training to schools in communities in which the Group operates initiatives aimed at promoting local employment Conduct separate surveys of investors and analysts in order to Increase from 10% to 15% the number of investors subscribing benchmark the quality of the Groups investor relations and to establish to e-communications comparative data for future surveys Hold five one-to-one tailored meetings with Socially Responsible Investors SRIs focusing on the aspects of the Groups CR programme which are of particular interest Certify one further workstream or business activity to the international standard OHSAS 18001 for Health and Safety Management Systems Benchmark against the Health & Safety Executives Corporate Health and Safety Performance Index CHaSPI, and achieve a top decile rating against its peers Report monthly on contractor performance across all construction projects, collating information on fatalities, RIDDOR and nonRIDDOR reportable injuries, near misses and lost days Create an environment in which 50% of employees believe their health & wellbeing is supported Recruit 10% of all new catering and cleaning staff into the LST supply chain through agencies which support disabled and disadvantaged people Engage in regular meetings with the Top 10 Service Partners We want 10% of new measured by contract value to agree a Joint Programme of catering and cleaning community investment and volunteering staff to come from agencies who support disabled and Benchmark the Top 20 category 2 suppliers measured by contract value disadvantaged people to determine the extent of their compliance with the CR criteria in the Group supplier evaluation questionnaire Land Securities Annual Report 2008 62 Corporate governance The Board is responsible for providing leadership for the Group.
It ensures that the right strategy and controls, together with appropriate financial and human resources, are in place in order to deliver value to shareholders and to the wider community.
It also sets standards for ethical behaviour and for monitoring environmental and health and safety performance.
Introduction Key matters reserved to the Board include: Progress reporting a detailed monthly Board The Directors consider that the Company has authorisation of signi cant transactions in report was circulated to the Board and at each complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 excess of 250m regular Board meeting the heads of business of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance dividend policy units provided an update on progress within their the Code as updated in June 2006 throughout the internal controls and risk management via the areas of responsibility.
In addition, the interim year ended 31 March 2008, with the exception of Audit Committee and final results, together with a comparison of the provisions relating to independence of remuneration policy via the Remuneration investment property performance to IPD indices Non-executive Directors and membership of Committee on a six-monthly basis, were reviewed in detail.
As explained in this shareholder circulars and listing particulars Compliance and external relationships report, these departures from the Code have now matters relating to share capital such as share the Board reviewed Investor Relations, HR and been addressed and the Board considers that the buy backs Pensions, Corporate Governance, Health and Company is now fully compliant with the Code.
treasury policy and signi cant fundraising Safety with quarterly updates, Environmental Further details of how Land Securities complies appointment removal of Directors and performance, Board performance evaluation with the Code can be found in this report and Company Secretary and Corporate and Social Responsibility matters.
in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys website, which also contains the The Board uses an annual process timetable to During 2007 08, in addition to the matters terms of reference of the Audit, Nominations ensure that relevant matters are given due outlined above, the Board considered and agreed and Remuneration Committees.
plans to demerge the Group into three separate The Board held nine principal Board meetings businesses.
Following recommendations from the The role of the Board at which the following subjects were discussed: Nominations Committee, the Board also reviewed The Board formulates strategy and monitors the Strategy the Board held an annual off-site its composition, taking into account the operating and financial performance of the Group.
meeting at which the Company strategy was requirement to create effective Boards and Board It operates in accordance with a written schedule reviewed in the context of the macroand Committees for three separate quoted entities.
of matters reserved to the Board, a copy of which micro-economic environment, potential is available on the Companys website.
This legislative changes, competitor strategies and Board balance and independence schedule is backed by clearly fide ned written limits the need for the Company to create and exploit The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are of delegated authority across the Group.
split, with clear written guidance to support the Business plans the Board reviewed at division of responsibility.
The Chairman is primarily six-monthly intervals the five-year forecasts, the responsible for the effective working of the Board, annual budget and business plan and the ensuring that all Directors are able to play a full balanced scorecard, all of which are designed part in its activities.
He is also responsible for to support the Companys strategy.
ensuring effective communication with shareholders and making sure that all Board members are aware of the views of major investors.
