18 Corporate responsibility report The Aegis corporate responsibility programme is built around social, environmental and economic responsibility.
Corporate responsibility at Aegis The first of these, social responsibility, relates to Aegiss role in the external community, using the skills and enthusiasm of our people and organisation to make a positive impact.
Environmental responsibility is built on internal initiatives to reduce our corporate impacts on the environment, while recognising that our activities are largely office-based.
Economic responsibility describes our business initiatives to build a more sustainable business model through the services we provide to our clients.
Last year Aegis launched a Group-wide corporate responsibility CR programme globally.
It is designed to be flexible, respecting the international and diverse natures of Aegis Media and Synovate and recognising that CR means different things in different places.
It involves a common approach, policy framework, programme management and tools for both Aegis Media and Synovate.
Measurement and reporting have been developed according to the Carbon Disclosure Project and Global Reporting Index standards.
This has enabled us to conduct a rigorous data collection and measure the baseline impacts for 2008 within each business.
Progress is driven locally via country champions, supported centrally.
In 2008 we appointed country champions in all markets where Aegis Media and Synovate operate and brought in a CR specialist centrally to manage activity and reporting.
The programme is overseen by the CR steering group: during 2008 the steering group reported to the Group CEO.
Report on progress in 2008 The progress of established programmes and our initiatives is analysed under our main CR headings.
Social The further development of Synovate CARES and local community programmes in Aegis Media, while scoping aims, strategy and potential partners for a global Aegis Media community programme.
A first Aegis Group-wide survey to measure the value of our community involvement.
This covered countries representing 64% of Group revenue.
A total of 6,183 Aegis employees took part in local community initiatives, supporting charities and organisations through donations and in-kind support.
This represented 37% of our total workforce.
The value of employee community support in 2008 was 2.7m, equivalent to 1.7% of 2008 pre-tax profit.
Total value of time amounted to 0.2m although we believe this is a conservative measurement.
The value of in-kind gifts was 0.5m and total financial donations and funds raised were 2.0m.
Aegis Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 19 Environmental Future targets The completion of a data collection exercise covered countries Longer term targets have been reviewed in light of our progress representing 85.7% of Group revenue 87.1% of Aegis Media, during 2008.
They have been streamlined and updated, 83.5% of Synovate and Aegis head office.
Energy and as shown below: business travel were identified as the main drivers of CO2 impact, which was 31,226 metric tonnes, or 1.78 metric Social tonnes per capita.
New target: Continue Synovate CARES and launch Aegis Media community Overall CO per 2 1.78 initiative in 2009 employee metric tonnes CARES is already well established in Synovate and we will continue to support it.
In Aegis Media, the intent is to put 1.02 in place the infrastructure for a global community initiative, 0.76 Energy does not include gas, oil, coal or expected to launch late 2009. biomass as these are not widely used in our industry and we received almost no data on these energy types.
Environmental Source Energy Business travel Total New target: Reduce 2008 per capita carbon footprint by 20% by 2010 Other areas of impact were surveyed, most significantly paper.
Reduction of consumption and an increase in recycled paper content will be monitored in An environmental engagement programme has been developed 2009 and 2010: we have an internal target of a 20% reduction around our policies to reduce office energy consumption and by 2010. business travel.
Action plans were developed to reduce our environmental Energy: footprint and increase our social impact in 80% of the countries In order to reduce our carbon footprint we will continue to work where we operate.
with landlords and encourage the purchase of renewable energy.
A policy initiative on travel has promoted measures such as IT initiatives will be further developed in 2009, including standard utilisation and end-of-life policies for hardware.
69% of Aegis parking cash-out schemes and financial incentives for employees to purchase bicycles, where locally possible, as indicated in Media countries have submitted action plans and intend to use virtualisation technologies to reduce power-consuming, country action plans.
This will be encouraged in 2009. heat-generating IT infrastructure.
The introduction of sustainable IT practices across our businesses with the introduction of new IT standards is being Business travel: encouraged.
Currently 97% of countries within Aegis Media In 2008 a new travel policy was issued at Aegis Media and recycle IT equipment.
Synovate, recommending video conference usage and senior management travel sign-off.
Procurement standards have been developed to promote best practice to all our companies.
Economic Implementation of a policy on the inclusion of sustainable building Existing target reiterated: design and infrastructure to relevant national environmental Develop sustainability communications services and embed performance standards, for existing and new offices.
in business offer by 2009 Economic This has led to the acquisition of Clownfish, which is helping Aegis Media and Synovate to develop new tools.
Aegis Media Initiatives have been taken to develop specific products is already providing sustainability communications services to for clients.
They include the acquisition of Clownfish, global clients.
In general we are well placed to continue further an international sustainability and communications consultancy developments in 2009. which has developed SOAP, a product that allows clients to better communicate their sustainability agenda with authenticity and credibility.
