Corporate Responsibility Report The bigger picture Corporate responsibility has long been embedded in the way we do things at Connaught not because we feel an obligation to do so, but because we genuinely believe its the right thing to do.
Community projects We take part in lots of community projects, from school site-safety assemblies to recycling schemes, as well as sponsoring a number of events.
For example, we sponsor community football across the country, bringing children and their parents together to battle it out for the Connaught Community Cup.
Our key areas of focus are on local communities, Over the past year we have been inviting residents to the environment, health and safety and, of course, vote for investment in their own community groups.
Thats why 36,000 people voted for a family centre makeover in Leeds, Lambeth residents asked for their Communities Orangery to be restored and relatives of Sandwell miners finally got the memorial they always wanted Our aim is to leave a lasting legacy in every community by giving people a better place in which to live and work, In addition to our numerous community centre where they are happy, safe and proud to be.
In practice, makeovers, we work with residents associations to this takes many shapes and forms from leading specific transform disused communal areas into neighbourhood initiatives, to helping drive tangible socio-economic gardens and playgrounds that are safe and fun.
We are improvements because of the way we do business.
also working with our clients to increase the number of green flag public open spaces.
Community initiatives To celebrate our 25th year we catalogued snapshots of We take particular pride in putting youth first.
25 of this years community initiatives.
This culminated Already, thousands of children have played for the in The Bigger Picture book, which also contains Connaught Cup, taken part in our safety competitions testimonials from key public figures commenting on and attended our career workshops.
This year we have the value of our initiatives.
We are proud that our joined forces with Clubs for Young People, in support efforts were officially recognised when Business in the of the Department for Children, Schools and Families Community awarded us the Team of the Year award for youth agenda.
This will potentially reach out to over community impact.
400,000 young people across 3,000 clubs We have also supported the elderly in various ways such as sourcing adapted alarms for residents across Worcestershire, initiating Community Transport in Glasgow, awarding silver surfers in Essex, or simply providing a bench for sheltered housing residents in Otley 22 Corporate Responsibility Report Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
indb 22 5 11 08 11:23:05 Corporate Responsibility Report Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 c99397 BOOK.
indb 23 5 11 08 11:23:07 Corporate Responsibility Report 24 Corporate Responsibility Report Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
indb 24 5 11 08 11:23:38 Corporate Responsibility Report Local employment and skills development Supporting our clients environmental agenda In a challenging economic climate, our commitment to We currently recycle up to 85% of our waste and creating training and employment opportunities within are continually looking to improve on this figure by the communities in which we work takes on a new sense developing waste management plans aligned with the of urgency.
Working in partnership with educational anticipated waste within our partnerships.
By recycling institutions, government bodies and training partners, at source we have achieved a dramatic reduction we help to integrate apprentices and the unemployed of waste going to landfill plus a significant increase into the labour market.
We are committed to using in material going down renewable routes.
This also local labour, suppliers and subcontractors where reduces our costs and we are able to pass on these possible, to stimulate entrepreneurship and yield real savings to our customers economic benefits.
We seek to implement innovative green practices wherever possible whether its recycling waste from We are working with RCT Homes and Community North Somerset kitchen refurbishments as animal Enterprise Wales to deliver Family Employment bedding, or distributing 100% biodegradable starch Initiatives by tackling unemployment and child poverty bags for kitchen waste to tenants in Kingston through skills training Establishing our own commercial waste and recycling We maintain Local Training Agreements with the service means we help our clients across the country Learning & Skills Council and Scottish Enterprise comply with the Cleaner Neighbourhoods Act.
As We work with the Construction Industry Training Board the ultimate zero carbon solution, we are piloting a CITB to recruit and support apprenticeship placements revolutionary bin which empties itself, eradicating the Our work experience programme has won the Yorkshire need for transportation and landfill, in several boroughs and Humber Constructing Excellence award in the Our energy audits help British businesses achieve Leadership and People Development category statutory Energy Performance Certificates.
Our gas A number of our apprentices have been honoured services teams advise clients on the replacement of old, independently this year for both their dedication inefficient gas appliances with energy efficient ones and hard work, most notably by the Learning Skills We are training 300 green engineers through our and British Plumbers Employer Councils.
Building on specialist course in green energy systems installation the success of our apprentice programmes, we have and have attained accreditation as a training centre for increased our apprentice recruits this year by 40%.
In partnership with Worcester Bosch Group, we are delivering renewable energy Environment training to maintain ground source heat pumps.
We As the Government sets ever higher standards to were also the first in Europe to launch a water efficiency meet the challenges posed by climate change, we are course through a partnership with Welsh Water working closely with the Carbon Trust and independent We are working with Staffordshire University to collate environmental consultants to measure, monitor and data to improve the quality and access of resident improve our carbon footprint.
We continue to take green spaces, by delivering training in environmental proactive steps, both on behalf of our clients and management with our partners in the Midlands.
within our own organisation, to minimise our impact on the environment.
We continue to take proactive steps, both on behalf of our clients and within our own organisation, to minimise our impact on the environment.
Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 c99397 BOOK.
indb 25 5 11 08 11:23:40 Corporate Responsibility Report Community involvement 2008 was the Year of Food and Farming so we organised class trips to local farms to help children understand more about how food grows and to learn more about the environment.
Challenging our own carbon footprint By embarking on a space rationalisation programme Within Connaught, we are constantly challenging our across our 80 leased locations, we have started to own carbon footprint.
Given the mobile nature of our co-locate with clients and our supply chain.
work, we have acknowledged that our fleet is a major contributor to our carbon output and we are now in We aim to reduce our carbon output by a further 40% the second year of realising significant efficiencies.
There are many ways in which we strive to increase our As our commitment to the environment becomes more fuel economy: widely recognised, we are increasingly speaking about green issues, on behalf of our sector.
For example, A new carbon fleet policy ensures our five vehicle as Members of the Business Council for Sustainable grades are now limited to a maximum CO level, and 2 Development and Business in the Communitys Mayday speed limiters are fitted to all vans Network, we are able to raise awareness of carbon New ultra-efficient vehicles boast a carbon dioxide saving initiatives, tackle issues of fuel poverty and effect emission of less than 100g per km and have average legislative change.
These vehicles, used by many of our front-line managers, are also exempt from We share best practice within our industry by speaking road tax.
Other employees are encouraged to choose at events such as the Chartered Institute of Housings greener cars with a vehicle tax subsidy offered as Sustainability Forum.
We were also recently appointed an incentive to host launch events nationally, on behalf of the TM Our in-house software, Conntrol, is able to track and Environment Agency, to introduce new Site Waste match jobs to resources, resulting in fewer journeys.
Management Plan Regulations which came into force We have also installed vehicle mapping software to in April 2008. optimise vehicle routings This year we were delighted to receive the FTSE4Good We estimate that we will save over half a million miles environmental accreditation, having been identified a year in journeys by office-based employees, now that by the FTSE All World Developed Index as fulfilling low we have networked six of our main offices with video impact and social stakeholder requirements, following a conferencing facilities monitoring period of over a year.
26 Corporate Responsibility Report Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
indb 26 5 11 08 11:23:42 Corporate Responsibility Report Health and safety We work closely with our customers, partners, employees and insurers to We have ensure that we follow best practice throughout our business and make health and safety our number one priority.
This is why we score positively in achieved our independent audits and have achieved our 15th RoSPA Gold Award this year, an accolade few companies can match.
15th RoSPA We support our clients through best practice health and safety forums with Gold Award the HSE.
We also promote health, safety and environmental issues, by holding lectures and sponsoring seminars.
This year we were principal sponsor and this year, an lead lecturer at the revised CDM Regulations conference in conjunction with the HSE and held joint safety awareness seminars throughout the country.
accolade few We support national safety campaigns, such as gas awareness with CORGI, water compliance with the Legionella Control Association LCA, carbon companies monoxide awareness with the HSE and anti-scald awareness with bathroom suppliers Roper Rhodes.
We also run regular stay safe workshops in schools, can match.
aimed at pupils who live in the areas in which we are working.
Our accident statistics are published annually and are sent to clients and authorities to highlight our record.
Our accident analysis this year is 10% improved on last year, illustrating a positive commitment to health and safety throughout the Group.
Our reported incident rate provides confirmation of continual improvement across all business units, with the annual rate consistently falling well below government published statistics.
Having achieved the management quality system ISO 9001, we already encompass the fundamental principles of ISO 14001 within our Safety and Environmental Policy and we aim to obtain certification for all our major offices across the Group by December 2008.
People In addition to ensuring our people work in a healthy and safe environment, as Investors in People since 1996, we are committed to creating career opportunities whilst promoting equality and diversity.
Career opportunities We continue to strive to ensure that our people strategies both recruitment and development reflect our commitment to corporate responsibility.
This is achieved by our company-wide talent management and development programmes such as: Managing for Success M4S open to all first-time people managers, the aim is to provide them with an understanding of how to manage their teams with due consideration to balancing business and personal developmental needs.
The programme carries Institute of Leadership and Management award status Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 c99397 BOOK.
indb 27 5 11 08 11:23:42 Corporate Responsibility Report Recruitment and training For our business to be a success it is crucial for us to recruit, train and promote the right people.
The Connaught Academy provides training and development to a range of people, from apprentices to managers.
Managing for Excellence M4E applies to those Equality and diversity employees who have significantly progressed within Foremost in our people strategy is the recognition the company and who now are regarded as future that to be an employer of choice in todays marketplace leadership talent requires a high degree of consideration and respect for As well as developing people skills beyond the M4S the beliefs and needs of all people.
entry level, greater significance is placed within the We run a respect @ work e-learning tool which is programme on focusing leadership behavioural being progressively deployed across the company development.
Within M4E we highlight the socioand requires all levels of employees to undertake a economic benefits of building a lasting legacy within self-awareness programme.
This way we can evaluate the communities in which we work.
Connaught was the extent to which diversity awareness has been taken awarded the Business in the Community Excellence on board by an individual.
The tool has been developed award for the work done by our M4E community in partnership with Eversheds, the national law firm, so regeneration work in Bristol in 2007 as to ensure that it reflects current legislation in the Excellence in Leadership open to those senior areas of equality and diversity.
managers and executives who, by virtue of their responsibility and influence with our people, will We also work in partnership with Fairplay to develop progressively be champions of employee and customer initiatives, projects and activities which encourage a engagement in the future.
The programme is delivered more diverse participation in employment, community in partnership with Cranfield University leadership and public life for under-represented groups.
We have also established Connaught Academy David Wells training centres around the UK, focused on Company Secretary local labour development in their respective geographic areas.
These areas often include the very neighbourhoods in which we deliver our services.
As such, our training centres play a key role in regeneration programmes giving hope and opportunities to disadvantaged youths and the long-term unemployed.
28 Corporate Responsibility Report Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
indb 28 5 11 08 11:24:11 Corporate Responsibility Report Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 c99397 BOOK.
