Annual Report 2008 SEGRO plc Directors Report continued OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY We have always taken our responsibilities to the environment and society seriously.
This is now being driven further by growing regulation, as well as by rising demand from stakeholders, such as investors, customers and employees.
At SEGRO, sustainability is about managing and balancing environmental, social and economic issues to add value to our business, so that it is attractive to existing and prospective customers, employees and investors.
In a challenging market, it provides us with another means to differentiate ourselves from the competition, offering opportunities to manage risk and cut costs, both for our business and for our customers.
Our Sustainability Strategy Following a review of our material issues and dialogue with stakeholders, we have updated our Sustainability Strategy, set a number of five year targets and changed our approach to reporting.
Our Key Material Issues Resource efficiency: To use energy, water and materials responsibly, reducing, reusing and recycling Regeneration: To make a positive contribution to communities where SEGRO has a presence Flexibility: To construct buildings that can be used by at least two kinds of occupier without significant structural alteration Accessibility: To ensure our properties are accessible by more than one mode of transport Safety: To maintain an outstanding health and safety record by implementing robust management controls and careful auditing procedures Stakeholders: To listen to our stakeholders and respond to their feedback to meet their needs Our 2014 Sustainability Targets Construct buildings with 30 per cent better energy efficiency than base build Reduce SEGROs energy consumption by 30 per cent Investigate the feasibility of renewable energy for every development site Reduce water use in common parts of managed buildings including our head office and landscaping activities by 20 per cent Incorporate water-efficiency measures and water recycling to reduce mains water use by 20 per cent compared to base build Reduce the proportion of non-hazardous construction and excavation waste to landfill by 70 per cent compared to 2007 Reuse or recycle 80 per cent of non-hazardous construction and demolition waste Engage with a significant number of customers to improve sustainability, reducing occupier energy and water costs Invest in communities where we have a major presence and report the level of investment on an annual basis Ensure Community Engagement Plans are in place where we have a major presence For all appropriate new developments and managed estates to have a tailored travel plan Directors Report 55.
Our 2008 achievements EXCELLENT environmental rating 200 local people Voyager Park in Portsmouth received a BREEAM Excellent More than 200 people attended an exhibition on the rating for environmental performance.
Marly la Ville near proposed Masterplan for the Slough Trading Estate.
Paris is also on target to achieve an Haute Qualit The majority of feedback was positive.
local people has helped to shape the Masterplan.
200,000 kWh renewable energy 820,000 community investment Photovoltaic roof panels were installed on our properties SEGRO invested 827,971 in good causes through money, at Pegasus Park in Brussels and Westendstrasse in Essen.
We presented our Charity of These will generate an estimated 200,000 kWh of clean the Year, Dogs for the Disabled, with a cheque for more power every year.
LEADER low carbon emissions 1,600 hours volunteering SEGRO was recognised in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Our employees spent more than 1,600 hours on volunteering, Index 2008.
Our redevelopment at Winnersh Triangle near fundraising and managing community initiatives.
Reading is on target to achieve carbon emissions 52 per cent 20,000 workers benefit below those of a standard office.
When the redevelopment of Winnersh Triangle is complete, 1,000 cubic metres recycled up to 20,000 workers will benefit from improved At Bilton Industrial Estate in Bracknell, we recycled more accessibility.
SEGRO is committing 5 million to local than 1,000 cubic metres of waste.
We also signed up to an infrastructure.
initiative to halve the amount of construction waste sent to 100 health and safety sessions landfill by 2012.
We ran 106 health and safety training sessions for employees 78% customer satisfaction in the UK and Continental Europe.
We also worked with We achieved a customer satisfaction rating of 78 per cent in more than 50 contractors to manage health and safety the UK and 66 per cent in Continental Europe.
also ranked in the top quartile of the Real Service Index for 50% CCTV coverage customer satisfaction.
Our customers property is now protected by monitored 70 investors and analysts CCTV cameras at more than 50 per cent of our UK We took 70 investors and analysts on tours of our properties properties by area, contributing to a 35 per cent and developments, including a three-day visit to our portfolio improvement in UK customer satisfaction with security.
in France, Germany and Poland.
400 employee training days We provided more than 400 training days to employees and ran a full-day corporate induction programme for more than 30 new starters.
Annual Report 2008 SEGRO plc Directors Report continued Charitable, Political and Other Donations We provided 106 health and safety training sessions to The Group made charitable donations of 320,441 during employees in the UK and Continental Europe.
Donations are made to a variety of community and distributed our new Health and Safety for Employees booklet social charities and in particular those connected to localities and provided additional health and safety information on our in which the Group is represented.
The Group also provided intranet.
We sourced a computer-based training programme benefit in kind to the value of 487,859, including the provision for use throughout Continental Europe.
This programme, of a rent-free building to Corporate Health a registered which has been translated into eight different languages, will charity which it uses to provide occupational health services be rolled out to all Continental European employees in 2009. to the Slough Trading Estate.
This follows the successful roll-out of a computer-based health and safety programme to 95 per cent of UK employees The Group raised 108,976 for Dogs for the Disabled during in 2007. the year.
Many employees were involved in raising money for In 2008, we worked with more than 50 contractors to manage this worthwhile Charity.
Activities included a desert walk, and monitor health and safety performance.
The greatest risk sailing day, corporate golf day, an aviation day and various area of our business operations occurs during construction other events.
We therefore work closely with our supply There were no political donations during the year and it is the chain to manage and monitor health and safety on these Groups policy not to make any donations to political parties.
Where suppliers do not meet SEGRO standards, we However, the definition of political donations is very broad help them to improve performance, often in partnership with and, as a result, could cover activities that form part of the our external health and safety advisers.
relationships between the Group and bodies with political affiliations.
Therefore, authority from shareholders will be We continue to measure ourselves against targets for work sought at the AGM to ensure that the Group acts within the related fatalities, reportable incidents and instances of nonprovisions of the current UK law when carrying out its normal compliance with Health and Safety legislation.
Total incidents for SEGRO employees 2008 Health and Safety UK and Health and safety continues to be a high priority for SEGRO.
2006 2007 Continental UK only UK only Europe By continuing to report and recognise safety performance across the Group, we maintain our focus on continuous RIDDOR 21 1 improvement.
Policies, procedures and standards are under Non-RIDDOR 9 10 7 constant review to ensure that employees and visitors operate RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurances in a safe and healthy environment.
In January 2008, we introduced the Health and Safety Management System to the UK.
This involved bringing Accident Incident Rate for SEGRO UK employees together all the health and safety procedures which existed in 2006 2007 2008 different parts of our business.
The aim of this work is to AIR 909 455 455 ensure that SEGRO has a system which is easy to follow and which can be audited to the international ISO 18001 standard.
The Management System was then reviewed and implemented Accident Incident Rates for SEGRO UK construction sites across the whole Group, including Continental Europe.
Employees The Group remains committed to equality of opportunity in all of its employment practices.
The Group recognises values and promotes the involvement of its employees and engages with them in two-way communication.
It seeks to keep employees informed on areas affecting their employment, as well as the financial and economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
The Chief Executive and other Executive Directors regularly communicate with employees in a variety of ways such as email and face-to-face briefings both in the UK and Continental Europe.
The aim of these briefings is to keep employees up to date and informed about the performance of the Group.
Periodically, the Group conducts employee surveys.
The aim of our surveys is to gauge how engaged employees are with the Group, where areas may need improving and how plans can be put in place to address any issues that are raised.
Employees are encouraged to participate in internal training courses to further understand Group policies as well as further their own development and expertise.
In 2008, we amended the operation of the Share Incentive Plan SIP so that participating employees are awarded shares not only in relation to their salary but also by reference to the Groups prior year performance which is measured through Group profit before tax.
The Group also launched a new Global Share Incentive Plan for our Continental European based employees.
This is one of the ways in which we encourage our employees to become shareholders in our business.
The Group welcomes applications for employment by disabled persons.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit with regard to the ability of any applicant to carry out the function required.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
