Award of non-audit assignments to the external audit firm Corporate The policy of the Committee is that non-audit assignments will not be awarded to the audit firm responsibility where there is a risk of a conflict arising with their audit independence and objectivity.
The Committee reviews and approves the award of all non-audit The Board recognises the importance assignments to the external audit firm in excess of social, environmental and ethical of 25,000. matters in the conduct of the Groups The audit fees for the Company and the Group are business.
The Chief Executive is relatively low due primarily to the simple corporate responsible for the development and structure of the Group.
During the year, administration of policies and procedures the external auditors,  LLP relating to Corporate Responsibility.
undertook non-audit work for the Group totalling The Board receives regular reports on 143,000 2007: 191,000.
Of this amount, 101,000 Corporate Responsibility and Corporate 2007: 103,000 related to taxation compliance and Responsibility matters are taken into associated matters and 27,000 2007: 30,000 in relation to the Groups interim results and other account in annual corporate and personal services.
targets set by the Remuneration Committee.
One non-audit assignment in excess of 25,000 in relation to the REIT conversion of the Groups The Groups Corporate Responsibility Policy is interest in Longmartin Properties Limited was reviewed annually to ensure it continues to reflect awarded to  LLP during the Corporate Responsibility risks and opportunities the year.
The Committee is satisfied that it did not relevant to the Group.
A revised Statement of Policies give rise to any risk that the auditors objectivity and was approved by the Board in July 2008.
The annual performance of their statutory audit responsibilities external review was undertaken in September 2008 by would be compromised.
RPS Consultants in order to verify working practices against Policy Goals and achievement of objectives  LLP have confirmed to and targets in the Action Plan.
The revised Policy, the the Committee that: results of the external review which includes KPIs - they have internal procedures in place to identify and environmental data and the Action Plan, in this any aspects of non-audit work which could and the previous five years, are available in full on compromise their role as auditors and to ensure the Groups website.
The following highlights key the objectivity of their audit report: achievements and challenges during the year identified in the external review.
- the total fees paid by the Group during the year do not represent a material part of their firms The Group is a constituent of the FTSE4 Good Index, fee income: and which acts as a guide to socially responsible investment, and continues to be listed on the Dow - they consider that they have maintained their Jones Sustainability Index.
The Group was a member audit independence throughout the year.
of Business in the Communitys PerCent Club until it was phased out last year.
However, the Group On behalf of the Board continues to support the principles of the PerCent Club and confirms that its level of community Gordon McQueen investment is in excess of 1% of pre-tax profits.
The Audit Committee Chairman Group has also retained its listing in the Kempen 3 December 2008 SNS Smaller European Index, the first sustainable index for smaller European companies and was placed sixth out of the FTSE 350 in the second annual Good Companies Guide compiled with research from Co-operative Asset Management.
Environmental strategy investment and refurbishments The Groups strategy is mainly to invest in and refurbish existing buildings.
This is in line with Government policy for maximising the re-use of existing development land and buildings which consume a lower level of resources than demolition and construction of new buildings.
Significant regulatory emphasis is being placed on carbon emissions of dwellings throughout their operational lifetime, with drivers such as improvements in the Building Regulations, Energy Performance Certificates EPCs and BREEAM Code for Sustainable Homes.
The Group supports and applies these requirements wherever practical.
However, recent studies have highlighted the importance of embodied energy contained within the fabric of existing buildings, recognising the overall environmental benefits of extending the useful lives and efficiency of existing buildings rather than demolition and rebuilding.
Almost all of the Groups buildings are within Conservation Areas and many are listed.
Within these constraints, the Group seeks to refurbish buildings in a sympathetic manner reusing existing timber and original building fixtures and fittings where possible.
52 When installing new fixtures and plant, consideration Environmental strategy is given to environmental sustainability as well as property management building regulations.
For example, where practical In the day-to-day management of the Groups dual flush cisterns are used, new boilers are portfolio, energy consumption and waste condensing boilers, individual radiators have thermostat management are the key environmental issues.
The controls, double or secondary glazing is installed, a Group continues to monitor energy consumption in minimum of 30% of new lights are required to be the common parts of its portfolio where it has direct energy saving fittings, all new water supplies have responsibility.
Data collected indicates relatively low water meters.
In commercial common parts, spray energy usage at comparable levels to the data taps are installed as well as sunlight sensors for collected last year.
The rolling programme of lighting.
Insulation for both acoustic and energy replacing light fittings with long life low energy saving purposes is also fitted.
The Group works with fittings: use of timer controls on lights: thermostats tenants to ensure that their plant and machinery is on boilers and maximising use of insulation and efficient and maintained to minimise the impact on secondary glazing continues where appropriate neighbouring occupiers and the environment.
The two year green energy tariff contract expired in July 2008.
On retendering of the For the small amount of timber that is purchased, Carnaby portfolio electricity, it was estimated that the aim is for the sourcing of sustainably sourced the cost of electricity would increase by 130% and products, particularly those certified to the Forestry that in the current financial market it was not Stewardship Commission FSC or Programme for the considered appropriate to procure electricity from a Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC schemes.
green tariff where the additional service charge This year was the first year of full quantified data would be applied to tenants.
Therefore, since July and an average of 56% timber from certified sources 2008, electricity in Carnaby has been sourced from was used on projects against a target of 30%.
standard grid tariffs as opposed to green tariffs that During refurbishment projects, it is recognised that have been selected in the past.
The position will be the principal issues that require management are monitored and it is still an objective of the Group to minimising local environmental impacts, particularly source electricity from sustainable sources where noise and dust, managing construction waste and possible and economically viable.
In the year: Water data was available from the majority of the - Eighteen refurbishment schemes of a capital value meters within Carnaby and Seven Dials, and a slight of above 75,000 have been registered with the improvement in water efficiency was demonstrated Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Of these, 89% of on last years performance.
Water use in South those that have been audited achieved and exceeded Service Yard, the only area metered in Chinatown, the target score of 26 40.
This is a significant continues to be consistent year on year.
improvement in performance over last year.
Within the Groups portfolio, virtually all waste is - The Groups Corporate Responsibility Policy generated by the Groups tenants.
The Groups is included within tender documentation for policy is actively to encourage tenants to reduce subcontractors with guidance provided for the waste, increase recycling by modifying their activities specification of materials, waste management and and to organise communal facilities wherever checklists for legal compliance.
Where practical, dedicated refuse storage in late 2007 to reflect new legislation and best areas have been included within refurbishment practice, and with the aim of improving the data schemes to improve the management of waste collection process.
and improve the local environment.
- The Contractors Induction leaflet, briefly outlining In Carnaby, the three recycling and compacting the key points of the Groups Corporate schemes continue to be a success and are well used Responsibility Policy has been issued to all by tenants.
In previous years, accurate recording of subcontractors working on the portfolio.
waste removed was difficult but under the new waste contract precise figures are available for the proportion - There have been no notifiable environmental of waste recycled for the first time.
A notable incidents within the portfolio for the year 2007-2008. achievement is all waste from Ganton House being Waste management activities were again monitored recycled, and in other areas, recycling rates vary but it continued to be difficult to collect data in a between 18% and 50%, with an overall rate for this form to compare against a recognisable performance part of the portfolio of 32%.
This is considered to indicator.
As a result of the small scale of most of be a good achievement given the variety of uses the Groups refurbishment projects, the volumes of and various wastes produced within the village.
waste are relatively low and there is often insufficient In Chinatown, the Group continues to work closely space to segregate waste.
This is a continuing with Westminster City Council to manage the issues practical problem, which is unlikely to be resolved that are specific to the area such as controlling the given the unusual nature of the Groups portfolio.
problems of fly tipping and disposal of food and oil In view of this, the Group will continue to monitor waste and options are being investigated to waste production, but considers that an appropriate encourage restaurants to recycle bottles.
performance indicator will not be identified.
A sample The leaflet explaining the principles of the Groups of two refurbishment sites were audited for good environmental policy developed to raise awareness practice against duty of care for waste management of tenants of environmental issues is given to all and were confirmed to be operating satisfactorily.
Environmental strategy - Longmartin Joint Venture The environmental strategy for St Martins Courtyard aims to reduce adverse environmental impacts to create both energy efficient new buildings and improve the efficiency of existing buildings in a sustainable manner.
Renewable energy sources are being evaluated to supplement existing power sources.
A number of initiatives including green roofs and new planting will enhance overall biodiversity.
Vehicle recharging facilities will be available for electric vehicles and a car club and cycle parking will also be made available.
The scheme aims to achieve a Very Good rating under BREEAM.
53 During the year, the Group has partnered local Environmental Strategy Groups Office authorities and charities to promote and provide In the Groups office, environmental impacts are low financial support for street and lighting improvement risk and relate to energy consumption, resource use works in Carnaby, Covent Garden and Chinatown and waste production.
The Group switched to a which will improve public safety and accessibility.
The green tariff electricity supplier in October 2006 and Longmartin Joint Venture has provided substantial has retained this supply throughout the year.
contributions to the street improvement works on Electricity consumption is low and there was a Long Acre.
A number of other schemes are scheduled slight decrease in the reporting year full disclosure for the year ahead.
In addition, the Group supports of energy consumption levels is contained in the and endorses the Soho Action Plan which aims to external review on the Groups website.
A paper help Soho achieve its full potential whilst preserving recycling scheme continues to be operated and its unique character, the Chinatown Action Plan and volume of paper used is consistent with previous the Covent Garden Action Plan.
years: all paper used is manufactured from recycled sources.
Employment issues The Group employs nineteen staff including Health and safety issues executive Directors.
The Corporate Responsibility Health and safety is an important aspect of the Policy contains policy statements on equal Groups business and operations.
Overall opportunities in employment and procedures for responsibility rests with the Board and the Chief reporting concerns regarding non-adherence to Executive has day to day responsibility for ensuring the Groups ethical standards which incorporates that the Groups Health and Safety Policy is adhered the Groups whistle blowing policy.
Health and safety is identified within pre-tender statements are supported by full operational documentation and is monitored on site by site policies.
Flexible working for staff is accommodated managers and project managers.
The Groups where appropriate and according to individual managing agents oversee health and safety on an circumstances.
The welfare, safety and training ongoing basis in respect of the Groups portfolio of employees is a key priority.
The Group actively encourages staff training and skills There were two health and safety prohibition notices development and involvement in the development of served on subcontractors during the year and in the Groups business, Corporate Responsibility policies both instances the issues were resolved to the and targets and community activities.
Employees satisfaction of the Health and Safety Executive.
receive a basic salary together with a pension contribution of 17.5% of salary, life and health insurance.
Shaftesbury in the community All members of staff are eligible to participate in the The Groups policy is to align its charitable support Groups bonus and long term incentive schemes.
and community involvement with its areas of In view of the small number of employees, the investment in Londons West End.
Support is Group does not consider that employee-based key provided to a number of organisations involved in performance indicators would provide a meaningful the arts, theatre and music together with support measure of the performance of the Group.
and involvement with community groups and charities which are addressing important local The Group maintains effective relationships across issues.
In addition, the Group continues to work all aspects of its business and especially with its closely with local statutory bodies to maintain and tenants and service providers.
Corporate responsibility The Group has long established relationships with several organisations which are directly relevant objectives for 20082009 to its business.
The Group also provides financial For 2008-2009 the following key objectives have been support and advice to the National Campaign for set to build on the achievements to date: the Arts, the Art Fund, the Association of - Continue to utilise 100% brownfield sites: British Orchestras, the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment, the Donmar Theatre, the Royal - Continue to maximise the reuse of materials, Shakespeare Company and the Theatres Trust.
especially timber, as part of the refurbishment Other organisations which the Group has supported process.
Where new timber needs to be sourced, during the year include: the London branch of the aim to purchase a minimum of 50% from certified Samaritans located in Carnaby, the Hungerford sustainable sources 2007-2008: target was 30% : Drugs Rehabilitation Project located in Chinatown, - Aim to achieve a very good BREEAM score for the the Soho Family Centre, the Soho Green Charity, the Longmartin Joint Venture objective for 2008-2009 London Chinatown Chinese Association, Chinatown and 2009-2010 : Arts Space, the Chinatown Working Party, the Seven - Ensure all refurbishment schemes above a specified Dials Trust, the Yellow Earth Theatre Company, capital value are signed to the Considerate The Tennis Foundation and Victim Support Constructors Scheme and continue to achieve 26 40 Westminster Limited.
In addition, the Group has above the satisfactory score : partnered extensively with Barnados during the year on a number of fund raising projects.
- Continue to monitor water use in Carnaby and Seven Dials: The Group recognises that its villages must offer - Continue to monitor a waste management strategy safe, well-maintained and welcoming environments for Carnaby and Seven Dials in order to encourage if they are to continue to appeal to tenants, their recycling by tenants: staff and customers, and local residents.
This is particularly challenging in these central locations - Promote initiatives in Chinatown to improve where visitor numbers are high and trading hours recycling: and are often long.
The Group continues to work closely - Continue to support local community groups and with Westminster City Council, Camden Council, continue to be proactive in mentoring charitable and the police and other bodies to develop practical other organisations solutions to local issues, supporting initiatives such as CCTV, improved street cleaning and waste disposal, and environmental improvements.
On behalf of the Board Jonathan Lane Chief Executive 3 December 2008 54
