OUR PEOPLE Training and development of staff is essential for the successful Workspace aims to provide a high level of customer growth of the business.
These plans are based on the foundations service and standards of performance which can established through the Investors in People accreditation that the only be achieved through the efforts and Group has held since 1998. commitment of its employees.
A training plan for the Group is agreed yearly by the Executive Committee which is built up from the training needs determined The Group has grown significantly over the last 10 years with the in individual staff reviews.
During 2007 08 133,000 was invested number of employees increasing from 82 to 194.
Despite this growth, on formal staff training, providing 635 days of training.
Development 33% of staff have been with the Group for over five years and 9% for plans are a key element of the staff review process.
This process more than 10 years.
The average period of service with the Group is involves review of personal targets and achievements each year four years.
and the setting of business and personal development targets for the following year.
An important aim of the development plans We hold regular meetings with our staff both informally and formally, is to develop credible internal candidates for succession across all through a staff conference held yearly and quarterly staff forums senior posts.
chaired by the Chief Executive.
The directors and senior management also spend a significant amount of time visiting our properties In addition to basic salary, all staff are offered a range of benefits and meeting staff and customers.
The intention is that overall salary packages should be competitive in the London employment market.
The average annual We believe it is important that staff have the opportunity to share in the salary of all staff at March 2008, excluding directors, was 22,517. corporate performance of the Group.
All staff are invited yearly to subscribe to a Sharesave Scheme which provides an opportunity to An annual staff survey is conducted which provides useful invest in Workspace shares at a discount to the prevailing share price.
The 2008 staff survey was Over 56% of eligible staff have currently taken up this offer.
completed by 72% of the workforce.
Overall, the results were very positive, in particular, it highlighted that there was a high level of staff The Group works in an ethnically diverse cosmopolitan city.
Many engagement with specific comments that staff enjoyed their job and of our customers are in such groups.
36% of our workforce 2007: found their roles varied and interesting.
Areas noted for improvement 36% reflect that diversity.
The Group is an equal opportunities which will be addressed during 2008 09 were: employer and seeks to avoid any discrimination on ground of gender, sexual orientation, race, religion, age or disability and to actively More awareness of the challenges that staff are experiencing promote diversity.
The average age of a Group employee is 39.1 years day-to-day in their working environment.
2007: 40.1 with 15% of employees aged 55 or over and 32% aged 45 Recognition of the contribution made by individual staff.
Clearer, more effective communication across the Group.
Our People Operational and administrative employees working at Magenta House, E1, the Groups Head Office.
Workspace Group PLC 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
