SUSTAINABILITY Workspace Group believes the case for Figure 1: 2006 Sustainability RAR by property type sustainability is as simple as it is compelling: it makes good business sense.
Sustainability is an Retail warehouses Workspace integral part of our business and each year we set property type challenging targets that seek to maximise our positive impacts on society and minimise our negative impacts on the environment.
We believe that our sustainability targets make a significant contribution to the creation of longer-term returns OOT shopping for shareholders and the Group is fully committed to centres its responsibilities to the environment and the Residential Industrial communities in which it operates.
Leisure Industrial distribution standard warehouse Provincial In recent years the link between the sustainability profile of our units properties and their outstanding financial performance has become CL offices Business parks even clearer through a portfolio benchmarking exercise known as The Third Dimension.
Figure 1 right illustrates the strong financial TC shopping Retail centre units return and sustainability score typically associated with Workspace Group properties compared with the eleven other property classifications used in the Investment Property Databank.
This is the latest available information.
An updated report will be available at: www.
co. uk sustainability later this year.
Good Sustainability score Poor Our approach Workspace continues to use a cyclical sustainability management system to drive continuous improvements in sustainability.
Targets are set according to priority areas of risk and opportunity and reviewed annually.
In addition, we have recently set some longerterm, aspirational targets out to 2012.
Responsibility for each target lies with appropriate senior members Sustainability management framework of staff who are encouraged to identify priority action areas and set targets under guidance of our sustainability consultants.
Last year, Ten senior members of staff ten senior members of staff assumed responsibility for thirty one assume responsibility for thirty different targets.
Half-yearly meetings are held to discuss progress one different sustainability targets.
and strategy, chaired by the Chief Executive who assumes Board level Half-yearly meetings are chaired by the Chief Executive.
responsibility for the delivery of our sustainability strategy.
Targets are set across seven areas, representing the seven key principles of our core values.
The table opposite provides more detail CEO on these areas and what progress we have made in the last year.
More online For more information on the Groups sustainability initiatives please visit www.
co. uk sustainability Workspace Group PLC 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Low Risk-adjusted return High Description 2007 08 Target Achievement We work hard to engage with our investors To continue to increase Net reduction in portfolio valuation Investors and marketplace and analysts, believing that a more proactive shareholder value as of 4.6% compares very favourably approach will result in better understanding measured by net asset value to 12.5% reduction reported by IPD of our business and a more open relationship.
for UK property sector as a whole.
Community The spread of our portfolio means that we Encourage at least 10% of We have introduced a volunteering have a significant presence in local communities employees to take part in scheme through which all employees across London.
Our business centres and the volunteering scheme.
are entitled to take two days paid-leave development schemes are often focal points to contribute to a community project.
of these communities, providing space for Over the year, a total of 383 man local businesses and jobs for local people.
hours have been donated to charitable Through our activities we develop relationships causes over seven different with a range of local stakeholders including events by 37 individual volunteers Borough Councils and local residents.
We aim to be a good landlord this means To co-ordinate a campaign, We developed a customer engagement Customers offering a totally competitive package to all in partnership with national campaign under the brand Blue & our customers in terms of price and exceptional and regional environmental Yellow Make Green.
Working with management and customer service.
It is vital agencies, to encourage the Carbon Trust, Thames Water and that we continue to manage the needs behavioural change among Envirowise, the campaign promoted and expectations of our customers in a our customers around changes in behaviour by demonstrating rapidly changing business environment.
energy and water use and the collective impact of small changes.
Blue & Yellow Make Green is the brand under which future customer campaigns will be promoted.
Environment Our business activities have a direct impact To conduct environmental Environmental audits have been on the environment, particularly through audits on at least 25 carried out at 30 business centres our refurbishment and development of new buildings within the across the year.
We also have a significant role to portfolio to identify technical taken as a result include: improved play through the management of our buildings improvement areas.
energy efficiency through regulating and working with the primary users of our boiler and heating controls at Leroy buildings, our customers.
House and The Chocolate Factory and steps taken to mitigate overheating through natural ventilation at Holywell Centre.
Health and safety We are absolutely committed to health and To implement external Health and safety audits have been safety and take every reasonable step to ensure H&S audits on a minimum carried out by RPS, an independent the health and safety of our staff, customers of five randomly selected health and safety consultancy at five and anyone else who may be affected by sites.
of our sites: Clerkenwell Workshops, our business.
Barley Mow Centre, Aladdin Business Centre, Poplar Business Centre, Acton Business Centre.
The success of our business depends on our To increase by 10% the In 2006 07, 42 members of staff were Employees people.
We recognise the contribution our staff proportion of staff with bonused on at least one sustainability make through exceptional management and sustainability targets in target and this has risen to 62 in customer service.
These targets largely centre 2006 07. on improved energy efficiency and increasing recycling rates at our business centres.
Suppliers Our suppliers are integral to the maintenance To develop and launch a Our focus for 2008 09 is on and management of our business centres.
group-wide responsible encouraging more responsible We recognise that we have a responsibility procurement policy, business practices amongst our to work with suppliers that adhere to good incorporating sustainability suppliers.
This year we will introduce business practices and whose approach standards relevant to a supplier questionnaire to help us complements our own.
As such, we view all our our suppliers.
monitor the actions our suppliers suppliers as partners and aim to work with them are taking and year on year to improve responsible business standards.
improvements and launch a sustainability guide for small businesses as suppliers.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 SUSTAINABILITY continued This year, the Group will publish its ninth annual report on sustainability previously called Our Responsible Approach to Society.
Total spend with suppliers In these reports, the Group has demonstrated how its social, economic and environmental commitments have added value to the business and contributed to the delivery of its business objectives.
The report serves three primary functions: 43m 1 to review progress against targets 2 to outline targets and objectives for the coming year 3 to demonstrate how our approach to sustainability contributes to Number of suppliers wider business objectives and is embedded across the organisation.
Our 2008 Sustainability Report is available to download at: www.
Our priorities and challenges 700 Sustainability is at the heart of our business.
As Londons leading provider of business space for small businesses, we breathe life into old buildings, creating multi-tenanted business centres rooted in local communities.
Our core activities include the acquisition, refurbishment and management of commercial property, with an increasing emphasis on development to accommodate Londons growth and regeneration targets.
Within these activities, we view our key priorities to be: Energy management Customer engagement Energy use and management is a major issue for us due to the One of the greatest challenges facing the property industry is that scale of our portfolio and the variety of metering arrangements property owners do not have direct control over the way in which across all of our sites.
This situation arises because in purchasing occupiers use the building.
It is therefore essential that we try to an old building, we sometimes inherit its problems too outdated, work in partnership with our customers and help them become unsuitable metering arrangements is one such challenge.
Over the last 12 months we the last 12 months we have committed considerable time and successfully launched awareness raising campaigns in partnership resources to devising an energy management strategy and policy with The Carbon Trust, Thames Water and Envirowise.
We have also and initiating smart-metering trials at six sites.
worked with Global Action Plan, an environmental charity, to offer free environmental audits to our customers.
In addition, during the year we recycled 23% of waste produced at our business centres, up from 19.5% in the prior year.
Legislation Suppliers There are a number of changes affecting the property industry in Last year we spent 43m with 700 suppliers.
We recognise response to overwhelming evidence about climate change.
This our responsibility in this area and the opportunity we have year, Energy Performance certificates have been introduced and to encourage responsible business principles across our by the end of the year will be required to be made available to supply chain.
As a priority area for 2008 09, we are launching tenants and vendors for all properties let or sold.
This is a major a responsible procurement policy and supplier questionnaire undertaking, but Workspace has been prominent in consultations to better understand the actions and areas for improvement with the British Property Federation to manage this process as across our supply chain.
This policy is supported by our guide effectively as possible.
We have similarly engaged with DEFRA for suppliers published in partnership with leading organisations on the forthcoming Carbon Reduction Commitment to ensure such as Business in the Community and The Carbon Trust.
legislative compliance and reduce associated risks Workspace Group PLC 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1-3.
Working together In 2007 we produced a short, readable 1.
2. report aimed primarily at our customers.
The positive feedback we have received has convinced us to adopt a similar approach this year, though with a focus on suppliers.
Again, as last year, this report is supplemented by more detailed information on our website: www.
This report summarises our performance against the sustainability targets we set ourselves last year reporting from April 2007 to March 2008, in line with 3. our financial year, highlights some of the key achievements and challenges we faced during this time, and sets out our programme and priorities for the year ahead.
6. engagement campaign under the brand Blue & Yellow Make Green, a reference to the potential of partnership between Workspace and its customers.
Working with the Carbon Trust, Thames Water and Envirowise, the campaign promotes changes in behaviour by demonstrating the collective impact of small changes.
The refurbishment of Canterbury Court has recycled an industrial use building creating a modern, attractive business centre in-tune with the demands of todays small businesses.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29
