Safety, health and the environment Croda International Plc Safety, Health and Environment policy Croda is a manufacturer of speciality chemicals currently employing approximately 3,500 people worldwide.
The Company operates its business in a manner which actively seeks to prevent or minimise the possibility of its operations causing harm to people, plants or animals.
We strive to provide the resources to educate and involve every individual in the Company in achieving this objective.
It is my belief that aspiring to excellence in the management of safety, health and the environment is vital to ensuring the long term future and profitability of the Company.
We will continue to innovate in order to improve our products and processes so that their effect on 1.
We believe that all accidents, incidents and work safety, health and the environment is reduced.
related ill health are preventable and we manage our business with this aim, including the provision 7.
We will continue to improve communication and of adequate resources for the prevention of major the exchange of views with employees, employee accident hazards.
representatives, customers, contractors, suppliers, neighbours and any other individual or organisation 2.
Because we are human, mistakes can be made: but affected by our business.
because we are committed, intelligent human beings, we investigate to identify the basic causes We have assessed the significant safety, health and and take action to prevent these mistakes being environmental hazards posed by the Companys repeated.
activities, and an appropriate set of arrangements has been implemented to control these hazards.
As an absolute minimum we will comply with all effectiveness of these arrangements is monitored national regulations but in addition we set our own and reviewed on a regular basis with action taken demanding internal corporate standards on to redress any deficiencies and ensure continuous matters relating to safety, health and the improvement.
environment and endeavour to comply with them throughout our international operations.
Site management teams within the Company are measured for their contribution to the continuous Mike Humphrey improvement of safety, health and environmental Group Chief Executive performance in their area of responsibility.
Director responsible for SHE Individual employees each have a responsibility to participate in and contribute to the improvement of the corporate SHE performance.
We will continue to search out new ways of conserving all the natural resources used in our processes.
14 From this point forward, innovation will be the compass by which the company sets its direction.
Bill Ford The Group controls its business by the delegation of Indicators of SHE performance much of its management responsibility, including SHE The Group has published annual safety, health and matters, to its site heads and senior managers.
environmental objectives and targets since 2001.
The overall strategy, development of policy and A new set of five year continuous improvement review of SHE performance within the Group is targets for the key safety and environmental controlled by the Group SHE Steering Committee.
objectives were issued in 2007, using 2006 as the The Group SHE department assists in setting baseline and running until 2011. standards, providing guidance, brokering best practice and auditing the sites against international standards Where necessary, the performance against these as well as Croda internal standards.
objectives and targets has been re-based on current manufacturing operations at the end of 2008.
In 2007, a new Group SHE Manual was produced to combine the best practices available from Croda and Uniqema following the acquisition of Uniqema in September 2006.
This document provides the framework upon which the individual site SHE management systems are based.
Sites are regularly audited for compliance with this Manual and all Croda manufacturing sites have the objective of certification to BS EN ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 by the end of 2010.
The results of SHE audits and other relevant performance indicators are used to focus the Group SHE initiatives and the annual Group SHE objectives.
The audit process, used by the Group SHE department to audit the manufacturing sites, has been externally validated by BSI in 2004 as being in accordance with BS EN ISO 19011 auditing guidelines for quality environmental management systems.
15 Safety, health and the environment Indicators of SHE performance SHE management Objective To continually improve the effectiveness of our SHE management systems.
Target All former Croda manufacturing sites to be certified to BS OHSAS 18001 by 2009.
All former Uniqema manufacturing sites to be certified to BS EN ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 by 2011.
The first target for all former Croda sites to be certified to BS OHSAS 18001 by 2009 has been successfully achieved.
With respect to the second target, two of the former Uniqema sites are already certified to both BS EN ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 and the remaining nine sites are expected to achieve certification by the target date.
Energy consumption Objective To continually improve the energy efficiency of our manufacturing processes.
Target Based on 2006, to improve energy efficiency GJ tonne manufactured at all manufacturing sites by 2% each year 8% overall until the end of 2010.
In 2008, the Group energy efficiency per tonne declined by 6.1% compared to 2007 and has declined by 7.7% since 2006.
Overall energy use by the Group reduced by 3.6% compared to 2007 and has reduced by 9.25% since 2006.
This was partly due to much reduced manufacturing volumes in 2008.
Progress with energy reduction projects is demonstrated by our continued compliance with the energy reduction targets of the UK Climate Change Agreement and the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
During the year, two sustainable energy projects were completed: - a wind turbine capable of supplying 40% of the energy needs of the Hull site.
- a steam generator plant fuelled by waste combustible gases, biofuel and natural gas.
In 2009, it is expected to provide 15% of the Emmerich sites energy needs from biofuel.
Air emissions of volatile organic compounds VOCs Objective To minimise the mass of VOCs released to air from our processes.
Target Based on 2006, all manufacturing sites to reduce VOC emissions kg tonne manufactured by 5% per year 20% overall until the end of 2010.
In 2008, there was a 20.4% reduction in the amount of VOCs per tonne released to air compared to 2007 and an overall reduction of 18.8% since 2006.
This improvement was due to major investment during the period to control the releases of VOCs.
16 Waste disposal Objective To minimise the quantities of waste disposed to landfill.
Target Based on 2006, to reduce waste to landfill kg tonne manufactured by 5% each year 20% overall until the end of 2010.
The waste data relates to waste generated by the manufacturing operations.
One off disposals of waste not directly associated with the manufacturing process, for example, construction excavations or contaminated land remediation, are excluded.
In 2008, waste disposed to landfill per manufactured tonne reduced by 18.0% compared to 2007 and has reduced by 31.4% since 2006.
Waste water discharges Objective To reduce the environmental impact the Group has on controlled waters.
Target All manufacturing sites to achieve greater than 97.5% compliance with their effluent discharge consents in every year and for year on year continuous improvement towards 100% compliance.
In 2008, the compliance with our effluent discharge consents improved to 96.7% compared to 94.8% in 2007 and the baseline compliance of 90.8% in 2006.
Consumption of mains water Objective To reduce the Group requirements for mains water.
Target 3 All manufacturing sites to reduce the use of mains water m per tonne manufactured by 25% per tonne manufactured by 2009.
In 2008, the mains water used per manufactured tonne increased by 15.1% compared to 2007 and has increased by 19.5% since 2006.
Overall mains water used by the Group has increased by 0.8% since 2006.
Again this is due to the reduced manufacturing tonnage in 2008.
In November 2007 the Atlas Point site acquired an adjacent company with which it already shared utility services.
It has not been possible to accurately separate the respective use of mains water by the two sites prior to this time and the data for the site has been omitted from the calculation of this performance objective.
17 Safety, health and the environment The world leaders in innovation and creativity will also be world leaders in everything else.
Harold R. McAlindon SHE initiatives 2008 performance, it is also critical to monitor those events which might lead to process incidents.
Very Personal accidents infrequently such an event can result in a catastrophic In 2008, there was an increase in the reportable accident.
It is important that these events are accident rate of 0.27 to 0.35 per 100,000 man hours, recognised so that remedial action can be taken taking Croda just above the industry average of 0.32. and the risk of a catastrophic accident reduced.
The Group takes this increase very seriously and As reported last year the Group has developed has started several initiatives to increase personal and implemented a system for monitoring the awareness of hazards, better accident reporting and performance of those engineering control measures improved communication around the Group of which are critical to the safe operation of its lessons to be learned from accident investigations.
Process safety performance This initiative has now taken the form of a set of Group process safety objectives.
Croda recognises that whilst the personal injury accident rate is an important indicator of SHE Assessment of process risks Objective To assess the individual risk of fatality from the site activities and to identify whether this risk meets a recognised criterion.
Target To use improved risk assessment techniques to confirm that the individual risk of fatality from site activities meets the Group criterion by end of 2009.
18 Control of process risks Objective To demonstrate and monitor the effectiveness of control for each process.
Target To clearly and concisely record the critical parameters and controls that are in place for the safe operation of all processes by the end of 2009.
To develop a system to monitor, investigate and report all significant deviations from the safe process conditions by the end of 2009. Review of process risks Objective To regularly review the process risk assessments.
Target To develop a programme to ensure that all process risk assessments are reviewed at least once every five years.
To monitor the timely completion of the review programme.
Reduction of process risk Objective To reduce process risks to as low as reasonably practicable.
Target To ensure that actions arising from process risk assessments are prioritised and appropriately managed.
To monitor completion rates of all actions.
During the final quarter of 2008 the Group The Group was also fined $5,500 plus costs in the commenced a series of lengthy detailed audits of the USA for a failure to perform leak detection and repair process safety management system at each of our procedures in the second half of 2005.
This was prior manufacturing sites against the standards identified in to the acquisition of the site by Croda in the Group SHE Manual.
Enforcement action The Group also reached an out of court settlement with the Public Prosecutor in Holland for alleged In 2008, the Group was prosecuted in the UK by the waste disposal offences during 2004 to 2006.
This Environment Agency for an unauthorised release to period was prior to the acquisition of the site by air and was fined 24,000 plus costs.
