qxd 6 6 08 08:58 Page 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 16 Operating review continued Responsible business At Dairy Crest we believe that acting responsibly, to reflect the changing needs of our consumers and the wider environment we operate in, is essential.
We know we have a responsibility to make high quality products that will enhance consumers wellbeing and enjoyment.
In the past year, to ensure that consumers are at the heart of our business we have established our Corporate Values, sharing them with our colleagues, key customers, trade unions and suppliers.
Our Values fit neatly into the Corporate Responsibility CR framework created by Business in The Community BiTC which we use to manage our CR activity.
Our values can be seen on our Company website.
This year we have established a CR committee chaired by Carole Piwnica, one of our non-executive directors with attendees including the Chief Executive and other executive and non-executive directors.
The CR committees mandate is to review and implement Dairy Crests CR strategy ensuring that the companys business is conducted in a socially responsible manner.
The activities of the CR committee will be detailed in our next Annual Report.
qxd 4 6 08 13:29 Page 18 Consumers are at the heart of our business 4704 DC08 FrontSection v4.0.
qxd 6 6 08 03:33 Page 19 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 Operating review continued 19 We have reduced the amount of water we use for manufacturing processes.
This has been achieved through improved operational controls at all manufacturing sites, particularly the bottling dairies.
Environment products and are looking for innovative health and well-being agenda, with a health Dairy Crest value: ways to reduce packaging.
risk guidance document provided to Within the Foods division cheese managers, designed to further reduce the We act responsibly with a packaging has been designed to be risk of work related health issues passion to do the right thing reclosable to reduce food waste not just for developing amongst their staff.
We have Our aim is to always consider the longDairy Crest brands like Cathedral City but introduced a single electronic database term implications of our actions on the also for supermarkets.
to record and report all accidents and environment and to take active steps During the year we have also continued incidents together with the actions taken.
One of the ways to focus on the reduction of milk waste The table on page17 shows a year we will do that is by reducing waste see chart on page 17, which has resulted on year reduction in our accident incident and recycling more.
in a further 4% saving above the significant rate compared against the Dairy Industry savings already made in 2006 7. standard reported in 02 03.
We aim to Recycling and waste reduction reduce this number further in the year ahead.
Milk bought by our doorstep customers Water and energy use reductions is often delivered in glass bottles which The data to measure our energy and Marketplace are washed and reused and refilled on environmental performance are on page17.
Dairy Crest values: average 20 times before recycling.
However, We have reduced the amount of water Consumers are at the heart milk is also widely sold in poly-bottles we use for manufacturing processes.
of our business and we are taking steps to reduce the This has been achieved through improved impact on landfill and to minimise the use operational controls at all manufacturing We are constantly looking of plastic.
sites, particularly the bottling dairies.
for new and better ways of As part of our membership of the We have joined the Envirowise Federation Courtauld Commitment and WRAP, House commitment to make a 20% water doing things the Governments Waste Recycling Action reduction from our current usage levels Programme, we are committed to finding by 2020.
In our liquid milk dairies we aim Consumers drive our business all ages and ways of reducing packaging and improve to achieve this by 2015. from all backgrounds.
Our future success recycling rates.
This year we have achieved a year on depends on listening to what they want, Most recently we have been working year reduction of 8% in CO2 manufacturing understanding what they need and with Dairy UK and the Department for emissions.
developing and delivering the best products.
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs on the Dairy Crest is committed to reducing We are committed to living up to the Milk Roadmap.
This has the target that half its carbon footprint and is currently working demands of our consumers and earning of all milk packaging will come from on developing a Carbon Management Plan their loyalty and giving them choice and recycled materials by 2020. with the Carbon Trust.
a guarantee of ethical and sustainable All our manufacturing sites focus on production.
reducing waste by increasing the quantities Health & safety We closely monitor dietary trends of material recovered recycled.
For instance During the year Dairy Crest has made and are very aware that the nature and at our dairy in Liverpool, waste sent to progress on achieving its three-year Health composition of the nations diet is at the landfill was reduced by 230 tonnes 30% and Safety strategy.
A new, operationally top of governments agenda.
focussed Health and Safety Leadership working with the rest of the food industry At our Severnside dairy we reduced Team has been formed to assess and and the FSA Food Standards Agency product waste to drain using improved implement our programmes for risk and Dairy UK, our industry partnership monitoring and targeting data systems.
assessment, auditing, workplace inspections, group, to consider how saturated fats This has a financial benefit to us as well.
might be reduced across dairy products At our household depots we are Underpinning this has been the development in the UK.
committed to separating all cardboard and of a revised management system and To give consumers greater choice, we plastics for recycling by this summer.
standards which will be implemented and will be increasing our development of lower Our development teams now audited from July 2008 onwards.
fat and other healthier products after the proactively consider the environmental A full Occupational Health review is successful launch of Country Life Spreadable impacts at the concept stage for new taking place, to better address our positive Lighter and Cathedral City Lighter.
qxd 6 6 08 11:38 Page 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 20 Operating review continued Our Operational Excellence programme creates a depth of technical know how at our sites and leads ultimately to the attainment of an MSc accredited by Birmingham University.
We passionately believe that dairy products Training & Development To support the Vision and Values every should be part of a balanced diet and the We believe in helping every colleague member of management will attend a new benefits of calcium and other nutrients maximise their potential and strive to get leadership programme designed specifically should be properly communicated.
We will the best out of our people.
The programme be focussing on promoting the benefits of Our Operational Excellence programme will help managers increase the performance dairy products in the year ahead.
creates a depth of technical know how of the business by balancing the delivery During the year we undertook a at our sites, and leads ultimately to the of what we do with how we do it.
product recall for Clover after mould was attainment of an MSc accredited by Compliance with competition law is found to be present in some tubs.
During the year four a high priority for the Group and we have complimented us on our fast action and managers from across the business passed updated our processes and implemented prompt communication with customers and their MSc, with seven more colleagues new training for all our commercial teams, the media.
likely to graduate in December 2008. senior management and other relevant We have continued with our investment employees to ensure that competition law Workplace in the Marketing department working in is fully complied with across the Group.
Dairy Crest value: partnership with an independent training company.
This year Dairy Crest won the Listening to our people We value our people and are award for best in class training programme We ask our people what they think and feel stronger together at the Marketing Society awards, beating about Dairy Crest and we are committed Our business is a people business.
We Sky, Cadburys and Newcastle Breweries.
to working in positive partnership with our now have around 10,000 colleagues and This year our Commercial teams recognised trade unions.
We know that we need to undertook a programme of competencies, In 2007 we launched our first ever attract and retain the best people and that management development and skills Employee Engagement Survey and more they are key to our companys progress.
development based on world-class best than 70% of our people took part.
We are committed to building a culture practice.
This included video interviews The feedback, whilst positive, highlighted that acknowledges and rewards success with our retail customers so that we know areas that we need to improve and we and we aim to do this by providing what were doing well and what we need are working through an action plan to individuals with the independence and to do better.
The roll out of this programme address these.
responsibility they need to deliver results started in May 2008.
One of the key pieces of feedback from and make a difference.
We are developing technical the Survey was the need for better all-round We are pleased to welcome new competencies across the company.
We are in the process of colleagues who have joined us during the work creates standards of skill in each ensuring that we improve our communication year including those from our acquisition function and assesses our current methods.
The Survey will be repeated in of the East of England Co-Operative capability.
The Marketing and Commercial January 2009 to measure any improvements dairy business which we acquired in teams have already produced a achieved, building on the specific feedback February 2008. comprehensive competency framework given to each area of the business this In May 2007 we announced the and the Operations team are in the process year.
Each area has an individual action closure of our site in Totnes.
The majority of defining their technical competencies.
plan and implementation has started.
of colleagues who left the business were We have also reviewed our We have also started a collaborative given outplacement help and have new Performance Development Review PDR process to review our core people policies jobs.
We continue to provide outplacement process and have extended the bonus and procedures to improve colleague support to the remaining individuals.
scheme to cover all middle and junior engagement and deliver higher levels of managers.
The first phase of this process Our successful leadership programme is now complete with the policies and called Leading 4 Change is in its second procedures embedded in the business.
The programme takes place over Colleagues also meet with management six days and focuses on the skills needed on a formal basis to consult over matters to lead people.
such as Health and Safety and Pensions.
qxd 6 6 08 11:36 Page 21 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 21 An eight-person team, lead by milk purchasing director, Arthur Reeves won the gruelling three day endurance Three Peaks Challenge 2007 raising over 12,000 for the Make-A-Wish Foundation UK.
We distribute a number of company providing empty gallon containers for water newsletters and colleagues are regularly to be taken home.
As a result of these informed of the Groups financial results actions, Stroud District Council nominated and whats happening in the marketplace.
Dairy Crest for an Outstanding In the year ahead we will be enhancing the Contribution to the Community award company intranet to improve two-way which was signed by the Prime Minister communication.
Furthermore, to encourage and presented to the site.
the involvement of colleagues in the Group Our relationship with our suppliers performance, we operate a Sharesave is of great importance to us and we strive Scheme.
Currently, over 2,300 people are to have a good relationship with the saving in one or both of our schemes.
farmers who supply us with milk.
Looking to the next generation of farmers, we Community sponsor the Dairy Crest NFU Scholar of Dairy Crest vision: the Year award that helps young farmers.
Martyn Mills, 21 years old, from Trewen in As we grow, we will look after Cornwall is the most recent recipient of the our people and the award that will help him achieve his dream communities where we work of running his own dairy farming business.
Last April we chose the Make-A-Wish Dairy Crest has also given a grant over Foundation UK MAW to be our new two years to the National Osteoporosis corporate charity.
Since then Dairy Crest Society NOS the grant will pay for a colleagues have raised over 250,000 qualified nurse to be on call to give advice most of which is through the efforts of our about osteoporosis, research into the milkmen.
Elsewhere across the business disease and an educational project.
colleagues have taken part in marathons, If you would like more information golf tournaments, raffles and craft fairs.
about the NOS, Make A Wish or our CR An eight-person Dairy Crest team, work please go to our website won the Three Peaks Challenge 2007 www.
co. uk an endurance test that involves climbing the UKs highest mountains in three days which raised over 12,000 for MAW.
The money we raise pays for wishes for terminally and very ill children like seven-year-old John, from Redditch who spent a day as Robin Hood alongside a band of his very own Merry Men at Nottingham Castle.
Dairy Crest has a keen sense of its place in each of its local communities and works at local and national level to take an active part.
For example, when the floodwaters hit the Stroud area last summer, the Severnside site director, Alan Wren, asked the local authority how Dairy Crest could help.
The company helped distribute pallets of bottled water to residents as well as Good performance
