Business review corporate & social responsibility Food parcels The Company and its employees are keenly aware of our collective and individual responsibilities as corporate citizens.
distributed As Dana matures into an employer of 98 staff working in seven countries we see great value in evolving and encouraging a strong corporate culture underpinned by ethical values which are applied wherever we operate and with whomever we meet.
This philosophy is backed by strong, Board-level commitment.
500 The Company participated in the annual Carbon Disclosure Project for the first time in 2008.
It is the intention to continue participation in the Project in 2009.
Dana is generally a nonin Egypt operator of the assets in which it holds interests, so the carbon emissions over which the Company has direct control are relatively limited.
Nonetheless, involvement in the project renewed focus and strengthened Danas commitment to achieving efficiency gains wherever possible: for example reducing business travel by facilitating and encouraging as standard teleand video-conferencing for intra-company communications and by carbon offsetting emissions from business flights.
The Company will also be participating in projects in Egypt to convert to gas power generation from diesel generation, drilling of water wells to minimise transportation of water to production sites and, in the UK, seeking to further reduce oil in produced water from the Hudson facilities.
During the year the Company continued to develop its links with and support of local communities.
Focus of giving has again been in areas where a significant difference can be made as a result of either direct involvement, or supporting high quality organisations with funding.
In Aberdeen, the Company continued its commitment to support the Aberdeen Foyer, a highly respected charity established in 1995 to prevent and alleviate homelessness and unemployment amongst vulnerable 16-25 year olds living in North East Scotland.
The charity has continued to grow, investing in pragmatic and innovative projects which are delivering measurable results and attracting recognition from both the Scottish and UK governments.
Unprecedented rises in domestic fuel prices focused the Company on a new area of giving for 2008.
Linking up with SCARF, Dana made a significant contribution to their Cosy Homes project which aims to take vulnerable householders out of fuel poverty or prevent them from falling into fuel poverty, providing energy advice on efficient use of heating systems, installing energy efficiency measures to prevent heat loss, and providing basics such as warm bedding for much appreciated comfort.
The Company continued to support the local communities in Egypt, including a donation to rebuild a school in Cairo following a rock slide during Ramadan.
In Morocco, with the upcoming onshore drilling, Dana is working closely with local NGOs to support people in the villages closest to the drill site.
The Company also continues to support staff who are actively involved in charitable organisations and activities.
28 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 SCARF Dana supported their work with people in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire providing practical assistance in relation to fuel poverty.
Aberdeen Foyer A donation was made towards their work with homeless and unemployed people, in particular assisting people getting jobs in the oil industry.
Resala charity, Cairo Dana donated approximately EGP82,000 which, through clever negotiation, purchased equipment worth EGP 175,000.
This equipment was the critical item to allow the hospital to set up its first operating theatre which is due to be working early in 2009.
Moquattam Hills, Cairo Dana made a donation to the Moquattam Hills recovery effort BG Challenge, Egypt by purchasing key items required Three teams joined the BG Egypt to get children back to school.
challenge and raised $15,000 for Approximately 140 families lost their CARE Egypt charities.
This money homes, family members or both.
goes to some very poor people, particularly women and children, in Egypt.
Run of Hope, Cairo Dana paid for t-shirts and helped set up the events for a sponsored run Cairo food parcels organised by the New Cairo British International School.
The pupils Each month Dana purchases food parcels ran around 5km each and raised which are distributed to the poor.
approximately $10,000 for cancer research charities.
29 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008
