Business review developing skills investing in people Our people We employ a total of 98 people across our key core operating locations, with 34 staff based in Employees by location % Aberdeen, 21 in Oslo and 43 in Cairo.
In addition, the Group has a shared responsibility for the 226 staff of East Zeit Petroleum Company Zeitco, the Egyptian joint venture run by the Group and Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation, and a further 32 staff members in the Groups UK Russian joint venture.
Norway 98 employees Egypt The core employee base however remains relatively small, and the Group recognises the importance of ensuring that we retain, maintain and develop, a highly motivated workforce.
Emphasis is therefore placed on a number of key employment principles Employees by gender Promoting a culture of responsibility and accountability Male Rewarding people and performance by offering competitive compensation and benefits Female Providing and maintaining a safe environment for all employees and promoting high Employees by contract standards of health and safety Full time Equal opportunities to all employees without discrimination Part time Flexibility in employment arrangements Ongoing skills development Employees by age 21-30 Open two-way communication is encouraged 31-40 Approximately one third of the core work force are female and, particularly in the UK and 41-50 Norway, almost 11% of staff work on a part-time basis, predominantly providing flexibility 51-60 to manage child care arrangements.
Also, apart from the three core nationalities, the Group 61 employs a further 5 different nationalities, reflecting both the global nature of the oil and gas business, and the geographic diversity of the Groups activity.
Employees by nationality Reliance on such a small core team, demands an experienced workforce.
This is borne out British from the age demographics of the employee base that shows two-thirds of all employees are Norwegian in the 31-50 years of age category.
French German Responsibility for employees rests with the local management rather than a central Group function.
This allows the local cultural issues to be appropriately managed, and the necessary Egyptian development and performance programmes to be structured according to the needs of the Kenyan local business activity.
Senior staff recruitment, remuneration and reward require to be agreed US at the Group level.
Australian 26 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008
