where we do business 2008 was a year of great volatility for the upstream sector, with the first half of the year characterised by record oil prices, only to see them plunge in the second half of the year, on the the back of the global economic meltdown as economies slumped into recession.
Brent began 2008 at $94 per bbl, breaking through the $100 barrier for the first time at the macro end of February and rising to a peak of $147 per bbl in July 2008, as global demand for oil rocketed, mainly due to the rapid development of the emerging economies in India and China.
Another contributing factor was the slide in the value of the dollar.
As the currency environment weakened investors bought dollar denominated assets as a hedge against inflation.
This 2008 Average Monthly Oil Prices USD helped to sustain an increasingly proffered argument that hedge funds and speculators were driving the oil price to levels higher than the fundamentals would dictate.
91.62 Jan Feb 94.58 Global oil demand had already started to decelerate in response to higher prices, but the rapid deterioration of the global economy in the second half of the year precipitated an Mar 102.79 unprecedented and rapid decline in demand.
This was exacerbated by the financial crisis Apr 110.26 that was emerging from the banking sector.
Investors repatriated assets perceived as risky, 124.32 May reinforcing the flight to cash, and previous hedge positions were unwound.
Brent closed the year at $36 per bbl, a level last seen in 2004.
134.13 Jun 134.04 Jul This volatility has created huge uncertainty for the sector that typically now requires an Aug 115.21 oil price in the range of $70-80 per barrel to sustain new upstream investment, given the prevailing industry cost structure.
The inevitable response to the current situation is a Sep 100.94 reduction in upstream capital investment leading to project postponement and cancellation.
73.89 Oct This is not a desirable outcome given the projected demand supply tension still predicted 55.05 Nov early in the next decade.
Meantime, OPEC has latterly instigated production cuts aimed at 43.41 putting a floor under the oil price, but it remains to be seen whether this takes hold.
Dec Ultimately, what happens to the oil price depends on whether the recent government instigated fiscal stimulus packages work.
If they do, and economies improve and demand 2008 Average Gas Prices pence therm recovers, particularly in the BRIC economies, then there is a broad consensus that oil price is primed for a sharp rebound.
What is clear is that uncertainty and volatility will be with us Jan for a while.
Feb On an historical basis average UK gas prices reached new highs, averaging approximately Mar 58p per therm for the year.
Unusually the summer 2008 average price exceeded that Apr achieved in the first and final quarters of the year, peaking with an average price in September of just under 69p per therm.
This largely reflects a tracking of the oil price trend May and a failure of new supply to materialise during 2008.
However, as we emerge from the Jun winter season in the early part of 2009, there are signs that excess supply may prevail Jul during 2009 due to significant deliveries of LNG to the UK for the first time and indications are that prices for summer 2009 are softening, and that there will be a return to the Aug traditional UK gas pricing profile.
Sep Oct For the upstream sector, 2009 risks being a year in which oil prices and associated revenues are at pre 2005 levels, while costs remain at 2008 levels.
Capital and operating Nov budgets are under extreme pressure, which will inevitably feedback through to the supply Dec chain, and which in due course should facilitate a degree of cost reduction, albeit on a lagged basis.
What remains clear however is that the cost range for developing some of 50 60 70 the most important sources of new supply e. g. Brazil pre-salt developments or Canadian tar sands: requires commodity prices well above current levels.
Unless a solution is forthcoming, future supply will be lower, which will only serve to distort the demand supply balance and lead to higher prices in the long run.
7 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Business review the macro Access to skilled manpower remains a major issue for the oil and gas industry.
With its skewed demographics, it continues to urgently require an influx of a younger skilled environment continued workforce.
The landscape for new opportunities in the upstream arena is as strong as at any time over the last few years.
Ironically the main challenge is now the availability of, and access to financing: for the first time in many years, this has been a real barrier to growth.
Debt markets are still available, but only to the strongest and best credit risk companies.
This is expected to lead to a consolidation of, and amongst, the smaller upstream companies, as they seek to attract scarce capital or to combine operations to optimise assets and deliver cost reductions.
Principal business risks facing the Company what are As a participant in the Upstream Oil & Gas industry, Dana encounters, to varying degrees, the macro risk factors already described.
In addition, the Board conducts an annual review our risks?
of the Companys system of risk assessment for the specific risks faced by the Company.
These risks are considered typical for an upstream company of Danas size, as can be illustrated from the following extract from the most recent Board review in December 2008.
Inability to finance work programmes Material fall in oil and gas price Loss of key employees Delays in implementing work programmes Taxation legislation changes Inability to deliver key development Exploration well failure projects Significant cost over-runs or delays on major development projects Lack of operational resources Commercial misalignment with co-venturers Unfulfilled PSC work obligations Poor reservoir performance Default of co-venturer or key supplier Medium Probability High Probability 8 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Medium Impact High Impact
