health, safety and environmental performance A strong Health, Safety and Environmental HS&E performance is a key aspect of Danas overall business success.
There is a clear commitment to improving HS&E performance from the Board of Directors with the key accountability being with the Technical and Commercial Director.
Through Board and management commitment, the application of the Groups HS&E policies and management systems and annually setting goals and targets, the Company strives to achieve the following ideals: No harm to people No undesirable releases or emissions No damage to property HS&E matters managed as any other critical business activity Promoting a positive safety culture All activities undertaken with HS&E compliance Continual improvement in HS&E is of key importance to Dana.
Building on achievements and lessons learned, every effort is made to deliver the annual goals and targets with the aim of achieving the Companys HS&E ideals.
HS&E Management Within each Dana country office location, Upgraded fire retardant coveralls company and regulatory HS&E compliance purchased for all offshore and base staff is delegated from the Technical & working in Egypt.
Coaching programme Commercial Director to Country Managers.
underway to increase understanding In-country HS&E management is ensured of the benefits and requirements in at an operational level by Asset Managers wearing personal protective equipment.
supported by local and Group HS&E personnel.
Purchase of new ship identification radar equipment for the East Zeit A-platform, Egypt.
This system, HS&E performance replacing an older system, enables Significant highlights and HS&E identification and communication with achievements in 2008 were: approaching vessels in the Gulf of Suez.
No authority reportable injuries resulting Development and implementation of an from any Dana operated activities.
improved drilling management system for Egypt, integrating operational and Clean HS&E record achieved for all UK HS&E arrangements.
Pre-qualification as Operator in Norway HS&E Management System and subsequent implementation of preimplementation and gap analysis qualified operator HS&E requirements audits, resulting in additional HS&E and HS&E Training Plan for Norway.
appointments in all country offices to extend in-house resource support for Participation in the Carbon Disclosure managing HS&E.
Project for the first time covering all Danas operated and office based Completion of internal and contractor activities.
HS&E compliance audits for all Dana operated drilling activities.
13 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Business review HS&E performance continued Monitoring against Danas HS&E Travel and Security policy for implementation Increase in personnel and training commitments throughout the company.
supporting the Dana onshore Duty Manager Rota The company recorded a number of As a result of a tripping incident at the East incidents during operated activities in 2008.
Zeit onshore base, a full review of walkways, Review of emergency plans and For those which resulted in injury during raised platforms and stairs was undertaken arrangements in advance of all operations operated activities, classification by severity to ensure adequate safety barriers and is as follows: hand rails.
The review identified a number of Establishment of third party interface similar areas of concern and improvement, documents for all Dana operated activities 3 Lost Time Incidents covers Restricted for which fabrication and installation of Work Case, Day Away From Work Case, additional safety measures were made, Norway 3 day Injury without incurring any further incident.
In 2008, Dana was only involved in non- 3 Medical Treatment Cases operated activities on the Norwegian 9 First Aid Cases Following an injurious incident at the East Continental Shelf, although requirements Zeit onshore base, a change in procedure as a pre-qualified operator ensured that Dana continues to promote proactive safety was implemented to stop the use of pipe implementation of the HS&E plans and and hazard management in all operated wrenches on snap fit connections.
This new procedures, as well as required training and non-operated activities, through the method was identified by discussing global were fully undertaken.
Through increased use of audits, inspection, training and the best practice with the tool vendor.
liaison during partner operated production use of safety observation systems e. g. and drilling, as well as partner and industry STOP.
These systems allow for risks to UK safety forums, Dana Norway is now well be identified, managed and controlled In 2008 a number of process improvements positioned to ensure best practices are in advance of an incident or harm.
For took place to ensure ongoing compliance implemented in its business.
example, in 2008, 196 safety observations and improved environmental performance were reported at the Egypt East Zeit in permitted produced water discharge International 2 location, 13,497 on the IO3 drilling rig from the Hudson production asset.
As a A Dana operated 1000km 3D seismic and 2,250 during the UK operated drilling result of these OSPAR modifications and an survey was acquired across offshore campaigns.
increase in observed offshore monitoring northern Senegal and southern Mauritania and sampling, total oil in water discharge using PGS as the service provider.
There Corrective and preventative measures for Hudson was 4.543 tonnes below the was a strong positive focus on safety from As a result of actual and potential HS&E regulated consent levels for the year.
As the the contractor and there were no incidents events, the following measures were taken last process modification was only installed during the acquisition of the survey.
to incorporate lessons learned and to at the end of 2008, Dana is yet to see mitigate the risk of further occurrences: the further improvement and reduction in Preparation for the planned drilling onshore permitted oil discharge, which is expected to Morocco in 2009 focused on: Egypt be achieved in 2009.
Vehicle safety and driving is a high risk Communication and assurance of HS&E concern in Danas business.
As a result of a Through lessons learned in 2008 and to standards and expectations with direct number of minor but high potential company reduce the potential of undesirable releases contractors vehicle related incidents in Egypt, action during campaign activities, Dana in the has been taken to minimise the number UK implemented a number of measures to P ositive public relationships established and duration of company road journeys.
ensure legal compliance and reduce potential with the Government, military and local Rig mobilisation and crew changes to the environmental impacts.
The following actions communities East Zeit field are now made via flights to were delivered as enhancements to the Hurghada or Ras Garab and a short car current emergency response requirements to T he development of a rigorous transfer, instead of driving the full distance improve preparedness and response: transportation plan to mitigate the risks from Cairo.
Equipment has also been during rig move and routine equipment purchased to re-open the East Zeit airstrip Emergency awareness sessions held with transfer to the rig site to further reduce road transport, with the contractors and emergency response airstrip expected to re-open in Q2 2009. personnel prior to drilling and dive Identification of industry best practice In 2008 all Dana company vehicle drivers campaigns safety controls for project risks, through received advanced driver safety training, liaison with experienced operators which is also planned to be rolled out in Testing of emergency spill notification and implementation of lateral learning 2009 to all Dana staff in Egypt.
Supporting communications for each contracted from similar projects.
This was the increased focus on safe driving and drilling rig specifically critical for remote and heavy travel, Dana issued a new International transportation planning 14 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008
