Corporate social responsibility Overview Communities We believe that corporate responsibility is where businesses Working for our customers and local communities, contributing to take responsibility for the impact of their activities on customers, community activities in the areas we serve.
Supporting and suppliers, employees, shareholders, communities and the encouraging staff fundraising for appropriate charitable organisations.
This is beyond the statutory obligation to comply with legislation, with businesses voluntarily improving or Supply chain minimising the impact of their operations.
Customers increasingly expect that retailers should have procedures in place to ensure that the products they sell have been ethically As a specialist electrical retailer we are well placed to manage an produced from beginning to end.
effective approach to corporate responsibility that pursues profitable growth while enhancing our brand equity.
Many of our electrical products are sourced through the major international brands who have their own strong ethical and Currently, our activities are locally driven, reecting customer demands environmental policies in place.
We are however developing a common approach with minimum standards for all the Groups businesses.
We do not have significant operations or retail outlets in countries that present a material risk from bribery or corruption, poor labour Initiatives underway fall into four key areas.
standards or protection of civil or political rights.
Supply chain Whether we are dealing with major brands or sourcing from elsewhere Improving labour, environmental and social practices in the Groups we ensure that our products have been tested for safety, health and supply chain, by ensuring that our suppliers and business partners are environmental issues.
At the same time our policy is to work in made aware of our requirements and take all reasonable steps to partnership with our suppliers to help them reduce their impact on the ensure they are met.
environment and to manage the challenges of sustainable growth.
Environment The Group sources its own label products from factories that are Improving the Groups use of energy, the impact of our transport eet committed to improving workers welfare and reducing environmental and our use of bulk materials such as paper and packaging.
We believe that every link of the supply chain should benefit minimising waste, increasing energy efficiency and reducing our from the trade in our products.
We have two kinds of audit procedures which are designed to ensure People proper environmental standards in our factories and to monitor the Providing a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment quality of our products in this respect.
These are known as the Factory and retention of the widest possible range of talented staff.
Offering Audit and the Final Random Inspection.
During the year we completed them a safe and healthy place of work.
We wish to be recognised as a 66 factory audits and 2,690 inspections.
good employer aiming to reward people fairly and to provide equality of opportunity, personal development and training.
Comet on Call Comet offers a multimedia support service for home and small businesses across the UK.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 5 Corporate social responsibility Our quality team based in China carries out regular factory audits to transport eet.
We also make use of satellite navigation systems to ensure that they meet the strict social, environmental and supply chain improve our delivery schedules.
We know the identity of all our suppliers and where their products are being made.
The WEEE directive has been in force for more than a year.
As a specialist electrical retailer with integrated stores, warehouses and The dedicated team also carries out random inspections of goods home delivery platforms we have been offering for many years, as part before shipments are made to ensure that quality standards are being of our customer service, many of the requirements the regulations maintained.
They co-ordinate new product development which includes introduced.
In France we have an award winning recycling programme working between quality engineers in Shenzhen and our quality for end of life products that has been in operation for nearly two assurance laboratory based in the UK.
decades and last year alone we recycled over 800,000 items.
Environment People As a specialist electrical retailer we have a relatively low direct As a specialist retailer committed to the best customer service, one of environmental impact, but we still wish to minimise the environmental our key differentiators and strengths is our people.
We have over 27,000 impact of all our operations throughout the Group.
employees across Europe and we want them all to have satisfying and rewarding careers within the Group.
By respecting and valuing our We actively promote and market energy efficient products that minimise employees we engage their talents and abilities to the fullest extent.
We have platforms for our employees to be heard and we value their In addition, we were the first retailer in the UK to test the energy input on how the business is being run.
Our communication channels efficiency of all the televisions, DVD players and computers we sell include regular workers councils where issues are discussed with and then promote the better performing products in both stores representatives from across the organisation.
We also have many and on line.
other forums for discussion and we regularly conduct employee surveys which allow management to take a wide range of viewpoints We also aim to reduce the amount of packaging we use and ensure into account.
We collect all waste packaging when delivering a household appliance unless the customer requests otherwise.
Our training programmes provide our people with the opportunities to In France, Holland and the UK we have specialised equipment that develop their skills, achieve rewarding careers within the Group and compresses all polystyrene packaging collected from customers better serve our customers.
By assessing their abilities and ambitions homes and in France packaging waste is also collected from the we gain a better understanding of their specic training needs.
warehouses and after sales service centres.
We promote health, safety and welfare for both colleagues and As a further environmental measure we are consciously trying to customers across all our sites and we have a team of advisors who minimise the emissions from our transport operations.
We have monitor and report to our Company Secretary on these issues.
modied our logistics operation to achieve a more efficient use of the We have established key performance indicators for accidents at work and the number of accidents is being steadily reduced year on year.
800,000 end of life products recycled in France alone.
6 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 We have established a written Code of Conduct which outlines the a community that was destroyed when a major storm attened ethical standards we expect from all employees of companies within thousands of trees.
Performance criteria Communities To help us assess and monitor progress against these targets we use As a Group, we have more than 700 stores, warehouses and regional key performance indicators in non-financial areas.
The focus for the and head ofces across 2 European countries and we are committed past two financial years has been: to working with the many communities this represents.
We work in partnership with outside organisations to address a number of long 1 The number of days spent on staff training standing social issues and we support a range of different charities on As a specialist electrical retailer, it is important that we have a regional basis.
talented staff who have excellent customers service skills and product knowledge.
In France we have a long standing reputation for helping the disadvantaged.
Through our ENVIE programme, previously long-termed 2 The number of accidents or injuries to staff unemployed are trained in the repair of electrical products.
Also in The provision of a safe and healthy place of work for our staff is a France we donated 38,000 to the Fondation Pasteur Weizman for primary concern and key responsibility.
medical research and 70,000 to Telemaque which helps young people from disadvantaged homes pursue their education.
3 The percentage of energy efficient A-rated products sold Energy label ratings on fridge freezers help our customers choose more In the UK we raise money for the Make a Wish foundation through efficient models.
A-rated products use the least amount of energy a wide range of employee initiatives and schemes.
During the past thereby benefiting both our customers and the environment 5 months we have raised over 250,000.
4 The number of tonnes of packaging waste collected In Holland we have signed a three-year contract with the World Wildlife and recycled Foundation WWF for a total of 50,000.
In return for supplying Through our distribution channels and warehouses we can efficiently necessary funds for the foundation, we use the WWF logo to promote collect our customers waste for recycling energy efficient products in our stores.
2007 08 2006 07 In Belgium and France we raise funds through the sale of toy models of Staff Training 6, 352 5, 7 our after-sales service vans.
In Belgium, for the 5 months to 30 April Accidents injuries 2,02 2, 2 2008, we raised 9,000 for fide Poel, an organisation that helps the A-rated products 8.
6% 76.9% social integration of disabled people.
In France we raised nearly Package waste tonnes 0,6 22,573 86,000 for childrens charities.
Percentage of fridge freezer sales which are A-rated In the Czech Republic we plant a tree on behalf of every customer who purchases goods over the value of 50.
This is helping re-build 0,000 tonnes of packaging waste collected from customers and then recycled.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 7
